Sustainability Report 2012 C O N T E N T S Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 001 002 Compiling This Report Management Sharp and Society 013 Objectives and Achievements in the Area of Management 067 Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension Top Message of CSR 014 Corporate Governance / Internal Control 003 Looking Ahead to the Next 100 Years 016 System to Promote CSR / Risk Management ■ For Customers 019 Compliance 070 Offering Products and Services That Deliver Peace 005 Business Philosophy and Business Creed of Mind and Satisfaction 006 The Spirit of Sharp’s Founder Sharp and the Environment ■ For Business Partners 007 Corporate Vision 076 Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers and Dealers 024 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment 008 Approach to CSR Activities 025 Environmental Objectives and Achievements ■ For Shareholders and Investors 027 Mass Balance 080 Appropriate Return of Profits and Information Disclosure Special Feature 028 Environmental Accounting ■ For Employees 009 Helping Create a Sustainable Society ■ Technologies 082 Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace 029 Developing Unique Environmental Technologies ■ For Local Communities ■ Business 090 Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen 034 Developing Products and Devices with High Environmental Performance 096 Honors from Third Parties 043 Expanding the Recycling of Used Products 097 Outline of the Sharp Group 045 Promoting Solar Power Business 099 Independent Assurance Report ■ Operations 100 Third-Party Opinion and Response 046 Promoting an Environmental Management System Satellite image: ©DigitalGlobe 048 Raising the Level of Environmental Performance in Factories About the Cover 051 Improving the Level of Environmental Performance of Offices 052 Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions The cover illustration represents our hope of becoming 054 Minimizing and Recycling Waste a truly global company that respects the irreplaceable planet Earth that is home to all of us. 056 Effectively Using Water Resources 057 Effectively Managing Chemicals Used in Factories 059 Reducing Environmental Impacts in Distribution and Packaging 100th Anniversary Logo Sharp was established on September 15, 1912. ■ Communication The support of our stakeholders over the years has brought us to this year’s centennial celebration. 061 Promoting Environmental Communication United Nations International Year Logo The United Nations General Assembly has designated ■ Biodiversity Protection 2012 as the International Year of Sustainable Energy 062 Protecting Biodiversity for All. Sharp, celebrating its 100th anniversary in 2012, is in accord with the purpose of this United Nations’ activity and advances the development and 064 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation diffusion of solar power generation around the world, as we enter our second century—aiming to make Standards for Environmental Performance Indicators solar power available to everyone in the world. Compiling This Report Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 002 ■ Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 and System for Information Disclosure Annual Report, Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 Highlights Version Highlights PDF Sharp’s efforts toward corporate social responsibility (CSR), particularly the environmental and social dimensions of CSR, contribute to creating a sustainable society. Information on these efforts is made available in the following three formats to meet the needs of various stakeholders. Starting with the 2012 edition, the “Environmental and Social Report” was renamed the “Sustainability Report.” Annual Report Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 PDF Annual Report, Highlights Version This report This report outlines the highlights of Sharp’s CSR efforts during fiscal 2011 in a simple, concise way and is available on the Sharp website as a downloadable PDF file. Th is rep or t Annual Report This report on Sharp fiscal 2011 efforts presents special information in a section called Special Feature; detailed information in three sections called Management, Sharp and the Environment, and Sharp and Sharp Social & Environmental Website Web Society; and a variety of related data. It is available on the Sharp website as a downloadable PDF file. Activities website Relevant information posted to the Sharp website is indicated by this icon. Website The Sharp website provides access to this report document, supplementary data, and the latest information. Sharp Social & Environmental Activities website ■ Referenced Guidelines http://sharp-world.com/corporate/eco/ • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Version), Ministry of the Environment, Japan • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (2011, Japanese), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ■ Period and Items Covered • Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, Ministry of the Environment, Japan Period covered: Environmental Reporting Guidelines content index, GRI content index Fiscal 2011 (April 2011 to March 2012) However, some actual facts prior to and after this period, as well as subsequent policies, objectives, and plans, are also included. ■ Scheduled Publication Date for Next Report Coverage: August 2013 (published annually since 1999) Sharp Corporation, along with its domestic and overseas subsidiaries and affiliates. See page 64 for the boundary of environmental performance data. ■ Inquiries The names of overseas subsidiaries and affiliates are denoted with acronyms, such as SEC. For a list of the full names of subsidiaries and affiliates, see page 64. Sharp Corporation 22-22 Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8522, Japan E-mail: eco-info@sharp.co.jp Environmental Planning Department, Environmental Protection Division, CS and Environmental Promotion Group Tel: +81-6-6625-0438 Fax: +81-6-6625-0153 Planning Department, CSR Promotion Division, Legal Group Tel: +81-6-6625-1167 Fax: +81-6-6625-1274 Top Message Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 003 Looking Ahead to the Next 100 Years, Sharp Aims to be a True Global Company, Trusted and Valued by People around the World This year Sharp celebrates its 100th anniversary, the company having been founded in Tokyo on September 15, 1912 by an 18-year-old Tokuji Hayakawa. We would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to all our customers and stakeholders who have supported the development of our business. ■ Looking Ahead to the Next 100 Years Sharp currently finds itself in extremely trying circumstances. Reflecting the turbulence of the era, our financial report for fiscal 2011 was more severe than ever before. A long list of external factors contributed to this, including the spread to other regions of governmental debt problems in Europe; the slowing of growth in China and newly emerging economies; the reduction of prices for products and devices such as LCD TVs and solar cells; the rapid rise of the yen; and the sudden drop in demand for LCD TVs in Japan after the discontinuation of domestic analog broadcasting. However, we recognize that the fundamental challenge is to transform ourselves and quickly construct a system that can spur us on to meet changes in the business environment. Over the past several years, under the banner of management with a global viewpoint, Sharp has promoted a strategy of local production for local consumption, targeting growing markets in newly emerging economies. But we must still pick up the pace. Commoditized digital appliances require greater cost efficiency and production speed—both of which can be achieved by expanding the production scale. It is difficult for the company to stay on top of the global electronics market, for example, while handling by itself everything from R&D, design, and production to sales and after-sales service. President Looking ahead to the next 100 years, Sharp will bolster its foundations in each region of the Takashi Okuda world and speed up its transformation. We will also continue to create one-of-a-kind, energy-creating businesses and energy-saving products, and we will offer them globally in collaboration with our powerful partners around the world. Top Message Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 004 One of the world’s largest mega-solar power generation plants, with a 73 MW capacity using Sharp thin-film solar cells, completed in Thailand in March 2012. Sharp, along with Thailand’s largest construction companies ITD (Italian-Thai Development Public Co., Ltd.) and ITE (ITALTHAI Engineering Co., Ltd.), received an order for its construction from Thai independent power producer NED (Natural Energy Development Co., Ltd.). Sharp has also been entrusted with repair and maintenance. ■ Sharp Is Even More Determined to Become an Eco-Positive Company Twenty years have passed since the United Nations held the Earth Summit (i.e., the United we anticipate the rapid spread of solar power generation—a method of capturing energy that Nations Conference on Environment and Development)—an event that prompted the whole does not depend on limited fossil fuel resources, that does not generate noise, and that does world to seek commonly recognized solutions to global environmental issues. not emit pollutants such as CO2 that lead to global warming. Sharp has swiftly addressed environmental conservation and endeavored to realize a vision of Sharp has accumulated energy-creating technologies for solar power generation and becoming an “Eco-Positive Company”. Sharp seeks to achieve an environmental contribution energy-saving technologies for use in products such as LCD TVs, LED lighting, and (positive impact) that largely exceeds its environmental burden (negative impact) by refocusing refrigerators. With these technologies and in collaboration with its powerful international business activities in cooperation with all of its stakeholders. partners—such as the previously mentioned Enel Group and the Hon Hai Group, with whom a Under this approach, Sharp considers the reduction of greenhouse gases to be an especially joint LCD endeavor is planned—Sharp will globally provide energy-creating businesses and important issue. Hence, Sharp promotes the development and dissemination of energy-saving products. Through such efforts, the company will contribute to the realization of energy-creating solar cells and energy-saving products, and it works to limit the amount of a sustainable society. emissions from its business activities. In fiscal 2011, the reduction in emissions resulting from ■ Sharp Seeks to Contribute to the World with Sincerity and Creativity customers using Sharp’s energy-creating and energy-saving products was more than triple the amount of emissions from business activities. As we celebrate our 100th anniversary, Sharp will—through sincerity and original technologies Sharp changed its index in fiscal 2012 and adopted a new goal: by fiscal 2020, the company and while remaining firmly grounded in our business philosophy and business creed—continue seeks to achieve an amount of emissions reductions from its solar power-related businesses to contribute to solving social issues from a global viewpoint. Maintaining our support for the 10 that is large enough to offset emissions from its business activities (including the supply chain) principles set in the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, the environment, and customer use of Sharp products. and anti-corruption, we seek to fulfill our social respsonsibility by practicing and further improving activities in the management, environmental, and social areas described in this ■ Sharp Globally Promotes Energy-Creating Businesses and report. Energy-Saving Products Sharp develops business activities that contribute to the realization of a sustainable society throughout the world. It aims to become a true global company, trusted and valued by people This March in Thailand, construction was completed of one of the world’s largest mega-solar everywhere. power generation plants—one with a 73 MW capacity. Mega-solar power plants have also been constructed in six places in Italy in collaboration with the Enel Group. Electric power generation Now and in the future, Sharp will continue to disclose information about our business has already begun there. Meanwhile, Recurrent Energy, LLC of the Sharp Group in North operations; we will also continue to reflect the valuable opinions of Sharp stakeholders in our America is constructing mega-solar power plants in California and Arizona, and it is promoting a management practices. large project in Canada. In addition, construction of mega-solar power plants is planned at various locations in Japan in order to meet the start of the buyback program for renewable June 2012 President energy this July. Takashi Okuda Amid mounting expectations for renewable energy, the construction of mega-solar power plants has been promoted in numerous places around the world. With further cost reductions, Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 005 Sharp Contributes to Society through Its Manufacturing-, Technology-, and Value-Oriented Business “Make products that others want to imitate.” These words, spoken by Sharp founder Tokuji Hayakawa, embody Sharp’s Business Philosophy management concept. As a manufacturer, Sharp contributes to society by being the first to make products that meet the We do not seek merely to expand our business needs of a new era. Successive generations of Sharp leaders have, in their own way, pursued this concept by making volume. Rather, we are dedicated to the use of products that contribute to society and in the process created a corporation that is known and trusted by society. our unique, innovative technology to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of people In 1973, Sharp articulated the unchanging spirit of its founder in the company’s business philosophy and business creed. The throughout the world. business philosophy states that Sharp aims for mutual prosperity with society and stakeholders—the foundation of CSR* It is the intention of our corporation to grow today—by “contributing to the culture, benefits and welfare of people throughout the world.” The business creed calls for hand-in-hand with our employees, encouraging “Sincerity and Creativity” and all employees must hold to it and follow it in order to realize the business philosophy. and aiding them to reach their full potential The goal that Sharp aims at through its CSR efforts is nothing less than to put its business philosophy into action and and improve their standard of living. contribute to building a sustainable society through its business activities. And to continue being a company that is known Our future prosperity is directly linked to the and trusted throughout society, Sharp is reaffirming this goal in 2012, the year of its 100th anniversary. Sharp will earn this prosperity of our customers, dealers and shareholders …indeed, the entire Sharp family. trust by practicing sincerity of conduct and action and by calling upon the “gene of creativity” endowed from its founder to create new value through the development of one-of-a-kind products and new lifestyle possibilities. * Corporate social responsibility Business Creed Sharp Corporation is dedicated to two principal ideals: ■ Achieve the Tenets of the Business Philosophy by Promoting “Sincerity and Creativity” in All Business Practices “Sincerity and Creativity” By committing ourselves to these ideals, we can derive genuine satisfaction from our work, while making a meaningful contribution to society. Sales Realization of Business Philosophy Sincerity is a virtue fundamental to Service Production Perspective of social contribution through business activities humanity ... always be sincere. “Contribute to the culture, Business Creed Harmony brings strength ... trust each Dedicated to benefits and welfare of people throughout the world” two principal ideals other and work together. Sincerity and Perspective concerning employees Politeness is a merit ... always be Planning Creativity Procurement courteous and respectful. “It is the intention of our corporation to grow hand-in-hand with our employees” Creativity promotes progress ... remain Business Activities constantly aware of the need to R&D Design Perspective concerning stakeholders innovate and improve. “Prosperity is directly linked to the prosperity Courage is the basis of a rewarding Social Contribution of the entire Sharp family” life ... accept every challenge with a Activities positive attitude. • The business creed is the central axis of all business activities. • “Sincerity” means a working attitude mindful of what will offer genuinely useful solutions and happiness to everyone. • “Creativity” means a working attitude not content with the way things are. An attitude which always seeks to add value, and to make efforts to innovate and improve. Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 006 Extending the Spirit of Manufacturing and Gratitude of Sharp’s Founder over the Next 100 Years 2004 2010 2011 2011 Sharp’s founder Tokuji Hayakawa was born in Tokyo in 1893. He founded a metalworking shop in September 1912. Showing ingenuity and creativity, he invented the Sharp Pencil (a mechanical pencil) and grew his business. Pursuing his vision of continually staying ahead by pioneering new fields, he succeeded Superheated steam oven LED ceiling light Touchscreen LCD monitor High-efficiency in assembling Japan’s first crystal radio set in 1925. His company became a leading monocrystalline solar module for residential use radio manufacturer, establishing the foundation for Sharp Corporation. 2000 2000 2001 This was followed over the years by Japan’s first TV set and numerous other revolutionary ‘firsts’ that stand as milestones in the history of consumer electronics. Tokuji was truly a modern visionary; for example, more than half a century ago, he had the foresight to turn his attention to solar energy. Camera-equipped Air purifier using AQUOS LCD color TV He was also a humanitarian who never forgot to feel grateful and mobile phone Plasmacluster technology who always wanted to repay kindness. He made countless contributions to communities and society at large. For 1964 1989 1992 instance, he established a factory where challenged persons could work autonomously; this would become Japan’s first special subsidiary*. “Make products that other companies want All-transistor-diode Dual-swing door LCD ViewCam camcorder to imitate” and “Feel gratitude and repay electronic desktop calculator refrigerator kindness.” Possessing a “gene of creativity” since its foundation, Sharp has Spoken by Tokuji, 1953 1962 1963 applied a fundamental business policy of delivering satisfaction to these phrases its customers and using its unique technologies to offer new symbolizing his spirit one-of-a-kind products and devices. have continued to Sharp will continue to develop unique groundbreaking ideas that echo in the deeds of create new trends. These one-of-a-kind ideas will take up the generations of Sharp challenge of the competitive flow and establish the new employees. Mass production of the first Japan’s first mass-produced Solar module Japan-made TV microwave oven mainstream. In 2012, the 100th year of its founding, Sharp will once again 1912 1915 1925 mobilize the resolve of all its members to realize sustained growth. * Special subsidiary: A subsidiary established after obtaining a license from the Minister of Health, Labour and 100th anniversary website Tokuji Hayakawa invents Hayakawa First Japan-made Welfare with the purpose of promoting employment of mentally or physically challenged people in Japan. the Tokubijo snap buckle mechanical pencil crystal radio set and founds a business Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 007 Corporate Vision: Eco-Positive Company Sharp’s corporate vision is to become an Eco-Positive Company. By “Eco-Positive Company,” Sharp means a company that works with all stakeholders in creating solutions that have significantly more positive impact on the environment than the negative impact caused by business activities. One important effort towards this vision is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from its business activities, Sharp is developing and spreading the use of energy-creating solar cells and energy-saving products. ■ Sharp’s Eco-Positive Company corporate vision; fiscal 2011 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions greenhouse gas emissions and greenhouse gas emission reductions Under its Eco-Positive Company corporate vision, Sharp works to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through energy-creating and energy-saving products. In fiscal 2004, Sharp announced its goal of having its energy-creating and energy-saving Environmental contribution products more than balance out its greenhouse gas emissions by fiscal 2010. The aim was Environmental burden such as greenhouse gas to have emission reductions that result from customer use of Sharp energy-creating and such as greenhouse emission reductions through energy-saving products be more than total greenhouse gas emissions from Sharp’s products, services, gas emissions from business activities ＜ and other means business activities, and this was achieved in fiscal 2008. Another goal was to have greenhouse gas emission reductions be more than double actual greenhouse gas emissions Negative Impact Positive Impact by fiscal 2012, and this was achieved in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2011, Sharp emitted 1.41 Shigeaki Mizushima million tons CO2, but the use of Sharp energy-creating and energy-saving products Executive Vice President Fiscal 2011 greenhouse gas emissions: Fiscal 2011 greenhouse gas emission reductions: contributed to emission reductions of 4.42 million tons CO2, 3.1 times actual emissions. Group General Manager CS and Environmental 1.41 million tons CO2* 4.42 million tons CO2* Sharp changed its index in fiscal 2012 and is now shooting for a new goal: by fiscal 2020, Promotion Group Sharp Corporation (See page 52) have greenhouse gas emission reductions achieved through Sharp’s solar power-related Method used for calculating greenhouse gas businesses be at least equal to greenhouse gas emissions from Sharp business activities emission reductions (including those in the supply chain) and the use of Sharp products. The idea is to further increase reductions while limiting emissions as much as possible. ■ The Four Aspects of the Eco-Positive Strategy Eco-Positive Strategy EP ■ Eco-Positive Technologies Sharp is striving to realize its corporate vision by carrying out its Eco-Positive Strategy Technologies Generate new business through worldwide. Under this strategy, Sharp is pursuing environmental efforts from four aspects one-of-a-kind environmental technologies (see diagram to the left). We are placing particular emphasis on “businesses” (products, ■ Eco-Positive Businesses solar power-related business, and others) and on “operations” (mainly factories), since Expand contributions to protecting the environment through products, services, these have a direct effect on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Ever since operations EP Eco-Positive EP Businesses Company Operations and business started at the Kameyama Plant in fiscal 2003, Sharp has been going all out to assess and ■ Eco-Positive Operations certify the environmental performance of its products and factories based on in-house Reduce environmental impacts in manufacturing, standards. This system has spurred friendly competition among different Sharp business products, and business expansion groups and has resulted in significant advances in making Sharp greener. EP ■ Eco-Positive Communication Tetsuro Muramatsu Communication Raise environmental awareness through Through the Eco-Positive Strategy, all Sharp divisions in Japan and around the world are Group Deputy General Manager involvement with the community setting environmental goals and working together—not just to reduce the company’s CS and Environmental Promotion Group greenhouse gas emissions but to increase Sharp’s overall positive impact on the natural Sharp Corporation EP = Eco-Positive environment. * In fiscal 2011, Sharp switched to using the GHG Protocol calculation tools (GHG emissions from purchased electricity ver. 4.3, August 2011) as the coefficient for calculating (for bases outside Japan) greenhouse gas emissions (from electricity). If calculated using the fiscal 2010 method, fiscal 2011 greenhouse gas emissions would be 1.45 million tons CO2 and greenhouse gas emission reductions would be 4.96 million tons CO2. Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 008 Approach to CSR Activities Sharp’s CSR efforts range widely in the relationship between all business processes of Sharp and its stakeholders. Having sorted its activities into four large categories, Sharp pursues them by overseeing and ensuring well-balanced progression among the activities and the categories, while also communicating with and engaging with society and stakeholders. Sharp also advances the activities in each category from the standpoint of putting into practice its corporate vision of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company.” Corporate Vision Carry Out Sharp’s CSR to Realize Becoming an Sustainable Development “Eco-Positive Company” The Great East Japan Earthquake, large-scale flooding in Thailand, currency crises in Europe—2011 was a tumultuous year of events that shook private enterprise and 1 Creation of new value through Global Consumers economies around the world. There were also corporate environment business activities Business scandals in which companies blatantly broke the law. partners One-of-kind product and device strategy, universal design, Meanwhile, efforts continue to be made to find solutions to customer satisfaction activities, social business, etc. unresolved global issues, such as environmental problems. Suppliers I truly feel that in this age of compounding problems, the 2 Harmony with society and collaboration public’s expectations and demands of corporations are with partners growing in scope and significance with each passing year. Local Environmental conservation, respect for human rights, communities social contribution activities, supply chain CSR, etc. Communicating with This year marks Sharp’s 100th anniversary. As the and engaging with executive officer in charge of CSR 3 Creation and innovation of corporate society and promotion, I will strive to ensure stakeholders NGOs, that, as we abide by our business culture NPOs philosophy and business creed of HR strategy, work-life balance, occupational health and safety, R-CATS (small-group activities), etc. “Sincerity and Creativity”, we Shareholders, always aim to realize sustainable investors development of both Sharp and 4 Basic social responsibility society. We shall achieve this Corporate governance, internal control, risk management, compliance, Financial institutions through a linkage of management Government, Employees, dividend payment, tax payment, etc. administrative job strategy and CSR activities and organs applicants through close communication and Kazutoshi Goto engagement with society and our Executive Officer Group General Manager stakeholders. Legal Group Sharp Corporation Special Feature Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 009 Helping Create a Sustainable Society by Developing Energy-Creating Businesses and Energy-Saving Products Worldwide to Contribute to the Culture, Benefits, and Welfare of People throughout the World Twenty years ago, in June 1992, the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (commonly known as the Earth Summit) was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The concept of sustainable development as a way to avoid destruction of the Earth’s environment was shared by the world. Nations, companies, and individuals took this opportunity to speed up efforts to preserve the world environment. However, there has been limited success over the past 20 years. Greater wisdom and action are needed in order to pass on our beautiful, irreplaceable Earth to the next generation. In this respect, the role of a company can be extremely important. ■ For the Realization of a Sustainable Society Sharp will commemorate its 100th anniversary on September 15, 2012. electronic desktop calculator (1964) aimed for an era of general use; the world’s first successful application of a liquid crystal display to a pocket-sized electronic calculator (1973); and the Looking back over its business, Sharp has contributed to the realization of new lifestyles by realization of the dream of a wall-mountable LCD color TV (1991). anticipating the demands of the era, working rapidly in technology development, and providing such technology to the world in the form of its products. There are many examples: the Today, many of Sharp’s businesses contribute to what is perhaps the world’s most important invention of the snap buckle (1912) and the Hayakawa propelling pencil* (Ever-Ready Sharp need: the realization of a sustainable society. Pencil, 1915) around the time of the establishment of the company in anticipation of the change In this special feature, Sharp’s representative businesses will be introduced in three aspects: from Japanese-style clothing to Western-style clothing; the first domestic crystal radio (1925), pioneering an era of renewable energy through solar power generation; achieving rich which was commercialized at the advent of radio broadcasting; the first domestic communication by energy-saving displays; and contributing to a safe, healthy, environmentally black-and-white TV (1953), which was mass-produced as TV broadcasting just began; the friendly life through energy creation and energy saving. early start of research in solar cells (1959)—an up-and-coming energy source—and their successful mass production (1963); development of the world’s first all-transistor-diode * Term used by Tokuji Hayakawa on the patent application for his mechanical pencil. One of the world’s largest mega solar power generation plants in Thailand, with a 73 MW capacity using Sharp thin-film solar cells Satellite image: ©DigitalGlobe Special Feature Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 010 This mega solar power plant in Calabria, Italy was constructed and is operated by Enel Green Power & Sharp Solar Energy S.r.l. (ESSE), a joint solar independent power producer company established by Sharp and Enel Green Power, a group company of Enel S.p.A., Italy’s largest power utility. Five additional power plants have been constructed in Italy and are now under operation. ESSE plans to expand its power generation business to not only Europe but also the Middle East and Africa. Solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (operations began March 2010) Thin-film solar cell plant in Italy (operations began December 2011) ■ Pioneering an Era of Renewable Energy through Solar Power Generation According to an announcement by the International Energy Agency (IEA), worldwide CO2 Sharp’s solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI has been producing thin-film solar cells and emissions reached an all-time record of 31.6 billion tons in 2011 (3.2% increase over the monocrystalline solar cells using cutting-edge technologies. Sharp’s idea is to develop previous year). This figure is the amount of CO2 emitted by the consumption of fossil fuels, and production facilities in regional markets around the world, with this plant serving as the core considered to comprise approximately 90% of all greenhouse gases. Emissions will continue to “mother plant.” In Europe, the largest consumer region for solar power, a thin-film solar cell increase due to economic growth in newly emerging economies, making it difficult to achieve plant—the largest of its kind in Italy—operates under the joint cooperation of Sharp and a the international goal of limiting the rise in global atmospheric temperature to no more than two leading local company. And electricity generation is now underway at a mega solar power plant degrees higher than the temperature before the industrial revolution. that uses these locally produced thin-film solar cells (see page 45). Using renewable energies is one way we can halt rising global temperatures, but we have to To achieve full-scale expansion of solar power generation, its costs must be cut to the point of introduce these at a much faster pace than we have been doing. grid parity (the point at which solar power generation costs are equal to those of conventional power generation). Sharp is in the process of building a worldwide comprehensive solar power Solar power is one example of renewable energy. Sharp got an early start in solar power, solutions business that covers the development and production of solar cells and modules, the beginning research in 1959. When speaking about the technologies of the future, Sharp’s design of solar power systems, the construction of mega solar power generation plants, and founder Tokuji Hayakawa always touched on solar cells first, saying, “If we could find a way of management as an independent power producer. Sharp is also focusing its R&D on increasing generating electricity from limitless solar heat and light, that would benefit humankind to an the conversion efficiency of solar cells. Sharp has so far achieved the world’s highest extent we can scarcely imagine.” conversion efficiency of 43.5%* with its concentrator solar cell. Under Hayakawa’s vision, Sharp succeeded in mass producing solar cells in 1963 and has gone Sharp will continue to pioneer an era of renewable energy through efforts in solar power on to develop and commercialize various types of solar cells, including monocrystalline, generation. polycrystalline, thin-film, and compound. It has built up technological know-how and earned the trust of customers by putting these solar cells into a wide range of applications, including lighthouses, satellites, commercial and residential power systems, and mega solar power plants. Sharp develops concentrator solar cell with world’s highest * As of June 2012 conversion efficiency of 43.5% Special Feature Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 011 Production of LCD panels using oxide semiconductors (IGZO) began at Kameyama Plant No. 2 (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) A videoconference and meeting using the touchscreen LCD monitor. This interactive Media tablets RW-T110 (10.1-inch) and RW-T107 whiteboard capability is changing the way (7-inch) for Japan. These can be used for people communicate. sending*4 and sharing meeting materials in a system linked with the touchscreen LCD monitor. *4 Separately sold file-sharing software required JR Osaka Station JL-T100 study tablet with handwriting input capability for New IGZO LCD (prototype) Japan. Interactive classes can be held in schools by (above: 6.1-inch for mobile devices) linking with the touchscreen LCD monitor*3. (left: 4.9-inch for smartphones) AQUOS LC-80GL7 80-inch LCD TV for Japan. The screen shows a Visual Motion Guide*1 which lists TV programs *3 Development of applications and construction of and website information for easier navigation. At the bottom, the menu for the new AQUOS City Internet service is delivery systems are required displayed. AQUOS City offers a range of information and living assistance services such as e-mail notifications of TV use at home to keep an eye on family living far away*2. *1 Simulated screen image. Service content may change. Program names are not real. *2 Internet service requires a broadband connection, setup, contract with a carrier or provider, and usage fees. ■ Achieving Rich Communication by Energy-Saving Displays Today, LCDs are routinely used by everyone, everywhere—in TVs, smartphones, tablets, and energy-efficient screens. The next dream of Sharp’s engineers was the development of a copier control panels, to name just a few. A wide range of information can be displayed, from wall-mountable TV, which would provide a new lifestyle by replacing CRT TVs with thin and black-and-white characters to high-resolution full-color video. Thin, light, and energy-saving energy-saving LCD TVs. The rest is history, as today hundreds of millions of CRT TVs LCDs are used in mobile devices for easy access to information and knowledge from around worldwide have been replaced with LCD TVs, bringing people new lifestyles and energy and the world through the Internet and SNS (social networking services), and have become resource savings. indispensible for communicating and exchanging opinions. Thin, light, high-resolution, and Sharp continues in its efforts to further evolve LCDs. In collaboration with Semiconductor energy-saving LCDs are also widely used indoors as large-size displays. Energy Laboratory Co., Ltd., Sharp developed a new technology using oxide semiconductors Sharp began studying the practical use of LCDs in 1969. Fierce competition in the (IGZO). Through this technology, higher resolution, lower power consumption, and enhanced miniaturization and price reduction of calculators was the impetus for this research for thin touchscreen performance are possible. Furthermore, IGZO can be applied to organic EL display devices with minimal power consumption. Through the persistent efforts of its displays. engineers, in 1973 Sharp succeeded in developing the world’s first pocket-sized electronic Sharp is contributing to rich and varied communication through its energy-saving and calculator to include an LCD. Due to its superb energy-saving capability, it could run on one AA high-resolution displays. battery for 100 hours, and it contributed to creating significantly smaller calculators. Sharp continued to research and expand the applications for LCDs, along the way evolving the screen display capabilities from numbers and letters to images, from black-and-white to color, from still images to video, and to gradually thinner, lighter, larger, higher-resolution, and more Sharp and Semiconductor Energy Laboratory jointly develop new oxide semiconductor technology that will revolutionize displays Special Feature Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 012 RX-V100 home cleaning robotic appliance for Japan, equipped with cleaning function and Plasmacluster ions, brings comfort and a sense of security to daily life. Advanced functions such as AI, voice recognition, sensors, and smartphone connection enable interactive control, communications such as simple greetings, and monitoring of room conditions from outside. (Conceptual image) JH-RTP1/JH-RTP2 power consumption visualizing system for Japan (conceptual image). The real-time power consumption of individual home appliances connected to a power-measuring tap can be Sharp Eco House at GREEN FRONT SAKAI conducts tests of the home energy management system (HEMS) checked on a dedicated tablet. ■ Contributing to a Safe, Healthy, Environmentally Friendly Life through Energy Creation and Energy Saving Sharp utilizes the Earth’s resources and energy to create products. And further energy is For advanced countries to maintain their abundant lifestyles, and for newly emerging and consumed when customers use these products. Sharp strives to recycle resources more developing countries to continue to grow, it is crucial that we develop and use fossil-free energy efficiently and promote energy that does not produce greenhouse gases. sources and that we save energy through the effective use of products. Sharp works to recycle resources by promoting the recycling of used products (see pages 43 With original technologies accumulated over the years, Sharp is promoting the development of and 44) and by using proprietary closed-loop recycling technology for the repeated use of energy-creating businesses through solar power generation, energy-saving products, and plastics. As a result, recycling volumes have increased (see page 30). Furthermore, since the management systems that optimally control energy. In the Eco House at GREEN FRONT start of operations in 2004, the Kameyama Plant has recycled 100% of the water used in its SAKAI, Sharp carries out tests for its home energy management system. Throughout the world, production processes. In addition, Sharp’s plants in Japan conduct thorough recycling of waste Sharp participates in smart community projects such as Kashiwa no ha Smart City in Chiba materials and have achieved zero discharge to landfill for the past 11 years (see page 54). Prefecture. Regarding energy, Sharp seeks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by thorough energy Sharp is also promoting the development of air purification technologies. Plasmacluster savings in all its business activities, beginning with manufacturing at its plants. And by technology is Sharp’s unique technology that inactivates and removes airborne viruses and expanding production of solar cells and enhancing the energy-saving performance of products, mold. To date, Sharp has delivered more than 30 million Plasmacluster-equipped products and Sharp contributes to the further reduction of such gases. In fiscal 2011, Sharp emitted 1.41 ion generating devices in Japan and overseas. million tons CO2, but the use of Sharp energy-creating and energy-saving products contributed Using its original technologies and in collaboration with powerful international partners, Sharp to emission reductions of 4.42 million tons CO2, 3.1 times actual emissions. For fiscal 2012 and helps people around the world create energy and save energy, and live a life that is safe, beyond, Sharp has established a new goal and is working towards further reduction of healthy, and environmentally friendly. This helps advance culture, improve the well-being of greenhouse gases (see page 7). communities, and realize a sustainable society. Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 013 Objectives and Achievements in the Area of Management Objectives and Achievements in the Area of Management The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct characteristically include the “practice of fair and open management.” To contribute to society through manufacturing and technology-oriented business and to continue to be a company that has the trust of society, Sharp is establishing priority action themes in the area of management—the foundation of its business activities. The company will be working for continuous improvement while verifying and assessing the results of these activities. Overview of Efforts and Achievements in Fiscal 2011 In fiscal 2011, in response to an ever-growing number of demands from stakeholders to strengthen corporate to promote policies for compliance, which form the very basis of CSR in advancing business activities, as well governance and internal control, Sharp continued to work to improve the objectivity and soundness of the as implementing further measures to ensure total compliance with antitrust laws. Sharp also pushed forward governance system and took steps to ensure the stable operation of the company’s internal control system. with ongoing efforts to improve specific management-related areas, such as BCPs (business continuity plans), With a view to its global operations, Sharp conducted an ongoing series of training and educational activities ensuring information security, and protecting personal information and intellectual property rights. Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Self See Important Themes Achievements for Fiscal 2011 EvalObjectives for Fiscal 2012 page(s) uation Objectives • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and soundness in management • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and soundness in Reinforce corporate ○ management 14, 15 governance • Appointed one new outside member to Board of Directors (June), establishing two outside board member positions Achievements • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system • Conduct evaluation of validity and effectiveness of internal control and disclose information regarding development and • In each internal control area, review progress of implementation to improve efficiency Objectives Develop, maintain, operational status of internal control system, with reference to revisions to Internal Control Reporting System under Financial from operational perspective and mount intensive efforts to resolve critically Instruments and Exchange Act important items (problem areas) 15, operate, and assess ○ website internal control • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system (implemented internal control policies as a system corporate group, including for new subsidiaries) Achievements • Conducted evaluation of validity and effectiveness with reference to revisions to Internal Control Reporting System and submitted Internal Control System Report (information disclosure) (June) • Formulate policies and plan and promote measures based on new trends in CSR (publishing of ISO 26000 guidance on social • Expand and improve CSR measures in Japan and abroad, giving consideration to Objectives Review systems for responsibility, revised OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, etc.) ISO 26000 and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, etc. 16, promoting CSR ○ website Achievements • Self-analysis carried out by each functional business group for major guidelines under ISO 26000 Objectives • Ongoing improvement of BCM (business continuity management) system • Ongoing improvement of BCM system • Ongoing review and improvement of BCPs for major overseas production bases Strengthen business 17 • Conducted BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic sales groups and non-production bases, assuming occurrence of ○ risk management large-scale earthquakes Achievements • Ongoing review of existing BCPs for domestic production bases Objectives • Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion measures • Ongoing compliance training for employees in Japan and abroad • Ongoing training on antitrust laws for employees of all business groups and domestic Practice compliance • Ongoing compliance training (job-level-specific training, e-learning, etc.) for employees in Japan and abroad subsidiaries • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness of anti-bribery guidelines 19–21, • Held training on antitrust laws for employees of all business groups and domestic subsidiaries ○ in business website Achievements • Implementation of education and awareness of compliance items for antitrust laws in business tie-ups with other companies • Implementation of education and awareness of anti-bribery guidelines to preclude corrupt practices involving foreign public officials • Revamp contents of self-checks for maintaining confidentiality and information security, and implement them on a continuing • Conduct regular security assessments of publicly accessible servers Strengthen measures Objectives basis in Japan and overseas • Centralize and unify management of publicly accessible servers for maintaining confidentiality and • Revamped contents of self-checks for maintaining confidentiality and information security, and implemented them on a ○ 22 information security Achievements continuing basis in Japan and overseas • Conducted security assessment of publicly accessible servers Strengthen Objectives • Ongoing implementation of policies to promote protection of personal information • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal information personal • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal information ○ personal information for employees and others 22 information Achievements • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting personal information for employees and protection system others Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 014 Corporate Governance / Internal Control Sharp is working to improve corporate governance functions while strengthening its Director/Corporate Auditor System, for example by appointing outside directors, speeding up managerial decisions by separating supervisory and decision-making functions from business execution functions based on an executive officer system, and expanding the Internal Audit Division as an organization that works with the Board of Corporate Auditors to provide oversight and maintain a rein on management. In addition, by continuously developing and maintaining the internal control system, Sharp is working to enhance this system to ensure the propriety of operational activities of the entire Sharp Group. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, and • Appointed one new outside member to Board of Directors (June), establishing two • (Corporate governance) Further improve transparency, objectivity, soundness in management outside board member positions and soundness in management • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal control system • Continuously put into practice various policies related to internal • Conduct evaluation of validity and effectiveness of internal control and disclose (implemented internal control policies as a corporate group, including for new subsidiaries) control system information regarding development and operational status of internal control • Conducted evaluation of validity and effectiveness with reference to revisions to Internal • In each internal control area, review progress of implementation to system, with reference to revisions to Internal Control Reporting System under Control Reporting System and submitted Internal Control System Report (information improve efficiency from operational perspective and mount Financial Instruments and Exchange Act disclosure) (June) intensive efforts to resolve critically important items (problem areas) Concept of Corporate Governance In June 2008, Sharp introduced the executive officer system to focus on both management decision-making and execution of business processes, as well as work toward effective and speedy Sharp is engaged in integrated production—from development to the manufacture and sale of products in a wide corporate management. In addition, Sharp dissolved the Advisory Board established in 2006 to make the range of fields. Each of these areas works in harmony to boost managerial efficiency. Consequently, a management best use of opinions from knowledgeable outside experts in various fields, and in its stead appointed an system is required in which directors who have a strong grasp of each area work closely with the R&D and outside member to the Board of Directors in June 2009. In addition, with the aim of further improving the manufacturing divisions in order to facilitate speedy decision-making and business execution. Under such a transparency, objectivity, and soundness of management, in June 2011 Sharp appointed one additional concept, Sharp is working with the aim of rapid management decision-making by separating supervisory and new member to its Board of Directors, for a total of two outside members. decision-making functions from business execution functions. At the same time, Sharp is taking steps to strengthen business execution functions by establishing committees that work in close cooperation with the Board of Directors To ensure the smooth functioning of the executive officer system, in April 2010 Sharp revamped its to supplement its execution functions. In addition, as a company with statutory auditors, Sharp is continuously governance system and abolished the position of CEO/COO to more clearly separate supervisory and improving corporate governance functions while strengthening the Director/Corporate Auditor system. important decision-making functions from business execution functions, thereby enabling more rapid management by emphasizing each respective role. ■ Corporate Governance System Sharp has also designated three of four current corporate auditors as outside auditors, and has Shareholders’ Meeting strengthened their capability to monitor and hold management in check by establishing the Internal Audit Supervision/ Election/dismissal Election/ Audit functions Election/ Division as an organization that works with the Board of Corporate Auditors. Supervision/decision-making Report dismissal dismissal Supplement supervisory functions Board of Directors Meeting Report Report Accounting In the future, Sharp will further strengthen its Director/Auditor/Executive Officer system, while working to Directors Report Internal Control Committee Board of Corporate auditors enhance and improve corporate governance. Appointment/ Audit decision-making functions Special Committee removal Report Auditors Monitoring Compensation Committee (Election/ dismissal) Corporate auditors Status of Corporate Governance System Coordination Supervision Resolution/ Nominating Committee report Audit Coordination The Board of Directors Meetings of Sharp Corporation are held on a monthly basis to make decisions on Internal Audit Coordination Division matters stipulated by law and management-related matters of importance, and to supervise the state of Representative directors/managing directors business execution. To improve management agility and flexibility, and to clarify the responsibilities of the Business execution functions (executive officers) company management during each accounting period, the term of office for members of the Board of Supplement business execution functions Deliberations on key policies Directors is set at one year. Executive Management Technology Strategy Committee Committee Corporate In addition to the Board of Directors, the company has the Executive Management Committee, where Executive officers, etc. Auditors Office Strategic and consultative One-of-a-Kind Product trategy Committee matters of importance related to corporate management and business operation are discussed and Business Deliberation/report execution Sharing information on business progress reported twice a month. In addition, the Business Promotion Committee generally meets once a month to and checks Report Operational Operational Accounting Investment Committee Business Promotion Committee audit audit audit share information and thoroughly review corporate and management policies with managers in each business area. committees Executive officers CSR/BRM Committee Group general managers Heads of sales companies, etc. The Board of Corporate Auditors formulates audit policies, listens to reports from accounting auditors, and Compliance Committee Ensure apt policy execution/ information sharing receives reports on the execution of duties, in particular from the Board of Directors. Corporate auditors also exchange information and opinions on such matters as the progress of deliberations of important Business execution (Business groups, functional groups, sales and marketing groups, subsidiaries and affiliates) meetings and auditing (on-site auditing) results, which increases the validity of audits. Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 015 Selection, Compensation, and Evaluation of Corporate Directors Sharp has established a Special Committee, a Nominating Committee, and a Compensation Committee, Message from an Outside Director which complement the supervisory functions of the Board of Directors. One purpose of establishing these The major disaster of the Great East Japan Earthquake renewed worldwide awareness of not only the committees has been to improve the fairness and transparency of the selection and compensation of extent to which such disasters can affect companies but also the risks that business activities bring to corporate directors who have been entrusted by shareholders with the management of the company. the environment and society. Many industries and companies are using this experience as an The Nominating Committee, in which outside directors also participate, recommends and determines opportunity to accelerate decentralization of the value chain and development of alternative energy candidates for directors. In addition, monthly compensation and bonuses for all directors are at the sources, and are reconsidering measures to reduce business risks. maximum limit of total compensation as set forth in a resolution adopted at a shareholders’ meeting, and Initiatives companies undertake to help resolve environmental preservation issues and human rights will be fairly determined by setting evaluation criteria—such as financial results, level of contribution to the and other social issues become critical elements for stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, company, and so on—in the Compensation Committee, which includes the outside directors. and financial institutions, to evaluate those companies from the perspective of social responsibility. Furthermore, to achieve sustainable development, many companies are strengthening their business activities in terms of not only economic dimensions, but also environmental and social dimensions. It eS-SEM Strategic Management System is essential for those companies to actively disclose that information through sustainability reports and In fiscal 2004, Sharp introduced its own strategic management system (eS-SEM) using the balanced other media to ensure their activities are widely known and to enhance communication with scorecard method. The goal of eS-SEM is to improve the performance of the organization and individuals stakeholders. by balancing the strategy of an organization from both financial and non-financial perspectives and breaking Last year we saw a succession of corporate scandals that shook the state of Japan’s corporate down company-wide organizational goals to the level of the individual, thereby improving the effectiveness governance. Initiatives are underway to revise the legal system in an attempt to tighten regulations. As of objectives. The system is revised every fiscal year based on the business environment to ensure that the an outside director, I hope to fulfill my role to oversee Sharp’s management operations from an results obtained are in line with company-wide strategies. independent standpoint and use my experience built up over many years conducting global business management at a trading company to help restore Sharp’s performance and confidence, to the greatest extent possible. Basic Policy for Internal Control and Maintaining the Internal Control System Sharp is developing and maintaining its internal control system to ensure that the entire Sharp Group Makoto Kato Outside Director engages in fair and appropriate business practices based on provisions of Japan’s Companies Act and the Internal Control Reporting System under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Career Overview June 1995 Director, Itochu Corporation In response to the enactment of the Companies Act in 2006, the Board of Directors passed a resolution to adopt a basic policy related to the development and maintenance of systems necessary to ensure the October 1998 Representative Senior Managing Director, Itochu Corporation properness of business practices (Basic Policy for Internal Control). April 2001 Representative Executive Vice In accordance with this policy, Sharp also established the Internal Control Committee to serve as an President, Itochu Corporation advisory panel to complement the supervisory functions of the Board of Directors. The Internal Control April 2006 Vice Chairman, Itochu Corporation Committee discusses various policy measures related to the internal control system and affirms their June 2007 Corporate Senior Advisor, operational status. Itochu Corporation In addition, as part of building and strengthening the internal control system for the entire Sharp Group, June 2011 Director, Sharp Corporation (current position) Sharp has implemented various measures such as requesting that the Boards of Directors of its major consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan pass resolutions to adopt basic policies for developing internal control systems, and promoting the development of rules and regulations required to build internal control systems at consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan and overseas. Sharp has also taken similar initiatives for newly established major consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies. At the same time, in response to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Sharp Group has been evaluating the effectiveness of the internal control system in relation to financial reporting. It has also taken steps to reduce various business risks through the sound operation of the internal control system. Internal control system Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 016 System to Promote CSR / Risk Management Sharp has set up internal systems to promote CSR including a CSR/BRM Committee. Additional efforts toward CSR include instituting the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct as a set of principles and standards of behavior for putting CSR into practice, and participating in the United Nations Global Compact. Sharp is also continuously improving business risk management through actions such as developing and improving BCPs (business continuity plans) to be followed in the event of a major earthquake or other disaster. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Formulate policies and plan and promote measures based on new trends in • Self-analysis carried out by each functional business group for major • Expand and improve CSR measures in Japan and abroad, giving CSR (publishing of ISO 26000 guidance on social responsibility, revised OECD guidelines under ISO 26000 consideration to ISO 26000 and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, etc.) Enterprises, etc. • Ongoing improvement of BCM (business continuity management) system • Conducted BCP disaster simulation exercises for domestic sales groups and • Ongoing improvement of BCM system non-production bases, assuming occurrence of large-scale earthquakes • Ongoing review and improvement of BCPs for major overseas production • Ongoing review of existing BCPs for domestic production bases bases Structure to Promote CSR Policies and Activities United Nations Global Compact Sharp holds semi-annual meetings of the CSR/BRM* Committee to discuss and check policies, measures, Sharp became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact in June 2009. Since and progress for the entire company. These meetings are attended by the Chief General Administration then, Sharp has set concrete targets for its efforts in support of the 10 principles of the Officer, as well as all group general managers of both the business groups and the functional groups. This Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, committee serves to complement the business execution functions of Sharp. and is working to further promote these efforts throughout the Sharp Group. In addition, Sharp has established the CSR Promotion Division for planning and promoting CSR policies The Global Compact’s Ten Principles See page(s) and measures for the entire Sharp Group. The CSR Promotion Division collects and analyzes information related to domestic and overseas trends, formulates policies on issues deemed important from the Human Rights 4・68・76・ perspective of CSR, and plans and promotes measures to implement policies, working in collaboration with Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 77・82・ relevant functional and business groups. human rights; and 86–89 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. * BRM: Business risk management Related information Page 14: Corporate governance system Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4・68・76・ Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 77・82–87 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and To put into practice its Business Philosophy and Business Creed—the foundation of Sharp’s CSR—and to Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. fulfill its social responsibilities, Sharp has established the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, the principles of corporate behavior of all Sharp Group companies; and the Sharp Code of Conduct, the Environment standards of conduct for all directors and employees. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 4・7・9–12・ Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 24–66 The Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct were reviewed as appropriate and recently Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. revised in April 2010 to accommodate changes in the business environment, including changes in the nature of what society and stakeholders expect of companies. The revisions also reflect changes to existing Anti-Corruption 4・13・20 laws and the enactment of new ones. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct represent a common set of behavioral norms and standards of conduct for the Sharp Group. The Boards of Directors of Sharp Group companies around the Responding to New Trends in CSR world passed resolutions to adopt them, and Sharp is working to thoroughly communicate their content through internal notices, pamphlets, and training. In fiscal 2011, relevant functional groups performed self-analysis of main components of ISO 26000, an Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, Sharp Code of Conduct international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility. Based on stakeholder engagement and other issues discovered in analyses and in consideration of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and other guidelines, each functional group works together with the CSR Promotion Division to continuously expand Sharp’s CSR activities in Japan and abroad. Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 017 Creating Integrated CSR and BRM Activities (business continuity plans) to cope with natural disasters, such as an earthquake or an outbreak of a new strain of influenza. Sharp believes BRM (business risk management) is indispensable in fulfilling corporate social responsibility In fiscal 2011, Sharp conducted BCP simulation exercises for subsidiaries and sales groups in Japan, and and makes it a top priority to conduct integrated CSR and BRM activities. instituted a system in Japan based on the PDCA cycle to hold ongoing reviews and make improvements in The semi-annual meetings of the CSR/BRM Committee (see page 16) regularly review major risks, BCPs. deliberate on company-wide BRM measures for dealing with them, and communicate those measures In fiscal 2012, Sharp will continue to hold ongoing reviews and work to improve BCPs at major overseas throughout the company. As well, Sharp’s functional groups and business groups identify major risks bases. pertinent to their business and mission, and plan and promote measures to either prevent them or minimize their impact. Case Studies Promoting BRM 1) Management Based on the Rules of Business Risk Management Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Sharp developed the Rules of Business Risk Management as a basic policy for the promotion of BRM, and Due to their geographical location, none of Sharp’s production bases sustained damage as a direct result of controls business risks based on these rules. In the Rules, Sharp has identified more than 100 risk items ground motion or the tsunami. The strongest impact was to material procurement. In response, efforts were that could have a major impact on management as “specific risks,” and has created a risk control manual. made to procure materials from multiple sources, and company-wide policies were prepared, such as For each specific risk, Sharp has designated a functional group to be responsible for risk management actions to help people stranded by paralyzed transportation systems to return to their homes. across the entire company, and is continuously moving forward with initiatives to minimize and optimize In response to requests by the government and electric power companies to conserve power, Sharp risks and prevent risks from actually occurring. implemented initiatives such as setting the air conditioning cooling temperature at 28°C and heating temperature at 18°C, taking a certain percentage of lights out of service, introducing daylight saving time In addition, Sharp established the Rules of Emergency Response, detailing responses if a major potential within the company, and relaxing the summer dress code. Through these efforts, power was reduced by risk incident does come to pass. Taking prompt and appropriate action when an emergency situation about 30% within the service territories of Tokyo Electric Power Co. and about 10% throughout all Group occurs works to minimize loss and prevent the damage from spreading not only across the company, but companies during the period from July 1 to September 22, 2011 compared to the peak power period in also to society at large. These Rules also specify action items to be implemented to ensure prompt and 2010. appropriate information disclosure to stakeholders. Sharp periodically reviews and revises these Rules and the manual to reflect changes in the business Response to Massive Flooding Damage in Thailand environment; for example, adding new specific risks. When floods swept over Thailand in October 2011, Sharp immediately inaugurated an emergency operations council comprising the Head Office and local production and sales bases. As the damage 2) Management Methods for Important Risks became more extensive, the council was quickly converted into an emergency operations center with the Sharp Corporation President in command. The center collected information on flooding risk and impact on From among specific risks, those that have a greater potential impact and a higher probability of occurrence operations for local bases and business partners and carried out various countermeasures. are selected as “priority management risks” and become the subject of intense focus in the risk management activities of each group. Each group works on an ongoing basis to formulate and move Sharp had various flood countermeasures in place at its bases in Thailand, but those locations luckily did not forward with plans every six months to deal with these priority management risks from the perspective of suffer any direct flood damage. Unfortunately, considerable damage was sustained by business partners, affecting production for Sharp at local production bases as well as those outside of Thailand. policy measures to (1) reduce the likelihood of a risk occurring and (2) reduce the impact on business activities in the unlikely event that a risk incident actually does occur. In addition, the CSR/BRM Committee Thanks to the valuable efforts of numerous business partners, Sharp was able to escape prolonged effects mentioned above presents case studies and reviews risk incidents that have occurred within the company, of the Thailand floods. However, the company plans to review and revise its BCP for its bases, including the and works to prevent similar incidents by sharing information and ensuring that countermeasures are ones in Thailand, based on the lessons learned from the flood. deployed across the company. Further, in fiscal 2011, efforts to further strengthen risk management among the main functional groups and the CSR Promotion Division were reaffirmed. 3) Promoting BCM and BCP Sharp considers BCM (business continuity management) to be a priority issue for management. This effort is intended to ensure the safety of employees and expedite the continuation or early recovery of business when a major disaster occurs. Sharp is also committed to continuously reviewing and improving BCPs Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 018 Case Study (Japan) Case Study (Overseas) CSR Efforts in Sales and Marketing Areas in Japan, Promoting CSR at SEID, a Manufacturing and Sales Subsidiary in Indonesia and Promoting CSR through the PDCA Cycle All employees at SEID*, a manufacturing and sales subsidiary in Indonesia, are involved in CSR activities based on the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct translated into the local language. The Domestic Sales and Marketing Group‚ which is in charge of sales and marketing activities in Japan‚ conducts business with a focus on CSR, based on the basic principles of “customer and compliance first.” All employees are familiarized with the Sharp Group Compliance Guidebook, as well as with a manual on prohibitions derived from antitrust laws. SEID actively promotes compliance, for example by setting up a Sales and service bases all over Japan are engaged in ongoing efforts to become firmly anchored in local hotline for whistle-blowers in May 2008. Moreover, its training center provides employees with thorough communities through further raising the level of awareness of CSR among all employees. training programs that teach topics such as occupational health and safety. In addition, the CSR Promotion Department, established within the Domestic Sales and Marketing Group, SEID also focuses efforts on business risk management, for example by promoting CSR in the supply chain works to plan and promote the PDCA management cycle (“plan‚ do‚ check‚ and act”) for CSR through and formulating a BCP outlining the appropriate response to take during emergencies such as earthquakes ongoing training and support for on-site problem solving activities and monitoring of the results. These and outbreaks of a new strain of influenza. efforts are aimed at improving compliance at sales and service sites, and also serve to implement a broad range of policies and activities on a more pragmatic level. Related Information Page 76: Example of Overseas Supplier Meeting Further Raising Awareness of CSR among Sales and Service Employees Activities That Contribute to Local Communities At business sites where multiple sales and service bases are located, morning meetings are held to The Sharp Green Club (SGC) was established at SEID in 2004. As a part of its CSR initiatives, it carries out maintain and improve employee knowledge about CSR. At the meetings, participants exchange information activities to contribute to local communities. SGC policies are based on the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate and conduct joint planning and review of CSR efforts that each base is expected to implement as a Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct and prioritize “contribution to conservation of the global environment.” member of the local community. SEID is building good relations with people of the local community and carrying out various environmental In addition, Sharp is demonstrating its commitment to community-based social action programs and to conservation activities in order to heighten residents’ awareness of environmental issues. It also holds workshops raising awareness of preserving biodiversity by conducting cleanup activities for wetlands that fall under the on measures to prevent dengue fever, nutrition for infants, and occupational training for women and young Ramsar Convention (selecting the 10 wetland areas located nearest the bases). people (such as screen printing and cooking). Further, in environmental education classes conducted in elementary schools, a key component of Sharp’s To heighten awareness of the environment in children from a young age, SEID holds environmental education community service activities, employees of sales and service bases nationwide serve as teachers, working classes at local elementary schools. Through demonstrations and hands-on lessons, children have fun learning with a nonprofit organization with a goal of making presentations in 500 schools each year. about environmental issues, biodiversity, renewable energy, global warming, and other topics. SEID has held environmental education classes at about 50 elementary schools in Indonesia from 2008 Related Information Page 91: Environmental Conservation Activities in Japan until the present. Page 92: Educational Activities in Japan * P.T. Sharp Electronics Indonesia manufactures Related information Page 49: SEID in Indonesia Achieves SGF Status and sells audio-visual equipment and health Page 92: Overseas Environmental Education and environmental equipment Words from a CSR Representative Training Department Provides Full Support The CSR group that I am in charge of supports activities to raise for CSR Activities awareness of compliance during sales and service, and plans The SEID Training Department has experienced trainers on staff and promotes environmentally focused community service to ensure elementary school students and regular citizens can activities. easily understand environmental issues. Trainers provide All sales and service companies around the country work in information in an easy-to-understand manner while maintaining coordination under the concept of “Sharp as one,” and jointly Kenji Nejime dialogues, thereby promoting interest in and willingness to Ramdani undertake community-oriented activities. Assistant Supervisor understand environmental issues. Manager Strategic Planning Department (CSR) Training Department Domestic Sales and Marketing Group SEID Sharp Corporation Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 019 Compliance In strengthening its global business expansion, Sharp has been using the PDCA cycle to develop and improve its compliance system for Sharp Corporation as well as affiliated companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries, and has been working to foster awareness of compliance on a global basis and promote the spread of this awareness throughout the Sharp Group. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Ongoing implementation of compliance promotion • Ongoing compliance training (job-level-specific training, e-learning, etc.) for employees in Japan and • Ongoing compliance training for employees in Japan and abroad measures abroad • Ongoing training on antitrust laws for employees of all business groups and • Held training on antitrust laws for employees of all business groups and domestic subsidiaries domestic subsidiaries • Implementation of education and awareness of compliance items for antitrust laws in business tie-ups • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness of anti-bribery guidelines with other companies • Implementation of education and awareness of anti-bribery guidelines to preclude corrupt practices involving foreign public officials • Revamp contents of self-checks for maintaining • Revamped contents of self-checks for maintaining confidentiality and information security, and • Conduct regular security assessments of publicly accessible servers confidentiality and information security, and implemented them on a continuing basis in Japan and overseas • Centralize and unify management of publicly accessible servers implement them on a continuing basis in Japan and • Conducted security assessment of publicly accessible servers overseas • Ongoing implementation of policies to promote • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal information • Ongoing implementation of internal audits related to protecting personal protection of personal information • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting personal information information for employees and others • Ongoing implementation of education and awareness policies related to protecting personal information for employees and others Basic Policy Regarding Compliance Committee was formed as a complementary body to the CSR/BRM Committee, and is chaired by the Chief General Administration Officer and includes group general managers of the functional groups. This Sharp defines compliance as “observing social codes of conduct and company regulations, including laws committee proposes compliance measures for the Sharp Group and periodically confirms their and corporate ethics,” and regards it as the foundation of fulfilling its CSR (corporate social responsibility). implementation status and checks on corrective actions. Accordingly, Sharp is pursuing on a global basis and through the PDCA cycle the ongoing development and Compliance system strengthening of systems and policy measures to promote management practices where compliance is given first priority. TO P I C S Strengthening the System to Promote Global Compliance Promoting Compliance in China A legal affairs and compliance division has been established at SCIC, Sharp Chinese headquarters, that Sharp is working not only to strengthen its compliance and legal systems in Japan, but also improve and works with Chinese in-house lawyers to give legal support to local bases and implement compliance enhance its legal systems internationally to ensure that compliance is integrated into management practices measures at those bases. The division previously formulated a Chinese language version of the Compliance on a global level. Guidebook and a Q&A list on antimonopoly law and provided training To strengthen compliance and legal systems in Japan, the Legal Division at the Head Office holds regular workshops in order to instill a basic awareness of compliance and ensure strict adherence to antimonopoly law. In fiscal 2011, it began publishing a meetings with legal affairs chiefs and staff members for each Sharp Corporation business group and monthly compliance newsletter with the goal of expanding continuous affiliated company of Sharp Corporation in Japan. In these meetings, they discuss problems and case educational activities. studies related to legal affairs as part of an ongoing effort to establish a shared awareness of compliance issues. The newsletter is distributed to all employees in bases in mainland China. The division also held study sessions for production and sales bases on In 2009, to strengthen its compliance and legal systems overseas, Sharp appointed a top management topics such as the legal system concerning representations of products executive in major regions overseas (such as the US, Europe, and China) to serve as a Compliance Officer and important points for business activities. In the future, the division will (CO), and appointed a legal affairs staff member from Sharp’s Legal Division at the Head Office to each strive to reduce compliance risks that are inevitable for a manufacturer by holding special-purpose workshops for each legal field. Ryutaro Nagaya region. To strengthen the compliance and legal functions in the region as well as share information, each Section Chief legal affairs staff member, as staff of each regional CO, works in cooperation with each base in the region, In fiscal 2012, we will continue working hard to make risks visible and Chief of Legal Affairs in China Legal Affairs and Compliance Division and also holds regular meetings with Sharp’s Legal Division at the Head Office. establish a PDCA plan. SCIC In relation to these efforts to promote compliance in all regions in Japan and abroad, the Compliance Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 020 Raising Legal and Ethical Awareness to Ensure Compliance Consultation Hotline for Compliance Issues In a social environment in which social responsibility is being subjected to ever more severe scrutiny, Sharp Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies in Japan have set up a hotline for providing counseling regards the role of the corporation as not merely to pursue profits, but rather to sustain and continue services related to general compliance issues, and an antitrust law hotline as a contact point specifically for business activities in a way that places the highest priority on compliance. In this light, Sharp produced the issues related to antitrust laws. These hotlines are accessible inside the company and externally (via an Sharp Group Compliance Guidebook as a how-to guide to ensure that each individual employee has a outside law firm providing legal counsel) to enable employees and temporary staff, as well as employees of thorough understanding of the meaning of compliance and how to put compliance into practice in their business partners*, to ask questions or request a consultation in line with the spirit of Japan’s Whistleblower routine work activities. Protection Act. Sharp in Japan uses training sessions as an opportunity to disseminate the contents of this guidebook, and These services enable Sharp to work with employees to quickly catch violations of the law or acts likely to is working to foster awareness of compliance and ensure that this awareness permeates the entire Sharp be violations, and take early action to resolve the problem. In fiscal 2011, the compliance hotline received Group. These sessions include job-level-specific training for directors, senior executives, managers, about 20 reports and requests for consultation; however, there were no material compliance violations. mid-career employees, and new employees; training for employees transferred overseas; and specialized The Sharp Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that the privacy of individuals who report compliance training in specific fields. violations or seek consultation will be strictly protected and that those persons will suffer no unfavorable In fiscal 2011, Sharp implemented compliance e-learning for all employees in Japan, and also published a treatment or penalties. compliance newsletter containing case studies and explanations of key laws and regulations. Similar reporting and consultation services have been set up at Sharp bases in the US, China, and At overseas bases, as in the previous year, Sharp has used teaching materials customized to the laws and Indonesia. regulations in each region to conduct training in antitrust laws, compliance, and the Sharp Code of Conduct, and has expanded efforts to foster awareness and acceptance of compliance on a global basis. * Only the compliance hotline is available for use by employees of business partners. In fiscal 2012, in addition to the ongoing initiatives described above, as its business expands even further globally, Sharp will continue to further expand and improve its efforts toward regulatory compliance so that business activities are carried out properly in accordance with regulations that apply globally and with local Preventing Corruption in All Forms and Dealing Properly with Donations laws and regulations. The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct contain provisions that strictly prohibit any form of corrupt behavior such as bribery or extortion of money or gifts, and require that donations be handled in a proper manner. Compliance with Antitrust Laws In Japan, Sharp prevents illegal payoffs and improper expenditures through a system of compulsory reviews Sharp has made antitrust laws in particular a priority area and is working constantly to ensure compliance by the Monetary Contribution Examination Committee on CSR in place since December 2008 to assess the with them. propriety of monetary disbursements such as donations and contributions made by Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies. In fiscal 2011, Sharp implemented an online training program in antitrust laws for all employees in Japan, conducted training at overseas bases, and reviewed the answers submitted by Sharp employees for the checklist in its internal control self-check system to comply with antitrust laws in Japan (which prevent the Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 formation of cartels). Sharp’s Legal Division at the Head Office also implemented study groups on compliance with antitrust laws for all Sharp Corporation business groups and affiliated companies in Japan. Number of reviews 177 221 183 In fiscal 2012, Sharp will continue its efforts to raise awareness of compliance items related to antitrust laws by holding training sessions for all business groups of Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies in In fiscal 2011, Sharp worked to ensure compliance items as much as possible based on a guidebook for Japan. preventing bribery of foreign public officials, which was prepared in the previous fiscal year. In fiscal 2012, Sharp plans to produce training materials customized to reflect the laws and regulations of each region where Sharp has overseas bases, and to disseminate them globally. Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 021 Preventing Insider Trading Export Control Sharp has effectuated regulations restricting insider trading, established controls on undisclosed material To comply with laws and regulations related to export control—such as Japan’s Foreign Exchange and facts (“insider tips”), and instituted restrictions on the buying and selling of stocks and other securities. Foreign Trade Act—Sharp has established certain policies in the Sharp Code of Conduct. The entire Sharp Sharp has also implemented in-house training related to insider trading. This training includes, among other Group, including domestic and overseas subsidiaries, imposes rigorous controls on exports. Regarding approaches, an educational campaign on the corporate intranet that targets Sharp Group employees in specific activities, Sharp has established a company-wide compliance program for export control, under Japan with the aim of preventing insider trading by Sharp Group directors, auditors, executive officers, or which a determination is made whether a Sharp product, component, or technology (including software) employees. falls under Japan’s export regulations (“non-applicability”). In addition, given the importance of disclosure, when “material facts specified in the Financial Instruments Sharp’s technology departments, which understand the technical specifications, make the determination of and Exchange Act” and/or “important company information that should be disclosed in a timely manner as non-applicability, and the Export Control Division at each business group re-checks the decision. If a stipulated by securities exchanges” is generated, Sharp will do its utmost to promptly disclose and publicize product or technology falls under the regulations and if authorization is needed from the Ministry of the relevant details. Further, regarding media and analyst coverage, Sharp will deal with it in a positive Economy, Trade and Industry, Sharp follows the requisite internal procedures to submit an application for an manner, while fully honoring the spirit of disclosure and remaining attentive so as not to violate export license. insider-trading regulations. In addition, Sharp issues a notice of prohibited export when a product that does fall under the regulations is In fiscal 2011, Sharp revamped a portion of the regulations to take a stricter approach to controls on supplied to a customer in Japan, and it issues a certificate of non-applicability (“parameter sheet”) when a material facts. Sharp also made a concerted effort to further strengthen initiatives aimed at preventing customer requests that it be provided. insider trading—for example, through holding lectures on insider trading regulations at new employee Furthermore, to check whether a product or technology could be used for the development of weapons of orientations and during on-the-job training for new managers. mass destruction (nuclear weapons, biological/chemical weapons, missiles, etc.) or conventional weapons, Sharp carefully screens customers, conducts a rigorous review of all transactions, and proceeds with a Compliance with Laws Related to Fair Advertising Practices and transaction only after receiving approval from the Department of Export Control at the Head Office. Proper Representations Sharp provides training on a regular basis to departments within Sharp, based on the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct, is the company involved in this process, in order to disseminate committed to compliance with laws and regulations regarding fair advertising and publicity activities, the Act information about export controls and strengthen awareness of against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations, and labeling under the fair competition their importance. Considering the recent expansion of code. globalization in areas such as overseas production, Sharp has In addition to building a labeling checking system for the entire company, Sharp holds regular also been promoting key initiatives aimed at compliance with the company-wide meetings to promote proper labeling. The company also works to prevent violations of laws legal systems of all countries where a Sharp overseas base is located. Sharp and regulations by ensuring that labeling is in accord with in-house standards and checklists. Code of Conduct Along with ongoing training sessions for in-house personnel involved in labeling, Sharp has established a website for proper labeling on its corporate intranet. 適正表示のための表示作成者用セルフチェックリスト The company is working to enhance the content of Security Export training to support building up the skills of the Control Regulations individuals in charge. Sharp will work on an ongoing basis to further strengthen its labeling checking system in Japan and abroad, while also enhancing related policy measures. The company will continue to ensure compliance with labeling laws as well as laws and regulations governing fair advertising and publicity activities aimed at stakeholders (and customers in particular). Checklist for consumer electronics fair competition code used by persons in charge of advertising and labeling Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 022 Management of Confidential and Personal Information Raising the Level of Information Security Sharp strictly manages not only internal information, but also confidential and personal information received In fiscal 2011, Sharp carried out an assessment in Japan and abroad of from customers, business partners, and others based on internal regulations to prevent risks of leaks. the security status of its websites, which had become a problem. In Japan, e-learning sessions are provided to all employees each year on topics such as information In addition, in March 2012, the IT Infrastructure/Information Security security and protection of personal information. In addition, regular audits are carried out (as a general rule, Committee advised that thorough precautions be taken to avert risks to once a year) on management of confidential and personal information at each business group and affiliated corporate websites. company. In fiscal 2012, Sharp will continue regular security assessments of its In fiscal 2012, Sharp will further raise the level of its information management by developing a websites. It is also planning to bring publicly accessible servers under company-wide information management system, reviewing and enhancing relevant policies including centralized management and control and to conduct training to A meeting of the IT Infrastructure/ revisions of the Basic Policy on Information Security to fit global standards, and conducting workshops, strengthen the capability to respond rapidly to the occurrence of Information Security Committee, using a self-checks, and audits based on the new policies. security incidents. Sharp interactive whiteboard Global Basic Policy on Information Security (revised in May 2012) Acquiring Privacy Mark Certification To ensure the safe and appropriate management and use of information and information systems Sharp Corporation and its domestic affiliates have established a basic policy for protection of personal (hereinafter “Information Assets”), the Sharp Group* (hereinafter the “Group”) stipulates a Global Basic information, and are promoting measures related to the protection of personal information by constructing Policy on Information Security as below, striving at all times to maintain the security of its information. an in-house management system. As a result of these efforts, Sharp Corporation and the affiliated companies in Japan listed below have received Privacy Mark certification, and are successively renewing 1. We recognize that information is a vital management resource in supporting and improving the certification. competitive position of the Group. We will strive to manage our Information Assets prudently and use them safely and appropriately in order to build reliable relationships with customers, business partners, As befits a company that has acquired certification, Sharp will constantly strive to improve and strengthen and other stakeholders. its system for protection of personal information in the future. 2. We will construct a framework for information security with reference to the status of information protection systems in countries and regions around the world, and thereby implement a variety of related ■ Privacy Mark-Certified Companies measures. Sharp Corporation 3. In using both hardware and software, we will maintain systems and arrangements to manage our Information Assets prudently and use them safely and appropriately. We will constantly work to improve Sharp Document Systems Corporation these systems and arrangements, reviewing them continuously. Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. 4. We will take appropriate measures to maintain our Information Assets and thereby establish information Sharp Finance Corporation security measures commensurate with the importance of each Information Asset, in order to protect Sharp Engineering Corporation them from divulgement, tampering, loss, external penetration of information systems, or other damage. Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation 5. Our basic principle is to convey only the necessary information to the members within the scope Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation Sharp Corporation’s Privacy Mark necessary for the conduct of operations. In particular, we will exercise strict management of all important information and personal information disclosed to us by customers and business partners. 6. Directors, officers, and employees will work together to maintain effective information security. To this end, education and training is provided on a regular basis to all Group directors, officers, and employees. 7. We will strictly comply with all laws, contractual obligations, and other standards regarding information security. 8. We will require all our business partners who hold information about the operations of the Group to take the measures necessary to maintain information security. 9. In the event that a problem arises with respect to the security of Information Assets, we will take prompt action to discover the cause of the problem and take the necessary steps to minimize damage and prevent recurrence. Management Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 023 Intellectual Property Strategy and Management System Incentives for Employee Inventions Sharp regards its strategy on intellectual property as one of its most important management measures, and To comply with the intent of Article 35 of Japan’s Patent Law, Sharp Corporation consulted with employees is promoting it together with its business strategy and R&D strategy. Sharp is aggressively pursuing the before stipulating its in-house rules, called the “Regulations for Employee Inventions.” The regulations acquisition of patents to ensure the superiority of its one-of-a-kind products and devices, thereby working include detailed standards on rewarding an employee who comes up with an invention during work for the to strengthen the foundation of its business. company, when and after the employee reports the invention and hands over the rights to the invention to the company. In developing a unified intellectual property strategy, Sharp’s Intellectual Property Center based at the Head Office is responsible for overall strategic management, and is involved in a variety of activities related to Sharp also reviewed and revised compensation systems in subsidiaries and affiliated companies in Japan intellectual property, working in mutual cooperation with patent-related departments located within the R&D according to the intent of the Patent Law, and has come up with programs that improve incentives for groups and each production business group and base. employees who devise inventions. Thus, Sharp has built and is promoting systems that compensate employees fairly and appropriately, depending on the contribution their invention makes to the company, as Regarding patent acquisition, Sharp is clarifying the business areas that form the core of each of its well as the contribution that each employee involved made to the invention. businesses, and is staffing these core business fields with engineers well versed in patent-related matters. Sharp is thus able to file strategic patent applications tightly focused on the actual situation. In addition, Sharp is also acquiring useful patents invented in cooperation with other companies or derived from the activities of alliances, such as industry-university cooperation. Combating Counterfeit Goods As of the end of March 2012, Sharp’s patent holdings consisted of 20,644 Japanese patents and 24,232 Sharp has implemented the following two main initiatives to combat counterfeit goods: foreign patents. Sharp is using this patent portfolio to strengthen its strategic businesses, and is 1) When counterfeit goods are traded within the national borders of a country, Sharp will petition local law aggressively analyzing the products of competitors with the aim of finding further patent utilization. In enforcement agencies to crack down and will hold training workshops for officials, as well as cooperate addition, Sharp is filing applications and registering rights for designs and trademarks globally under its with other companies in the same business area to expose the goods. brand strategy. 2) When counterfeit goods are moved from one country to another country, Sharp will petition local Date End of March 2010 End of March 2011 End of March 2012 customs authorities to crack down, and will hold training workshops for officials. Sharp will continue its efforts against counterfeit goods through these actions. Japanese patents 17,501 19,932 20,644 Foreign patents 22,568 24,170 24,232 TO P I C S Exchanging Opinions on Intellectual Property Rights Protection with Chinese Customs Protecting Intellectual Property The Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Japanese companies are working together with the Chinese government to implement countermeasures against products that violate intellectual property Sharp’s business and R&D strategies are interlinked with its intellectual property assets, which are used to rights. In August 2011, in an attempt to deepen mutual understanding, employees from the General the fullest possible advantage. At the same time, Sharp is firmly committed to protecting its own intellectual Administration of Customs of China that is beefing up control to prevent infringing products from leaving the property rights, while respecting the intellectual property rights of others. Even though Sharp regards country were invited to Japan and visited Sharp within the private sector. discussion as the basis for resolving cases of infringement, it is the company’s policy to seek judgment from As its brand recognition increases around the world, Sharp a third party such as the courts when its intellectual property rights are not respected. is also the victim of serious intellectual property right violations. Protection of intellectual property rights is set as a By strengthening in-house rules, Sharp is also working to bolster protection for trade secrets and to prevent high priority from the perspective of protecting the brand. unauthorized disclosure of production technologies and manufacturing know-how, particularly those that At the meeting, each party introduced its initiatives and gave are unique or critically important to Sharp. its opinions on effective methods to crack down on Further, counterfeit Sharp-brand products have had a growing impact in overseas markets in recent years, products that violate intellectual property rights. The and Sharp is taking measures to counter these imitations through cooperation with industry groups and meeting was also an opportunity to confirm that, going with regulatory authorities taking enforcement actions. forward, the two parties will cooperate with each other to strengthen countermeasures against infringing products. With regard to respect for the intellectual property rights of others, Sharp is responding by holding Sharp will continue to work together with government company-wide conferences for persons involved with patents and by training of engineers. agencies to carry out initiatives to protect its brand from the perspective of intellectual property. Meeting to exchange opinions on intellectual property rights protection Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 024 Aiming to Contribute to the Environment Aiming to Contribute to the Environment In accordance with environmental conservation guidelines established in line with Sharp’s Basic Environmental Philosophy, the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, and the Sharp Code of Conduct, Sharp is pursuing environmental consciousness across all of its business activities. Since fiscal 2010, Sharp has been further strengthening its efforts to contribute to the environment based on its corporate vision of becoming an “Eco-Positive Company.” Basic Environmental Philosophy Corporate Vision Creating an Environmentally Conscious Company with Sincerity and Creativity Eco-Positive Company The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Contribution to Conservation of the Global Environment Strengthening Environmental Sustainability Management to Achieve The Sharp Group will make efforts to further contribute to global environmental conservation the Corporate Vision by strengthening our development of proprietary technologies for protecting the global environment, and by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. Sharp has set up an organization to plan and promote overall company strategy for protecting the global environment, and it is deploying environmental sustainability management on a global basis. The Sharp Code of Conduct Critical policies, strategies, and measures relating to environmental sustainability management are referred to the Executive Management Committee. With the approval of corporate executives, these initiatives are Contribution to Conservation of the Global Environment thoroughly implemented across the entire Sharp Group. Specifically, the director in charge of environmental affairs serves as the chair of the semiannual General Global Environmental Conferences, where general 1. To Conserve the Environment 2. To Develop Environmentally Conscious Products and Services, and Conduct managers responsible for environmental affairs from each division and overseas base become thoroughly Our Business Operations in an Environmentally Conscious Manner familiar with Sharp Group environmental policies and discuss environmental policies, objectives, and measures for each division. Sharp also holds Company-Wide GP (Green Product) and GF (Green Factory) Conferences in Japan and regional environmental conferences overseas to ensure that Sharp Group environmental policies are thoroughly disseminated and to discuss environmental policies and measures for ■ Sharp Group’s Environmental Sustainability Management each department and site. Sharp also works closely with members of environmental departments at each site in Japan and overseas through various committees, project activities, and Eco Best Practice Forums*1, Executive Management Committee while promoting various environmental initiatives across the Sharp Group. General Global Environmental Conference • Company-Wide In fiscal 2010, with the aim of further strengthening environmental sustainability management, Sharp Special Safety Chaired by the director Management Committee established the Eco-Positive Strategic Measures as priority objectives under the group performance (Gas/chemical/radiation/ in charge of environmental affairs electricity special-interest groups) evaluation system, based on Sharp’s original strategic management system (eS-SEM*2). All divisions at Sharp Corporation and all Sharp Group companies are introducing these measures and working proactively Company-Wide GP/GF Conference Pan-American Pan-European Asia China to help protect the environment by striving to make Sharp’s corporate vision of being an Eco-Positive Chaired by the Environmental Environmental Conference Environmental Conference Environmental Conference Environmental Conference Company a reality. Protection Division General Manager • Company-Wide Product VOC • Site VOC Measures *1 See page 49. Measures Workgroup Workgroup • REACH Measures • RoHS CE Marking *2 See page 15. Project Team Workgroup Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental conferences/committees conferences conferences conferences conferences at all sites (companies) in Japan at each at each at each at each subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary subsidiary Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, Sharp Code of Conduct Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 025 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Environmental Objectives and Achievements Under its corporate vision of becoming an Eco-Positive Company, Sharp not only takes the environment into account in all its business activities, but also pursues what will create positive outcomes for the environment. All divisions set environment-related objectives, but this section reports on the objectives overseen by the CS and Environmental Promotion Group, which is responsible for company-wide environmental strategy, and on their results. Fiscal 2011 Achievement Summary Due to the unanticipated worsening of the business environment in terms of both scale and speed, fiscal Fiscal 2011 was also the third year of Sharp’s Eco-Positive Strategy, and Eco-Positive efforts have spread 2011 was a year of unprecedentedly bad business performance. Changing market conditions resulted in a throughout the Sharp Group. For the future, the focus will be on encouraging regional hubs to develop and sharp drop-off in sales, which necessitated that adjustments be made to production. As a result, although implement their own initiatives that incorporate local regional characteristics as a complement to the wealth greenhouse gas and waste discharge per production unit worsened, reduction efforts were implemented of group-wide initiatives already in place. These regionally tailored efforts will involve local communities in a that contributed to a significant reduction in the total volume discharged. fashion that further develops the essence of what it means to be “eco-positive.” Sharp is celebrating the 100th anniversary of its founding amidst turbulent times, but this will not deter For a look at the main objectives and achievements, please refer to the tables below and on the next page efforts to make Sharp a “true global company” with key hubs in each region of the world, partnering with and to the pages indicated on the right side of those tables. leading companies to develop energy-creating business and energy-saving products tailored to the needs of local communities worldwide. Self Evaluation : Achieved more than targeted : Achieved as targeted : Achieved more than 80% of initial target : Achieved less than 80% of initial target Self See Stages Themes Fiscal 2011 Objectives Fiscal 2011 Achievements Fiscal 2012 Objectives Fiscal 2015 Objectives page(s) Evaluation • Expand closed-loop plastic material recycling • Use 1,400 tons of recycled plastic in new • Used 1,410 tons ◎ • Use 1,800 tons • Use 2,000 tons products 29 Technologies Develop 3R I technologies 31 • Implement proof-of-concept trials for LCD • Implemented proof-of-concept trials for ○ • Develop waste LCD panel recycling • Develop waste LCD TV recycling panel recycling LCD panel recycling technology technology • Increase Super Green Products’ share of net sales in Japan ◎ • 50% • 52% • 50% • 50% • Increase Advanced Green Products’ share of net sales in Japan ◎ Improve • 80% • 91% • 80% • 80% 34 environmental I performance of • Increase Super Green Devices’ share of 41 products and net sales ◎ devices • 30% • 47% • 30% • 30% Products • Increase Green Devices’ share of net sales ◎ • 92% • 97% • 95% • 95% • Enhance and improve recycling system • Shifted employee work hours and expanded • Implement high-value-added recycling • Increase recycling efficiency of used • Construct operational system to number of collected parts by introducing of recovered components and LCD TVs to accommodate increasing Recycle used accommodate rapidly decreasing manual disassembly to accommodate materials number of products collected 43 products number of CRT TVs collected decreasing number of used appliances ○ • Formulate collection scheme for used ・ 44 collected due to the end of Eco-Point solar panels system and analog broadcasts in Japan Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 026 Environmental Objectives and Achievements Self Evaluation : Achieved more than targeted : Achieved as targeted : Achieved more than 80% of initial target : Achieved less than 80% of initial target Themes Self See Stages Fiscal 2011 Objectives Fiscal 2011 Achievements Fiscal 2012 Objectives Fiscal 2015 Objectives page(s) Evaluation • Restructure EMS promotion system at plants • Plants in Japan: Restructured IMS ○ ー ー Enhance and promotion system improve 46 environmental • Offices in Japan • Offices in Japan • Offices in Japan • Offices in Japan ・ management • Transition to corporate unit-centered EMS • Transitioned to corporate unit-centered • Ensure that corporate unit-centered • Establish corporate-unit EMS 47 system (EMS) promotion system EMS promotion system ○ EMS promotion system is firmly promotion system • Implement EMS training for auditors under new • Prepared EMS e-learning for auditors established system • Systematize corporate-unit EMS training • 11 Sharp Corporation plants • All plants SGF II Grade A or higher • 10 plants SGF II Grade A or higher △ • All plants SGF II Grade S (8 plants SGF II Grade S) (8 plants SGF II Grade S) • 5 Japanese plants (consolidated subsidiaries) Develop new SGF measures taking • Implement SGF II at 3 SGF • Implemented SGF II at 3 SGF △ • All plants SGF II Grade B or higher into account characteristics of each • Certify remaining 2 GF as SGF • Certified 1 GF as SGF plant and region 48 I • 15 overseas plants (consolidated subsidiaries) 50 Improve • Implement SGF II at 14 SGF • Implemented SGF II at 14 SGF ○ • All plants SGF II Grade B or higher environmental • Certify remaining 1 GF as SGF • Certified 1 GF as SGF performance of plants and offices • Eco Best Practice Forums • Hold forums at least once a year in each region • Held forums once in each region (North ◯ • Hold forums at least twice a year in each • Hold forums at least twice a year in (North America, Europe, Asia, and China) America, Europe, Asia, and China) region each region • Japan: Introduce new organizational structure • Japan: Introduced new organizational • Transition from evaluation/certification to • Firmly establish voluntary Green centered on main offices structure at 21 offices mutual learning Office activities at each office • Overseas: Introduce organizational structures on • Overseas: Held Green Office study • Issue Green Office Guidelines 51 a regional basis in North America, sessions on a regional basis ◯ • Overseas: Hold Green Office study Operations Europe, Asia, and China • Green Office certification sessions on a regional basis • Japan: 21 out of the total 21 offices • Overseas: 20 out of the total 20 offices • Production-based CO2 emissions for the 10 Sharp Corporation plants ◎ • All 11 Sharp Corporation plants • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels • Reduced by 40.2% from fiscal 2007 levels • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels • Reduce production-based CO2 • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU • Reduced by 3% compared to BAU • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU emissions by 3% compared to BAU every fiscal year • Improve specific energy 52 Curb greenhouse • Production-based CO2 emissions per adjusted consumption rate by average 1% ・ gas emissions production unit for all 11 Sharp Corporation plants • Reduced by 42.2% from fiscal 1990 levels ◎ • Reduce by 35% from fiscal 1990 levels 53 each year (from fiscal 2013 to • Reduce by 35% from fiscal 1990 levels (average for fiscal 2008 to 2012) 2020) (average for fiscal 2008 to 2011) • CO2 emissions per production unit for overseas • CO2 emissions for overseas plants plants • Increased by 8.2% from previous fiscal year × • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year (CO2 emissions reduced by 7%) every fiscal year • Amount of waste discharged at the 10 Sharp • Amount of waste discharged at all Corporation plants • Reduced by 76.5% from fiscal 2007 levels ◎ • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels 11 Sharp Corporation plants • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels • Reduced by 14.9% compared to BAU • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU Reduce and • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU every fiscal year 54 recycle waste ・ 55 • Amount of waste, etc. discharged per production unit at overseas plants • Increased by 6.7% from previous fiscal year × • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year (waste, etc. reduced by 8.6%) every fiscal year Reduce • CO2 emissions per shipping volume by Sharp 59 distribution-related Group in Japan • Reduced by average 2% each year ◎ • Reduce by average 1% each year for the • Every fiscal year: Reduce by ・ CO2 emissions • Reduce by average 1% each year for the most most recent 5 years average 1% each year for the most 60 recent 5 years (fiscal 2007 to 2011) recent 5 years • Develop Sharp Biodiversity Initiative • Increased rate of progress set out in Sharp • Increase rate of progress set out in Sharp Biodiversity Contribute to • Increase rate of progress set out in Sharp Biodiversity Initiative by 8 points from Biodiversity Initiative by 5 points from 62 biodiversity Biodiversity Initiative by 3 points from previous previous fiscal year ◎ previous fiscal year ・ Protection protection fiscal year • 58% of target bases achieved Grade A set • 70% or more of target bases achieve • All bases in Japan and overseas 63 out in progress management tool Grade A achieve Grade A Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 027 Mass Balance Mass Balance Sharp uses numerical values to accurately assess the relationship between its business activities and the environment, and uses them to promote environmental sustainability management. By making use of these current values at all stages of business activities to create proposals for policy measures and to analyze and evaluate the results, Sharp is aiming to effectively reduce the impact it has on the environment. INPUT Flow of Sharp Group business OUTPUT Japan Overseas Energy consumption 26,918 TJ*1 activities CO2 emissions Global 1,180 thousand tons CO2 886 thousand tons CO2 294 thousand tons CO2 • Electricity Global 2,377 million kWh Japan 2,029 million kWh Overseas 347 million kWh Technological PFCs emissions Global 25 tons (234 thousand tons CO2e*5) (Electricity purchased) 2,364 million kWh 2,025 million kWh 338 million kWh development, planning, design (Alternative energy*2) 13 million kWh 4 million kWh 9 million kWh SOx emissions Japan 2.8 tons NOx emissions Japan 71.5 tons • City gas Global 66,682 thousand m3 Japan 64,079 thousand m3 Overseas 2,603 thousand m3 • LPG Global 10,070 tons Japan 8,558 tons Overseas 1,512 tons Drainage Global 8,759 thousand m3 Japan Overseas (plants only) 6,786 thousand m3 1,973 thousand m3 • Heavy oil, kerosene, gas oil, gasoline COD Japan 8.4 tons Nitrogen pollutant load Japan 39.2 tons Global 2,376 kl Japan 1,969 kl Overseas 407 kl Manufacture (chemical oxygen demand) PFCs Global 2,027 tons Chemical substances Japan 8,508 tons purchased (PRTR) handled Phosphorous pollutant load Japan 3.9 tons Water Recycled into new products, reused as new parts, Global 12,125 thousand m3 Japan 9,660 thousand m3 Overseas 2,466 thousand m3 Final landfill disposal (plants only) Japan 7.3 tons consumed Resources Packaging Chemical substances (PRTR) Japan (Released) 5.6 tons Global 833 thousand tons*3 Japan 40 thousand tons released and transferred (Transferred) 1,057.7 tons consumed materials used Logistics Volume of Japan Energy consumption (vehicle fuel) Japan 542 TJ CO2 emissions Japan 37 thousand tons CO2 transport 174,182 thousand ton-km closed-loop material recycling, etc. Product use CO2 emissions Global 2,220 thousand tons CO2*4 Energy consumption (electricity) Global 41,619 TJ*4 (4,174 million kWh) CO2 reductions Global 437 thousand tons CO2*6 (1,151 million kWh) RECYCLE Material recycling Weight of that which was not recycled Recycling • Amount of used home appliances (4 kinds) Air CRT TVs 29,626 tons Flat-panel TVs 3,337 tons into new products or materials, or reused recycled into new home appliances (4 kinds) conditioners Refrigerators / 17,468 tons Washing 10,758 tons Japan 14,795 tons Japan 68,627 tons 7,438 tons freezers machines Other (four home appliances, PCs, copiers) uses • Amount of recycled copiers Japan 2,668 tons • Amount of recycled PCs Japan 28 tons • Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastic Japan 1,410 tons*7 *1 TJ (terajoule) = 1012 Joules *4 Estimate of annual energy used and amount of CO2 emitted by products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2011. *7 For details, see page 30. *2 Amount of solar power generated; amount of green power certificates purchased. Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate. *3 Total weight of products in the 15 major categories sold in fiscal 2011 (estimate), *5 A measure of how much a given amount of greenhouse gas will contribute to global warming, expressed relative to an equivalent mass of CO2. plus waste, etc. discharged from production sites. *6 Amount of electricity generated (kWh) annually by Sharp solar cells shipped in fiscal 2011, plus CO2 emissions reduction (tons CO2). Greenhouse Gas Emissions Based Scope Emissions Level Notes (thousand tons CO2) on the GHG Protocol Initiative Scope 1 (direct GHG emissions from business activities) 422 Burning of heavy oil at plants and offices; emissions from company vehicles; etc. Sharp calculates greenhouse gas emissions based on the GHG Protocol Scope 2 (indirect GHG emissions from energy usage in business activities) 992 Electrical usage at plants and offices; etc. Initiative*8 and then works to limit those emissions resulting from customer use of Sharp products and Sharp’s business activities including the supply Scope 3 (indirect GHG emissions from areas outside the Calculated for 10 categories such as Procurement, Shipping & 8,442 Distribution, Product Usage, Employee Commuting & Business Trips scope of business activities) chain. The results for fiscal 2011 are shown at right. *8 Jointly established in 1998 by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI), Scope 3 emissions by category the GHG Protocol Initiative develops and promotes the use of standards relating to greenhouse gas (GHG) emission calculation and reporting. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 028 Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Sharp introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999 to provide a quantitative assessment of the costs and benefits of its environmental conservation activities, and has applied the results to environmental sustainability management. Beginning in fiscal 2010, Sharp also presented results based on the Connected Reporting Framework (CRF). See page(s) Environmental Conservation Costs Classification of Environmental Conservation Activities Environmental Conservation Costs Economic Benefits Environmental Conservation Effects Reporting under CRF ( ): Category based on Environmental Accounting (Unit: ¥ million) (Unit: ¥ million) Sharp’s environmental conservation investment Guidelines, Ministry Description of Actual Estimated Estimated As shown at the left, Sharp is continuing to base its of the Environment Investment Expenses Tangible Effects was approximately 3.5 billion yen, a decrease of Major Activities Benefit Benefit Benefit environmental accounting on guidelines published by the 49% from the previous fiscal year as a result of Environmental • Operation of environmental Promote environmental sustainability management Japanese Ministry of the Environment, and has long been Sustainability management system 148 1,424 – – unfavorable business conditions. Meanwhile, Management • Promote environmental Number of Master 17 – working to collect and report environmental accounting employees with 46 environmental conservation expenditures were (management sustainability management (216) (1,674) – – environmental Expert 483 – information in a way that shows the links between costs and approximately 41.1 billion yen, an increase of 5% activities) • Environmental education benefits wherever possible. education General 35 – compared to the previous fiscal year. Supply environmentally conscious products • R&D on solar power (Unit: ¥ million) The Connected Reporting Framework (CRF) advocated by the generation systems • Promote closed-loop Green Seal products’ share of net sales 91% – 9 Accounting for Sustainability project, a British NGO, is an Economic Benefits recycling of plastic Super Green products’ share of 52% – – integrated reporting scheme that presents both financial and Planning materials 3,079 18,441 – 245,967 net sales 12 Actual benefit was approximately 4.2 billion yen, and Design • R&D on basic Total amount of electricity generated 4,773 GWh 100,233 • non-financial results as an integrated representation of a by solar power generation systems (R&D) (3,485) (15,005) – (168,894) 29 company’s performance. These results can be calculated and resulting from the introduction of energy-saving environmental CO2 emissions reduced by solar power generation systems 1,749 thousand tons CO2 754 reported using the same classifications and items that Sharp technologies – equipment and expanded recycling of waste into • R&D on biomass Electric power saved from 6,849 GWh 143,829 42 energy-saving products valuable resources. Estimated benefit was materials CO2 emissions reduced by 2,667 thousand has thus far been using in its environmental accounting. energy-saving products tons CO2 1,150 approximately 246.8 billion yen, due to an Calculated totals under the CRF for Sharp’s efforts in fiscal Reduce • Introduce PFCs*1 Greenhouse gas emissions reduced by increase in the number of energy-creating and greenhouse abatement systems 108 2,071 2,445 *2 886 controlling electricity and fuel consumption 2011 to reduce CO2 emissions and the amount of waste gas emissions • Install solar power (Unit: ¥ million) energy-saving products. (global generated are presented below. Decreased production had an generation systems CO2 emissions reduced 67 thousand tons CO2 29 environmental (682) (2,234) (2,084) (3,350) impact, reducing CO2 emissions by 9% and waste output by conservation) • Introduce energy-saving 1,988 thousand Explanation of Terminology equipment PFCs emissions reduced 857 tons CO2e 42% compared to the previous fiscal year. The percentage of Environmental Conservation Costs *2 Waste recycled or sent for appropriate disposal waste sent for final landfill disposal was 0.0066%, which Manufacturing Overhead costs, personnel expenses, and investment associated with Minimize and • Reduce waste discharge 4 11,335 1,778 – recycle waste and recycle waste into environmental conservation activities, in addition to attendant (recycle valuable resources Waste recycled 91 thousand tons – 48 means Sharp has achieved zero discharge to landfill for the depreciation. resources) • Recycle water (52) (13,656) (2,121) – 17,037 – eleventh year in a row. Economic Benefits Recycled and reused water thousand m3 – Contributions to society and to the company, which result from 58 environmental conservation activities, expressed in monetary units. Observe environmental laws and regulations Actual benefit: Economic effects that can be assessed directly in Financial items Non-financial items monetary terms, such as cost savings from Prevent Prevent air/water pollution and noise/vibration pollution • Install scrubbers 160 6,462 – – 2010 2011 2010 2011 CO2 emissions energy-saving efforts and use of recycled water, as Promote risk management well as profits from the sale of valuable resources. (prevent • Introduce exhaust gas (thousand tons CO2) treatment systems Chemical substances properly managed and Energy-saving Energy cost 1,200 Estimated benefit: Sharp Corporation uses the following terms to pollution) (2,436) (6,325) – – convert the economic effects of reduced greenhouse their discharge reduced investments savings 966 800 877 gas emissions and electricity savings from the use of [millions of yen] [millions of yen] solar power generation and energy-saving products Reduce risk of soil contamination CO2 into equivalent monetary amounts. 400 (1) Reduced greenhouse gas emissions converted Collection, recycling, and proper disposal of used products into equivalent monetary amounts: 431 yen/tons CO2. 224 54 218 3119 0 (2) Electricity savings converted into equivalent Used PCs recycled 28 tons – 43 monetary amounts: Unit cost of electricity: 21 • 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) yen/kWh. Recycling/ • Promote collection, 0 137 – − Used copiers recycled 2,668 tons – 44 Logistics recycling, and proper Used home appliances (4 categories) recycled 68,627 tons – • (upstream/ disposal of (0) (23) – − 59 Financial items Non-financial items Sites Covered downstream) used products Environmental burden during distribution reduced • 2010 2011 2010 2011 Volume of waste Sharp Corporation sites (Tochigi, Yao, Hiroshima, Nara, Katsuragi, Railway/ship cargo transport 60 (thousand tons) （％） 21,598 containers*3 – Waste disposal Proceeds from 200 0.020 Fukuyama, Mie, Tenri, Mihara, Kameyama, Toyama, Tanabe, the Head (container transport) sale of valuable Office, Kashiwa, and Sakai), Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation, expenses Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation, Sharp Yonago Corporation, Sharp Percentage of low-pollution vehicles 99.4% – resources [millions of yen] [millions of yen] 150 144 0.015 Display Products Corporation, and Sharp Mie Corporation • Expand social 0 554 – – Environmental social contributions Waste Referenced Guidelines 90 100 0.010 Period Covered Social contribution Number of employees who attended 83 Responsibility SGC activities Total 22,365 – – Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 activities (0) (147) – – Number of schools where environmental/ 95 50 0.005 April 1, 2011 to published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan craftsmanship education was provided Total 616 – 0.0075 0.0066 March 31, 2012 3,479 1,944 863 599 3,499 40,424 4,223 246,853 0 0 *1 HFCs, PFCs, sulfur hexafluoride, nitrogen trifluoride, HCFCs *2 Total benefit related to measures implemented using the equipment Total 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) during depreciation. (6,871) (39,064) (4,204) (172,244) Note: Figures in parentheses below entries represent actual values Percent sent for final disposal *3 5-ton containers from the previous fiscal year. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 029 Technologies Developing Unique Environmental Technologies Sharp is working to develop unique environmental technologies to raise the environmental performance of its products and devices, and to lower the environmental impacts of its production facilities. Sharp is advancing research and development of people-friendly and environmentally friendly technologies covering four areas—energy saving and energy creation, effective use of resources, safety and peace of mind, and health and comfort. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Expand closed-loop plastic material recycling • Use 1,400 tons of recycled plastic in new products • Used 1,410 tons • Use 1,800 tons • Use 2,000 tons • Implement proof-of-concept trials for LCD panel recycling • Implemented proof-of-concept trials for LCD panel • Develop waste LCD panel recycling technology • Develop waste LCD TV recycling technology recycling R&D on Unique Environmental Technologies In fiscal 2011, the volume of plastic derived from closed-loop plastic material recycling technology*1 that ■ One-of-a-Kind Technological Development Fields was recycled and reused in new products increased to 1,410 tons. This technology represents an example of a unique environmental technology that helps reduce the consumption of fossil-based resources and contributes to the effective use of resources. Sharp also continued to work on the development of recycling Friendly to the Earth technologies for LCD panels and technologies for using biomass materials. Sharp has also developed energy-saving UV2A technology*2 and LED backlighting for LCDs; biomimetic applications for air conditioners, washing machines, and other home appliances; and a compound solar cell Energy saving/ Effective energy creation use of resources that achieved 36.9%*3 conversion efficiency—the highest in the world*4 . In addition, as initiatives looking to the future, Sharp is conducting joint research with Osaka Prefecture One-of-a-kind University on plant cultivation and recovering resources from waste at GREEN FRONT SAKAI, Sharp’s base environmental in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. technologies Sharp will continue to work to improve the environmental performance of its products and devices, as well as develop and put into practical use unique environmental technologies to reduce the level of Safety and peace Health and of mind comfort environmental impact at its production facilities. Friendly to People *1 Recycling technology for repeatedly recovering plastic from used consumer electronics and reusing it in parts of new consumer electronics. *2 Abbreviation of Ultraviolet induced multi-domain Vertical Alignment. Photo-alignment technology that can precisely control the alignment of liquid crystal molecules using a manufacturing method based on UV light exposure. *3 Conversion efficiency confirmed by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST; one of several organizations around the world that officially certifies energy conversion efficiency measurements in solar cells) in September 2011 (cell surface: approx. 1 cm2). *4 As of November 4, 2011, for non-concentrator solar cells at the research level (based on Sharp survey). Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 030 Technologies 1 High-Efficiency Metal Removal Line Case Study 1 ■ System to detect and remove metal parts—such as screws attached to recovered plastic components—with a high degree of Developing and Using Closed-Loop Plastic Material Recycling Technology precision. for Repeatedly Reusing Plastic Sharp and Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd.*1 jointly developed closed-loop plastic material recycling technology that repeatedly recovers plastic from used consumer electronics and reuses it in parts of new consumer electronics for the Japanese market. This technology has been in practical use since fiscal 2001. High-efficiency metal removal line (Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd.) Thanks to the development of a high-efficiency metal removal line, high-purity PP (polypropylene) separation and recovery technology, and other property improvement/quality control technologies that integrate everything from recovery to quality control, Sharp has been able to recover a greater volume of recyclable ■2 High-Purity PP (Polypropylene) Separation and Recovery Technology plastic, as well as find high-value-added applications for recycled plastic, such as in the exterior panels of Technology to recover high-purity PP (polypropylene) from waste plastic containing different types of home appliances and as flame-retardant materials. plastic intermixed with metal. Because recycled plastic can be reused numerous times, it has been adopted for use in washing machines, refrigerators, and other such home appliances sold within Japan which are subject to the Home Appliance Pneumatic Water sink-float Recycling Law. From the very start of commercial application, this recycled plastic has been utilized in the (blown air) separation (specific gravity) separation tubs of all top-loading washer/dryers and fully automatic washing machine models. And with respect to refrigerators, it has been used intensively in Sharp’s high-energy-efficiency flagship models. Removes foreign Removes metal and Plastic containing matter such as grit plastics other than PP Separated and recovered The volume of recycled and reused plastic reached 1,410 tons in fiscal 2011. Sharp plans to expand this intermixed foreign matter high-purity PP amount to 2,000 tons in fiscal 2015. In the future, Sharp will work to advance the effective use of limited resources by actively developing new technologies centered on closed-loop plastic material recycling technology. ■3 Property Improvement/Quality Control *1 A consumer electronics recycling company in Japan established with joint investment from Sharp, Mitsubishi Materials Technology to enable the repeated reuse of recycled plastic; for example, by improving properties to Corporation, and four other companies. match specifications demanded by the components it will be used in and implementing quality control suitable for recyclable materials. ■ Closed-Loop Plastic Material Recycling Flow Example) Plastic Pigmentation Technology*2 Technology to add pigments to visually obscure Product use Disassembly Plastic parts foreign matter intermixed with the recycled material. (customer) recovery New consumer electronics Used consumer electronics *2 An original technology of Ube Industries, Ltd. Enlarged photo Enlarged photo Before processing After processing 1 High-efficiency Product Molding and assembly 3 metal removal line of plastic parts ■ Examples of Closed-Loop Recycled Plastic Use ■ Use of Plastic Derived from Closed-Loop design Formula for improving properties Fully automatic Material Recycling Technology ● Evaluation of physical properties and Refrigerator/freezer washing machine Recycle-friendly remaining lifetime Handgrips （Tons） 7,760 (Total) 3 Divider for design ● Plastic pigmentation technology icemaker and 7,000 Divider for 6,350 Quality control ● Flame retardant technology multi-use multi-use compartment 6,000 compartment and icemaker 5,000 5,050 Placing into crusher Divider for Divider for 4,000 3,850 freezer and multi-use High-purity 2 multi-use compartment and 3,000 2,800 PP separation compartment freezer and recovery 2,000 1,950 1,410 Bottom cover Divider for freezer 1,330 (Each year) technology 1,000 810 and vegetable Washing tub 390 Pelletization Melting/extrusion Mixing with additives Cleaning compartment Base frame 0 40 120 (removing foreign matter) (removing foreign matter) 2001 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 2011 (Fiscal year) Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 031 Technologies Case Study 2 Developing Technology to Recover Indium from Waste LCD Panels Developing Technologies to Recycle Waste LCD Panel Glass In fiscal 2009, Sharp, working in cooperation with Osaka Prefecture University, developed recycling In 2009, Sharp developed a highly functional paint made using scrap glass*2 discarded during the LCD technology for waste LCD panels that uses sub-critical water*1 . panel production process. Offering high strength and excellent abrasion and corrosion resistance, the paint was used on external components for products installed outdoors—the first such commercial application of Taking advantage of sub-critical water’s effectiveness at dissolving organic substances, this technology its kind in the industry. strips away the organic layer from the glass substrate of the LCD panel, and separates and recovers the indium, a rare metal, from the glass. The glass used for LCD panels has a high softening temperature, which means that re-melting and recycling it is difficult using existing equipment; thus, until now, it has simply been disposed of. Sharp, In fiscal 2011, Sharp carried out demonstration testing at its proof-of-concept plant. Waste materials however, used a recycling method that does not require melting. This enabled the company to develop a produced from the manufacturing process used at LCD panel plants were utilized in this testing, which highly functional paint that takes advantage of the characteristics of LCD panel glass. The waste LCD panel helped advance research geared towards commercial applications. glass is finely crushed, and the resulting powder is mixed with paint base or pigment. This paint improves Sharp aims to achieve early commercialization with an eye towards realizing full-scale flat-panel TV the durability of products installed outdoors that are exposed to sunlight, wind, rain, sand, and dust. LED recycling. lighting that utilized this paint for its external components has been well received by users in Japan and overseas. *1 Up to a temperature of 374°C and a pressure of 218 atmospheres, water is a liquid but has not entered the gaseous state. This temperature and pressure is called the critical point, and water in a temperature range slightly below the *2 Scrap glass is generated when the large glass substrate sheets are cut down to screen size. critical point is called sub-critical water. ■ Indium Recovery Flow (summary) ■ How Highly Functional Paint Is Made Glass Indium-containing components Glass waste Coarse crushing Fine crushing Paint base Highly functional Waste LCD panel Crushing Sub-critical water treatment (approx. 10 µm) paint Pigment Used on external components ■ Example of Use Testing equipment (left) and a scene from the experiment LED lighting along a main road in Bulgaria Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 032 Technologies Case Study 3 3 Case Study 3 4 4 Developing and Using Technology for Utilizing Biomass Materials Developing Technology to Achieve Both High Image Quality and High Energy Efficiency in LCD TVs In an effort to reduce dependence on fossil resources, Sharp is developing technologies for utilizing renewable biomass materials. ■ UV2A Technology*1 Wastes No Light In 2006, Sharp used technologies for blending and enhancing the durability of non-edible starch-based bioplastic (polylactic acid) and general plastic (such as polypropylene and polystyrene) to develop bioplastic In previous Sharp technologies, structural elements in the LCD cell Efficient use of the light caused light leakage and interference, resulting in lower light that can withstand the closed-loop plastic material recycling process. In 2007, after improving moldability, from the backlight coloration, and other properties, this plastic found commercial application in desktop mobile phone holders transmissivity (lower aperture ratio). Sharp succeeded in eliminating released in Japan. Light from the this structure in its UV2A technology. Reducing light leakage yields Sharp’s conventional backlight higher contrast and at the same time raises the aperture ratio and LCD panel Sharp will continue to develop its technology to produce highly functional biomass materials with greater cuts the power required by the backlight, leading to lower power rigidity, heat resistance, and flame-retardant properties. The company will seek to use such materials in consumption. various products, such as home appliances, audio/video equipment, and photocopiers. Bright Whites Deep, Dark Blacks UV2A technology techn ■ Utilization Process for Biomass Materials Sharp’s conventional UV 2A Sharp’s conventional UV 2A Sharp’s bioplastic High light utilization efficiency LCD panel LCD panel LCD panel LCD panel (technology to improve light transmissivity) Collection Recycling plant Resource recycling Products Protrusions No protrusions Light leakage Almost no light and slits or slits, so whites leakage, so blacks are brighter are blacker Molded into parts Starch Polylactic acid Pellets (PLA) (a blend of PLA Conventional bioplastic and general plastic) ■ High-Efficiency LED Backlight Miscellaneous goods and products not targeted for recycling Illumination making the most Sharp has adopted LEDs as the light source to enable precise of minimal electricity control of brightness plus fast response. LED light diffusion CO2 technology provides energy-efficient and uniform illumination across the entire screen and, in combination with LCD panels Disposal Incineration Absorption equipped with UV2A technology, achieves high TV contrast*2. ■ Examples of Bioplastic Use Brightness Black Sharp is working to further improve performance and image level level quality. Adjusts brightness precisely and efficiently High illumination precision and efficiency *1 Abbreviation of Ultraviolet induced multi-domain Vertical Alignment. Photo-alignment technology that can precisely control the alignment of liquid crystal molecules using a manufacturing method based on UV light exposure. Desktop holder for 007SH mobile phone Desktop holder for SH-10C mobile phone (SoftBank Mobile Corp.) (NTT DOCOMO, Inc.) *2 TV contrast is the maximum contrast level a TV set is capable of achieving (the ratio of maximum screen brightness for a 30% white signal to the minimum screen brightness with an all-black signal) when AV position is set to “Dynamic.” Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 033 Technologies Applying the Principles of Dolphin High-Speed Swimming Case Study 3 5 to Pulsators to Save Water Developing Applied Biomimetic Technologies Sharp developed a new type of pulsator (rotor) that applies the same principles as those that enable dolphins to swim at high speeds. The Applying Dragonfly and Bird Wing Shapes to reverse side of the new pulsator has two crescent-shaped wings modeled after a dolphin’s tail fin. This unique design creates a powerful vertical Air Conditioner Fans to Reduce Energy Consumption water flow in addition to the conventional rotating water flow, thereby significantly improving washing power from even a small amount of water. Indoor Unit Technologies ■ Dragonfly Wings for Reduced Air Friction The shape of the dragonfly wing, which moves as if on bearings to Save 2 liters of water ● Conventional Sharp pulsator (ES-TX800): 89 liters reduce air resistance, was applied to the design of the cross-flow fan per 8 kg of laundry ● New Sharp pulsator (ES-TX810): 87 liters in the indoor unit. (Conceptual image) Cross-section of new “dragonfly wing” fan Design of the New Pulsator Reverse Front Airflow efficiency Sharp applied the shape of a dolphin’s tail fin to produce a improved by Eddies created in the concave powerful vertical water flow and a dolphin’s skin wrinkles to approx. areas act like bearings reduce water resistance. 30% Outdoor Unit Technologies ■ Golden Eagle Wings for Airflow Control Case Study 3 6 The shape of the golden eagle wing, which has separated tips to enable stable flight even in turbulent airflow, was applied to the design Developing Solar Cells with the World’s Highest*1 Conversion Efficiency of the fan used in the outdoor unit. The fan is thus able to catch and Airflow efficiency move air efficiently. Conventional of 36.9%*2 New fan fan improved by approx. Sharp has achieved the world’s highest solar cell conversion efficiency of 20% 36.9% using a triple-junction compound solar cell in which the solar cell has a stacked three-layer structure. Compound solar cells utilize photo-absorption layers made from The tips catch the airflow, thereby lessening the eddies created by fan rotation. compounds consisting of two or more elements, such as indium and gallium. Because of their high conversion efficiency, compound solar cells have been used primarily on space satellites. ■ Albatross Wings Adapted to Long-Distance Flight This new solar cell developed by Sharp reduces the resistance of the The shape of the albatross wing, which enables continuous, gliding Triple-junction compound solar cell junction areas required to connect the solar cells in series, thereby flight for tens of thousands of kilometers, was applied to the design of with the world’s highest conversion boosting conversion efficiency above the 35.8% of conventional efficiency of 36.9% the fan used in the outdoor unit. Low air resistance allows for efficient compound solar cells. Sharp achieved this latest breakthrough as a result airflow. of efforts that were part of the “R&D on Innovative Solar Cells” project Direction of promoted by Japan’s New Energy and Industrial Technology Development forward blade Direction Organization (NEDO). movement of fan rotation *1 As of November 4, 2011, for non-concentrator solar cells at the research level (based on Sharp survey). Surrounding eddies *2 Conversion efficiency confirmed by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST; one of are minimized, thereby several organizations around the world that officially certifies energy conversion efficiency measurements in solar cells) in minimizing air resistance. September 2011 (cell surface: approx. 1 cm2). Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 034 Business Developing Products and Devices with High Environmental Performance Along with having guidelines for environmentally conscious design, Sharp sets objectives for the development of environmentally conscious products and devices as well as assessment standards for certification as such. Every year, the company revises these guidelines and standards, thus constantly improving the environmental performance of its products and devices. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Super Green Products account for 50% or more of net sales in Japan • 52% of net sales in Japan • 50% or more of net sales in Japan • 50% or more of net sales in Japan • Advanced Green Products account for 80% or more of net sales in Japan • 91% of net sales in Japan • 80% or more of net sales in Japan • 80% or more of net sales in Japan • Super Green Devices account for 30% or more of net sales • 47% of net sales • 30% or more of net sales • 30% or more of net sales • Green Devices account for 92% or more of net sales • 97% of net sales • 95% or more of net sales • 95% or more of net sales Making All Products Green Products Developing Super Green Products on a Global Basis Sharp calls its environmentally conscious products Green Products (GP). The GP Guidelines, which define Among Green Products, Sharp has been certifying those that offer a particularly high level of environmental development and design guidelines in line with seven concepts, have been in use at all product design performance as Advanced Green Products (AGP), and further, among these AGPs, certifying those with the departments in Japan and overseas since fiscal 1998. highest possible levels of environmental performance as Super Green Products (SGP). (In Japan, products that meet the criteria for AGP certification bear Sharp’s proprietary Green Seal label.) In developing products, Sharp sets specific objectives according to the GP Standard Sheet, which is formulated based on the GP Guidelines; and in the trial manufacture and mass production stages, it SGP and AGP certifications apply to products worldwide, but Sharp incorporates certification criteria set by determines how well the actual product has met these objectives, with those achieving the standards being region based on the needs of customers and on official systems introduced in each region to not only named GP. deliver high environmental performance, but also to create SGPs and AGPs tailored to specific regions. Every year since fiscal 1998, all new Sharp products have met the standards for GP. Moreover, the content In light of growing global awareness of the need for energy conservation, Sharp has been applying the of the GP Standard Sheet—the benchmark for these assessments—is revised and made more stringent evaluation criteria for energy efficiency more stringently this fiscal year. each year, in order to further improve the environmental performance of Sharp products. ■ Green Product Concepts Products with superb energy-saving / energy-creating performance Energy Saving / Energy Creating Improve the energy efficiency and reduce the energy consumption of products; other measures ■ Sharp GP System Products designed to conserve resources Resource Conservation Reduce the amount of materials used; design products that conserve resources during use; extend the life span of products; other measures Super Green Products designed for recycling Improved Products SGP Recyclability Design products that are easy to disassemble; use easy-to-recycle materials; Advanced Green Products other measures that are extremely Products that can be used and disposed of safely environmentally conscious Safe Use and Disposal Do not use substances that negatively affect people’s health or the environment; other measures Advanced Green Products Products that use green materials and devices Green Products that offer particularly AGP Use of Green Materials and Devices Improved Use recycled materials / plant-based plastics; other measures high levels of environmental performance Products that use batteries, manuals, and packaging with Environmental Consciousness enhanced environmental consciousness Green Products Pertaining to Batteries, etc. Reduce product packaging; design products that allow easy removal of batteries; other measures Environmentally conscious products based on seven concepts GP Products that show their environmental performance and information (judged by how well they meet the objectives Showing Eco Information of Products of the GP Standard Sheet) Acquire environmental labels (eco labels); implement LCA; other measures Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 035 Business ■ Ratio of SGP and AGP to Net Sales in Japan （％） 100 AGP 93 95 91 90 90 91 87 80 74 90 90 86 80 85 68 87 80 60 63 60 60 54 52 65 49 40 35 55 60 56 50 50 50 20 SGP 10 30 Actual results 0 5 20 Target 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) ■ Assessment and Certification Standards for SGP and AGP (Fiscal 2011) Products are assessed for having outstanding overall environmental performance (Environmental Performance Criteria), as well as for having environmental functions and performance that can be claimed to be superior to those of products from other companies (External Environmental Claim Standards). Japan Environmental Performance Criteria [total 78 items including required items (1) to (10)] External Environmental Claim Standards Point Satisfies items (1) to (10) to the Global warming prevention allocation 25 points SGP right and scores at least 90 points (has low power consumption, high energy efficiency, etc.) Is significantly more environmentally conscious than the products of other companies (1) Equal to or better than previous models (2) Has over 100% achievement rate of the energy-saving standard Satisfies at least one of the following items: (3) TV, air conditioner, or refrigerator is industry-leading model in multi-level labeling system Power consumption・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category Point Standby power consumption・ ・・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category ・ Efficient use of resources allocation 25 points • Consumes 0.1W or less (is designed for recyclability, resource saving, etc.) (for remote controlled products/products with timer function) (4) Is easy to separate and disassemble, or is upgradeable • Consumes 1.0W or less (phones, faxes) Point Energy creating・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Has industry-leading conversion efficiency ・ Substitution of toxic chemical substances allocation 25 points Satisfies items (1) to (9) to the (meets the RoHS directive, etc.) Resource savings during use・ ・・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category ・ AGP right and scores at least 70 points (except electricity) (saves water and detergent, etc.) (5) Meets the EU RoHS directive (6) Completely conforms to RoHS and RoHS-related regulations of destination market Compact/lightweight・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Is the industry-leading model in its product category ・ (7) Uses no substances prohibited under Sharp standards • Is at least 30% lighter or more compact than previous models (8) Uses no cadmium batteries Recycled materials・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Uses materials that were recycled using the closed-loop material recycling process ・ Point Green materials・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Uses no halogenated flame retardants, uses polyvinyl chloride substitutes ・ Others allocation 25 points • Uses refrigerant with low global warming potential (has environmental label status, uses less packaging materials, etc.) (9) Has undergone LCA Acquisition of Eco Mark・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Has acquired the Eco Mark, authorized by the Japan Environment Association ・ (10) Has environmental label status Original technology・ ・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Uses industry-first or original Sharp technology ・ Overseas Environmental Performance Criteria [total 78 items including required items (1) to (6)] External Environmental Claim Standards Point Global warming prevention allocation 25 points Energy saving/energy creating・ ・・ ・・• Has overwhelmingly superior energy-saving/energy-creating performance ・ (has low power consumption, high energy efficiency, etc.) compared to products of other companies (Customer needs and various systems are taken into account in setting criteria for Satisfies items (1) to (6) to the Point evaluation) SGP Efficient use of resources allocation 25 points right and scores at least 90 points (is designed for recyclability, resource saving, etc.) Environmental labeling・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・• Third-party environmental labeling is being acquired, or application has been made, ・ or is expected to be made (1) Is easy to separate and disassemble, or is upgradeable • For countries/regions that have a multi-level labeling system, even if there is no Point third-party environmental label certification system, be the best in the industry Substitution of toxic chemical substances allocation 25 points (meets the RoHS directive, etc.) under the multi-level labeling system (2) Meets the EU RoHS directive Energy saving/energy creating・ ・・ ・・• Has excellent energy-saving/energy-creating performance ・ (3) Completely conforms to RoHS and RoHS-related regulations of destination market (Customer needs and various systems are taken into account in setting criteria for (4) Uses no substances prohibited under Sharp standards evaluation) Satisfies items (1) to (6) to the (5) Uses no cadmium batteries ・• Third-party environmental labeling is being acquired, or application has been made, AGP Environmental labeling・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ ・・ right and scores at least 70 points or is expected to be made Point Others allocation 25 points • For countries/regions that have a multi-level labeling system, even if there is no (has environmental label status, uses less packaging materials, etc.) third-party environmental label certification system, be the best in the industry (6) Has undergone LCA under the multi-level labeling system Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 036 Business Identifying and Reducing Environmental Impacts ■ LCA Data for LED Lamps ■ Comparison of Annual CO2 ■ Comparison of Power Emissions During Use Consumption per 1 Lumen*2 throughout the Life of Products DL-LA63N (LED lamp vs. incandescent lamp) Sharp performs a life cycle assessment (LCA) on its products to identify their impact on the environment (Kilograms CO2) (W) 60 0.02 throughout their service life. Converting this impact into CO2 emissions provides a quantitative measure that 50 46.0 Sharp uses in its efforts to reduce environmental impacts by enabling it to focus on the areas where the 0.015 0.0134 40 impact is especially large. For example, TVs and other consumer electronics have a large impact during 0.0117 30 0.01 use. Thus, by focusing on lowering their power consumption, overall environmental impact can be 20 effectively reduced. 10 9.6 0.005 0 0 Sharp will continue to use LCA as a tool that contributes to the development of products with smaller environmental impacts. Incandescent lamp DL-LA63N DL-L601N DL-LA63N (40W equivalent) (new model) ■ LCA Data for LCD TVs*1 ■ LCA Data for Refrigerators Power Annual CO2 Materials Manufacture Product consumption (W) emissions (kilograms CO2) (Kilograms CO2) (Kilograms CO2) Distribution Use 1,800 2,500 DL-LA63N 7.5 9.6 Disposal, recycling Incandescent lamp 36.0 46.0 1,600 (40W equivalent) *2 The lumen is a unit for measuring the total amount of light emitted in all directions from a single light source. 2,000 1,400 1,341 e-SPIRITS—New Product Environmental Assessment System 1,200 1,485 1,043 In January 2011, Sharp revamped the I-EARS product environmental assessment system—introduced in 1,500 1,000 fiscal 2006 in order to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations as well as promote 931 environmentally conscious product design—by introducing the e-SPIRITS system for the integrated 874 1,136 1,031 management of data used for conducting environmental product assessments. 1,030 800 1,000 With the introduction of e-SPIRITS, a database of green product and device development know-how and design data was established at all Sharp design and development bases in Japan and overseas. This 600 database is used to raise design standards as well as standardize in-house life-cycle assessments (LCA). In addition, e-SPIRITS is used in the certification of Super Green Products (SGP) and Advanced Green 400 Products (AGP). This way, e-SPIRITS is contributing the creation of environmentally conscious Sharp 500 products and devices worldwide. 200 ■ e-SPRIRITS Flow 0 0 Design, engineering Confirmation, Confirmation, Product planning sample Assessment approval utilization CS and Sales departments, Product planning Engineering Quality control Environmental product groups, -200 department department department -200 LCLCLCLCSJSJSJSJPromotion Group sales companies, others 52GX5 52LX1 52LX3 52L5 FS45R FXF44S XF44T XF44W 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal Data content year) year) Data Data Data Data Data Data confirmation/ Materials Manufacture Distribution Use Disposal, recycling input referral input referral assessment confirmation (input) referral Note: CO2 emissions during use are calculated using a CO2 emission coefficient of 0.35 kilograms CO2/kWh (announced by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan for fiscal 2011). e-SPIRITS *1 CO2 emissions during use are calculated from annual power consumption based on fiscal 2010 measurement methods under targets set for Top Runner criteria based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy (Energy Conservation Law). Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 037 Business Developing Green Devices and Super Green Devices Sharp calls its environmentally conscious devices Green Devices (GD). To define guidelines for development ■ Ratio of SGD and GD to Net Sales and design based on seven concepts, Sharp established the GD Guidelines, which it began applying at all （％） device design departments in fiscal 2004. 100 95 97 90 In developing devices, Sharp sets specific objectives according to the GD Standard Sheet, which is 84 85 80 GD 90 92 formulated based on the GD Guidelines; and in the trial manufacture and mass production stages, it 73 85 80 determines how well the actual device has met these objectives, with those achieving the standards being 60 75 named GD. 51 65 47 Sharp began certifying devices from among GD with the highest possible levels of environmental 40 SGD 37 24 40 performance as Super Green Devices (SGD) from fiscal 2005. 21 24 24 20 Actual results 12 30 In fiscal 2011, both GD and SGD exceeded their sales ratio targets. In the future, Sharp will undertake a 5 7 20 20 20 Target 5 10 15 yearly revision of its GD Standard Sheet to make it increasingly stringent and will undertake efforts to make 0 devices that are more environmentally conscious. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) ■ Green Device Concepts ■ SGD and GD Evaluation and Certification Standards Environmental Performance Criteria Energy Efficiency Devices with superior energy efficiency and that consume less energy Reduce power consumption during operation and in standby mode; other measures Percentage of External 34 evaluation Environmental Required items items satisfied, Claim Standards Resource Devices designed to conserve resources including Conservation Reduce device weight or volume; other measures required items Devices designed for recycling (1) Uses no lead, cadmium, or dioctyl phthalate (DOP) in Recyclability Use standard plastic; design devices that are easy to disassemble; other measures polyvinyl chloride coatings (2) Is below EU RoHS threshold levels for specific chemical substances Safe Use and Devices that can be used and disposed of safely Disposal Manage usage of chemical substances contained in parts and materials; other measures Satisfies (3) Complies with China RoHS Has items (1) environmental (4) Uses no formaldehyde in parts that come in contact with the Devices that make products last longer SGD to (13) 95% or more performance at human body Extend the life of the product with exchangeable parts and consumables to the right the top of Long Life (5) Has been managed for chemical substances contained in (target: LCD devices); other measures the industry parts and materials Devices that use packaging with enhanced environmental consciousness (6) Contains no substances prohibited under Sharp standards Packaging Reduce packaging; other measures (7) Has had chemicals in products for export registered, and has been managed for chemical substances Information Devices that give environmental information (8) Total heavy metal content in printing inks on packaging is Disclosure Provide information on chemical substances in devices; other measures 100 ppm or less (9) Certificate can be issued showing that no substances prohibited under Sharp standards are contained (10) Amount of Sharp-managed substances contained in Satisfies device has been disclosed items (1) (11) Power consumption in operation and standby modes is GD to (10) equal to or less than previous models 90% or more to the right (12) Uses no arsenic in the glass substrates of LCD panel (13) Has undergone LCA Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 038 Business Examples of Fiscal 2011 Certified SGP (Japan) TOPICS SGP L5 Series AQUOS Quattron LCD TV Japan Sharp Wins the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize and the Energy ■ Energy Efficient Conservation Center Chairman’s Prize at the Energy Conservation Grand Prize Awards • Incorporates four-color technology*1 for rich color display, UV2A technology*2 for high-speed response, and an LED backlight*3 In the Product and Business Model category of the 2011 Energy Conservation Grand Prize*6 event in Japan, Sharp’s SGP-certified AQUOS L5 Series LCD TVs (four models in total) were awarded the Minister of • Save Mode enables users to reduce screen brightness and consume Economy, Trade and Industry Prize, while its PN-V602 LCD monitor was awarded the Energy Conservation approximately 15%*4 less power. Also, an OPC (optical picture control) Center Chairman’s Prize. sensor automatically adjusts backlight brightness to match room brightness. The Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize is the highest prize awarded, and it was bestowed on the AQUOS L5 Series in recognition of the fact that this series rated highest in the energy-saving standard • Annual power consumption achievement rate in each screen-size category (as of November 2011). This was made possible by combining LC-60L5: 161 kWh/year, LC-52L5: 132 kWh/year Awarded the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry an advanced LCD panel—which incorporates four-color and UV2A*2 technologies—with LED backlighting*3 to LC-46L5: 120 kWh/year, LC-40L5: 106 kWh/year Prize; Energy Conservation achieve both high image quality and energy efficiency. (Annual power consumption was reduced by more than Grand Prize LC-60L5 25% compared to previous Sharp models*7.) ■ Green Materials • Uses lead-free solder on circuit boards In addition, Sharp’s PN-V602 LCD monitor was awarded the Energy Conservation Center Chairman’s Prize in • User manual printed on paper certified as environmentally friendly recognition of the fact that it is capable of providing the same level of brightness as other LCD monitors while delivering a significant power reduction of approximately 50%*8, thanks to the adoption of UV2A technology, *1 Sharp’s four-color concept was designed for use with LCDs; it differs from the conventional three-primary-color concept of light and color. LED backlighting, and local dimming*5. The PN-V602 was highly rated as a commercial-use display offering an *2 *3 See page 32. unprecedented energy-saving benefit, and this award represents the hope that it will find widespread adoption. *4 Based on a comparison of power consumption between when the TV is set to the “Standard” AV position with the brightness *6 Held by the Energy Conservation Center, Japan in order to recognize outstanding energy conservation efforts and sensor turned off versus when the Save mode is turned on. Results will vary depending on the image and surrounding brightness. cutting-edge energy-saving products of companies, local governments, and other organizations. *7 Compared with the AQUOS Quattron 3D LV3 line. *8 Compared with existing models under fixed conditions. Measurement results obtained by Sharp when displaying broadcast SGP LCD Monitor Japan content (11.6) stipulated by IEC62087 Ed.2.0. Results will vary depending on the image displayed. ■ Energy Efficient • Features an LCD panel utilizing UV2A technology*2 and LED SGP Digital B/W MFP Japan backlighting*3. Incorporates a “local dimming” function*5 Awarded the Energy ■ Green Materials Conservation Center ■ Energy Efficient Chairman’s Prize; Energy • Uses halogen-free plastics in some external components Conservation Grand Prize PN-V602 • Various energy-saving functions including LEDs as the scanner light source, *5 Local dimming allows specific groups of LEDs to be independently dimmed or brightened according to the image a power save key to reduce standby power consumption, and standby displayed, thereby improving image contrast while reducing power consumption. power consumption of less than 1 W*9 during fax/network standby mode • Significant reduction in TEC value*10 MX-M264FP: 1.63 kWh/week (25% less than Sharp’s 2009 model) MX-M314FP: 2.06 kWh/week (21% less than Sharp’s 2009 model) SGP Touchscreen LCD Monitor Japan MX-M354FP: 2.33 kWh/week (40% less than Sharp’s 2009 model) ■ Energy Efficient ■ Green Materials • Features an LCD panel utilizing UV2A technology*2 and LED backlighting*3 • BP Mark-certified by the Japan BioPlastics Association (JBPA) as a MX-M264FP/M314FP/ • Power consumption PN-L602B: 170 W, PN-L702B: 240 W, PN-L802B: 260 W biomass plastic product that contains at least a certain level of organic M354FP resources ■ Resource Saving • Uses halogen-free plastics in external and most internal components • Allows direct data transfers to/from Sharp tablets, thus facilitating paperless meetings and training sessions • PVC-free AC power cord 登録NO.133,135 *9 Fax standby mode when power is off; TCP/IP and wired LAN are connected. ■ Green Materials PN-L602B *10 Acronym for “Typical Electricity Consumption,” the typical amount of energy consumed in a hypothetical • Uses halogen-free plastics in some external components week. This value represents a benchmark for conformity to the ENERGY STAR® program. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 039 Business Examples of Fiscal 2011 Certified SGP (Japan) SGP Plasmacluster Refrigerator Japan SGP Sakura (Cherry Blossom) Pink LED Lighting Japan ■ Energy Efficient ■ Long Life • Design life of 40,000 hours*6. Provides at least 10 years of service when lit • A high-performance compressor and wide linear inverter controller reduce 10 hours per day. power consumption ■ Energy Efficient • Eco-friendly design features high-efficiency freezing cycle and high-efficiency heat dissipation structure to limit heat loss • Three eco functions—Eco Light Rhythm Sakura Plus, Eco Dimmer, and Eco DL-C504V Sensor—deliver energy savings of up to 74% compared to keeping the unit continually lit*7 • When set in Power Save Mode, artificial intelligence assesses and responds to refrigerator usage to save up to 15% more power than under ■ Adjustable Color and Brightness normal operation. Energy-saving results are displayed in three levels. • Color and brightness of the light can be adjusted to a total of 130 different levels—from cool daylight to warm • Annual power consumption: 200 kWh/year*1 (9% reduction compared to evening light, and including two types of cherry blossom pink and a night-light (10 color levels × 10 previous model introduced in November 2010) brightness levels, plus 10 brightness levels for the two types of pink and the night-light) • Cherry blossom pink lighting contributes to a comfortable environment to facilitate restful sleep (acquired the Evidence■ Green Materials Based Relaxation & Comfort Recommendation Mark from the OHS [Open innovation of Healthcare Service]*8) • Uses recycled plastic made using closed-loop material recycling technology* 2 ■ Green Materials Evidence-Based *1 Annual power consumption measurement values based on the JIS C9801-2006 • Mercury-free Relaxation & Comfort standard. SJ-XW44W *6 Design life is regarded as the time until total luminous flux declines to 70% of Recommendation Mark *2 See page 30. the initial level; product service life is not guaranteed. *7 Sharp measurements. When three eco-functions (Eco Light Rhythm Sakura Plus, Eco Dimmer, Eco Sensor) are turned on versus turned off. Will be darker than full brightness depending on time of day and installation conditions. Energy-saving rate will also vary depending on location, climate conditions, and other factors. *8 Acquired the OHS No. 4 mark (issued on January 10, 2012) for the restful sleep support functionality of the cherry SGP Plasmacluster Washing Machine Japan blossom-colored light (applicable models: DL-C604V/504V/304V). ■ Water Saving • A hole-less tub, which prevents water from going between the water tub SGP Plasmacluster Air Purifier Japan and wash/spin tub, saves water and detergent • A newly designed pulsator*3, which applies the same principles as those ■ Energy Efficient which enable dolphins to swim at high speeds, produces a powerful • Four sensors (dust, odor, temperature, and humidity) promote energy efficiency vertical water flow that provides a thorough wash using less water by adjusting operation in response to the specific conditions in the air ■ Energy Efficient • Reduced power consumption, thanks to a humidifier rotor system that • Hole-less tub dries clothes efficiently by keeping heat in and enabling the increases humidification efficiency and an automated air volume selection temperature inside the tub to rise quickly. Power consumption for a 4.5 kg function that optimizes airflow efficiency wash and dry load is 1,700/1,700 Wh (50/60 Hz)*4 ES-TX810 KI-AX80 ■ Quiet • Clothes Sensor detects fabric type and then optimizes water, time, and power consumption* 5 • Uses a fan that adopts the shape of a dragonfly’s wing* . Results in smooth, quiet airflow. 9 ■ Green Materials ■ Information Visualization • Uses recycled plastic made using closed-loop material recycling technology*2 • Equipped with a digital off timer and an electricity bill monitor that indicates power costs for the day. Enables *3 See page 33. users to get a real sense of energy consumption and practice effective energy conservation. *9 See page 33. *4 Power consumption measurement values based on voluntary standards set by the Japan Electrical Manufacturers’ Association. *5 When the percentage of synthetic fabric is 85%, a standard course for an 8 kg laundry load will use 84 liters of water Plasmacluster Ion Technology (compared with conventional 87 liters), take 34 minutes (compared with conventional 36 minutes) and use 61 Wh of A proprietary Sharp air purification method, this technology generates—through plasma discharge—and releases into the energy (compared with conventional 67 Wh). air positive and negative ions like those found in nature. These ions inhibit the action of airborne viruses and break down and eliminate airborne mold. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 040 Business Examples of Fiscal 2011 Certified SGP (Japan) and SGD SGP Monocrystalline Solar Module Japan SGD High-Output, High-Color-Rendering LED Lighting Device for Residential Applications ■ High Energy-Conversion Efficiency • Highly efficient energy creation using unlimited sunlight ■ Industry’s Highest Luminous Efficiency • Module conversion efficiency: 16.5% • High-luminous-efficiency LED chip and phosphors deliver luminous efficiency of 93.3 lm/W, the ■ Greater Installation Capacity industry’s highest in the 50W input power class, at • “Roofit” design makes efficient use of available roof-top installation space the 3000K color temperature commonly used in by combining solar modules of different sizes. Installation capacity is downlights for retail stores and with a color increased by up to 35.6% compared to existing products. rendering index*1 (Ra) of 83. GW5DME30MR5 ■ High Color Rendering 3.20 kW system 4.34 kW system Installation • High color rendering depicts illuminated objects with colors close to capacity those perceived under natural light 35.6% higher • Color rendering index (Ra)*1: 80 (Lineup also includes high-performance models with a color rendering index [Ra greater than 90.) ND-160AV NQ-190AA Number of installed modules: 20 *1 A numerical value expressing the level of color distortion compared to a NQ-190AA NQ-135AA Number of installed modules: 20 NQ-135AA Number of installed modules: 4 reference light source. The closer the value is to 100, the lower the color distortion. Examples of Fiscal 2011 Certified SGP (Overseas) and AGP TOPICS SEC (United States) Wins 2012 ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence SGP AQUOS LCD TV Australia AGP Thin-Film North America, Solar Module Europe SEC, Sharp’s sales and manufacturing subsidiary based in New Jersey, has received an ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence sponsored by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of Energy (DOE). The ENERGY STAR Awards 2012 were given to companies and organizations out of the roughly 20,000 that participate in the ENERGY STAR program. LC-60LE835X ■ High Energy-Conversion SEC was lauded for securing ENERGY STAR*5 certification on 155 ■ Energy Efficient Efficiency product models over the course • Highly efficient energy of the year, including • Annual energy consumption of 368 kWh/year (previous model energy-saving LCD monitors and LC-60LE830X: 483 kWh/year) creation using unlimited sunlight LCD TVs utilizing four-color*2 • Achieved an 8-star rating under Australia’s MEPS (Minimum Energy technology, as well as for Performance Standards) program • Module conversion providing ongoing environmental efficiency: 9.6% (previous education to retailers, dealers, • Achieves both high image quality and energy efficiency by combining an NS-F135G5 model NS-F130G5: 9.3%) and students. To date, LCD panel that uses four-color technology*2 and UV2A technology*3 with an approximately 10,000 elementary LED backlight*4 that offers precise, efficient control of light • Because thin-film silicon solar cells can be fabricated using low-temperature processes at less than 200°C and school students have taken part Sharp has received the ENERGY STAR® *2 Sharp’s four-color concept was designed for use with LCDs; it differs from the because there are fewer steps in the production process, in Sharp’s Solar Academy. Award for Excellence three years in a row conventional three-primary-color concept of light and color. they can be manufactured using less energy than *5 An environmental labeling program to promote savings through the use of *3 *4 See page 32. conventional crystalline silicon solar cells energy-efficient electrical appliances. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 041 Business ■ SGP and AGP-Certified Models for Fiscal 2011 Product Model Electronic cash register XE-A270BT LC-40L5, LC-46L5, LC-52L5, LC-60L5, LC-40Z5, LC-46Z5, Media tablet RW-T107 LC-52Z5, LC-70X5, LC-20V5, LC-26V5, LC-46V5, LC-52V5, LCD TV LC-26V7, LC-32V7, LC-40V7, LC-46V7, LC-26R5, LC-32R5, Handy data terminal RZ-F301 LC-40R5, LC-19K7, LC-22K7, LC-24K7, LC-60B5, LC-20FE1, SGP Japan Digital MFP MX-M264FP LC-20E90, LC-22U5 PN-V602, PN-A601, PN-E602, PN-E702, PN-L602B, PN-L702B, Blu-ray LCD monitor BD-HP35 PN-L802B Disc player NQ-135AA, NQ-190AA, NQ-134LW, NQ-209LW, NQ-260LW, Solar module Projector XVZ-17000 ND-163AA, ND-165AA, ND-170AA, ND-160BA, ND-114CA, ND-061LA Refrigerator SJ-GF60W, SJ-XF56W, SJ-XF60W, SJ-XF44W, SJ-XW44W, SJ-PW38W Product Model ES-V520, ES-V530, ES-TX910, ES-GE55L, ES-GE60L, ES-GE80L, LC-40LE830E, LC-40LE831E, LC-40LE831S, LC-40LE924E, Washing machine Europe LCD TV ES-T71E8, ES-T81E8, ESA70E7N LC-40LE924RU, LC-46LE814E, LC-46LX814E Air purifier KC-A40, KI-AX70, KI-AX80, FU-A51, FU-A80, KC-500Y4, KC-700Y4 North LC-52LE830U, LC-60LE632U, LC-70LE732U, PRO-60X5FD, LCD TV SGP Japan SGP America PRO-70X5FD Humidifier HV-50E8, HV-70E8 Australia LCD TV LC-40LE835X, LC-46LE835X, LC-52LE835X, LC-60LE835X Plasmacluster IG-DK100, IG-DX100, IG-D230, IG-DK1S, IG-DL1S, IG-DM1S, Ion generator IG-DC15, PFETC1 Malaysia LCD TV LC-22LE520M Electric fan PJ-B2CS LC-40LE814E, LC-40LX814E, LC-40LE824E, LC-46LE824E, LCD TV Vacuum cleaner EC-WX300, EC-VX300, ECAX200, EC-PX200, EC-S220C LC-40LU824E, LC-46LU824E, LC-46LE833E, LC-46LE925E MX-2610N, MX-3110N, MX-3610N, MX-4110N, MX-4111N, DL-C203V, DL-C303V, DL-C503V, DL-C603V, DL-C601V, DL-JA3BL, LED lighting Europe Digital MFP MX-5110N, MX-5111N, MX-4112N, MX-5112N, MX-M182D, DL-JA4AN, DL-CB2AV, DL-CB3AV, DL-CB5AV MX-M202D, MX-M232D, MX-M264N, MX-M314N, MX-M354N 006SH, 007SH, 008SH, 009SH, 101SH, 103SH, 104SH, 105SH, AGP Mobile phone DM011SH, DM012SH, SH-02D, SH-03D, SH-05D, IS11SH, Solar module ND-R240A2 IS12SH, IS13SH, IS14SH North MX-4110N, MX-4111N, MX-5110N, MX-5111N, MX-M232D, Digital MFP Phone JD-V35CL America MX-M264N, MX-M314N, MX-M354N Facsimile UX-310CL, UX-600CL, UX-900CL Malaysia LCD TV LC-19LE520M ■ Number of Environmental Label Products in Fiscal 2011 LCD TV Blu-ray Disc recorder Audio MFP MFP Hong Kong MFP Canada EcoLogo Program International 45 3 4 69 9 Energy-Saving Label 9 ENERGY STAR® Printer LCD monitor Facsimile Air conditioner MFP Air conditioner China MFP Program*1 Thai Green Label 3 29 10 6 4 12 Environmental Labeling 19 MFP Calculator Printer MFP Taiwan MFP Eco Mark*2 Taiwan Green Mark 11 1 1 8 Energy-Saving Label 7 LCD TV LCD TV Projector EU Eco Label*3 5 3 13 Energy Conservation MFP MFP Certification*6 MFP LCD monitor Nordic Swan*4 Blue Angel*5 6 9 20 7 Target countries : *1 Japan, United States, EU nations, etc. *2 Japan *3 EU nations *4 Norway, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden *5 Germany *6 China Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 042 Business Green Procurement Appliances such as refrigerators and TVs are composed of hundreds or thousands of parts, each of which Close-Up Establishing a Global Green Supply Chain contains a variety of chemicals. In fiscal 1994, Sharp introduced the Chemical-Product Assessment (C-PA) system to evaluate the safety of the chemical substances contained in parts and materials at the development and design stages. In this way, Sharp has been working to ensure the safety of products during use and to reduce the environmental impact at the time of disposal. In recent years, laws and regulations concerning chemical substances and other environmental concerns have become increasingly strict worldwide, and together with this there has been an Beginning in fiscal 2003, Sharp investigated chemical substance content, as stipulated by the Japan Green increasing call for greater management and detailed information disclosure with regard to the overall Procurement Survey Standardization Initiative (JGPSSI)*1, and took measures toward eliminating supply chain—from raw materials to parts procurement. In response to this, Sharp instituted its new RoHS*2-designated substances. Sharp was in complete compliance with the RoHS Directive for all Global Green Supply Chain (GGSC) in fiscal 2010 in order to better oversee the entire supply chain products for the European market by the end of fiscal 2005. by securing accurate and timely information from suppliers about chemicals and other items. In addition, Sharp constructed a system to comply with registration obligations under the REACH*3 The GGSC specifies items that are expected of suppliers at all levels and, in addition to providing regulations in fiscal 2008 and completed pre-registration by the end of November 2008. In fiscal 2009, to auditing oversight, ensures suppliers are provided with IT tools and training materials via an Internet pursue an investigation of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs) on a global basis, Sharp held (cloud) portal service. Furthermore, Sharp’s comprehensive support for its suppliers is augmented meetings for suppliers to explain its action plan to comply with REACH regulations in Japan, Europe, Asia, with various, regular training seminars. and China. Throughout fiscal 2010, Sharp conducted surveys on chemical substances contained in procured parts and materials, and it built a system to comply with notification obligations under the REACH The GGSC was introduced into China in fiscal 2010. Since then, it has provided strengthened regulations. It completely fulfilled its notification obligations by June 1, 2011. support—including consulting—for suppliers in China and it has improved the level of supply-chain management taking place. *1 A council that aims to standardize research on chemical substances in parts and materials, comprising one organization and 49 companies, mainly electronics manufacturers including Sharp Corporation. In fiscal 2011, the GGSC was extended to Japanese suppliers, and thus far 46 training sessions and *2 An EU directive on the “Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances,” RoHS restricts the use of lead, seminars have been held. mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyl (PBB), and polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) in electrical and electronic equipment entering the EU market after July 1, 2006. In fiscal 2012, Sharp plans to ensure that the GGSC is firmly established in China and Japan and *3 REACH is a new regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals produced in and imported into the EU. also intends to expand it into Southeast Asia. ■ Global Green Supply Chain (GGSC) Green Procurement In fiscal 2000, Sharp established the Green Procurement Guidelines to procure goods with low environmental impact with the cooperation of suppliers, and has been working to increase environmental 1 Clarification of what is expected from suppliers consciousness at the level of parts and materials. Primary suppliers are provided with Sharp’s Green Procurement Guidelines, and secondary In fiscal 2011, Sharp revised its Green Procurement Guidelines so that it could evaluate the biodiversity and tertiary suppliers are encouraged to make protection efforts of its suppliers. Sharp use of Guidelines for the Management of Chemical Substances in Products. Sharp has also been gradually implementing the Global Green Supply Chain (GGSC), a scheme to improve Implementation is overseen and audited. the gathering and disclosure of information throughout the supply chain. Primary suppliers Guidelines Reducing VOCs in Products 2 Provision of an Internet portal service Sharp is working to make products that are safer and that offer greater peace of mind by reducing their Secondary suppliers • IT tools and training materials are provided to VOC*4 emissions. facilitate efficient information collection by suppliers In fiscal 2011, Sharp conducted measurements of VOCs in 48 models for the Japanese market, focusing Internet portal service Tertiary suppliers • Consultation via a help desk is provided on consumer electronics that see frequent use in living rooms, and on mobile products. Sharp also provided low-VOC product development training using VOC measurement and analysis equipment to the 3 Implementation of training seminars 10 engineers who are responsible for the development of those products (since fiscal 2007, such training Training (web seminars, basic training, etc.) is has been provided to 150 people). provided on a regular basis Sharp plans to continue pushing ahead with the development of low-VOC products, aiming to make its Training seminars home appliances even more user friendly. *4 VOCs (volatile organic compounds) are assumed to be one of the causes of multiple chemical sensitivity and/or sick building syndrome. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 043 Business Expanding the Recycling of Used Products Sharp recycles products that have reached the end of their service life based on three policies: 1) improve the recycling rate and aim for zero landfill disposal, 2) improve the efficiency of the recycling system to reduce recycling costs, and 3) incorporate recycling technologies into the development and design of products. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Enhance and improve recycling system • Shifted employee work hours and expanded number of collected • Implement high-value-added recycling of recovered • Increase recycling efficiency of used LCD TVs to • Construct operational system to accommodate parts by introducing manual disassembly to accommodate components and materials accommodate increasing number of products collected rapidly decreasing number of CRT TVs collected decreasing number of used appliances collected due to the end • Formulate collection scheme for used solar panels of Eco-Point system*1 and analog broadcasts in Japan Recycling Four Kinds of Home Appliances in Japan ■ Sharp Corporation’s Processed and Recycled Units for the Four Home Appliances in Japan (Air Conditioners, TVs, Refrigerators, and Washing Machines) (Thousands of units) 3,500 3,431 As a member of the B Group*2 for home appliance recycling, Sharp has constructed and is operating a 352 highly efficient recycling system based on 18 recycling plants in Japan. 3,000 424 In fiscal 2011, Sharp collected about 2.25 million units of the four types of appliances covered by the Home 2,631 Appliance Recycling Law. This figure represents a significant decrease to 61% of the previous year’s level, 2,500 248 347 reflecting the impact of reduced replacement demand due to the end of the Eco-Point system*1 on March 2,098 31, 2011 and the cessation of analog TV broadcasting in July 2011. 2,000 360 345 The approximate breakdown of recycled appliances was as follows: 190,000 air conditioners (down 30%), 274 1,500 1,469 367 1.09 million CRT TVs (down 54%), 240,000 flat-panel TVs (down 15%), 360,000 refrigerators (down 15%), 1,370 351 74 2,134 and 350,000 washing machines (no change), with percentage changes compared to the previous fiscal 367 Washing machines/dryers 1,000 year. 327 318 1,453 Refrigerators/freezers The B Group as a whole responded swiftly, and these used products were properly recycled. Sharp 1,127 500 Flat-panel TVs processed and recycled about 26.3 million units (down 24% from the previous fiscal year) of the four types 499 605 CRT TVs of home appliances designated under the Home Appliance Recycling Law. The recycling rates exceeded 273 0 186 186 185 197 Air conditioners the legal standard for all four kinds of appliances. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) *1 Designed to stimulate consumption and promote the use of environmentally friendly products, this Japanese government program allowed buyers of certain types of energy-efficient air conditioners, refrigerators, and TVs to earn “eco points” that could be exchanged at a later time for other goods. ■ Sharp Corporation’s Recycling Component Ratio of Materials for the Four Home Appliances *2 The B Group consists of Sharp Corporation, Sony Corporation, Hitachi Appliances, Inc., Fujitsu General Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, and other companies. 14.1％ 30.4％ 16.6％ ■ Sharp Corporation’s Processing and Recycling Status of the Four Home Appliances in Japan (Fiscal 2011) 23.8％ 5.1％ 46.9％ 0.2％ Air Refrigerators/ Washing Air Flat-panel Unit CRT TVs Flat-panel TVs Total CRT TVs 46.0％ conditioners freezers machines/dryers conditioners 6.7％ TVs Units collected from designated Thousand collection sites units 197 1,096 243 362 358 2,256 36.1％ 16.7％ 50.2％ Thousand 0.8％ 1.2％ Processed and recycled units 197 1,453 274 360 347 2,631 5.0％ units 29.5％ 34.9％ Washing Refrigerators/ machines/ 49.5％ 47.8％ Processed and recycled weight Tons 8,059 37,664 3,914 21,933 11,811 83,381 freezers dryers 17.6％ 13.9％ Recycled weight Tons 7,438 29,626 3,337 17,468 10,758 68,627 1.4％ 1.3％ 1.9％ 2.2％ Recycling rate ％ 92 78 85 79 91 ー Iron Copper Aluminum Ferrous/nonferrous compounds Legally required recycling rate ％ 70 55 50 60 65 ー CRT glass Other valuable resources (plastic, etc.) Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 044 Business Continuing Design-for-Recycling Training Close-Up Kansai Recycling Systems Surpasses 10 Million Mark Since fiscal 2001, to promote easy-to-recycle product design, Sharp has been conducting for Used Home Appliance Recycling design-for-recycling training, mainly aimed at personnel responsible for product planning and design. In fiscal 2011, 43 people took part. Kansai Recycling Systems Co., Ltd. (KRSC)*, which works in conjunction with Sharp to develop various recycling technologies, has now recycled more than 10 million used home appliances since This training program, held with the cooperation of recycling plants, the enactment of the Home Appliance Recycling Law (official name: Law for Recycling of Specified combines actual hands-on experience in dismantling used home Kinds of Home Appliances) in April 2001. appliances, with seminars and visits to a recycling line to observe dismantling operations. The design-related issues experienced KRSC carries out careful separation and recovery following the maxim, “If it’s mixed together, it’ll during this training are reflected in the planning and design of new become trash; if it can be separated, it’s a resource.” They are particularly focused on recovery of products. plastics such as polypropylene and polystyrene. Thanks to Sharp’s proprietary closed-loop material-recycling technology, these plastics can now be reused as parts for refrigerators and Sharp will offer this training program on an ongoing basis and will washing machines. work to ensure that the concept of design-for-recycling pervades Hands-on training in dismantling used home the entire design process. appliances In fiscal 2011, in response to increasing calls for energy conservation, KRSC installed at its main plant a 155 kW solar power system, which utilizes Sharp’s high-efficiency monocrystalline solar cells. Thanks to this system, energy consumption at KRSC’s main plant has been cut by roughly 10%. Recycling TVs and Other Consumer Operational efficiency has also been markedly improved thanks to such factors as process Electronics in the United States (SEC, US) ■ SEC’s Recycling Amount improvement in the refrigerator and flat-panel TV recycling lines. In September 2007, SEC—Sharp’s manufacturing and (Tons) Sharp and KRSC will continue to work together to develop safe and reliable recycling technologies 6,000 sales subsidiary located in New Jersey, US—established that contribute to the creation of a sustainable, the Electronic Manufacturers Recycling Management 5,049 5,000 recycling-based society. Company, LLC (MRM) in cooperation with Panasonic * A consumer electronics recycling company in Japan established Corporation of North America and Toshiba America 4,000 with investment from Sharp Corporation, Mitsubishi Materials Consumer Products, LLC. Tasked with recycling Corporation, and four other companies. 3,049 audio-visual products, especially TVs, the MRM program 3,000 has since expanded nationwide to offer recycling 2,000 2,055 opportunities at approximately 1,450 collection points. MRM holds special events and carries out voluntary 1,000 activities to promote the recycling of used consumer 596 344 Solar power system installed on the roof of electronics and complies fully with the laws and 0 KRSC’s main plant regulations of each state. In fiscal 2011, approximately 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal 5,000 tons of used consumer electronics were recycled. year) ■ Growth in the Number of Used Home Appliances Recycled by KRSC (Thousands of units) 12,000 10,508 (Total) Reusing and Recycling Copiers in Japan 10,000 9,196 Sharp is reusing and recycling copiers collected both through Sharp distribution channels and through 8,000 7,214 common industry channels. In fiscal 2011, approximately 26,000 used copiers were collected for either 6,000 5,949 reuse or recycling. The company is also collecting used toner cartridges and remanufacturing them, 5,022 assuring customers the same quality as new products. Sharp designs its toner cartridges to be easy to 4,176 4,000 3,347 reuse and recycle: this reduces the number of new ones that need to be manufactured and reduces the 2,527 amount of time needed to reprocess used cartridges, and it reduces impact on the environment since more 2,000 1,729 594 992 and more cartridges are being used repeatedly. 0 398 737 798 820 829 847 926 1,265 1,982 1,312 (Each year) Sharp will continuously work to increase the numbers of copier models and toner cartridge types it 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) recycles, with the goal of expanding reuse and recycling. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 045 Business Promoting Solar Power Business Sharp is working to develop a global total-solutions business for solar power that covers every part of the value chain, including development and production of solar cells and modules; system design; construction of mega solar power plants; and power plant operation. The aim of this total-solutions business is to make renewable energy usage more widespread and thereby contribute to global environmental conservation. Half a Century in Solar Power Promoting Solar Power Business (Italy) Sharp began research into solar power in 1959. In the years since, Sharp has worked to prove the reliability of its Enel Green Power & Sharp Solar solar cells under extreme conditions, such as those endured by lighthouses and satellites, and it has build up a Energy S.r.l. (ESSE) is a solar reputation of trust in the process. Sharp’s solar power technology has been incorporated into countless IPP*5 jointly established by residential and industrial applications. The company’s efforts in the commercialization and industrialization of solar Sharp and EGP. By the end of cells has been highly lauded: in 2010, for example, Sharp’s achievements were recognized with a prestigious March 2012, ESSE constructed IEEE Milestone from the IEEE, the world’s largest academic society for electrical, electronics, information, and and began producing power at telecommunications engineering. six mega solar plants throughout Italy. The capacity of the installed By the end of 2011, Sharp’s total solar cell production volume reached 5.5 GW, putting it in the No.1*1 position solar cells totals roughly 20 MW, worldwide. This is equivalent to a 4 kW residential system for more than 1.3 million homes. and the expected annual output *1 1985 to 2011. Based on data collected by PV News and Sharp. IEEE Milestone recognition (solar cells) Mega solar power plant (Calabria, Italy) will be enough for approximately 10,000 Italian households. ESSE has plans to construct multiple mega solar plants with a total capacity of at least 500 MW by the end of Construction and Maintenance of a Mega Solar Plant (Thailand) 2016 and will expand its operations into the rest of Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Sharp received an order from NED, one of *5 An IPP (independent power producer) owns facilities to generate electric power for sale to utilities and end users. Thailand’s independent power producers, to build one of the world’s largest mega solar power plants with a capacity of 73 MW. Sharp collaborated on the construction with ITD and Promoting Mega Solar Business (United States) ITE, two of the largest construction companies Recurrent Energy, LLC, a Sharp subsidiary in the US, is a leading developer of distributed solar projects in that in Thailand, and work was completed in March country. It works with power utilities to develop mega solar projects and provide solar-generated electricity. In of this year. Sharp supplied thin-film solar fiscal 2011, the company was involved in the development of mega solar plants at various sites in North America, 73 MW mega solar plant, one of the largest in the world (Lop Buri Province, Thailand) modules and peripheral systems for the plant including a 19.5 MW facility in Arizona, an 88 MW facility in California, and a 100 MW facility in Ontario, Canada. and was involved in the plant’s design and In addition, Recurrent Energy is expanding its business into Europe and other locations. construction. Sharp was also asked to provide maintenance services, which have been undertaken by Sharp Solar Maintenance Asia Co., Ltd. (SSMA)*2. SSMA is developing plans to expand maintenance operations to other areas in Asia where the number of mega solar projects is expected to grow. Expanding Mega Solar Business in Japan *2 SSMA was established in March 21, 2011 to provide maintenance to mega solar projects in Asia. Mega solar projects are becoming more widely adopted within Japan due to the renewable energy buyback program, which began in July of this year. Sharp is planning mega solar installations for a number of sites Start of Operation at a Thin-film Solar Cell Plant (Italy) throughout Japan. The company is constructing the facilities and supplying the panels for a 2.4 MW installation in Gunma, and it will own and operate a 2 MW installation in Tochigi, a 2 MW installation in Osaka, and a 9.2 MW In December 2011, a state-of-the-art thin-film solar cell plant operated by 3Sun S.r.l., a joint venture of installation in Nagano. Sharp Corporation, Enel Green Power*3 (EGP), and STMicroelectronics*4, went online. With an annual production capacity of 160 MW, this Japan’s energy self-sufficiency stands at a mere 4%*6. The country is dependent on energy imports from plant is the largest thin-film solar cell overseas, with nearly all of that coming in the form of oil, coal, natural gas, and other fossil fuels. Sharp is working plant in Italy and one of the largest in to improve Japan’s level of energy self-sufficiency and help curb global warming by facilitating more widespread Europe. adoption of solar power. *6 The percentage of Japan’s domestic energy usage covered by domestic resources. Nuclear energy is excluded. State-of-the-art thin-film solar cell plant (Catania, Italy) *3 EGP is a group company of Enel, Italy’s largest power utility. It develops renewable energy power projects in Italy and worldwide. *4 Europe’s leading semiconductor manufacturer, established in 1987. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 046 Operations Promoting an Environmental Management System Sharp operates an environmental management system (EMS) and provides environmental education to strengthen environmental sustainability management and to improve the environmental awareness of employees. The company is reviewing and restructuring the underlying framework of this system—including its rules and operational structure—in order to further improve the efficacy of the EMS as it is variously implemented at plants and offices. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Restructure EMS promotion system at plants • Plants in Japan : Restructure IMS promotion system − − • Offices in Japan: • Offices in Japan: • Offices in Japan: • Offices in Japan: • Transition to corporate unit-centered EMS promotion • Transitioned to corporate unit-centered EMS promotion • Ensure that corporate unit-centered EMS promotion • Establish corporate-unit EMS promotion system system system system is firmly established • Implement EMS training for auditors under new system •Prepared EMS e-learning for auditors • Systematize corporate-unit EMS training Developing the Sharp Environmental Management System Stepping Up Environmental Education Sharp began working to acquire ISO 14001 environmental management system certification in 1995 and Sharp systematically implements employee environmental has used it as a management tool for continuously reducing the environmental burden of its business education, assigning employees to either an “Expert” or activities. In the years since, certification has been attained by Sharp Corporation, by its consolidated “General” level course depending on the degree to which their subsidiaries in Japan and overseas, and by the plants of its non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. duties are connected with the environment. Furthermore, in fiscal 2002, Sharp formulated the S-EMS (Sharp Environmental Management System) The Expert course targets environmental promotion standards, which are based on ISO 14001 and which include an additional 49 original management criteria. leaders and persons in charge of environmental affairs in S-EMS aims to ensure an even greater degree of environmental compliance and activity on the part of each department, with the goal of enhancing their Sharp, and it has subsequently been introduced into Sharp’s Japanese offices and plants worldwide. Expert professional competence by, for example, providing In fiscal 2006, with Sharp’s strategic management system (eS-SEM*) as a base, S-EMS was integrated with training in environmental laws and regulations and Sharp’s quality management system (QMS) to create the integrated management system (IMS), which was environmental management systems (ISO 14001) • IMS auditor training then introduced and tailored to the characteristics of Sharp’s plants worldwide. Since fiscal 2010, the 11 relating to the business activities of their own • S-EMS auditor training • Environmental laws and companies operating within GREEN FRONT SAKAI (Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture) have jointly acquired ISO department. regulations training 14001 certification, which contains additional assessment of their degree of advancement. • Recycling training The General course is intended to help all • Eco Best Practice Forums In fiscal 2010, Sharp restructured the S-EMS and EMS promotion system and completed a revision of employees master basic environmental • e-learning S-EMS regulations and the EMS promotion system for Japanese offices. knowledge and improve their environmental awareness. In fiscal 2011, Sharp restructured the IMS promotion system at its Japanese plants and transitioned to a corporate unit-centered EMS promotion system at its Japanese offices, so as to ensure better effectiveness • Basic environmental training General • Company-wide and efficiency. environmental training • Overseas assigned In the future, Sharp will work for a more effective implementation of EMS in accordance with the employee training characteristics of each individual plant and office. * eS-SEM (e-Sharp Strategic Enterprise Management) is Sharp’s own strategic management system based on the balanced scorecard concept. Environment-Related Accidents or Violations of Laws In fiscal 2011, the Sharp Group was subject to no environment-related lawsuits or fines. There were also no ISO 14001-certified plants and offices serious environment-related accidents. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 047 Operations Environmental Education Case Studies Environmental Seminars by Visiting Lecturers (Mie Plant and Tenri Plant) Training for General Employees on Sharp’s Environmental Efforts (Ichigaya) As part of the environmental training provided to employees, Sharp invites lecturers active in Training was provided to general employees environment-related fields to come and hold seminars. (primarily sales staff) at Sharp’s Ichigaya Office on the future outlook for solar power generation. The The Mie Plant holds environmental seminars three lecture was conducted by CS and Environmental times a year. At the second seminar for fiscal 2011, Promotion Group Deputy General Manager the guest lecturer was Seiko Tamori, a Muramatsu and focused on the company’s weatherperson on Mie Television who spoke on the environmental initiatives based on its vision to be an topic of environmental issues and disaster Eco-Positive Company. Mr. Muramatsu also prevention in light of recent weather phenomena. explained how Sharp’s solar power business can The seminar was attended by 60 employees. contribute to global environmental preservation. Ms. Tamori, using photographs to illustrate her Over 200 people attended the seminar, which points, talked about the flooding in Thailand and served to reaffirm the importance of preserving the about Tropical Storm Talas, which caused serious environment and renew enthusiasm for contributing Environmental training at the Ichigaya Office damage on the Kii Peninsula in Japan in 2011. She to the growth of Sharp’s solar power business. explained the causes of these weather phenomena, how to interpret weather forecasts, and the importance of disaster preparedness. The Environmental seminar at the Mie Plant Environmental Kaizen Competition (SSI, Indonesia) participants listened attentively to her accessible talk, which used a disaster that occurred in Mie SSI, Sharp’s manufacturing subsidiary located in Karawang, Indonesia, held an environmental kaizen Prefecture (Tropical Storm Talas) as an example. competition under the theme of finding ways of cutting down on CO2 emissions and waste. Suppliers, subcontractors, and company staff presented their ideas for reducing environmental burden. The aim of the The Tenri Plant (Advanced Development and competition was to have participating teams exchange know-how and learn from one another as well as to Planning Center) also hosts annual seminars by increase environmental awareness among SSI employees and business partners alike. visiting lecturers. In fiscal 2011, Kyoto University Environment Preservation Research Center After all the entries were presented, the judges chose the winning team for its project on reducing the Assistant Professor Misuzu Asari was invited to give amount of solder dross. a seminar on waste issues and the three Rs. This seminar provided participants with information about the current waste situation in Japan, basic facts about household waste, and other essential waste-related knowledge. She emphasized the particular importance of the first two Rs: to reduce and reuse waste. This accessible, easy-to-understand talk provided significant motivation to the 100 participants in attendance to re-examine their behavior when it Seminar on waste issues and the three Rs at the Tenri Plant comes to waste issues. Participants gather for a group photo following the presentations Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 048 Operations Raising the Level of Environmental Performance in Factories Sharp is working to raise the level of environmental performance at its factories through the use of its own assessment and certification system. Although all of its factories around the world have already achieved Green Factory status, Sharp is implementing further environmental performance-boosting initiatives so as to elevate all of its plants to the level of Super Green Factory. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • 11 Sharp Corporation plants • All plants SGF II Grade A or higher • 10 plants SGF II Grade A or higher (8 plants SGF II Grade S) • All plants SGF II Grade S (8 plants SGF II Grade S) • 5 Japanese plants (consolidated subsidiaries): Develop new SGF measures taking into account • Implement SGF II at 3 SGF • Implemented SGF II at 3 SGF • All plants SGF II Grade B or higher characteristics of each plant and region • Certify remaining 2 GF as SGF • Certified 1 GF as SGF • 15 overseas plants (consolidated subsidiaries): • Implement SGF II at 14 SGF • Implemented SGF II at 14 SGF • All plants SGF II Grade B or higher • Certify remaining 1 GF as SGF • Certified 1 GF as SGF • Eco Best Practice Forums • Hold forums at least once a year in each region • Held forums once in each region • Hold forums at least twice a year in each region • Hold forums at least twice a year in each region (North America, Europe, Asia, and China) (North America, Europe, Asia, and China) Making All Factories Green Factories Making Super Green Factories Greener In order to strengthen the environmental friendliness of its factories, Sharp established a “Green Factory” Beginning in fiscal 2008, Sharp launched SGF II, a new initiative for plants that have attained SGF (GF) category, which would apply to factories meeting certain high standards of environmental certification. In addition to prior initiatives that focused on upgrading “hard” aspects, such as introducing consciousness. GF Guidelines, which bring together basic policies and operational know-how based on 10 high-efficiency equipment and abatement systems, SGF II incorporates “soft” aspects in evaluation points, concepts, were drawn up in fiscal 1999 and introduced at factories worldwide. With construction in fiscal such as the know-how to maintain and manage environmental equipment to ensure operation at full 2003 of the Kameyama Plant (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture), which incorporated state-of-the-art green performance. SGF II has evolved into a mechanism for assessing overall performance on criteria such as technologies, Sharp established its own criteria for assessing the environmental friendliness of factories and emission reductions. Also included in the new evaluation system were assessments of risk preparedness, instituted an internal certification system for designating its plants as GF or Super Green Factory (SGF). including operational safety and emergency response measures. Quantitative values were assigned for a wide range of environmental performance items. In the assessment Sharp has set a goal and is carrying out global initiatives for getting all factories worldwide to SGF II Grade process, a plant would have to score 70 or more points out of 100 to earn GF certification and 90 points or B or higher in fiscal 2012. more to achieve SGF certification. The Kameyama Plant was the first plant to be certified an SGF (in fiscal 2003). Following this, Sharp plants worldwide competed to outdo one another in terms of environmental initiatives, and by the end of fiscal 2007, the medium-term goal of getting all Sharp plants worldwide SGF II 200 points certified as GF and all Sharp Corporation plants certified as SGF was achieved. S Improved 180 points A 160 points ■ Green Factory Concepts B ■ SGF/SGF II System 140 points Greenhouse Atmosphere, Minimize environmental burden on gases Minimize emission of greenhouse gases water, soil the atmosphere, water, and soil C 100 points SGF Improved Harmony Endeavor to preserve and restore Energy Minimize energy consumption with nature nature both on and off site 90 points Encourage harmony with the GF Waste Minimize discharge of waste Harmony with 70 points • Under SGF criteria, when a production base achieves a score the community local community of 90 points or more, it is certified as an SGF and transitions to Environmental Foster high environmental SGF II evaluation criteria* Resources Minimize resource consumption consciousness awareness among employees • Under SGF II, plants are certified as Grades S through C depending on the number of points scored Chemical Minimize risk of environmental pollution and Information Disclose information on substances accidents caused by chemical substances disclosure the environment * See the next page for SGF/SGF II criteria. 0 Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 049 Operations ■ SGF/SGF II Quantified Environmental Performance Criteria Environmental performance criteria Assessment weighting Sub total Total Close-Up SEID in Indonesia Achieves SGF Status Reduction of • Reductions in CO2 emissions environmental Greenhouse gases • Reductions in energy costs impacts and 65 points contribution to Waste • Reductions in waste discharges SEID, Sharp’s manufacturing and sales subsidiary in Indonesia, is actively engaged in environmental management • Reductions in waste disposal costs 100 social contribution efforts aimed at reducing the environmental impact of the company’s business SGF II points Safety measures Operational safety and • Operational safety and emergency 25 points activities as well as fostering greater environmental awareness amongst employees. emergency preparedness preparedness measures Energy-efficient LED lighting has been installed in the production facilities along with roofing that takes • Measures implemented related to information Information disclosure disclosure, community interaction, 10 points in natural light. Fluorescent ballast has also been replaced with more energy-efficient electronic ballast. and community-based interactions and community service activities And solar power systems have also been introduced at several locations throughout the plant site. • Reductions in PFCs gases Employees are working with a local plant preservation center and a botanical garden to plant rare • Promotion of variable control systems plant species in areas near the company. They are also using fallen leaves, weeds, and other such • Recovery and recycling of waste heat Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions • Introduction of high-efficiency equipment 25 points natural resources to create fertilizer. per production unit • Introduction of new energy sources 200 • Implementation of managerial decisionpoints Thanks to these various initiatives, SEID achieved SGF status in fiscal 2011. And at the new plant making standards currently under construction (scheduled to go online in 2013), an even greater level of environmental friendliness will be incorporated. • PRTR atmospheric emissions • PRTR water emissions Reductions in the release of chemical substances 27 points • Sulfoxides produced by combustion • Elimination of all noxious odors 100 SGF points • Zero discharge to landfill Appropriate disposal of industrial waste • Confirmation of appropriate disposal 18 points • Recycling waste as valuable resources • Use of rain and condensate water Reductions in the consumption of industrial water 10 points • Recovery of production rinse water • Disaster and fire prevention measures for Roofing that lets in natural light Tree planting Solar power system installed on hazardous materials plant grounds Monitoring and safety 20 points • Special safety measures • Adoption of central monitoring measures Characteristic Initiatives of SGF II Previously, the main focus for plants in Japan has been to reduce the environmental burden created by their utility equipment, such as power sources and air conditioning equipment. Now, however, this focus is Conceptual drawing of the new plant when completed expanding to include production systems, which play a significant part in the environmental burden created by the plant’s emissions. Sharp’s environmental management divisions are working with production engineering divisions and production divisions to find ways of reducing the environmental burden of Words from a Manager production systems without compromising production quality or SEID maintains an extremely high level of environmental awareness productivity. and is actively working to strengthen the environmental friendliness At overseas production facilities, Eco Best Practice Forums are used of our production facilities as well as contribute to the protection of as an initiative to improve the “soft” aspects (i.e., equipment and the local environment. systems operation and management know-how) of environmental We will continue our efforts to help protect and improve the global performance prioritized under SGF II. These forums are linked by Suanda Sumanta environment. videoconference as a way of facilitating mutual learning where Department General Manager valuable environmental protection know-how is shared between Administrative Department II SEID locations. Sharp will continue to hold these forums on a regular Eco Best Practice Forum held basis for locations in North America, Europe, Asia and China. by Chinese bases Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 050 Operations ■ Certified Plants ■ SGF Certified Plants Worldwide Country Fiscal 2003 Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Sharp Corporation Tochigi Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A Grade S 1 Hiroshima Plant 2 Mihara Plant 3 Fukuyama Plant 4 Yao Plant 5 Katsuragi Plant Yao Plant GF GF SGF SGF Grade A Grade S 6 Nara Plant 7 Tenri Plant 8 Kameyama Plant 9 Mie Plant 10 Tochigi Plant Equivalent to SGF II grade A or higher Hiroshima Plant GF GF SGF SGF Grade A Grade A 11 GREEN FRONT SAKAI solar cell plant Nara Plant GF GF SGF SGF Grade S Grade S Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies in Japan Katsuragi Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A Grade A SGF II 12 Sharp Yonago Corporation in place 4 13 15 (based on self evaluation) Sharp Fukuyama Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade S Grade S 1 2 3 Corporation 13 Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation 10 Mie Plant SGF SGF SGF SGF Grade S Grade S 14 Sharp Display Products Corporation 12 15 Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Tenri Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A Grade S Japan 11 14 8 9 Mihara Plant GF GF GF SGF Grade A Grade S SGF in Japan: 15 5 6 7 Kameyama Plant SGF SGF SGF SGF SGF Grade S Grade S GREEN FRONT SAKAI Introduce Subsidiaries and Affiliated Companies Overseas SGF solar cell plant SGF II 1 SUKM (UK) 2 SMF (France) 3 NSEC (China) 4 SOCC (China) Sharp Manufacturing GF GF GF SGF Grade A 5 SSEC (China) 6 SMTL (Thailand) 7 SMM (Malaysia) 8 SSI (Indonesia) Systems Corporation Introduce Introduce SGF II SGF II 9 SEMEX (Mexico) 10 SMCA (US) 11 WSEC (China) 12 SATL (Thailand) Sharp Yonago Corporation GF GF SGF Grade A 13 SPC (Philippines) 14 SMPL (Poland) Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation GF GF GF GF GF SGF 15 SEID (Indonesia) Sharp Mie Corporation GF GF GF GF GF GF GF SGF overseas: 15 SGF Grade S 1 14 Sharp Display Products Corporation 2 Note: Underlined plants 3 4 5 Equivalent to SGF II grade A or higher SEMEX Mexico GF GF GF SGF 10 achieved SGF status in fiscal 2011 11 SUKM*1 UK GF GF GF SGF 9 6 12 13 SMF France SGF SGF SGF SGF 7 8 15 Introduce Introduce SOCC GF SGF SGF SGF (based on self evaluation) SGF II SGF II China NSEC GF GF SGF SGF SMM Malaysia GF GF GF SGF ■ Number of SGF Certified Plants SMTL Thailand GF SGF SGF (No. of plants) 40 40 39 39 40 SMCA*2 US GF GF GF SGF 38 38 38 36 SMPL Poland GF SGF 33 30 31 31 Introduce 30 SSEC GF GF GF GF SGF SGF II China WSEC GF GF GF GF SGF Introduce 24 18 SGF II 21 15 15 20 SATL Thailand GF GF GF SGF 11 16 9 SPC Philippines GF GF GF SGF 6 SGF 10 overseas Introduce 8 SSI GF GF SGF SGF II 16 3 13 15 15 Indonesia 10 12 SGF SEID GF GF GF GF SGF 2 3 1 1 1 5 in Japan 0 2 2 *1 Manufacturing division of SUK *2 Manufacturing division of SEC 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) Plan Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 051 Operations Improving the Level of Environmental Performance of Offices Sharp has maintained a Green Office certification system since fiscal 2007 in Japan (and since fiscal 2009 overseas) as an initiative to increase the level of environmental performance at its offices. This system assesses and certifies offices according to Green Office standards established by Sharp. Now that this certification system is well established, Sharp will shift to a framework in which each office conducts Green Office activities on their own initiative, capitalizing on the know-how accumulated thus far. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Japan: Introduce new organizational structure centered • Japan: Introduced new organizational structure at 21 • Transition from evaluation/certification to mutual learning • Firmly establish voluntary Green Office activities at each on main offices offices • Issue Green Office Guidelines office • Overseas: Introduce organizational structures on a • Overseas: Held Green Office study sessions on a regional • Overseas: Hold Green Office study sessions on a regional regional basis in North America, Europe, Asia, and China basis basis • Green Office certification Japan: 21 out of the total 21 offices Overseas: 20 out of the total 20 offices Green Office Initiatives in Japan ■ Green Office Certification Standards (Japan, Fiscal 2011) Starting in fiscal 2007, Sharp established the Green Office self-certification system as an initiative to increase the level Field Key Evaluation Indicators (number of items) of environmental performance at its Head Office and sales and service subsidiaries in Japan. Under this system, Compliance in waste management, system for ensuring which is intended for offices that have acquired ISO 14001 certification, an annual performance evaluation is Compliance with environmental laws compliance with laws, other measures (3) conducted based on certification criteria in eight fields (see table at right). In fiscal 2009 and 2010, all target offices Reduction of environmental impact through Status of achievement of work specific to each attained Green Office certification. work specific to each business division business division (1) Energy-saving measures, electricity demand monitoring, In line with a revamping of the EMS system in fiscal 2011, the number of target offices was adjusted to 21. The Prevention of global warming reduction of electricity use, other measures (4) certification standards were also revised, with the addition of assessment items for energy-saving measures Reduction of total emissions, recycling of waste as undertaken company-wide after the Great East Japan Earthquake. All 21 offices were able to secure Green Office Waste management valuable resources, other measures (4) certification. Use of recycled copier paper, use of videoconference systems, Environmental efforts in the office other measures (2) After five years of the Green Office certification system, green initiatives have taken root at offices. Thus from fiscal Progress management in line with ISO 14001, 2012, Sharp will encourage each office to adopt its own, independent initiatives. The primary focus will now transition Environmental management other measures (2) to information sharing and mutual learning, which Sharp will promote through such measures as issuing Green Office Eco Test certification acquisition ratio, Guidelines that summarize the best green practices used thus far. Environmental education, etc. environmental auditor training, other measures (3) Environmental social action programs Community activities, other measures (2) Green Office Initiatives Overseas In fiscal 2009, Sharp began to introduce the Green Office certification system for the 20 offices of its main sales subsidiaries overseas. Because environmental laws and regulations are different in each country and region, and ■ Green Office Certification Standards (Overseas, Fiscal 2011) because infrastructure and business customs vary widely, Sharp has established “common” performance-evaluation criteria that all offices must address and “optional” criteria that are specific to the characteristics of each individual Field Key Evaluation Indicators (number of items; common/optional) region. In fiscal 2010, 19 of the 20 offices attained Green Office certification; in fiscal 2011, voluntary targets to be Expansion of sales of energy-saving and Sales of environmentally conscious products, taken by each office were incorporated as indices, and all 20 offices attained certification. energy-creating products other measures (1/2) Reduction of environmental impacts Reduction of electricity use, waste reduction, Sharp’s focus on information sharing and mutual learning extends to overseas offices as well. As the first phase of from business activities other measures (8/9) this, Green Office study sessions via videoconference were held in fiscal 2011 for each region. Green Office initiatives Environmental action plans, Environmental governance promotion of local environmental strategy, other measures (1/3) will be further stimulated through the establishment of voluntary targets at each office and information sharing and mutual learning between offices. Compliance with environmental laws Conditions of compliance as evaluated by audits, statutory reports, other measures (3/0) Environmental education, community services, Environmental communication, etc. biodiversity protection, other measures (3/4) Voluntary targets: Providing environmental education classes at elementary schools, active use of videoconference systems, others Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 052 Operations Curbing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Sharp is taking active measures to curb greenhouse gas emissions resulting from its business activities. Sharp is reducing CO2 emissions through the introduction of cogeneration systems and energy-efficient equipment, the installation of solar power generation systems, and the meticulous implementation of energy-saving activities at plants and offices. At the same time, Sharp is also reducing emissions of greenhouse gases such as PFCs*1 by installing abatement systems and adopting replacement gases with lower global warming potential. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Production-based CO2 emissions for the 10 Sharp Corporation plants*2 • All 11 Sharp Corporation plants • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels • Reduced by 40.2% from fiscal 2007 levels • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels • Reduce production-based CO2 emissions by 3% compared • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU*3 • Reduced by 3% compared to BAU • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU to BAU every fiscal year • Improve specific energy consumption rate by average 1% • Production-based CO2 emissions per adjusted production unit*4 for all 11 Sharp Corporation plants • Reduced by 42.2% from fiscal 1990 levels • Reduce by 35% from fiscal 1990 levels each year (from fiscal 2013 to 2020) • Reduce by 35% from fiscal 1990 levels (average for fiscal 2008 to 2011) (average for fiscal 2008 to 2012) • CO2 emissions per production unit*5 for overseas plants • CO2 emissions for overseas plants • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Increased by 8.2% from previous fiscal • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Reduce by 3% compared to BAU every fiscal year year (CO2 emissions reduced by 7%) *1 HFCs, PFCs, sulfur hexafluoride, nitrogen trifluoride, HCFCs *2 The 10 plants of Sharp Corporation, excluding the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (see page 64). *3 Business As Usual: Amount of CO2 estimated to be emitted, relative to emission levels in the preceding fiscal year, assuming no measures to reduce CO2 emissions are implemented. *4 Per adjusted production unit (tons CO2/100 million yen) = CO2 emissions (tons CO2) ÷ production output (100 million yen) x domestic corporate goods price index 0.385 (scope: electric and electronic equipment, base fiscal year: 1990) determined by the Bank of Japan *5 Per production unit (tons CO2/100 million yen) = CO2 emissions (tons CO2) ÷ production output (100 million yen) Sharp Group Activities to Control Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1 Amount of Sharp Group’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2 Amount of Production-Based CO2 Emissions (Thousand tons CO2) for the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants (Thousand tons CO2) Total greenhouse gas emissions for the Sharp Group in fiscal 2011 decreased by 13.5% compared 2,000 1,000 to the previous fiscal year, with decreases being seen in offices and plants in Japan and overseas 1,799 and in PFCs ( 1 ). 1,600 1,634 40.2% 322 1,531 1,500 500 315 1,414 968 834 For the 10 factories of Sharp Corporation, CO2 emissions were reduced by 12.9% compared to the 58 261 270 711 665 579 previous fiscal year, and by 40.2% ( 2 ) compared to fiscal 2007 levels. They were also reduced by 1,200 290 52 35 234 0 48 300 27 3% of baseline (BAU emissions) ( 3 ). While these results are due in part to decreased production, 280 278 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 279 they also represent stronger green initiatives on the part of Sharp in its utility, production, and other 800 6 3 Reduction Rate* of CO2 Emissions from BAU Reductions from systems as a result of a plan to reduce CO2 emissions from their fiscal 2007 peak. 1,129 for the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants 983 energy savings 400 938 905 874 (Thousand tons CO2) In addition, the average for CO2 emissions per adjusted production unit for all 11 Sharp Corporation 700 CO2 emissions plants from fiscal 2008 through 2011 were reduced by 42.2% from fiscal 1990 levels ( 4 ). 665 0 600 597 Reductions: At the same time, CO2 emissions at production facilities abroad decreased by 7% compared to the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 18 thousand tons CO2 previous fiscal year, while CO2 emissions per production unit increased by 8.2% compared to the PFCs emissions CO2 emissions from offices in 500 BAU BAU reduction rate: 3% Japan and overseas 579 previous fiscal year ( 5 ). This increase in CO2 emissions per production unit is the result of a CO2 emissions from 0 CO2 emissions from plants in Japan downturn in production due to drops in product prices and a worsening market situation. overseas plants 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) *6 Reduction rate from BAU (%) = Reductions/BAU x 100 In addition to deploying energy-saving measures, Sharp will continue its efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions by ensuring the optimal operation of abatement systems on all PFCs emission • CO2 emissions for the Sharp Group as a whole, not taking into account inputs from purchases of Green Power Certificates (renewable energy certificates), were 1,417 thousand tons CO2; for overseas plants, 279 thousand tons CO2; and for offices in Japan and overseas, 30 thousand tons CO2. sources. Sharp will also take steps to reduce CO2 emissions overseas by deploying know-how • For fiscal 2011 and later results, the following changes to coefficients (electricity) and site coverage will apply. developed in Japan to overseas production facilities. (1) Electricity coefficients: See page 66 (2) Site coverage: Sharp Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries (see page 64) • Fiscal 2011 CO2 emissions for the Sharp Group as a whole, when the same coefficients and site coverage as fiscal 2010 were applied, were 1,453 Promoting Private Power Generation thousand tons CO2; for Japanese plants, 895 thousand tons CO2; and for overseas plants, 293 thousand tons CO2. Sharp is working to provide a stable supply of electric power and reduce CO2 emissions by 4 Production-Based CO2 Emissions per Adjusted 5 CO2 Emissions per Production Unit generating its own electricity privately through solar power, cogeneration, and fuel cell systems. Production Unit for All 11 Sharp Corporation Plants for Overseas Plants (tons CO2/100 million yen) (tons CO2/100 million yen) Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 1990 Average for fiscal 2008 to 2011 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Self-generated electricity 287 261 285 220 227 output (millions of kWh)*7 32.2 18.6 (down 42.2% from fiscal 1990 levels) 25.7 27.8 (up 8.2% over the previous fiscal year) *7 Electricity generated by on-site cogeneration systems, solar power generation systems, and fuel • Fiscal 2011 CO2 emissions per production unit, when the same coefficients cell systems. and site coverage as fiscal 2010 were applied, were 28.1 tons CO2/100 million yen (up 9.3% over the previous fiscal year). Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 053 Operations Case Study 1 Saving Energy Close-Up Energy-Saving Initiatives in Japan First-Ever Energy Management System Certification in the Chinese Home Appliance Industry (SSEC, China) As a result of power shortages arising from the shutting down of nuclear power plants, the Japanese At SSEC, a manufacturing government issued an ordinance in the summer of 2011, based on Article 27 of the Electricity subsidiary in Shanghai, China, the Business Act, which called for a 15% mandatory reduction in power usage within the areas serviced production divisions and by Tokyo Electric Power Company and Tohoku Electric Power Company, and which requested a environment division are working 10% reduction in the areas serviced by Kansai Electric Power Company. And again in winter, a together to save energy in its request was made for a 10% reduction in the areas serviced by Kansai Electric Power Company and production facilities. a 5% reduction in the areas serviced by Kyushu Electric Power Company. On the washing machine molding Although Sharp already had various energy-saving measures in place, meeting the government’s line, an insulation cover was placed demands was made a priority issue company-wide. A special task team headed by an Executive on the heat sleeve for the 17 plastic Vice President (Chief Officer, General Administration) was put together to find ways of cutting down molding machines so that heat on power usage as much as possible without affecting the manufacture and supply of products and would not escape when the plastic components. The initiatives that were undertaken as a result will be continued company-wide in melted in the plastic sleeve. This Energy savings achieved through the collaboration of Certificate fiscal 2012. production and environment divisions modification has saved approximately 158 tons CO2 per ■ Main Energy-Saving Initiatives year. Other modifications, such as updating the electrical transformer and introducing 200 LED lighting • In-house energy-saving guidelines instituted throughout the company units, saved approximately 413 tons CO2 in fiscal 2011. • Energy-saving measures, in addition to the above guidelines, tailored to the energy-usage situations at each office/plant In recognition of these initiatives, SSEC became the first Chinese home appliance manufacturer to attain • Energy conservation channel on the company intranet to raise employee awareness about energy-saving third-party certification under the GB/T23331-2009 Energy Management System Requirements standard. initiatives. Contents include the daily energy-consumption situation, power demand forecasts by each power company, and ways that households can cut down on electricity usage • Integrated Head Office management of the power usage situation at each office/plant ■ Energy-Saving Measures Implemented at Offices Company-Wide Case Study 2 Saving Energy • Turning off neon signs; turning off air conditioners during breaks; keeping air conditioner cooling at 28°C and heating at 18°C; consolidating meeting rooms; reducing the number of lighting units; limiting elevator usage; cutting back on the number of vending machines; consolidating the number of MFPs through shared usage; Development and Introduction of In-House LED Lighting (SSI, Indonesia) introducing LED lighting; etc. Sharp promotes the introduction of energy-efficient LED lighting at its group company locations worldwide. ■ Examples of Initiatives at Plants At SSI, a manufacturing subsidiary in Karawang, Indonesia, in-house LED lighting was developed. Four • Use of cogeneration systems (Kameyama and Tenri Plants) varieties of in-house LED lighting—an LED microscope lamp for use in electronic component manufacturing • Cultivation of “green curtains” (shade-producing foliage) (Mie and Tenri Plants) processes; an LED light bulb for use in the lobby and other rooms; a straight-tube LED for meeting rooms; • Creating original T-shirts as part of the summer dress code (Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation) and an LED street light for parking areas—were developed and installed. By switching its 101 lights to LED in fiscal 2011, SSI was able to reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 4 tons CO2 per year. Energy conservation channel on The number of lights was reduced and Green curtain (Mie Plant) the intranet remaining lights were replaced with LED lighting in employee passageways LED microscope lamp LED light bulb LED street light Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 054 Operations Minimizing and Recycling Waste Sharp has been working to bring down its total amount of waste discharged and to recycle as much of its waste as possible. Sharp plants in Japan have continuously achieved zero discharge to landfill*¹ since fiscal 2001, and the percentage of valuable resources recovered*² is also increasing. As well, overseas plants are working to reduce the level of waste, etc. discharged*³. Sharp will continue its efforts to make the most effective use of resources at its worldwide production facilities. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Amount of waste discharged*4 at the 10 Sharp Corporation plants*5 • Amount of waste discharged at all 11 Sharp • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels • Reduced by 76.5% from fiscal 2007 levels • Reduce to below fiscal 2007 levels Corporation plants • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU*6 • Reduced by 14.9% compared to BAU • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU every fiscal year • Amount of waste, etc. discharged per production unit*7 at overseas plants • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Increased by 6.7% from previous fiscal year (waste, etc. reduced by 8.6%) • Reduce by 2% from previous fiscal year • Reduce by 6% compared to BAU every fiscal year *1 Sharp defines “zero discharge to landfill” as a final landfill disposal rate of less than 0.5%. Final landfill disposal rate (%) = Amount of *5 The 10 plants of Sharp Corporation excluding the solar cell plant at GREEN FRONT SAKAI (see page 64). landfill disposal / amount of waste, etc. discharged (amount of waste discharged + amount of valuable resources recovered) x 100. *6 Business As Usual: Amount estimated to be discharged, relative to discharge levels in the preceding fiscal *2 Percentage of valuable resources recovered (%) = Amount of valuable resources recovered / amount of waste, etc. discharged x 100 year, assuming no reduction measures are implemented. *3 Amount of waste, etc. discharged = Waste discharged + valuable resources recovered *7 Per production unit (tons/100 million yen) = Amount of waste, etc. discharged / production output (100 million *4 Amount of waste discharged = Industrial waste discharged + general waste from business activities yen) Curbing the Amount of Waste, etc. Discharged 1 Amount of Waste, etc. (Including Valuable Resources) 3 Final Landfill Disposal Rate of Waste from Plants in Japan Discharged by the Sharp Group Final landfill disposal rate (%) by the Sharp Group (Thousand tons) 2.0 250 248 In fiscal 2011, waste, etc. (waste and valuable resources recovered from waste) 6 223 228 40 6 6 1.5 1.5 discharged by the Sharp Group decreased by 31.1%, falling below levels of the 200 34 191 35 previous fiscal year both in Japan and overseas ( 1 ). 6 150 29 157 1.0 Sharp defines “zero discharge to landfill” 6 as a final landfill disposal 32 rate of less than 0.5% The 10 Sharp Corporation plants reduced waste discharge by 50.6% compared to the 100 previous fiscal year and 76.5% compared to fiscal 2007. These reductions were due in 202 183 187 0.5 156 part to decreased production. The percentage of valuable resources recovered rose to 50 119 0.12 0.06 0.05 0.02 0.03 0.011 0.006 0.006 0.009 0.009 0.006 0 45.2% as a result of recycling efforts. This is a 13.3-point increase compared to the 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 previous fiscal year and a significant 31.1-point increase compared with fiscal 2007 ( 2 ). 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) • Fiscal 2011 final landfill disposal rate, when the same site coverage as As a result of these efforts, fiscal 2011 was the 11th consecutive year for Sharp Offices in Japan and overseas Overseas plants Plants in Japan fiscal 2010 was applied, was 0.008%. production plants in Japan to achieve zero discharge to landfill ( 3 ). • Fiscal 2011 waste, etc., discharged by the Sharp Group as a whole, when the same site coverage as fiscal 2010 was applied, was 158 thousand tons; for 4 Reduction Rate of Waste Discharge from BAU In addition, waste discharges were reduced by 14.9% compared to baseline levels Japanese plants, 120 thousand tons; and for overseas plants, 33 thousand tons. for the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants*8 (BAU emissions), which was significantly better than the goal of reducing discharges by (Thousand tons) 100 6% of baseline (BAU emissions) each year, taking fiscal 2007 as the peak year for such 2 Amount of Waste and Valuable Resources Discharged, and Percentage discharges ( 4 ). of Valuable Resources Recovered, at the 10 Sharp Corporation Plants 81 Percentage of valuable resources recovered (%) (Thousand tons) Meanwhile, total waste, etc. discharged at production facilities abroad decreased by 300 50 50 47 Reductions: 45.2 8.6% compared to the previous fiscal year, while, as a result of decreased production, BAU 7 thousand tons 250 40 40 BAU reduction rate: 14.9% waste, etc. discharged per production unit increased by 6.7% compared to the 0 200 198 31.9 previous fiscal year ( 5 ). 180 28.0 30 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 28 150 38 Reductions in waste discharged Waste discharged Sharp will continue to curb emissions and strive for the effective utilization of resources. 132 170 119 20 100 37 *8 Reduction rate from BAU (%) = Reductions/BAU x 100 21.1 38 73 Appropriate Storage and Treatment of PCB Wastes in Japan 50 14.1 142 33 10 95 81 5 Waste, etc. Discharged per Production Unit Each Sharp plant properly manages and stores waste PCB (polychlorinated biphenyls) 0 40 0 at Overseas Plants 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) (ton/100 million yen) and fulfills reporting requirements to the government. In addition, Sharp has registered with the appropriate disposal certification authority and is on track to finish treating Valuable resources Waste discharged Percentage of valuable resources recovered Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 PCB waste to make it harmless by the July 2016 deadline set by the government. • Waste discharge since fiscal 2010 is the sum total of discharges subject to 3.0 3.2 (down 6.7% compared to the previous fiscal year) administrative reporting requirements excluding the amount discharged by Sharp currently uses no PCBs, with the exception of a certain amount present in subcontractors on the premises of the Kameyama Plant and Mie Plant (fiscal • Results for fiscal 2011, when the same site coverage as fiscal 2010 high-voltage transformers. 2010: 11 thousand tons, fiscal 2011: 26 thousand tons). was applied, were too small to affect reported values. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 055 Operations TO P I C S Case Study 1 Reducing Waste Mie and Fukuyama Plants Receive 2011 Reduce, Reuse, Material-Specific Recycling of Crystalline Solar Modules (Katsuragi Plant) Recycle Promotion Achievement Awards*2 At the Katsuragi Plant (Katsuragi City, Nara Prefecture), efforts are being undertaken to recycle used The Mie Plant (Taki District, Mie Prefecture) was awarded a Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Association crystalline solar modules. Chairman’s Prize for reducing waste generated during effluent treatment, while the Fukuyama Plant (Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture) won the same award for reducing chemical use in semiconductor In the past, development prototypes and modules used for product evaluation had their aluminum frames production. sold as valuable resources with the rest being incinerated as industrial waste. The cinders were then melted, cooled, and solidified into slag to be used in paving materials. A more effective recycling *2 An award system sponsored by the Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Association in Japan to recognize organizations achieving progressive, ongoing results in the 3Rs. method—i.e., recycling the individual materials by type—is now being undertaken. First, the aluminum frame is removed and the module pulverized. Pneumatic (blown air) separation, color separation, and other Initiatives at the Mie Plant processes are applied to divide ■ Examples of Products Utilizing The Mie Plant is working to reduce the amount of chemical waste produced from the LCD panel production the module into its cell, Recycled Glass process. Employing oxalic acid in place of the conventional hydrochloric acid and ferric chloride mixture inter-connector, and glass enables chemical substances filtered out of industrial effluent to undergo microbial treatment instead of components, each of which is chemical treatment, thereby greatly reducing the amount of alkaline effluent and sludge produced. Also, the then recycled as a valuable Mie Plant has successfully developed and practically applied a collection system for hydrofluoric acid—which produces a tremendous environmental burden—along with technology for reusing waste resource. In fiscal 2011, this developer. As a result of these efforts, the Mie Plant reduced its waste output by a total of 4,653 tons material-specific recycling during the three-year period from fiscal 2008 to 2010. approach was used to process 17.4 tons of crystalline solar Glass after blown air Foamed glass tile Wire glass ■ Inorganic Effluent Treatment (Pre-upgrade: hydrochloric acid/ferric chloride mixture effluent treatment) modules. separation Factory Filter Ion exchange Alkaline effluent effluent Flocculation Sludge Case Study 2 Reducing Waste ■ Organic Effluent Treatment (Post-upgrade: oxalic acid effluent treatment) Recycling 99% of Waste from the Production Process (SMCA, US) Factory Biotreatment Sludge effluent (approx. 10% of pre-upgrade process) SMCA, the Tennessee-based manufacturing division of SEC, is reducing the waste it generates during production. In order to improve on its 49% recycling rate*1 in fiscal 2010, SMCA used a variety of approaches to boost its levels of reuse and recycling; for example, greater use was made of reusable Initiatives at the Fukuyama Plant pallets and packaging materials. The Fukuyama Plant has greatly reduced the amount of sludge it produces during effluent treatment by SMCA targeted a recycling rate of 90%, thoroughly communicated this target to employees, and held upgrading its cleaning equipment and reusing the hydrofluoric acid used in equipment maintenance (parts waste-separation training sessions. The result was a recycling rate of over 99%, surpassing the original cleaning, etc.). In 2010, chemicals discarded after each parts cleaning were reused on average 11 times at target. SMCA’s aim for fiscal 2012 is to achieve a 100% recycling rate through the promotion of a “zero the Fukuyama Plant, leading to a reduction of hydrofluoric acid usage of 63% per unit compared to waste emission” campaign. previous levels. In addition, the amount of sludge produced from the treatment of fluorine effluent was reduced by 568 tons. *1 The percentage of waste generated during the manufacturing process that is reused or recycled. Pre-upgrade: Chemical Discarded after Single Use Post-upgrade: Chemical Reused ■ Change in SMCA’s Recycling Rate (%) Chemical supply nozzle Chemical supply nozzle 100 93 75 Dirty production system parts Filter Dirty production system parts 55 49 50 Washing tank Washing tank 25 Pump P Chemical Collection/reusage tank 0 (hydrofluoric acid) Effluent Reusable wooden pallets 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 056 Operations Effectively Using Water Resources Sharp has worked to reduce the amount of new water (i.e., water from the water supply system) it uses by expanding the use of recycled water. In addition, it makes efforts to reduce the volume of water used in production from the viewpoint of saving energy and aims to conserve valuable water resources. Effectively Using Water Resources Reducing the Use of New Water Sharp is striving to make effective use of water resources by reducing the amount of new water (i.e., water from the water supply system) it uses and by expanding the use of recycled water. Also, as water recycling requires a great deal of The Mie Plant (Taki District, Mie 3 Amount of New Water Used per Unit Produced energy, Sharp is working to reduce the amount of water it uses in total so as to be more energy-efficient ( 3 , 4 ). Prefecture) continues efforts not at the Mie Plant The volume of new water used by the Sharp Group in fiscal 2011 decreased by 14% ( 1 ); the volume of recycled water to increase the volume of new (fiscal 2001=100) also decreased (9%) compared to the previous fiscal year ( 2 ). water it uses, despite 100 expanding production, through Sharp will continue its efforts to reduce the volume of water it uses, with an eye towards making effective use of water increasing its use of recycled resources and being energy-efficient. 75 water, monitoring the volume of cooling water used in air conditioning, and other efforts. 50 1 Volume of New Water Used by the Sharp Group 2 Amount of Water Reused at Sharp Group Plants As a result, the volume of new (Million m3) (Million m3) water per unit produced in fiscal 25 20 20 2011 was approximately 25% 19.4 19.0 0.2 0.6 of that used in fiscal 2001. 0.2 17.6 0 17.0 0.5 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0.4 (Fiscal year) 15 15 2.4 6.5 14.3 14.1 0.4 5.8 2.0 13.0 0.4 Reducing the Volume of Water Used 0.4 2.4 12.1 2.0 0.3 1.3 Since it first went on line, the 4 Volume of Water Used per Unit Produced 10 1.9 2.3 10 Kameyama Plant (Kameyama at the Kameyama Plant 1.3 18.5 City, Mie Prefecture) has (fiscal 2004=100) 1.6 recycled 100% of the drainage 100 14.2 from the production process; 12.3 however, the plant is making 11.4 75 5 10.6 5 efforts to reduce the volume of 9.3 9.4 water it uses from an 7.8 energy-saving viewpoint. 50 Due to the startup of a new production line and other 25 0 0 factors, the volume of water 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) used per unit produced in fiscal Offices in Japan and overseas Overseas plants Overseas plants Affiliated plants in Japan 2011 increased compared with 0 Affiliated plants in Japan Sharp Corporation plants Sharp Corporation plants fiscal 2010 but was 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) approximately 40% of that used • Fiscal 2011 new water used by the Sharp Group as a whole, when • Fiscal 2011 water reused by the Sharp Group as a whole, when the in fiscal 2004. the same site coverage as fiscal 2010 was applied, was 12.4 million same site coverage as fiscal 2010 was applied, was 17.7 million m3; m3; for Japanese affiliated plants, 1.8 million m3; and for overseas for Japanese affiliated plants, 5.9 million m3; and for overseas plants, plants, 2.4 million m3. 0.5 million m3. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 057 Operations Effectively Managing Chemicals Used in Factories Sharp meticulously controls chemical substances used at its plants and manages their safety through preliminary audits based on the process assessment system, daily operation safety activities, and emergency response training simulating accidents. Effective Management of Chemical Substances ■ Destinations of PRTR-Listed ■ Pollutant Loads of Chemical Substances Public Water Areas in Japan When introducing new chemical substances and handling equipment and when revamping existing handling equipment, Sharp in Japan COD Amount discharged: 0.07% (Tons) conducts rigorous preliminary audits based on the process assessment system*1 to ensure safety, health, and lower environmental • Atmosphere: 0.06% (chemical oxygen demand) impact. 25 • Public water area: 0.00% Amount removed Amount transferred: Sharp strives for effective management of chemical substances: employees handling these go through regular education and drills to 18.15% 20 12.43% prevent accidents, the Special Safety Management Committees oversee all control activities, and checks are carried out through an • Sewage: 0.00% 14.9 15 environmental safety operations audit system*2. • Waste, etc.: 12.43% 12.5 11.8 12.3 10 Of the chemical substances covered by the PRTR* Law, 17 were handled in quantities of 500 kg or more by one or more plants in 3 8.4 Japan during fiscal 2011. New processes implemented at the plants were accompanied by a drop in the volume of Amount consumed: 69.36% 5 PRTR-designated substances used. Compared with the previous year, Sharp newly used three substances over the 500 kg • Contained in products: 0.36% threshold and reduced use of three other substances below that threshold. The total amount of these chemicals handled in Japan • Recycled: 69.00% 0 was reduced to approximately 8,508 tons, down 19% from the previous fiscal year’s 10,503 tons. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) *1 A system for conducting preliminary safety assessments of chemical substance handling equipment. *2 A system for assessing the activities of the division in charge of environmental management at factories. (Tons) Nitrogen pollutant load *3 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system to collect and publicize data, such as the amount of harmful chemicals discharged and ■ Atmosphere Emissions in Japan 150 transferred. ■ Fiscal 2011 PRTR Data (Japan) 120 (Unit: kg) (Tons) SOx emissions 104.8 Amount discharged Amount transferred Amount consumed 10 9.9 90 Chemical Amount handled Amount 77.3 Into public Contained removed Into atmosphere water area Into sewage Into waste, etc. in products Recycled 8 8.3 67.2 63.0 60 2-Aminoethanol 7,260,006 1,640 227 0 392,768 0 5,764,727 1,100,644 39.2 Indium and its compounds 28,867 0 0 0 6,325 866 21,679 0 6 30 Ethyl benzene 576 17 0 0 231 0 0 328 4 0 Ferric chloride 121,034 0 0 0 0 0 75,636 45,398 3.1 3.0 2.8 Xylene 2,358 71 0 0 943 0 0 1,344 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2 (Fiscal year) Silver and its water-soluble compounds 34,184 0 0 0 0 28,643 5,541 0 N, N-dimethyl-formamide (DMF) 16,491 0 0 0 0 0 0 16,491 0 (Tons) Phosphorous pollutant load Copper salts (water-soluble, except complex salts) 28,557 0 0 0 28,557 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 5.0 (Fiscal year) 1, 3, 5-Trimethylbenzene 555 16 0 0 222 0 0 317 Lead compounds 591 0 0 0 35 555 1 0 4.0 3.9 Arsenic and its inorganic compounds 1,001 0 0 0 965 18 17 0 (Tons) NOx emissions 3.0 Pyrocatechol (also known as catechol) 3,020 0 0 0 3,020 0 0 0 150 135.5 4-Tertiary butylphenol 2,611 38 0 0 2,573 0 0 0 2.0 120 Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts 998,299 3,508 0 0 615,537 0 0 379,253 1.4 1.3 95.7 1.0 1.1 Boron compounds 4,546 9 0 0 4,418 0 118 0 90 0.8 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether 1,430 0 3 0 1,321 0 0 106 76.1 71.5 60.8 0 Molybdenum and its compounds 3,662 0 30 0 809 260 2,563 0 60 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total 8,507,788 5,299 260 0 1,057,724 30,342 5,870,282 1,543,881 (Fiscal year) 30 • For fiscal 2011 results, when the same site coverage (including affiliated companies) as fiscal 2010 was applied, the PRTR substances handled by affiliated • Results for fiscal 2011 show an increase in companies were all less than 500 kg. Therefore those values do not affect the reported values. 0 the phosphorous pollutant load due to a change in production chemicals at Sharp Fiscal 2011 PRTR data (overseas) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Yonago Corporation; however, it is still below (Fiscal year) the maximum level allowed by law. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 058 Operations An Environmental Safety Operations Audit System Chemical Substance Management Training for Employees (SSI, Indonesia) for Reducing Environmental Safety Risks Systematic environmental training is an ongoing initiative at SSI, Sharp’s manufacturing subsidiary in An environmental safety operations audit system was created based on Sharp’s Environmental Safety Karawang, Indonesia, with the aim being to raise environmental awareness, knowledge, and skills amongst Operations Guideline and implemented at all plants in Japan in fiscal 2010. employees. In fiscal 2011, chemical substance management training was held a total of eight times and was attended by 81 employees. This training seeks to ensure that employees have a thorough ■ Business Classification (total: 9 categories, 237 items) understanding and awareness of appropriate chemical substance management as well as environmental laws and regulations. ① Pollution prevention ② Waste processing ③ Operations safety management*1 ④ Emergency response ⑤ Special safety management*2 A test is given at the beginning and the end of training in order to motivate employees to remember what ⑥ Energy Conservation Law/Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures they learn and to gauge the effectiveness of training. ⑦ SGF promotion ⑧ Human resource development ⑨ On-site facility management *1 Maintenance and management of energy supply facilities, production facility utilities, environmental protection facilities, and other facilities. *2 Safety management of hazardous materials and toxic chemicals among the chemical substances used at the plants. ■ Evaluating Achievement Levels Plants are evaluated on four levels for each of 237 items and audited on site. Based on the results of this audit, improvement and corrective actions are taken to reduce any further risk to the safety of the environment. P Formulate plan Plan Environmental safety analysis (improve non-compliant Risk Communication and Information Disclosure items and revise Environmental Safety A PDCA D Act based on plans On the environmental and social activities section of the Sharp website and in site reports published by the Operations Guideline) Action Cycle Do plants, Sharp regularly discloses information on the environmental risk associated with business activities. Sharp also promotes communication between the company, its neighboring residents, and the local government through regular environmental festivals and various meetings. C Check Plants checked through self-auditing and on-site audits by the CS and Environmental Promotion Group TOP I CS Sharp Receives Encouragement Award from the ChemoBio Integrated Management Society In September 2011, Sharp was given the Encouragement Award: ChemoBio Integrated Management Society 2011. This award was granted by the ChemoBio Integrated Management Society (CBIMS) of Japan after it assessed the integrated management of chemical substances in Sharp’s products and production facilities. Public Meeting (Mie Plant) Three-Party Wastewater Sampling and Sharp maintains a variety of mechanisms and structures for scrupulously The Mie Plant (Taki Town, Mie Prefecture) holds public meetings Analysis (Fukuyama Plant) conducting appropriate management of chemical substances used in products and regarding environmental efforts with employees from the Taki At the Fukuyama Plant (Fukuyama City, Hiroshima Prefecture), Town Office and the heads of each region within Taki Town. Sharp personnel, local residents, and the local municipal at plants. When assessed according to the CBIMS evaluation indicators for government separately collect and analyze wastewater samples corporate activities in the integrated management of chemical substances, these twice a year. The results are checked and compiled, and this efforts were given high marks in all areas, including risk management, putting Sharp event is used as an opportunity to enhance communication in the No. 1 position amongst all electrical and electronic manufacturers surveyed. among all concerned parties. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 059 Operations Reducing Environmental Impacts in Distribution and Packaging In cooperation with shipping contractors, Sharp is working to reduce environmental impacts in distribution; for example, by improving transport methods, transport routes, and load efficiency. In packaging, Sharp is also working to further reduce environmental impacts by reducing the use of packaging materials. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • CO2 emissions per shipping volume*1 by Sharp Group in Japan • Reduce by average 1% each year for the most recent 5 years • Reduced by average 2% each year • Reduce by average 1% each year for the most recent 5 • Every fiscal year: Reduce by average 1% each year for (fiscal 2007 to 2011) years the most recent 5 years *1 CO2 emissions per shipping volume (tons CO2/thousand ton-km) = CO2 emissions (tons CO2) ÷ shipping volume (thousand ton-km) Promoting Measures to Reduce Environmental Impacts Modal Shift in Japan in Each Area of Distribution In Japan, Sharp is shifting from conventional ■ Transport Volume by Rail and Ship In Japan, Sharp established the Committee for Compliance with the Energy Conservation Law as a Shipper trucking to more environmentally friendly (Thousand ton-km) Rate of modal shift (%) in fiscal 2006. This committee assesses the environmental impacts of logistics in the areas of product sales, modes of transport, such as rail and 40,000 38,348 50 procurement and production, waste disposal, and parts*2, and works to strengthen energy-saving shipping (modal shift). 30,787 21,024 30,872 measures in distribution across the Sharp Group. Sharp has declared an objective of achieving an average 30,000 In fiscal 2011, the volume of shift in transport annual reduction in CO2 emissions per shipping volume of 1% or greater. This is a legal mandate for 25,832 29.6 30.1 29.2 modes decreased as a result of an overall 22,993 specified shippers that applies to all members of the Sharp Group in Japan. Also, Sharp is promoting decrease in the volume of goods and 20,000 30.3 25 energy-saving efforts such as shifting to environmentally friendly modes of transport (modal shift) and 17,861 14,646 materials shipped; however the rate of modal improving transport and load efficiencies. 10,595 14,196 shift was almost the same as that for the 10,000 In fiscal 2011, Sharp Group CO2 emissions from shipping activities in Japan were 37 thousand tons CO2 previous fiscal year. 17,324 16,226 (down 25% from the previous fiscal year and down 13% from fiscal 2007). Emissions per shipping volume 12,398 11,636 12,926 Sharp will continue expanding modal shift. 0 0 were 0.21 tons CO2/thousand ton-km, an average annual reduction of 2% for the most recent five years. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) *2 Distribution of parts used for after-sales service, such as repair and maintenance of products. Ship Rail Rate of modal shift (%) ■ System to Promote Energy Savings in Distribution Case Study: Promoting Modal Shift Committee for Compliance with the Energy Conservation Law as a Shipper Sharp Certified as Eco Rail Mark Authorized Company Chairperson: Environmental Protection Division General Manager In fiscal 2008, Sharp mobile phones acquired the Eco Rail Mark enacted by Sharp Corporation the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and the Railway Freight Association. In fiscal 2009, Sharp was recognized as an authorized Office Eco Rail Mark*3 company after expanding its mobile phone shipments to 17,000 tons of railway freight in Japan. Further, domestic railway shipments of mobile phones reached 21,000 tons in fiscal 2011, and Sharp again acquired company certification. Corporate Global Logistics CS and Environmental Sharp Electronics Procurement Center Center Promotion Group Marketing Corporation *3 Companies must meet one of the following criteria for transporting freight overland via (procurement and (product sales (parts distribution) and other affiliated rail for distances greater than 500 km: the volume or the volume multiplied by the production distribution) distribution) (waste disposal logistics) companies distance transported is over 15%, the volume transported per annum is over 15,000 tons, or the volume multiplied by the distance is over 15 million ton-kilometers. Eco Rail Mark authorized company certificate Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 060 Operations Reducing the Environmental Burden of International Distribution China Sharp is working to reduce the amount of CO2 that is emitted as a result of international and intraregional In China, where shipping volume is increasing due to an expansion in business, active efforts are underway shipping. A wide array of initiatives are being undertaken; in addition to reducing air freight and improving to introduce modal shift. load efficiency, marine shipping routes are also being revised, such as by choosing the optimal harbors for discharging freight and using shipping companies that are actively engaged in environmental protection. ■ Initiatives for Shipping between Japan and China In fiscal 2011, the CO2 emissions from internationally transporting products and devices that were Typically, airplanes have been used to ship Sharp LCD panels made in Japan to China; however, sea produced by domestic and overseas Sharp Group shipping is being increasingly used, as airfreight emits 38 times as much CO2 as sea freight. In fiscal 2011, production companies and shipped to Sharp Group (Thousand tons CO2) thanks to initiatives intended to expand the use of ferries and RoRo boats*1, 46% of LCD panel shipments companies outside Japan came to approximately 207 350 to China were done by sea. CO2 emissions were reduced 15 tons per container. thousand tons CO2; this is 67% as much CO2 as was 300 309 produced in the previous fiscal year (see graph at right). Also 250 ■ Initiatives within China in fiscal 2011, environmental load-reducing best practices 200 207 employed in intraregional shipping overseas were collected 150 SESC, a sales subsidiary in Shanghai that maintains a nationwide sales Shenyang and shared among Sharp bases. network, has partnered with Nanjing-based manufacturing subsidiary NSEC Yingkou 100 to reduce the environmental impact of logistics. For the mutual benefit of Sharp bases, information will 50 Sea routes continue to be shared about initiatives that reduce the global 0 Air routes When LCD TVs produced in Nanjing are shipped to northern China environmental load of logistics activities. 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) (Shenyang) or southern China (Guangzhou), they are typically sent by truck, but initiatives are underway to utilize boats instead. By switching over 40% of Nanjing these shipments from trucks to boats, annual CO2 emissions are cut by roughly 1,000 tons. Case Studies: Overseas Logistics *1 RoRo (roll-on/roll-off) boat. A gate connecting the boat with the pier allows freight Guangzhou trucks to drive right onto the boat; thus, there is no need for unloading and then Indonesia reloading cargo. At SSI, an electronic components manufacturing subsidiary in Karawang, the Mile Reduction Activity is being undertaken to reduce the environmental burden created by logistics. In addition to establishing administrative rules limiting company vehicle usage, other initiatives are being carried out, such as schedule management Case Study: Reducing the Environmental Burden of Packaging to minimize the number of trips that need to be made by trucks between the airport and the plant in order to deliver export products and pick up imported parts and materials. Also, whereas SSI traditionally received Using Pulp Yarn in Packaging Joints almost all of the parts and materials it used from Japan, it is now switching over to domestic procurement or procurement from suppliers in neighboring countries as a way of lessening the environmental impact and The metallic staples used at the joints of cardboard refrigerator*2 boxes have been switched to pulp yarn costs of logistics, as well as contributing to the local economy. In fiscal 2011, SSI switched to local made of the same material as the cardboard. This makes it easier to separate materials when the boxes are procurement for 59 parts and materials. All of these efforts have had the combined effect of reducing SSI’s recycled and reduces the amount of CO2 produced. Moving away from metallic staples has the added emissions by 57 tons CO2 a year. benefit of reducing the chance that other packaging materials will be damaged. France At SMF, a manufacturing subsidiary in Soultz, some of the shipments arriving from China to the Port of Rotterdam in the Netherlands are being shipped from the port to SMF by barge. Although shipping by barge takes longer than shipping by truck, it reduces CO2 emissions to roughly a quarter. SMF set a target for fiscal 2011 to switch 30% of total shipping to barges; in fact, SMF was able to switch 39% of its incoming shipments to barges, thereby reducing emissions by 118 tons CO2. Barge shipping on the Rhine Metallic staples at joints Pulp yarn *2 For model SJ-PW31W Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 061 Communication Promoting Environmental Communication To provide environmental communication for its wide range of stakeholders worldwide, Sharp discloses environmental information through exhibitions and forums, as well as Environmental and Social Reports, websites, and site reports. Environmental and Social Report, Website, and Site Reports Environmental Forums Every year, Sharp issues a report on its environmental and social activities, and discloses in plain language To more widely disseminate information on its initiatives on behalf of the environment, Sharp holds its policies, objectives, achievements, challenges, and future plans related to CSR. To meet the diverse environmental forums in Japan and other countries for government officials, journalists, and the general needs of stakeholders, this report is issued in two forms: a detailed version for professionals and specialists public. and a simplified version for the general public (both available as PDFs). At the 15th Green Reporting Awards In fiscal 2011, Sharp held one of these forums in Jakarta, Indonesia. It was the third such forum to be held jointly sponsored by Toyo Keizai Inc. and the Green Reporting Forum, Sharp’s 2011 edition was awarded there, following forums in 2008 and 2010. Around 120 people attended, including students as well as the New Energy Policy Category Award (15th anniversary Toyo Keizai special encouragement award). The members of the Indonesian Institute of 2012 edition and all subsequent editions will be renamed “Sustainability Report.” Sciences, NGOs, the press, and Sharp’s website features annual reports on environmental and social activities and is updated with detailed education-related organizations. Sharp information on environmental social action programs being actively undertaken at Sharp bases worldwide. clearly laid out the targets and specific initiatives involved in its Eco-Positive In addition, environmental reports and site reports have been issued at plants in Japan and overseas. Company corporate vision and Copies of these reports are distributed to local residents and to visitors to the facilities in order to deepen Eco-Positive Strategy. Afterwards, their understanding of the environmental protection initiatives being undertaken. attendees took part in a variety of environmental awareness-raising activities, such as planting trees and releasing fish. Environmental forum held in Jakarta, Indonesia Sharp Environmental and Social Report 2011 (Japanese, English, and Chinese editions) Factory Tours and Community Exchanges Website for Sharp’s social and Katsuragi Plant Site Report environmental activities: To enhance communication with its wide range of stakeholders, Sharp conducts factory tours, exchange http://sharp-world.com/corporate/eco/ conferences, and other events. Sharp Corporation holds public festivals at its factories, where employees host their families and local residents and where participants enjoy eco-related games and events. At the same time, Sharp personnel help their guests learn about the factories’ environmental protection activities and promote a greater understanding of the Exhibitions environment. Sharp introduces its environmental activities to the public by SUKM, the Wrexham, Wales-based manufacturing taking part in trade fairs and exhibitions worldwide. At division of sales subsidiary SUK, took part in a Eco-Products 2011, one of Japan’s largest environmental fairs, program sponsored by the Business in the Sharp took part using the slogan “Sharp, an eco-positive Community NPO headed by Prince Charles. As part company—Opening a new era in renewable energy with solar of this program, SUKM hosted an event focused on power generation.” initiatives being undertaken in Wales to combat On stage and at its booth, Sharp showcased its total solar climate change, and SUKM used this opportunity to power solutions and its Eco House concept as well as other showcase its environmental initiatives. distinctive Sharp initiatives, such as energy-efficient AQUOS Eco-Products 2011 LCD TVs and LED lighting, eco-office ideas centered on the Environmental event held by SUKM touchscreen LCD monitor, and proprietary closed-loop plastic recycling technology. Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 062 Biodiversity Protection Protecting Biodiversity Under the Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity, the Sharp Group carries out a multifaceted approach in which it protects biodiversity through business activities and social action programs at all worldwide bases. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Objectives for Fiscal 2015 • Develop Sharp Biodiversity Initiative • Increase rate of progress set out in Sharp • Increased rate of progress set out in Sharp Biodiversity • Increase rate of progress set out in Sharp Biodiversity Biodiversity Initiative by 3 points from previous fiscal Initiative by 8 points from previous fiscal year Initiative by 5 points from previous fiscal year year • 58% of target bases achieved Grade A* set out in • 70% or more of target bases achieve Grade A • All bases in Japan and overseas achieve Grade A progress management tool * Grade A is defined as attaining a progress rate that is at least 20% higher than the average rate of all Sharp bases in fiscal 2009. ■ Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity Contribute to Biodiversity Protection through Business and Social Action Programs 1. Basic Concept Aim to be a more “Eco-Positive Company” by promoting Sharp’s Eco-Positive Strategy and social action Biodiversity refers to the existence of a variety of ecosystems, species, and genes. With the modern programs with an eye to conservation and the sustainable support of biodiversity. world’s environmental pollution, more and more species are becoming extinct and ecosystems are in 2. Objective: Understand the Link with Biodiversity danger. Understand the link between every stage of the value chain and biodiversity (how Sharp business activities In light of the fact that Sharp both impacts and benefits from biodiversity in a variety of environments, it benefit from biodiversity and how they affect biodiversity). formulated the Sharp Group Policy on the Sustainable Support of Biodiversity (at left). Based on the detailed measures summarized in the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative, Sharp undertakes business activities 3. Objective: Reduce Impact on Biodiversity and social action programs that take account of the importance of biodiversity. Try to reduce the negative impact of business activities on biodiversity with an eye to conservation and sustainable support. The Sharp Biodiversity Initiative explains the importance of biodiversity, looks at trends in international biodiversity-related efforts, and examines the connection with Sharp’s corporate activities. In addition, it 4. Promotion Structure specifically lays out the policies and measures Sharp’s CS and Environmental Promotion Group and CSR Promotion Division are in charge of promoting involved in Sharp’s efforts. ■ Sharp Biodiversity Initiative company-wide activities pertaining to biodiversity. Sharp employs measures in each step of the (English, Japanese, and Chinese) ■ Sharp’s Efforts for Protecting Biodiversity value chain for ensuring that business activities exert minimal impact on biodiversity. When it comes to social action programs, Sharp Business Multifaceted Social action supplements direct conservation activities like activities approach programs those in satoyama (areas between foothills and arable land) with measures aimed at cultivating Efforts throughout the value chain Foster biodiversity-minded a biodiversity-positive mindset among Procure environmentally conscious employees employees and the public. Procurement (Sharp Green Club activities, etc.) parts and materials Develop environmentally Plant trees and protect satoyama areas Development conscious products and devices (Sharp Forests, etc.) Reduce the amount of greenhouse Educate the general public Manufacturing gases and waste generated in factories (Elementary school environmental education, outdoor environmental education classes) Reduce the amount of greenhouse Sales gases and waste generated in offices Shift modes of transportation to Logistics reduce CO2 emissions Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 063 Biodiversity Protection Global Deployment and Progress Management of Activities Based on the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative Close-Up Biodiversity Protection on the Kameyama To increase the effectiveness of the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative, which has been introduced at all Sharp Plant Premises Group bases around the world, Sharp has created a tool for overseeing the progress of its efforts to protect biodiversity. Using a 29-item checklist, this tool monitors the progress being made at each step of the value At the Kameyama Plant, biodiversity protection efforts are carried out in tandem with efforts to raise chain: procurement, development, manufacture, sales, and logistics—the fundamentals of Sharp’s business employee awareness and equip them with relevant know-how, such as seminars featuring visiting activities—as well as in social action programs. The list of monitoring items is revised each year, and in fiscal outside experts. 2011, an item relating to greening efforts on factory premises was added to the list of items in the area of manufacturing, and the weight of social action program-related items was increased. Based on the advice gleaned from these experts, employees carry out surveys of the flora and fauna found on plant grounds. Thus far, roughly 70 species of plants, insects, and animals have been By itemizing in this management tool the efforts that should be made across all areas of Sharp’s business identified, and an illustrated guide has been put together. activities, Sharp is helping every employee conduct business and undertake contributive efforts in a way that is mindful of the need to protect biodiversity. ■ Examples of Plants, Trees, and Wildlife Identified at the Kameyama Plant The simultaneous implementation of this management tool at all Sharp bases worldwide has enabled Sharp to centrally monitor the progress of efforts made at all its bases and to rank those bases into three levels, from A to C. Grade A is allocated to those bases whose rate of progress is at least 20% greater than the fiscal 2009 average for all bases, based on the Sharp Biodiversity Initiative. Sharp aims to have all bases worldwide achieve Grade A by 2015. In order to achieve this target, Sharp began issuing the “Good Examples towards Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use” in fiscal 2010. Produced in English, Japanese, and Chinese, this resource introduces successful biodiversity initiatives undertaken at various bases. Increasing understanding and sharing Japanese camellia Southern cattail True frog Scarlet skimmer information about each base’s activities serves to lift the level of the whole Sharp Group. Sharp will continue to globally deploy biodiversity protection initiatives through social action programs and business activities. Based on the advice of members from the Morinokaze NPO, Sharp is carrying out sapling cultivation, grass cutting, sapling planting, and other activities in order to create a greener environment where an abundance of plants and wildlife can thrive. By having employees carry out these activities, it is hoped that a ■ Good Examples towards Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use greater environmental awareness will be cultivated amongst (English, Japanese, and Chinese) them. In addition, Eco Spots (biotopes) that recreate rich ecosystems, are being developed which, when completed, will serve as locations where local children can learn more about the environment. The Kameyama Plant will continue to promote and engage in biodiversity protection with the aim of existing in harmony with the local ecosystem. Words from a Manager The Kameyama Plant is surrounded by a rich natural environment. Up to now, however, this natural environment has been underappreciated by those of us at the plant. As awareness increases of the importance of protecting biodiversity, it is my hope that having employees work by hand to green the empty land on the west side of the plant Masaru Shirataki Supervisor will lead to the creation of a treasured space where people Kameyama Environmental & Industrial Safety Center can relax—a place that will serve as a biotope existing in Display Device Business Group harmony with the surrounding natural environment. Sharp Corporation Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 064 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indicators ■ Boundary of Environmental Performance Data Sharp Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries Europe Plants: 32 plants/22 companies (16 plants/6 companies in Japan, 16 plants/16 companies overseas) Sharp Manufacturing Company of U.K. (SUKM)*2 UK Wrexham, North Wales Offices: 78 offices/32 companies (54 offices/8 companies in Japan, 24 offices/24 companies overseas) As of March 31, 2012 Plants Sharp Manufacturing France S.A. (SMF) France Soultz Sharp Manufacturing Poland sp. z o.o. (SMPL) Poland Torun Japan Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH (SEEG) Germany Hamburg Tochigi Plant Sharp Electronics (U.K.) Ltd. (SUK) Middlesex UK Yao Plant Sharp Laboratories of Europe, Ltd. (SLE) Oxford Hiroshima Plant Sharp Electronics France S.A. (SEF) France Paris Nara Plant Sharp Electronics (Italia) S.p.A. (SEIS) Italy Milan Katsuragi Plant (including Toyama Plant performance) Offices Sharp Electronics (Schweiz) AG (SEZ) Switzerland Rüschlikon Sharp Corporation Fukuyama Plant Sharp Electronics (Nordic) AB (SEN) Sweden Bromma Mie Plant Sharp Electronics Benelux B.V. (SEB) Netherlands Houten Tenri Plant (including Advanced Materials & Energy Engineering Laboratories performance) Plants Mihara Plant Sharp Electrónica España S.A. (SEES)* 3 Spain Barcelona Kameyama Plant Sharp Electronics Russia LLC (SER) Russia Moscow GREEN FRONT SAKAI solar cell plant *2 Manufacturing division of SUK *3 Was a plant until September 2011 Asia, Middle East, Oceania Sharp Manufacturing Systems Corporation Shanghai Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (SSEC) Shanghai Sharp Niigata Electronics Corporation Sharp Office Equipments (Changshu) Co., Ltd. (SOCC) Changshu Sharp Mie Corporation Sharp Yonago Corporation Wuxi Sharp Electronic Components Co., Ltd. (WSEC) China Wuxi Sharp Display Products Corporation Sharp Technical Components (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. (STW) Head Office/Tanabe Building Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (NSEC) Nanjing Plants Sharp Corporation Makuhari Building (Tokyo Branch) Sharp Appliances (Thailand) Ltd. (SATL) Chachoengsao Thailand Tokyo Ichigaya Building Sharp Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (SMTL) Nakornpathom Sharp Electronics Marketing Corporation Sharp Manufacturing Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd. (SMM) Malaysia Johor Sharp System Products Co., Ltd. Sharp (Phils.) Corporation (SPC) Offices Philippines Manila Sharp Engineering Corporation PT. Sharp Semiconductor Indonesia (SSI) Karawang Sharp Document Systems Corporation Indonesia PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (SEID) Jakarta Sharp Amenity Systems Corporation Sharp Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (SES) Sharp Trading Corporation China Shanghai Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (SESC) Sharp Business Computer Software Inc. Sharp Electronic Components (Taiwan) Corporation (SECT) Taiwan Taipei North America Sharp Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (SEM) Malaysia Selangor Sharp Manufacturing Company of America (SMCA)* 1 US Tennessee Offices Sharp-Roxy Sales (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SRS) Plants Singapore Sharp Electrónica Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SEMEX) Mexico Baja California Sharp Electronics (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. (SESL) Sharp Electronics Corporation (SEC) New Jersey Sharp Software Development India Pvt. Ltd. (SSDI) India Bangalore US Sharp Laboratories of America, Inc. (SLA) Washington Sharp Middle East Free Zone Establishment (SMEF) UAE Dubai Offices Sharp Electronics of Canada Ltd. (SECL) Canada Ontario Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty. Ltd. (SCA) Australia New South Wales Sharp Corporation Mexico S.A. de C.V. (SCMEX) Mexico Mexico City Sharp Corporation of New Zealand Ltd. (SCNZ) New Zealand Auckland *1 Manufacturing division of SEC Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 065 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indicators ■ Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indicators [1] Period covered: April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 [2] Organizations covered: Sharp Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries (see page 64) [3] Calculation method: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Version) published by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment were used as reference. Environmental performance indicators Unit Calculation method ∑ {(Electricity purchased annually + alternative energy) x heat input per unit*1 + ∑ (Annual consumption of each fuel x heat value per unit*2)} *1 Based on regulations of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy (enforced April 1, 2006): • Daytime electricity 9.97 MJ/kWh • Nighttime electricity 9.28 MJ/kWh *2 Based on the heat value per unit per energy source used by the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy (February 2002): • City gas Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider: Overseas Japan Energy consumption TJ • Tokyo Gas/Osaka Gas: 45.0 GJ/thousand m3 • Fukuyama Gas: 46.0 GJ/thousand m3 • Toho Gas/Hiroshima Gas: 46.04655 GJ/thousand m3 • Hokkaido Gas: 46.05 GJ/thousand m3 Highest figure from among those known in Japan: • 46.05 GJ/thousand m3 • LPG: 50.8 GJ/t • Heavy oil: 39.1 GJ/kl • Kerosene: 36.7 GJ/kl • Gas oil: 37.7 GJ/kl • Gasoline: 34.6 GJ/kl • Steam: (SSEC) 2.817 GJ/t, (WSEC) 3.771 GJ/t, (NSEC) 3.782 GJ/t • Heating/cooling: Figure individually conﬁrmed for each gas provider (Makuhari: 0.841 GJ/GJ) Manufacture Electricity Million kWh Electricity purchased annually City gas Thousand m3 City gas purchased annually LPG Tons LPG purchased annually I N Heavy oil, kerosene, gas oil, gasoline kl Fuel oil purchased annually P U T PFCs purchased Tons PFCs (HFCs, PFCs, sulfur hexafluoride, nitrogen trifluoride, and HFCs) purchased annually Chemical substances (PRTR) handled Tons Among the substances covered under the PRTR Law*3, the total amount of substances handled in quantities 500 kg or more annually at each plant Water consumed Thousand m3 Annual consumption of water supply, well water, and water for industrial use Resources consumed Thousand tons Total weight of products in the 15 major categories sold in fiscal 2011 (estimate), plus waste, etc. generated Packaging materials used Thousand tons Packaging materials consumed annually Logistics Energy consumption TJ Revised ton-km method TJ Estimate of annual energy used by products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2011. Product use Energy consumption (million kWh) Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate (using a heat input per unit of 9.97 MJ/kWh). Home appliances (four kinds) Amount of used home appliances (four kinds) recycled into new home appliances Copiers Amount of recycled copiers Recycling Tons PCs Amount of recycled PCs Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastics Amount of closed-loop material recycling of plastics *3 Law Concerning Reporting, etc. of Releases to the Environment of Speciﬁc Chemical Substances and Promoting Improvements in Their Management Sharp and the Environment Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 066 Boundary of Environmental Performance Data, Calculation Standards for Environmental Performance Indicators Environmental performance indicators Unit Calculation method Σ {(Electricity purchased annually x CO2 emission coefficient) + Σ(annual consumption of each fuel x CO2 emission coefficient for each)} CO2 emission coefficient • Electricity Fiscal year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Overseas Japan CO2 emission coefficient (tons CO2/MWh) 0.453 0.373*1 0.351*1 0.351*1 0.350*1 GHG Protocol calculation tools (GHG emissions from purchased electricity ver. 4.3, August 2011) However, 0.539 tons CO2/MWh was used for SUKM and 0.541 tons CO2/MWh was used for SUK and SLE. *1 Based on the values officially announced by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (after reflecting the Kyoto Mechanism credit.) CO2 emissions Thousand • City gas tons CO2 Overseas Japan Calculated by multiplying the standard calorific value (GJ/thousand m3) individually confirmed for each gas provider × carbon conversion factor (0.0136 tons C) × 44/12 (tons CO2/ton C) • Tokyo Gas/Osaka Gas: 2.244 tons CO2/thousand m3 • Fukuyama Gas: 2.294 tons CO2/thousand m3 • Toho Gas/Hiroshima Gas/Hokkaido Gas: 2.296 tons CO2/thousand m3 Highest figure from among those known in Japan: • 2.296 tons CO2/thousand m3 Values taken from the guidelines for calculating, reporting, and announcing greenhouse gas emissions, Article 3 of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures published by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan: • LPG: 2.999 tons CO2/ton • Heavy oil: 2.710 tons CO2/kl • Kerosene: 2.489 tons CO2/kl • Gasoline: 2.322 tons CO2/kl • Gas oil: 2.585 tons CO2/kl • Steam: (SSEC) 0.166 tons CO2/ton, (WSEC) 0.158 tons CO2/ton, (NSEC) 0.159 tons CO2/ton • Heating/cooling: Figure individually confirmed for each gas provider (Makuhari: 0.032 tons CO2/GJ) Tons Annual PFCs emissions PFCs emissions Σ [ Annual emissions of each PFC gas*2 (tons) x global warming potential of each PFC gas*3 ] Thousand Manufacture *2 HFCs, PFCs, sulfur hexafluoride, nitrogen trifluoride, HCFCs *3 Based on the IPCC’s Third Assessment Report: tons CO2e • Sulfur hexafluoride: 22,200 • The coefficient corresponding to segmentalized gas is used for HFC and PFC O U (1) When a gaseous fuel is burnt: T Handled as if there are no emissions because it is assumed that the fuel contains no sulfur. P SOx emissions Tons (2) When a liquid fuel is burnt: U T Amount of sulfur contained in fuel (kg/year)/32(kilograms S) × (32+16×2) (kilograms SO2)/1,000 (1) When a gaseous fuel is burnt: Fuel consumption per year (Nm3/year) × dry base combustion gas (Nm3/Nm3) × concentration of released NOx (ppm) × 10–6×(14+16×2) (kilograms NO2) / 22.4 (Nm3)/1,000 NOx emissions Tons (2) When a liquid fuel is burnt: Fuel consumption per year (liters/year) × fuel specific gravity (kg/liter) × dry base combustion gas (Nm3/kg) × concentration of released NOx (ppm) × 10–6×(14+16×2) (kilograms NO2) / 22.4 (Nm3)/1,000 Drainage Thousand m3 Annual drainage into public body of water and sewer system COD (chemical oxygen demand) Tons COD concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 Nitrogen pollutant load Tons Nitrogen concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 Phosphorus pollutant load Tons Phosphorus concentration (mg/l) x drainage into public body of water (m3) x 10-6 Final landfill disposal Tons Final landfill disposal of industrial waste + final landfill disposal of general waste discharged from business activities Chemical substances (PRTR) released and transferred Tons Among the substances covered under the PRTR Law, the amount of substances, which are handled in quantities 500 kg or more annually at one or more plant, released and transferred Thousand CO2 emissions tons CO2 Revised ton-km method Logistics Thousand Transport volume ton-km Revised ton-km method Product shipments Thousand tons Total weight of products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2011 (estimate) Thousand Product use CO2 emissions tons CO2 Estimate of annual energy used and amount of CO2 emitted by products in the 13 major categories sold in fiscal 2011. Calculation based on each product’s annual energy consumption rate. Thousand CO2 reductions Amount of electricity generated annually by Sharp solar cells shipped in fiscal 2011, plus CO2 emissions reduction tons CO2 Weight of that which was not recycled Recycling Tons Weight of four kinds of home appliances, PCs, and copiers collected – Weight recycled into new products or materials, or reused into new products or materials, or reused Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 067 Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR On the basis of its business philosophy, its business creed of “Sincerity and Creativity,” the Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, and the Sharp Code of Conduct, Sharp sets major social themes and targets for each type of stakeholder within the framework of CSR and promotes activities following those themes, to continue to be a company that has the trust of people and society. Promoting CSR Efforts in the Social Dimension Overall Results of CSR Efforts in Fiscal 2011 To promote CSR efforts in the social dimension, Sharp develops important themes for its different types of In fiscal 2011, for the third consecutive year, Sharp after-sales service received high ratings for having made stakeholders, sets fiscal-year goals, and implements a variety of measures. improvements in service quality from the perspective of the customer. Achievements in other areas include developing global personnel with an emphasis on diversity and conducting environmental education at The Sharp business philosophy states: “Our future prosperity is directly linked to the prosperity of our customers, schools in Japan and abroad. dealers and shareholders …indeed the entire Sharp family.” To put this business philosophy into practice, Sharp makes efforts to communicate with its various stakeholders and promotes CSR activities accordingly. In response to the Great East Japan Earthquake, Sharp has been involved in a wide variety of ongoing efforts, including providing assistance to the affected areas. Sharp will work proactively to incorporate these CSR objectives and measures into operational processes by regularly assessing their progress and by utilizing a management system that enables the identification of The results of Sharp’s special efforts such as these can be seen in the Topics and Close-Up sections on emerging problems and the implementation of further improvements. pages categorized by type of stakeholder. R-CATS* Small-Group Activities with a CSR Perspective TO P I C S To offer products and services that deliver satisfaction and peace of mind to stakeholders, particularly customers, all Sharp employees in Japan and overseas belong to small groups called R-CATS. Through group activities, these Starting R-CATS Activities at a Sales Subsidiary in China teams confront the challenges of improving the quality of their work and build new systems and methods to carry In April 2011, a team from the SESC sales subsidiary in out job-related tasks from the perspective of stakeholders. Shanghai began conducting R-CATS activities. Although In fiscal 2011, approximately 37,000 employees worldwide participated in R-CATS activities. In Japan, activities to production bases in China were already carrying out improve work quality and methods from a customer perspective were carried out as part of the ‘Be Sincere’ R-CATS activities at the time, the SESC team was the first campaign aimed at ensuring that a corporate culture of “Sincerity”—part of Sharp’s business creed—is firmly from an administrative department of an overseas sales established. subsidiary to do so. The SESC team is working to solve * R-CATS: Revolution-Creative Action Teams job-related problems by applying wisdom collected from colleagues in the workplace. ■ Status of Activities ■ Activity Teams and Participants Around the World Enhance brand equity / CSR / Improve quality SESC’s Sunflower Team won top prize at the All-Sharp R-CATS Convention Explicitly state leadership policies of top management Presentation at the International Convention on Quality Control Circles SUKM China: 6 bases Transatlantic: 7 bases SEEG (674 teams) (60 teams) About 200 teams from companies and organizations Business strategy deployment SMPL Policies and objectives by function SOCC around the world participated in the International SSMC Policies and WSEC,STW SKC SEC Convention on Quality Control Circles in Yokohama hosted Declare policies objectives by department Concrete SMF NSEC SMCA and objectives implementation SMTL SSEC by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers. Two (top down) of measures (bottom up) SIL SATL Sharp (Japan) SEMEX teams from Sharp won Gold Excellent Awards: the R-CATS activities SOEM Japan: Creating Sincerity team from the East Japan Customer SPC SEM (service) 47 groups/subsidiaries CS (customer satisfaction) E (environmental SREC SMM 2,539 teams/ Assistance Center for its presentation on eliminating SSI conservation) SEID approx. 26,300 members assistance complaints and the Mega team from SMM, a Q&R (ensuring quality and reliability) Asia: 11 bases Overseas: 24 bases Malaysia-based subsidiary, for its presentation on C (cost reduction) (526 teams) 1,260 teams/ improving the manufacturing productivity of small LCD SMM Mega team won a Gold D (shortening delivery time) approx. 11,300 members Excellent Award S (ensuring safety) panels. Sharp will continue to actively participate in events M (workplace morale) Number of teams Less than 10 11 to 50 51 to 100 101 or more at external presentation venues and improve the level of its Business management activities. innovation tools Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 068 Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Field Important Self See Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 page(s) (Stakeholders) Themes Evaluation Objectives • Advance global efforts on measures to improve quality and customer satisfaction • Implement various measures for improving global quality and customer satisfaction 70, 71, Secure quality and • Expand global knowledge system at overseas bases • Implemented global knowledge system in call centers in overseas bases (Indonesia) ○ 74, safety • Extend global quality human resource education system Achievements • Developed global quality human resource education system and began implementing the website program at Chinese design and production bases to all overseas bases Objectives • Improve products by taking on customer’s point of view • Improve products by taking on customer’s point of view • Further develop and continue activities to improve Create products that products by taking on customer’s point of view • Continued improving products by taking on customer’s point of view ○ 72, 73 For Customers are easier to use • Continue expanding the VOC (Voice of the Customer) Achievements • Developed VOCS (Voice of the Customer and Service Staff) program in China, following program throughout overseas bases programs in North America and Germany, to incorporate customer feedback in product design Objectives • Implement Japanese-style training systems for service staff in China to improve quality of service • Increase customer satisfaction by strengthening service system Improve customer • Introduced Japanese-style training systems for service staff and implemented the systems • Increase service capabilities at overseas bases ○ 74, 75 satisfaction sequentially in each Chinese base • Provide training to improve customer response skills Achievements • As part of activities to expand Japanese-style training systems for service staff globally, provided training courses on customer response manners for service agencies across China Objectives • Build CSR audit system based on CSR audit trials • Train auditors and conduct audits using CSR auditing tools For Business Promote CSR across • Extend revised Basic Parts Purchase Agreement to overseas 76–79, entire supply chain △ suppliers Partners • Reviewed and revised CSR auditing tools (manuals, checklists, etc.) website Achievements • Revised Basic Parts Purchase Agreement by adding article on CSR initiatives • Continue improving information disclosure and strengthen information transmission for • Continue improving information disclosure to shareholders Improve Objectives shareholders and investors and investors and hold various IR events in order to improve For Shareholders communication with 80, 81, ○ communication website and Investors shareholders and • Held factory tours for shareholders Achievements investors • Increased amount of information available on website Objectives • Continue strengthening human rights education • Continue strengthening human rights awareness activities Expand efforts related • Continue human rights training sessions at business sites to human rights • Undertook approximately 60 human rights training sessions at business sites and affiliates in Japan ○ and affiliates in Japan 82 Achievements • Distributed booklets, covering topics like respect for human rights, to newly appointed heads of • Hold human rights training sessions at overseas bases overseas Sharp bases Objectives • Continue training to support development of global business • Continue training to support development of global business • Upgrade programs in the 4 G training system to foster negotiation skills and the ability to adapt to different • Actively trained global personnel (about 660 participants) through the 4 G cultures, primarily in emerging market countries Strengthen human (GATE/G-BANK/GRID/GOAL) personnel, education, and training system • Expand technical e-learning and manufacturing leader • Expanded technical e-learning system to China and other Asian regions with about 550 ◯ 83, 84 For Employees resource development training to overseas bases Achievements participants. Provided global manufacturing leader training for about 40 production personnel • Expand e-learning for thorough understanding of Sharp • Provided overseas training in newly emerging economies as one measure to develop executive business philosophy and business creed to overseas management personnel (about 40 participants) bases • Expand project creation and process management training to overseas bases to foster local sales managers • Take diversity programs company-wide • Develop new diversity programs Objectives • Hold activities to raise awareness about diversity inclusion • Implement Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Development of company-wide diversity • Formulated and promoted specific objectives and measures to promote utilization of four demographic Strategy Program II management (strategy groups: female, non-Japanese, physically or mentally challenged, and elderly employees in Japan ○ • Implement Corporate Affirmative Action for Non-Japanese 85–87 for utilizing employee Achievements • Planned and implemented Corporate Affirmative Action for non-Japanese Employees in Japan Employees in Japan Program diversity) Program • Improve environment for diversity inclusion • Took diversity training company-wide Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 069 Objectives and Achievements in the Social Dimension of CSR Self Evaluation : Results exceeded objectives : Results met objectives : Certain results were accomplished Field Important Self See Themes Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Evaluation Objectives for Fiscal 2012 page(s) (Stakeholders) • Continue strengthening global safety and health management and activities to reduce and • Continue strengthening global safety and health Objectives remove industrial accident risks management and activities to reduce and remove industrial accident risks • Implemented risk assessment and measures to reduce and remove risks by implementing • Implement in-house occupational safety and health occupational safety and health management system at 11 production sites in Japan ◎ management system covering non-production sites and 88 • Formulated global Sharp Group Basic Policies on Safety and Health affiliates Achievements • Uniformly increase the level of occupational safety and health management systems at production sites • Systematically introduce occupational safety and health management system at overseas production sites • Continue strengthening measures for primary prevention of mental illnesses (illness prevention and • Enhance comprehensive mental health measures for Objectives health promotion) primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention of mental illness Promote occupational • Improve knowledge of mental health-related issues by For Employees safety and health • Held mental health group work training with approximately 13,600 taking part mental health group work training and encouraging ○ acquisition of third-party certification in mental health 89 • Raised knowledge on mental health by having employees take third-party certification Achievements course (in fiscal 2011, approximately 570 people passed the exam for level II and III of the management Mental Health Management certification program) • Enhance support for each mental illness case by improving support system for employees returning from medical leave Objectives • Implement active measures for employee health promotion • As part of efforts to improve health and one event to celebrate the 100th year of Sharp’s founding, hold • Based on requests from workplaces, provided mini on-site workshops given by industrial company-wide sports festivals with futsal, softball, and physicians and industrial healthcare staff through Shoku.com (workplace meetings) bowling competitions to further improve communication 89 ○ Achievements • Centered around Sharp No-Smoking Day, carried out comprehensive company-wide no-smoking among employees campaigns that included activities such as providing education using posters and the website and • Enhance measures to prevent lifestyle diseases through offering free provisions of smoking-cessation aids active promotion of checkups and health guidance focused on metabolic syndrome Objectives • Hold community-based Sharp Forest activities that lead to the protection of biodiversity • Actively expand and enhance environmental and ○ biodiversity protection activities in Sharp Forests and Achievements • Held Sharp Forest activities 46 times with a total of about 1,700 employees participating Ramsar Convention wetlands • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools • Continue environmental education at 500 elementary schools Objectives • Continue educational support for persons with disabilities at special-needs schools) • Expand and enhance educational support activities for ○ persons with disabilities; expand the range of participants • Provided environmental education at 500 elementary schools (including 30 special-needs schools Achievements for the hearing impaired) • Provide craftsmanship education at 100 elementary schools; continue educational programs that • Continue craftsmanship education at 100 elementary Objectives combine factory tours, visits to the Sharp Technology Hall, and environment/craftsmanship classes schools; continue educational programs that combine △ factory tours and visits to the Sharp Technology Hall • Provided craftsmanship education at 83 elementary schools; provided programs that combine Achievements factory tours and environment/craftsmanship classes at 33 schools Expand and diversify For Local • Carry out local social contribution activities at all sales and 90–95 social contribution • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and service bases in Japan Communities Objectives • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of having 30,000 employees volunteer service bases centered around the month Sharp was activities ○ founded (September) • A total of about 33,000 employees participated in volunteer activities, with about 12,000 participants • Encourage volunteering among employees (55,000 Achievements from Sharp sales and service bases in Japan and about 21,000 participants from all Sharp offices and participants from all Sharp Group companies including bases overseas subsidiaries) • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in China • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation Objectives • Continue expanding environmental education in overseas regions in China • Promote environmental protection activities and other social action programs in overseas regions • Continue expanding educational support activities, such as environmental education in overseas regions • In China, donated humidifying air purifiers, provided scholarships, carried out beautification campaigns • Continue promoting environmental and biodiversity ○ in areas near Sharp bases, conducted tree-planting activities, etc. protection activities and other social action programs in • Expanded environmental education activities to ASEAN regions with programs held at a total of 75 overseas regions Achievements schools • In overseas regions, carried out activities linked to protection of the environment and biodiversity as well as social welfare activities Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 070 For Customers Offering Products and Services That Deliver Peace of Mind and Satisfaction Constantly thinking from the customer’s point of view in order to develop and provide products and services that customers find useful is one of Sharp’s fundamental values. Sharp is also applying customer feedback toward making better products that customers can rely on for years and striving to improve sales and after-sales service. Sharp seeks to satisfy customers so that they choose Sharp now, next time, and every time. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Advance global efforts on measures to improve quality • Implemented global knowledge system in call centers in overseas bases (Indonesia) • Implement various measures for improving global quality and customer and customer satisfaction • Developed global quality human resource education system and began implementing the satisfaction program at Chinese design and production bases • Expand global knowledge system at overseas bases • Extend global quality human resource education system to all overseas bases • Improve products by taking on customer’s point of view • Continued improving products by taking on customer’s point of view • Improve products by taking on customer’s point of view • Developed VOCS (Voice of the Customer and Service Staff) program in China, following • Further develop and continue activities to improve products by taking on programs in North America and Germany, to incorporate customer feedback in product design customer’s point of view • Continue expanding the VOC (Voice of the Customer) program throughout overseas bases • Implement Japanese-style training systems for service staff • Introduced Japanese-style training systems for service staff and implemented the systems • Increase customer satisfaction by strengthening service system in China to improve quality of service sequentially in each Chinese base • Increase service capabilities at overseas bases • As part of activities to expand Japanese-style training systems for service staff globally, provided • Provide training to improve customer response skills training courses on customer response manners for service agencies across China Basic Stance and Vision on Customer Satisfaction (CS) and Quality In fiscal 2011, to cope with expanding business in China, Sharp established an Analysis Evaluation Technology Center in Wuxi, China that gives support for selecting locally procured parts and materials, The Sharp Group meets customer needs and demands, and offers safety, quality, reliability, and better establishes a defect analysis system, and analyzes and takes appropriate measures for environmental environmentally friendly products and services to gain customer trust and to improve customer satisfaction. toxins. Moving forward, the Center will undertake the construction of a quality and environmental assurance system for products that are designed, developed, and produced in China. Quality Philosophy ■ Quality and CS System To respond to society’s needs and make products that satisfy our customers, we keep the slogan “Quality First” in mind at all times. Customers (worldwide) Building a relationship of trust through quality Inquiries, response and service so that customers choose Sharp 品質第一 私たちの心です now, next time, and every time. Quality First in Heart and Mind Call center Service company Service agent Retail outlet CS slogan Quality slogan CS and Environmental Promotion Group Coordination Sales and Customer Satisfaction and Quality Promotion System marketing divisions • Quality control division • Service division Response Sales companies Sharp undertakes all its business activities from product development through sales and service based on Coordination Coordination report, Information sharing, management from the customer’s point of view, and has established the CS and Environmental Promotion instructions, investigation Company-wide CS conference Group as a company-wide promotion organization to further boost product quality and safety, and approvals Global CS conference Business groups Overseas bases customer satisfaction. Company-wide quality Sharp Corporation • Quality Assurance Coordination • Quality control division conference, etc. Division Sharp established a CS Promotion Center and a Quality Assurance Division that undertake product service president • CS Promotion Center • Service division and quality control in each business group, and the Sharp Group, including overseas bases and Sharp Group (worldwide) subcontractors, established a system for building relations of trust with customers by providing safe, high-quality products and service. Subcontractors Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 071 For Customers Quality Assurance System Educational Activities in Japan for the Safe Use of Products Sharp specifies the quality levels it provides to customers, thus ensuring that all employees in product Through its website and pamphlets, Sharp is enlightening planning, design, production, sales, and after-sales service aim for the same targets in their ongoing pursuit customers on the safe use of its products. of quality improvement. To prevent customers from experiencing unexpected All Sharp Corporation business disadvantage from unsuitable methods of use or installation groups and all production sites of locations, Sharp posts advice for safe usage on its website and consolidated subsidiaries in Japan Quality assurance in the planning stage actively provides information. Expectation/ Planning Plan products with comfortable operability and abroad have obtained the demand and a sense of high quality that respond to Product-making cycle international ISO 9001 certification customer expectations of quality management. They have Quality assurance in the design stage Customers also adopted the SHARP Design Inspect and confirm the safety of the product and the degree of achievement Corporation Standards—the Sharp of quality targets Group’s proprietary quality Quality assurance in the production stage assurance standards—and conduct Production Inspect and test the safety of the product Web page showing advice for safe usage and 100% realization of quality various quality assurance activities in each stage of the Quality assurance on the market Satisfaction/ Sales, afterproduct-making process, from impression sales service Reflect customer feedback obtained Disclosure of Information When Quality Problems Arise through telephone support and after-sales planning, design, and manufacture service in product-making to testing/evaluation and marketing. In the event that a Sharp product is found to be responsible for injury to customers or for damage to property, Sharp will disclose relevant information immediately in newspapers and via its website, or through ISO 9001-certified sites other methods. Sharp also has contact points to directly receive inquiries from customers and is striving to keep quality problems to an absolute minimum. During fiscal 2011, Sharp notified customers as below, providing free-of-charge inspection, repair, and product recovery. Sharp Voluntary Product Safety Action Policy Based on the Sharp Voluntary Product Safety Action Policy, Sharp also releases on its website details of Since Sharp acknowledges that ensuring product safety is one of the most important management issues serious accidents involving products that are judged to be caused by a product or suspected to be caused and one of its corporate social responsibilities, for customer safety and peace of mind it promotes by a product that were reported to the Consumer Affairs Agency and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and information disclosure and prioritizes efforts to ensure the safety of the products it manufactures and sells. Industry in Japan. To put this into practice, Sharp compiled a voluntary action plan on product safety and it strives to receive an even higher level of confidence from society. Efforts to Ensure Product Safety At Sharp, product safety is based on adherence to the safety standards, laws, and regulations of every country. In addition, Sharp has its own technical safety standards, which are applied to all products. Free-of-Charge Inspection and Repair Through these standards, Sharp aims to ensure complete safety even when rare and unexpected problems arise, especially concerning issues such as incombustible material usage and abnormal motion detection. ● Refrigerator/Freezer for Japan (April 2012) To ensure an even higher level of safety, Sharp revises the standards whenever the need arises. Also, Sharp In response to the risk of smoke generation or ignition in some products due to an overheating has built a system for ensuring product safety so that unexpected product problems can be dealt with more problem in the starting relay (electric component for starting up the system), Sharp conducted free swiftly and precisely. inspections and parts replacement. Along with responding in a timely manner to changes in the social situation and revisions to laws pertaining ● Sharp-Manufactured GE Air Conditioner for North America (US and Canada) to product safety, Sharp will continue to increase its efforts at offering products that customers can use with (May 2011) peace of mind. In response to the risk of smoke generation or ignition in some products when running the heating function due to a loose connection caused by poor soldering, Sharp conducted free inspections and parts replacement. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 072 For Customers Applying Customer Feedback to the Making of Products Investigating the Latent Dissatisfaction and Needs of Customers and In order to deliver products that customers find easy to use, Sharp is implementing VOCS (Voice of the Reflecting Them in Product Design Customer & Service Staff) activities so that customer evaluations and opinions are put to use when Based on the concept of user-centered design (UCD), as outlined in the international ISO 9241-210 products are made. standard, Sharp investigates customers’ latent dissatisfaction and needs as part of its product development Feedback received from customers during telephone assistance at the Customer Assistance Center, during process and reflects those findings in the specifications and design of its products. repair service visits, and in Web-based questionnaires is shared throughout the company while protecting In addition to getting feedback from its Customer Assistance Center in Japan, Sharp uses field research, the anonymity of the customer. The feedback is used to extract challenges from the user’s point of view in surveys, and usability tests (observing how customers actually use Sharp products) to collect information planning, design, development, quality, sales, service, and other areas. on how customers interact with products. That information is compiled and analyzed to create products With a focus on issues extracted through customer feedback, the customer service departments and the that are appealing from three perspectives: products that customers want to use, products that are easy to development, quality, and sales departments work together to consider ideas for improvement and use, and products that customers will want to continue using for a long time. exchange opinions in order Sharp also promotes the manufacture of products that take into consideration universal design, so many to create products that are more customers can comfortably use its products. As of December 2011, 91 models of 15 products had Feedback from Making products, fostering human even more appealing and customers resources, and creating standards been recognized as universal design home appliances by the Association for Electric Home Appliances in from customers’ viewpoint easier to use and even better Japan. services. Shared throughout Sharp, issues extracted Telephone Easy-to-use inquiries products Through activities such as these, Sharp is raising the appeal of its products. In addition to activities to Planning improve products, Sharp Customers During repair ■ Field Research ■ Usability Tests also actively fosters human visits Development Design Easy-toresources through training VOC understand marketing and and creates assessment VOS sales promotion standards for supporting Questionnaires Quality Service manufacturing from the user’s point of view in order Sales Comments, Better service to conduct user-oriented requests manufacturing, sales, and service. Choose Sharp now, next time, and every time TO P I C S Customer Questionnaires Sharp in Japan administers questionnaires to customers who receive repair Conducting research at a customer’s home A customer tries out a product visits that ask for feedback on all steps of the assistance from reception to repair completion. In one year, Sharp receives over 300,000 invaluable responses from customers. ■ Percentage of “Good” Ratings for Service Personnel (based on replies to The opinions received customer questionnaire) are passed on as (%) feedback to the staff 100.0 members involved in 92.1 93.0 93.5 93.6 the case and are also 90.0 90.3 subjected to detailed analysis for use in 80.0 service policies. 70.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (fiscal year) Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 073 For Customers Case Study Product Improvements Humidifying Air Purifier (KC-A70/A50) AQUOS LCD TV (LCD-LX 330A Series and other models for the Chinese market) Built-in handle Upright water tank Wide mouth makes it easy to remains steady makes it easy to carry with one hand when being filled clean inside by hand ■ On the previous model’s remote control, the timer button (with a timer-off function) was Easy-to-fill height placed next to the channel up/down button. The timer button was moved to a new location to prevent accidentally setting the timer-off function when changing channels. ■ Water tank is ■ The button names were also changed so that they are easier to understand. easy to fill and Height Opening easy to clean 327 mm diameter (KC-A70) 75 mm Channel up/down button Timer button Timer-off button ■ Wheels with stoppers Built-in wheels enable easy movement Slides from (with stoppers) enable easy during housecleaning side to side one-handed movement KC-A70 Digital MFP (MX-5111FN) ■ Touchscreen control panel can be tilted to Previous remote control New remote control the user’s preferred angle A design that delivers ease of use ■ Control panel can be switched to a large font mode ■ Easy-grip handles make it LCD-40LX330A easy to open/close paper drawers Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 074 For Customers Customer Service That Exceeds Expectations Case Study Efforts in After-Sales Service in Japan From the moment a customer first considers buying a Sharp product, Sharp’s Customer Assistance Center in Japan always aims to meet or exceed customer expectations. No. 1 in After-Sales Service Satisfaction in 4 Product Categories for 3 Years Running All Customer Assistance Center agents (operators) are periodically monitored by a response-quality Sharp was selected as the top brand in four product categories—flat-screen TV, DVD/HDD recorder, manager. Based on those results, agents undergo training to improve their responsiveness in terms of washing machine/dryer, and air conditioner—in the 2011 After-Sales Service Satisfaction Ranking providing assistance that matches the customer inquiry as well as their methods of speaking and listening. survey published in the July 25, 2011 issue of the Nikkei Business magazine, following the same This enables the agents to maintain a high level of response skills while also boosting their awareness of achievement in 2009 and 2010. This year Sharp was also selected as the top brand in the customer satisfaction. smartphone product category for the first time. In fiscal 2011, Sharp took steps to ensure that customers do not have to wait on the phone when calling In fiscal 2011, there was a jump in sales of flat-screen TVs and Blu-ray/HDD recorders because of with inquiries. It also enhanced the support section of its website so that customers can solve problems the Eco-Point system and the termination of terrestrial analog broadcasting. As a result, there was without calling the Customer Assistance Center. The website provides customer-oriented services that also an increase in repair requests. Sharp was recognized for its implementation of new initiatives for include Fault Diagnosis Navigation, where customers themselves diagnose the symptoms and solve which all departments involved with customer service, including service companies, the Customer problems by following instructions on the screen (for eight product categories including LCD TVs, Blu-ray Assistance Center, and parts supply centers, worked together. These initiatives include a “time Disc recorders, washing machines, air conditioners, and refrigerators), and a section titled “Smart Use of concierge” service in which service staff visit the customer and complete the repairs at the requested Consumer Electronics,” which explains how to maintain products and ways to save energy. time, strengthening of the system to allow immediate advance orders of parts required for the repair, and use of tablet terminals to provide easy-to-understand explanations to customers on the content The Customer Assistance Center has recently started a toll-free number that gives automated responses to of the repairs. In addition, Sharp was also evaluated highly for swift and flexible response to inquiries help callers solve the most common issues. This is extremely convenient since customers can phone, for and requests for repairs required due to the Great East Japan Earthquake. example, late at night when no agents are available and get their queries answered and problems solved. Sharp will continue to improve its communication and technical skills of employees involved in after-sales service to retain its top-brand status. Sharp will also continue to provide the kind of high-quality service that increases the loyalty of customers so they will choose Sharp again. ■ Number of Calls Received at the Customer Assistance Center (Japan) (Thousand calls) Sharp has upgraded the Customer 6,000 Assistance Center twice, in October Words from a Service Employee 5,512 5,202 5,000 4,615 2006 and October 2011. Also over the Sharp has achieved the No. 1 position for the third year in a 4,245 years, Sharp has responded to 4,000 3,728 4,098 row. Customer expectations will continue to increase and we 3,000 changing needs by constantly improving must straighten up to the task. We must remain humble and 3,000 the center’s abilities to efficiently answer continue providing prompt and reliable after-sales service. We 2,000 customer calls and keep callers waiting must continue providing services with high added quality to Jun Iwai 1,000 for the minimal time; for example, during ensure all customers are satisfied even when they experience Koto Service Station 0 the increased market demand resulting problems related to products so that they choose Sharp now, Greater Tokyo Area Customer Service Department 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 from Japan’s Eco-Point system for next time, and every time. Sharp Engineering Corporation (Fiscal year) consumer electronics. Service Support in Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Introducing a Global Knowledge System Since the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, Sharp has provided a special service for consumer The Customer Assistance Center in Japan has begun using the electronics products being used by customers in the disaster-hit areas. Sharp lowered its repair fees as part knowledge system database to assist its staff in responding to questions of efforts to support the recovery of those areas. from customers and performing fault diagnosis. This system increases the uniformity and efficiency of Sharp’s customer assistance. In order to Following the unprecedented damage caused by the earthquake and tsunami, Sharp employees went to apply this knowledge system throughout the world, Sharp officially service the products of customers who had to move out of Tohoku, the region hardest hit by the disaster, established the OASIS* global knowledge system in Indonesia in May and customers living in temporary housing facilities. Sharp’s service area has thus changed since the 2012. OASIS allows universally applicable content to be translated into disaster, and the company is in the process of remapping the service areas so that it can provide English and region-specific content to be created in local languages. customers with the product assistance they require. Going forward, Sharp will expand the use of this system to call centers in other countries with the goal of top customer service in each region. * OASIS: Operator Assist Intelligent System Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 075 For Customers Global Customer Support System Case Study Efforts in After-Sales Service Overseas Sharp call centers are the control tower for all after-sales service activities, listening to customers’ problems and questions, and if necessary sending a service person or the needed replacement parts. Sharp has call centers in the five major regions of the world. Through these centers, Sharp strives to boost customer Call Center Awards satisfaction by carrying out locally rooted, prompt and exacting servicing, building a network of service In an effort to improve the quality of assistance from call agents, and improving the technical and communication skills of call center agents and service technicians. center staff, each year Sharp holds Call Center Awards to Sharp will continue to offer peace of mind to customers around the world through trusted service that recognize outstanding call center staff. satisfies needs. These awards further increase the motivation of call center staff and help raise the quality of their assistance. Sharp will Europe (Germany) continue aiming to consistently provide prompt, reliable, 2 China Call Center and friendly response to customer inquiries and strive to ■ Sharp Call Centers around the World (run by SESC) improve its brand image. 3 1 North America (United States) Maastricht Europe Call Center Dortmund North America Call Center (run by SEEG) Orleans Chicago (run by SEC) Shanghai 3 Jamaica 1 Hong Kong Jakarta Sydney China (Hong Kong) Asia (Indonesia) China (Shanghai) Europe Call Center 2 4 5 North America Call Center (run by SEEG) (run by SEC) Building a Speedy Service System in India In order to ensure prompt and reliable after-sales service, sales subsidiary SBI in India implements the “Only One, One Hong Kong Call Center Indonesia Call Center Australia Call Center & One” service at its roughly 20 locations and 200 service (run by SRH) (run by SEID) (run by SCA) agents. The following targets are set for repair requests from Only One, One & One service logo No. of calls handled No. Region Call center locations (country and city) (2011) customers: One: Dispatch service staff within one hour 1 North America US (Chicago), Jamaica (Kingston) 880,000 One: Conduct repair visits within one day 2 China China (Shanghai, Hong Kong) 1,740,000 One: Complete repairs within one week 3 Europe Germany (Dortmund), The Netherlands (Maastricht), France (Orleans) 100,000 By achieving these targets, prompt provision of 4 Asia Indonesia (Jakarta) 300,000 customer service is attained in India. 5 Oceania Australia (Sydney) 40,000 Press release SEC: Sharp Electronics Corporation (sales subsidiary in the US) / SESC: Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. (sales subsidiary in China) / SRH: Sharp-Roxy (Hong Kong) Ltd. (sales subsidiary in Hong Kong) / SEEG: Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH (sales subsidiary in Germany) / SEID: PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia (sales and manufacturing subsidiary in Indonesia / SCA: Sharp Corporation of Australia Pty. Ltd (sales subsidiary in Australia) Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 076 For Business Partners Mutual Prosperity with Suppliers and Dealers Sharp aims for mutual prosperity with business partners by building relationships of cooperation and trust through dialogue and communication that deepen mutual understanding. Sharp is also promoting CSR activities throughout the entire supply chain. Sharp conducts its business activities on the basis of fair evaluation, ensuring that all companies are provided with equal opportunities. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Build CSR audit system based on CSR audit trials • Reviewed and revised CSR auditing tools (manuals, checklists, etc.) • Train auditors and conduct audits using CSR auditing tools • Revised Basic Parts Purchase Agreement by adding article on CSR initiatives • Extend revised Basic Parts Purchase Agreement to overseas suppliers (Japan) Determining Procurement Based on Providing Equal Opportunity and ■ Basic Purchasing Principles Requests to Suppliers Fair Evaluation 1. Compliance with laws and social standards • Compliance with laws related to manufacture and distribution of material Sharp has production activities around the world and it chooses who it will procure local parts, materials, 2. Promotion of sound business • Compliance with laws related to labor and equipment from by providing all Japanese and overseas suppliers with an equal opportunity to do operations • Compliance with laws related to health and safety and arrangement of proper business with Sharp. This opportunity includes a fair evaluation of whether a supplier’s procurement labor environment 3. Consideration for the environment conditions meet Sharp’s requirements for quality, standards, and performance. • Prohibition of child and forced labor 4. Securing optimal quality and cost Sharp has also formulated Basic Purchasing Principles that contribute to a prosperous coexistence with • Prohibition of discrimination based on race and sex and respect for the dignity 5. Stable supply of parts and materials of each employee business partners. The Principles stipulate impartiality and fairness in all purchasing activities and the creation of a relationship of cooperation and trust with suppliers. 6. Leading technology • Compliance with environmental laws 7. No disclosing of confidential • Prohibition of bribery and unfair acts information Close Communication and Mutual Understanding To ensure continued mutual growth and prosperity with its suppliers, as well as to achieve sustainable development, Sharp is going beyond initiatives related to the quality, price, and delivery of parts and Example of Overseas Supplier Meeting materials. Through CSR initiatives across the entire supply chain, Sharp is also seeking to fulfill its social responsibilities over a wide range of areas including product safety, environmental protection, human rights SEID, Sharp’s sales and manufacturing subsidiary in Indonesia, holds a supplier meeting in each half of the and labor, and health and safety. fiscal year, gathering about 100 of its suppliers of parts and materials to communicate closely with them and Implementing CSR initiatives such as complying with all laws, regulations, and social standards, and promote mutual understanding. protecting the environment, is clearly stated as one of Sharp’s procurement policies in the Basic Purchasing The meetings begin with SEID making sure its suppliers are all on the same page by explaining business plans Principles. To help its business partners gain an understanding of such concepts and to deepen the including the number of products manufactured and future prospects, as well as the Sharp Basic Purchasing understanding between Sharp and its business partners, Sharp business groups and overseas production Principles and trends and issues in bases have been holding regular roundtables and meetings for their suppliers. In addition, buyers for supply chain CSR. various materials used by Sharp exchange ideas and information with sales representatives of suppliers on a daily basis. SEID will continue to communicate closely with business partners and ensure they understand the Basic Purchasing Principles so that both sides can maintain the smooth Basic Purchasing Principles business dealings they have enjoyed so far. Supplier meeting at SEID in Indonesia Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 077 For Business Partners Promoting CSR Measures Throughout the Supply Chain CSR Procurement Survey Status In 2007, to help its suppliers gain an understanding of Sharp’s CSR philosophy and promote measures Since fiscal 2007, Sharp has been implementing globally a CSR procurement survey using an online toward CSR among suppliers, Sharp created its own Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook response system to enable suppliers to use the Internet to enter answers to self-checks based on the and distributed it to major suppliers, and also made it available on the Sharp website. Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook. Through this initiative, Sharp is advancing CSR efforts throughout the entire supply chain by requesting that Sharp requests improvement of CSR initiatives from suppliers who have ranked D in their results for a suppliers around the world step up their efforts in areas related to CSR. This guidebook conforms to the particular survey area—or who have ranked C or below for two years in a row—by having them prepare Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook produced and distributed by the Japan Electronics and and submit a corrective action plan. Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). In fiscal 2011, Sharp conducted a fourth survey of suppliers in Japan, a third survey of suppliers in China From fiscal 2007 and on, Sharp has been increasing common understanding about CSR in the supply and Malaysia, and a second survey of suppliers throughout the Asian region as well as in Europe and North chain by having its suppliers fill out CSR procurement surveys based on this guidebook. America. To date, the surveys have been completed by approximately 2,500 suppliers (approximately 4,700 sites) worldwide. Furthermore, in May 2011, Sharp added an article on CSR initiatives that requests adherence to the policies stipulated in the guidebook to the Basic Parts Purchase Agreement signed with partners in Japan and is As a result of surveys carried out to date and requests for improved initiatives, the number of A-ranked steadily working to reenter these agreements. suppliers is increasing each year. Moving forward, Sharp will continue administering surveys once a year, in principle. By requesting improvements as needed and providing supportive measures, Sharp will use these In the future, Sharp plans to make similar revisions in its agreements for international transactions and one surveys as an opportunity to improve communication with suppliers, thereby continuously raising the level by one reenter agreements with overseas suppliers. of CSR initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. Contents of the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook Status of Supplier Self-Evaluations in the CSR Procurement Survey* I. Human Rights and Labor ■ Rankings by Overall Score • Prohibit forced labor • Prohibit inhumane treatment and infringements of human rights • Prohibit child labor • Prohibit discrimination • Pay appropriate wages • Regulate working hours • Respect the right to freedom of association D rank : 3.8% A rank : 52.8% D rank : 4.0% A rank : 57.6% C rank : 7.0% C rank : 6.0% II. Occupational Health and Safety • Apply safety measures for equipment and instruments • Promote safe activities in the workplace • Promote hygiene in the workplace • Apply appropriate measures for occupational injuries and illnesses • Properly manage disasters and accidents Rank definitions • Be careful about physically demanding work • Promote safety and hygiene in all company facilities • Promote health A : Excellent maintenance programs for employees B rank : 36.4% B rank : 32.4% B : Good III. Environment C : Fair • Establish and apply an environmental management system • Control hazardous chemicals in products • Control hazardous chemicals in manufacturing • Minimize environmental pollution (water, soil, air) • Obtain environmental permits • Promote D : Inadequate Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 resource and energy saving by reusing, reducing, and recycling (3R) • Promote greenhouse gas reduction • Promote waste ■ Evaluation Ranking by Area reduction • Disclose environmental preservation activities （%） IV. Fair Trading 100 5.0 4.7 1.4 1.4 1.2 0.9 0.0 0.4 2.5 2.3 0.6 0.7 2.0 1.7 • Prohibit corruption and bribery • Prohibit abuse of a superior position • Prohibit the offering and receiving of inappropriate profit 10.8 8.7 10.2 9.0 1.4 17.4 1.3 16.5 13.3 5.5 5.1 14.0 12.1 and advantage • Prohibit impediments to free competition • Provide accurate information on products and services • Respect 80 19.2 15.5 24.4 18.3 17.0 intellectual property • Use appropriate export procedures • Disclose appropriate company information • Detect injustice promptly 31.7 27.3 29.0 25.8 60 31.0 34.1 30.5 33.8 30.5 V. Product Quality and Safety 33.3 • Establish and apply a quality management system 40 • Ensure product safety 81.2 73.9 75.6 77.2 D rank 56.1 62.6 59.6 64.3 50.2 55.7 C rank VI. Information Security 20 42.5 48.8 46.9 53.9 • Secure computer networks against threats B rank • Prevent the leakage of personal information 0 A rank • Prevent the leakage of customer and third-party confidential information Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 VII. Contribution to Society • Contribute to society and community Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook Overall CSR Human rights Occupational Product quality Information (Japanese, English, and Chinese editions) Environment Fair trading promotion efforts and labor health and safety and safety security * Status of suppliers serving Sharp production bases in Japan and overseas that completed the CSR Procurement Survey Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 078 For Business Partners Close-Up Working Continuously with Suppliers to Improve Their CSR Efforts With the globalization of its business activities, Sharp’s entire value chain—from design to ■ Production and Procurement Bases That Conducted CSR Procurement Surveys and Audits development, procurement, production, sales/marketing, and service—has spread around the in and before Fiscal 2011 world. At the same time, there is a need to address an ever-diversifying range of complex North America social challenges related to the supply chain. These challenges include ensuring compliance 1 SMCA (US) 2 SEMEX (Mexico) with laws relating to human rights and labor standards as well as laws governing the control Europe and management of chemical substances (e.g. the European REACH regulations*). 3 6 3 SUKM (UK) 4 SMF (France) 4 In this light, Sharp is committed to implementing measures on a global basis to fulfill its 5 SEES (Spain) 6 SMPL (Poland) 5 21 22 20 16 24 1 corporate social responsibility, working in collaboration with suppliers based on the Sharp Asia 19 18 17 7 23 2 Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook and Green Procurement Guidelines. 7 SIL (India) 8 SATL (Thailand) 8 9 15 10 11 12 Sharp is constructing a CSR auditing framework under which company representatives visit the 9 SMTL (Thailand) 10 SEM (Malaysia) 13 14 production sites of suppliers and verify their performance in relation to answers submitted on 11 SOEM (Malaysia) 12 SMM (Malaysia) CSR procurement surveys. Starting in fiscal 2010, Sharp suppliers in Japan and China 13 SEID (Indonesia) 14 SSI (Indonesia) underwent CSR audits on a trial basis. 15 SPC (Philippines) 16 SKC (Korea) 17 SEM Korean Branch (Korea) In fiscal 2011, Sharp continued trial audits in Japan. The company also reviewed and revised China Japan its CSR auditing tools—including manuals, checklists, and other materials—in line with 18 SSEC (Shanghai) 19 SOCC (Changhsu) 20 WSEC (Wuxi) 24 Each business group changes and progress in global supply-chain CSR standards. The revision took account of 21 STW (Wuxi) 22 NSEC (Nanjing) 23 SEM Hong Kong Branch (Hong Kong) factors such as the conflict mineral issue (see page 79) and the full implementation of ISO ● Bases that conducted CSR audits for some of their suppliers and that conducted CSR procurement surveys 26000. For fiscal 2012, Sharp plans to move forward with full-scale implementation of CSR audits. The company will expand and improve its auditing system through methods such as training CSR auditors in the use of auditing tools. Words from a Procurement Manager at an Overseas Base Through mechanisms such as ongoing CSR procurement surveys and audits, Sharp will be The SEM Hong Kong Branch is the core base for supplying parts to customers across China. I actively working continuously with suppliers to improve the level of their CSR efforts, with the aim of conduct CSR procurement surveys of our suppliers in an effort to improve supply-chain CSR. making even greater contributions to the global community throughout the entire supply chain. At first, many suppliers focused primarily on prices, supply volume, optimizing the delivery time, and other * REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemicals) is a set of regulations profit-related aspects and were hesitant to take on CSR initiatives. legislated by the European Union to advance safety assessments of existing chemical substances. This law was adopted in December 2006 and went into effect in June 2007. However, I persistently explained the importance of CSR to our suppliers and encouraged them to widen their perspective to include environmental and social aspects in addition to financial aspects (i.e., the triple bottom line). They came to Related information Page 42: Managing Chemical Substances in Products understand that it is the companies that voluntarily undertake CSR initiatives that are fulfilling their role as a global corporation. Although only a few years have passed since we began our supply-chain CSR initiatives, I believe that we are making great progress as our suppliers are actively making sincere efforts to shift their focus on CSR. From here on as well, we will work together with our suppliers to face the same goals and promote CSR activities as a global procurement division. Victor Ip SEM Hong Kong Branch Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 079 For Business Partners Dealing with the Conflict Mineral Issue Audits and Education to Ensure Full Compliance with the Subcontract Act In the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the environmental destruction and inhumane acts against To comply with the Subcontract Act (Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to local residents perpetrated by armed anti-government militia forces have become a major international Subcontractors) in Japan, Sharp Corporation and its affiliated companies implement compliance checks issue. Minerals such as coltan, tin, gold, and tungsten mined illegally in the DRC and adjoining countries and in-house education on an ongoing basis. have become a source of financing for the militias, and hence, these minerals are called “conflict minerals.” Regarding compliance checks, since fiscal 2009, to encourage internal voluntary reporting of compliance With the establishment of the conflict minerals provision of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and issues and further strengthen precautionary measures to prevent recurrence of problems, the material Consumer Protection Act in the US in July 2010 and the declaration of the Due Diligence Guidance for supply and outside manufacturing divisions of all business groups, as well as Head Office groups and Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas by the OECD, affiliated companies, began self-audits in which they check how well they are complying with the companies that use these minerals for the manufacture or functionality of their products are being strongly Subcontract Act. urged to conduct their procurement activities appropriately in an effort to cut off funding to such armed In fiscal 2011, Sharp’s Legal Affairs Division and Corporate Procurement Center provided training forces. workshops on the Subcontract Act for business groups, Head Office groups, and domestic affiliates. In For some time, Sharp has been requesting that its suppliers put initiatives into practice to fulfill their social addition, in fiscal 2012, Sharp plans to conduct focused field audits on business groups. responsibility in areas such as human rights, labor, and the environment, based on Sharp’s Basic Purchasing Principles and the Sharp Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook. Working Together with Dealers in Their Efforts Toward CSR These minerals are also used in Sharp products; tin, for example, is a component of solder. Recognizing that the conflict mineral issue is one of the key elements of supply chain CSR, Sharp has launched Sharp’s sales companies in Japan are helping with the CSR activities of dealers. Through workshops and initiatives as a member of the global community, and instituted a basic policy of not using minerals that are study sessions, and as part of routine sales activities, individual sales representatives are communicating mined illegally in its products and devices. information to employees of dealers on topics ranging from environmental issues on the global level to Sharp has sent out a questionnaire to its suppliers in order to ascertain whether or not the four minerals in environmental initiatives in everyday activities. question are contained in products and materials supplied to Sharp, and, if so, to confirm their country and In turn, dealers are making proposals to customers for environmentally conscious products and smelter of origin. Replies have been received from about 90% of its suppliers. environmentally friendly ways of using them. And the dealers themselves are aiming to build environmentally The supply chain leading back to the country and mine where the minerals were produced has many links, friendly stores that take the environment into consideration by making the most of efforts such as energy making it very difficult to determine the origin of the minerals contained in each and every part and product conservation in their own business. purchased. However, over 80% of suppliers from whom Sharp purchases parts and products that contain In proposing these initiatives, Sharp sales representatives are taking full advantage of knowledge gained the minerals in question responded that they do not use minerals from the DRC or adjoining countries. For through taking the Eco Test, which is promoted as a way of helping employees acquire knowledge about suppliers that responded that they are uncertain whether or not they are using minerals from prohibited environmental issues. countries, Sharp is continuing to request that they refrain from using illegally mined minerals. Sharp, working together with dealers, is engaging in business activities that can contribute to the Sharp will take swift and appropriate action against this problem by participating in the Responsible environment and the community while encouraging employees to further improve their skills. Minerals Trade Working Group of the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) as well as through other forums. And while doing so, Sharp will always take into account the latest circumstances, such as enforcement of the rules set out in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 080 For Shareholders and Investors Appropriate Return of Profits and Information Disclosure One of the most important management principles for Sharp is to return a portion of profits to shareholders. Through general shareholders’ meetings and IR (investor relations) activities that respond to the diversifying needs of investors, Sharp is promoting communication with shareholders and investors, and the valuable feedback of these stakeholders is applied toward management improvements. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Continue improving information disclosure and strengthen information • Held factory tours for shareholders • Continue improving information disclosure to shareholders and investors and transmission for shareholders and investors • Increased amount of information available on website hold various IR events in order to improve communication Basic Policies Concerning Profit Sharing IR Disclosure Policy Sharp considers distributing profits to shareholders to be one of the most important management issues. Sharp discloses information to shareholders and investors in a fair and timely manner, in order to increase While maintaining consistently stable dividend payouts, and while considering its consolidated business trust in its IR activities and to ensure a proper assessment of Sharp’s corporate value in capital markets. performance, financial situation, and future business development in a careful and comprehensive manner, Sharp discloses information designated under the laws and regulations of Japan, and also actively Sharp implements a set of measures to return profits to its shareholders. discloses other information, such as business development, management policy, and strategy. For fiscal 2011, Sharp distributed a year-end dividend of 5 yen per share. The total annual dividend was 10 yen per share. ■ How Sharp Discloses Corporate Information in a Timely Manner Resolved/approved facts, financial results Occurred facts ■ Net Income per Share (Consolidated) and Cash Dividends per Share Administrative departments in each business group, division, and subsidiary, etc. Fiscal year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Report on information related to material facts Net income (yen) 93.17 ▲114.33 4.00 17.63 ▲341.78 Cash dividends (yen) 28 21 17 17 10 Corporate Strategy Group, Corporate Accounting and Control Group ■ Share Distribution (as of March 31, 2012) Judgment (confirmation) on material facts Report Chief Officer of General Administration (responsible for information handling) Japanese securities companies Treasury stock 39,820,218 (3.59%) 10,375,562 (0.93%) Resolution, approval, and report of timely disclosure Board of Directors, President Other Japanese corporations 62,989,140 (5.67%) Instructions for timely disclosure Chief Officer of General Administration (responsible for information handling) Foreign shareholders 215,851,228 (19.43%) Procedures for timely disclosure Securities and Finance Department or Corporate Public Relations Division Japanese individual shareholders 323,118,572 (29.09%) Japanese financial institutions* Timely disclosure 458,545,167 (41.29%) (stock exchange, mass media) * A total of 51,582,000 shares (4.65%) in investment trusts and pension trust funds are included in shares held by Japanese financial institutions. IR disclosure policy Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 081 For Shareholders and Investors Holding Open General Shareholders’ Meetings Communication with Shareholders and Investors Sharp holds ordinary general shareholders’ meetings earlier than most Japanese companies and sends out Major activities in fiscal 2011 included holding individual interviews and meetings with institutional investors early notices of the meetings. It also strives to create an environment that enables shareholders to easily and analysts at the Osaka and Tokyo offices upon request, as well as hosting briefings on quarterly financial exercise their voting rights. Efforts include allowing shareholders to exercise voting rights by computers and results and business strategies, and giving factory tours for shareholders. mobile phones, participating in an electronic voting platform for institutional investors, and posting English Sharp holds overseas meetings to retain existing shareholders and attract new shareholders, for example, notices about the meetings on its website. In addition, Sharp is working to further enhance information with the president and other executives visiting influential institutional investors in the US and Asia. disclosure, such as by posting video of the shareholders’ meeting on the website the day after the meeting for a certain period of time. Sharp also participated in securities company-sponsored conferences for domestic and overseas investors, where Sharp outlined its financial highlights and explained the progress of its business restructuring efforts, particularly, concerning LCDs. IR Activities Designed to Meet the Diversifying Needs of Investors Through future IR activities, Sharp will continue to make sure a broad range of investors fully understand the Sharp is striving to disclose a wide range of information in a timely and accurate manner while proactively condition of the company’s business and business strategies. engaging in communication with shareholders and investors through domestic and overseas IR activities. It also provides investors with easy-to-understand information on company performance, such as financial briefings and presentation materials. In addition to updating and expanding information on the IR website, Sharp has improved the site’s search capability and viewability. Sharp also strives to provide information needed by investors in a timely manner, including financial materials and reports given at briefings. There is also a site for individual investors, where they can easily access relevant information presented in an easy-to-understand format that employs layman’s language, charts, graphs, and figures. SRI (Socially Responsible Investment)* And to further promote understanding of its businesses and strategies among investors, Sharp does all it As of March 2012, the following SRI ratings agencies had given Sharp a favorable CSR rating or can to make its annual reports engaging and informative. included Sharp in their SRI indices. Sharp is continuing to go beyond its legal obligations to supply certain designated information by actively disclosing additional information about its businesses, as well as its management policies and strategies. • FTSE4Good Global Index (UK) • MSCI Global Climate Index (US) • Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (Japan) • oekom research AG (Germany), Corporate Responsibility Prime Status Investor relations website 2011 Annual Report * Investment in companies that fulfill not only their financial obligations but their environmental and social Investor relations responsibilities as well. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 082 For Employees Creating a Fair, Positive, and Progressive Workplace Sharp stresses the importance of basic human rights and personal dignity, provides opportunities for growth to enthusiastic employees, and strives to realize a human resource system and workplace conducive to a diverse range of people using their individual talents to the fullest. It also has systems for helping employees maintain a healthy balance between their work and home lives, and it strives to create a workplace that offers employees mental and physical well-being. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Continue strengthening human • Undertook approximately 60 human rights training sessions at business sites and affiliates in Japan • Continue strengthening human rights awareness activities rights education • Distributed booklets, covering topics like respect for human rights, to newly appointed heads of • Continue human rights training sessions at business sites and affiliates in Japan overseas Sharp bases • Hold human rights training sessions at overseas bases • Continue training to support • Actively trained global personnel (about 660 participants) through the 4 G • Continue training to support development of global business development of global business (GATE/G-BANK/GRID/GOAL) personnel, education, and training system • Upgrade programs in the 4 G training system to foster negotiation skills and the ability to adapt to • Expanded technical e-learning system to China and other Asian regions with about 550 different cultures, primarily in emerging market countries participants. Provided global manufacturing leader training for about 40 production personnel • Expand technical e-learning and manufacturing leader training to overseas bases • Provided overseas training in newly emerging economies as one measure to develop executive • Expand e-learning for thorough understanding of Sharp business philosophy and business creed to management personnel (about 40 participants) overseas bases • Expand project creation and process management training to overseas bases to foster local sales managers • Take diversity programs • Formulated and promoted specific objectives and measures to promote utilization of four demographic • Develop new diversity programs company-wide groups: female, non-Japanese, physically or mentally challenged, and elderly employees in Japan • Implement Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program II • Hold activities to raise awareness • Planned and implemented Corporate Affirmative Action for non-Japanese Employees in Japan Program • Implement Corporate Affirmative Action for Non-Japanese Employees in Japan Program about diversity inclusion • Took diversity training company-wide • Improve environment for diversity inclusion • Continue strengthening global • Implemented risk assessment and measures to reduce and remove risks by implementing • Continue strengthening global safety and health management and activities to reduce and remove safety and health management occupational safety and health management system at 11 production sites in Japan industrial accident risks and activities to reduce and • Formulated global Sharp Group Basic Policies on Safety and Health • Implement in-house occupational safety and health management system covering non-production sites remove industrial accident risks and affiliates • Uniformly increase the level of occupational safety and health management systems at production sites • Systematically introduce occupational safety and health management system at overseas production sites • Continue strengthening • Held mental health group work training with approximately 13,600 taking part • Enhance comprehensive mental health measures for primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention of mental illness measures for primary prevention • Raised knowledge on mental health by having employees take third-party certification course • Improve knowledge of mental health-related issues by mental health group work training and encouraging of mental illnesses (illness (in fiscal 2011, approximately 570 people passed the exam for level II and III of the Mental Health acquisition of third-party certification in mental health management prevention and health Management certification program) • Enhance support for each mental illness case by improving support system for employees returning from promotion) medical leave • Implement active measures for • Based on requests from workplaces, provided mini on-site workshops given by industrial • As part of efforts to improve health and one event to celebrate the 100th year of Sharp’s founding, hold employee health promotion physicians and industrial healthcare staff through Shoku.com (workplace meetings) company-wide sports festivals with futsal, softball, and bowling competitions to further improve • Centered around Sharp No-Smoking Day, carried out comprehensive company-wide no-smoking communication among employees campaigns that included activities such as providing education using posters and the website and • Enhance measures to prevent lifestyle diseases through active promotion of checkups and health guidance offering free provisions of smoking-cessation aids focused on metabolic syndrome Respect for Basic Human Rights and Personal Dignity Good Labor-Management Relationship through Dialogue Sharp participates in the United Nations Global Compact as part of its worldwide efforts to abide by Sharp respects employees’ right to organize and right of collective bargaining based on the laws in each international standards for human rights and labor. country and region, and works to strengthen trusting relationships with labor unions. The Sharp Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Sharp Code of Conduct stipulate the guiding In Japan, Sharp has monthly meetings of labor-management heads: these include the Central principles on human rights for all executives and employees regarding observing basic human rights and Labor-Management Council, which involves top executives from both sides, and local labor-management personal dignity, prohibiting discrimination and human rights violations, and prohibiting both child and meetings at each site and affiliate, where opinions are exchanged on the business environment and forced labor. labor-management issues. In Japan, Sharp carries out human rights education activities, such as annually conducting human rights In Europe, Sharp holds European Works Council meetings every year to review managerial issues training at each site (a total of approximately 60 sessions in fiscal 2011). Sharp also gives newly appointed throughout Europe. In China, under the Employment Contract Law enacted in 2008, companies are heads of overseas bases booklets covering topics like respect for human rights. Overseas, Sharp strives to obligated to hold meetings with employee representative assemblies to decide on issues like employee prevent human rights violations in line with local laws. The company supervises human rights training that working conditions. In line with this law, Sharp strives to build a cooperative labor-management relationship reflects the progress in human rights protection occurring at each site. as an even better partner. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 083 For Employees Personnel, Education, and Training Systems That Respect Employee Initiative Talent Development and Motivation-Boosting Programs and Diversity ■ Open Recruitment System Based on the belief that human resources are the most important asset for a corporation, Sharp has implemented a variety of personnel, education, and training systems that respect initiative and diversity and Sharp implements the Open Recruitment System in Japan to solicit applicants—once every quarter—from that are designed to bring out the character, motivation, and creativity of each employee. As Sharp strives among all employees company-wide, inviting them to take newly available positions in critically important to expand its business in rapidly emerging markets, it focuses efforts on developing personnel that can play areas, such as expanding business in newly emerging economies, pioneering new business, and an active role in the global field. developing new technologies and products. In fiscal 2011, jobs were offered in approximately 70 topic areas, and about 80 employees were assigned a new position. Next-Generation Human Resource Development Systems ■ Personnel Declaration/Career Development System, Career Development Rotation Under Sharp’s Personnel Declaration/Career Development System, once a year all employees in Japan ■ Next-Generation Executive Management Personnel, Global Personnel, and Expert Training; document a career development plan and their job aptitude. Sharp then uses the information to develop Job-Level-Specific Personnel Training skills and organize job rotations. Sharp also implements a Career Development Rotation to give mainly The Sharp Leadership Program targets younger employees in semi-managerial or supervisory positions, with young employees in Japan the opportunity to experience multiple types of jobs. The aim is to the objective of systematically nurturing executive management personnel. The Challenge Course, for systematically foster personnel who balance a high degree of expertise and a wide intellectual horizon. younger employees in semi-managerial positions, is intended to enable early promotion of younger personnel. ■ Step-Up Campaign (Qualification Acquisition Encouragement Plan) For developing personnel that can play an active role in global markets, Sharp has global training programs* such as GATE and G-BANK. Supporting self-development for employees, Sharp offers monetary rewards to employees who have acquired qualifications, with the amount depending on the difficulty in acquiring the qualification. This plan In addition to Global Manufacturing Leader Training to develop manufacturing personnel throughout the covers 242 qualifications, including some for field-specific techniques and skills, some directly related to globe, Sharp also provides Expert Training to develop technical and sales experts and Job-Level-Specific daily duties, and some for language skills—essential in the development of global employees. Personnel Training to give systematic training for the knowledge, skills, and management techniques required at each stage after joining the company. ■ Commendation System * See Close-Up on page 84. Sharp annually honors domestic and overseas employees and divisions/departments that have achieved outstanding performance. In fiscal 2011, approximately 120 awards were presented to about 5,400 Tree of employees. LCD Solar Mobile human resource Affiliates TV ▲ Training held independently development by business groups, sales groups, and affiliates TO P I C S ▼ Corporate training held by the Personnel Development Center Executive course Group general manager training China Human Resources Development Center Supports Business leader New department manager training ‘Local Production for Local Consumption’ Strategy course New section The China Human Resources Development Center at SCIC (Sharp’s Chinese headquarters) carries out chief training Project leader Section chief Management of technology (MOT) Management strategy course GATE candidate training New assistant Basic/element technologies various educational measures in an effort to promote the growth of employees who will drive Sharp’s ‘local Next leader Action training G-BANK course manager training Training for production for local consumption’ strategy. It applies a total Quality control B2B solutions G Challenge course younger employees human affairs policy in which growth of employees who are GRID O New employee A orientation G-mono conscious of their own career plan links to development of Sales network (ICT) L the company as a whole. In line with this concept, it offers job-level-specific management training (CMP: China Job-level-specific Management Program) and SLP-C (Sharp Leadership Expert Global Leader personnel Expert Program China) to train executive management candidates, personnel training Expa Expansion Ex xpansion n of o training (sales) training training training (technical) Global among others. In addition, as Sharp develops its value chain e e-le e-learni e-learning arnin learni ng ng expansion globally, it also makes efforts to train manufacturing and Business skills technical experts. SLP-C training Business Philosophy Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 084 For Employees Close-Up Developing Global Personnel through the 4G System As management becomes more globalized, it becomes increasingly necessary to foster personnel that can actively communicate with people of different cultures and values as well as exploit those Case Study differences. In an effort to develop personnel that can work actively in the global field while making the most of diversity, Sharp has established a human resource and education system based on the GOAL: Language Learning Support and Awareness Activities 4Gs (Global formation)—GATE, G-BANK, GRID, and GOAL. (1) Intensive language training for global workplaces • Workplaces where foreign languages such as English and Chinese are necessary are registered as “global workplaces.” Initiatives are taken to improve the language skills of staff at these workplaces and globalize workplace activities (such as carrying out written communication, phone calls, and GATE meetings in English or Chinese). (Global Advanced Training for Expatriates) • All employees at global workplaces must be sufficiently able to communicate in English (or Chinese). Prior to overseas assignments Employees that do not meet the criteria are given language proficiency training. GRID (Global-minded Regional market Innovators Development) (2) Support to improve language skills for all employees Development of younger personnel G-BANK for overseas assignments • Initiatives include English study method seminars to increase (Global BANK) motivation to learn English, a system to give partial financial Building a bank of personnel to support for completing company-designated educational go on overseas assignments materials within a designated period, and monetary incentives given to employees who improve their TOEIC scores or pass the Chinese Proficiency Test. OFF-JT OJT English study method seminar (3) Expansion of awareness activities within the company GOAL : Language training, self development, awareness • As awareness activities aimed at increasing language proficiency, messages from the management are transmitted throughout the company and awareness posters are put up in all workplaces. (Global One company with Acquirement of official Language) • The GOAL website (intranet) aimed at increasing language proficiency provides various types of information, such as language study methods, pre-test strategies, and features on employees who have increased their TOEIC scores. Name of Details of activities system Enables employees scheduled for immediate overseas assignment to systematically acquire knowledge Words from a GRID Participant and practical communication skills required to carry out duties smoothly overseas. GATE In October 2011, I went to Tunisia to take part in the GRID Next Advance Unit Program. French is widely • Approximately 190 participants in fiscal 2011; the cumulative total for the four years since fiscal 2008 is approximately 500. spoken in Tunisia, not only in business settings, but also in the streets. I plan to acquire French that can be used in conducting business and complete my language training, then take a Enables employees scheduled for overseas assignments within three years to acquire basic knowledge year of sales training at a local agency. In the future, I hope to use the language and language proficiency required for working in a global setting and fosters personnel for future skills and knowledge of the local culture that I acquired during my training to G-BANK overseas assignments. develop new markets in African regions in the fields of health and the environment, • Approximately 70 participants in fiscal 2011; the cumulative total for the four years since fiscal 2008 is where future growth is anticipated. approximately 650. In recent years, Tunisia has also been enhancing its initiatives in the environmental A program for young employees who will be involved in developing Sharp’s future overseas business that field, for example by promoting the use of solar power systems. At the same time, fosters personnel to be strategically dispatched to newly emerging economies and work actively in those lifestyle diseases are becoming a more serious issue, and the public’s interest in GRID countries and regions. health is also growing year by year. • The program started in April 2011 and plans are for approximately 200 participants over three years By providing products and services for which the local culture and communities Keisuke Takagi A program for all employees to increase their language competency, a basic skill required for pursuing have a real need in a timely manner, I hope to greatly contribute to the financial GRID Next–Tunisia GOAL and social development of regions in Africa. Sharp Corporation global business. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 085 For Employees Efforts Towards Diversity Diversity Inclusion (Workplace Improvement for Equal Opportunity) Sharp initiated the Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program in fiscal 2005. In 2009, it Sharp is providing information on the effectiveness and importance of diversity as a business strategy. As began promoting total diversity management*, including fostering and utilizing the skills and talents of well, Sharp is striving to build a foundation of diversity inclusion. From fiscal 2011, it began holding non-Japanese employees in Japan, promoting the employment of the physically or mentally challenged, company-wide Shoku.com (workplace meetings) workshops in each workplace in an aim to create a and reemploying retirees who have reached mandatory retirement age. Sharp’s approach to diversity is workplace environment that fosters mutual understanding of different values and that enables all personnel, based on its business philosophy, that is, “It is the intention of our corporation to grow hand-in-hand with regardless of gender, age, or nationality, to take an active part in business. our employees, encouraging and aiding them to reach their full potential and improve their standard of living.” By respecting each other’s differences, Sharp aims to generate new value, develop unique products, propose new services, and improve customer service. A Diversity Development Team was established within the Human Resources Group, which is responsible Case Studies for planning and promoting affirmative action programs. The team shares information on problems with the managers who are responsible for promoting diversity in Win-Win Network each group and exchanges views on policies. The aim of the team is to foster mutual cooperation while Sharp posts information on its intranet Win-Win Network promoting diversity in a consistent manner. that disseminates information on work-life balance and diversity as a measure to raise awareness in all These efforts have earned high appraisal from outside employees. the company, with Sharp receiving a special award at the 4th Diversity Management Awards sponsored by Sharp also uses its Win-Win Network to post information Toyo Keizai Inc. in April 2011. It also won a Minister’s about initiatives carried out by the various groups for the Prize in the Family-Friendly Enterprise category and an diversity program, to introduce role models, and to provide award from the Osaka Labour Bureau Director in the information on various programs. Equality Promotion Enterprise category at the Fiscal 2011 Equal Employment/Work-Family Balance Corporation Awards sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Receiving an award from the Minister of Health, Win-Win Network information site Labour and Welfare Participation in External Networks ■ Concepts Underlying the Diversity Program In 2010, Sharp signed the Women’s Empowerment 1. Diversity management is a human resources strategy for utilizing a NonPrinciples, collaboratively created by UN Women and the diverse range of employees; it is also a business strategy. Japanese UN Global Compact and is carrying out activities as an 2. Diversity is part of Sharp’s business philosophy. Women approved company. 3. Based on their unique individual attributes, formulate and promote With the aim of empowering women and energizing the Diversity Program programs aimed at promoting the active participation of women, Diversity & Inclusion company, Sharp participates as an organizing corporation non-Japanese employees in Japan, the physically or mentally Physically or in the Women’s Networking Forum (about 60 challenged, and the elderly. mentally corporations/organizations and 500 members), which was challenged 4. Consistently promote diversity. The established in 2005 in Japan. elderly 5. As a foundation for promoting diversity, strive to ensure that systems In this way, Sharp is networking beyond the corporate supporting the balance between work and family are established and framework and creating a work environment that can Work-Life Balance (Way of Working) become widespread. accept diversity. 6. Work to build a corporate environment that accepts diversity. Business Philosophy, Business Creed * Diversity management (strategy for utilizing diverse employees) accepts the ideas and values of employees with diverse backgrounds (with regard to gender, age, or nationality) without being influenced by previous corporate or social Women’s Networking Forum standards. It is a strategy for promoting company growth and the personal satisfaction of employees by responding (Top: general assembly, bottom: section meeting) rapidly and flexibly to changes in the business environment. (Taken from the report by the Diversity Work Rule Study Group of the Japan Federation of Employers’ Associations.) Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 086 For Employees Taking Diversity Programs Company-Wide ■ Sharp Corporation Personnel Composition (As of April 1, 2012) Promoting Activities of Female Employees Male Female Total (persons) (Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program) Directors, executive officers, auditors 36 1 37 Managers 3,012 68 3,080 Since fiscal 2005, Sharp has been promoting the creation of an environment where female employees can Sub-managers 7,491 606 8,097 excel, not as preferential treatment for women, but as a business strategy for maximizing the abilities of Employees General staff 8,838 1,469 10,307 each female employee. (fiscal 2012 new employees) （154） （42） （196） Specifically, measures include a female leader candidate development program and stepping up training of Subtotal 19,341 2,143 21,484 female managers. In fiscal 2011, Sharp’s first-ever female executive officer was appointed. Total 19,377 2,144 21,521 Sharp has also initiated the Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program II to enhance previous Ratio (%) 90.0 10.0 100.0 initiatives. Sharp will continue striving to achieve its year-end targets for fiscal 2012 (increase the ratio of junior managers to all female employees to 30% and expand the number of female managers to 100). ■ Personnel by Gender at Major Overseas Subsidiaries (As of April 1, 2012) ■ Percentage of Female Junior Managers ■ Number of Female Managers*³ Directors/ Non-supervisory employees Total (%) (Sub-Managerial Positions)*¹ (Persons) Base managers (permanent employees) 30 28.3 30 100 100 Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) Male (%) Female (%) 25 24.8 25.3 Goal for 80 78 SEC (US) Sales 81.5 18.5 65.4 34.6 68.9 31.1 Goal for 20 17.3 19.8 （ fiscal 2012 ） 60 63 71 （ fiscal 2012 ） SMCA (US) Manufacturing 81.6 18.4 42.0 58.0 45.4 54.6 15 40 SEMEX (Mexico) Manufacturing 85.1 14.9 54.0 46.0 55.0 45.0 10 28 20 21 SEEG (Germany) Sales 92.1 7.9 61.2 38.8 66.8 33.2 5 0 0 SUK (UK) Sales 76.9 23.1 68.6 31.4 71.2 28.8 2005 2006 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2005 2006 2010 2011 2012 (Year) SUKM (UK) Manufacturing 95.8 4.2 66.6 33.4 68.3 31.7 *² (As of April 1 each year) *² (As of April 1 each year) SMPL (Poland) Manufacturing 93.1 6.9 31.1 68.9 32.2 67.8 *1 Sharp Corporation only *2 Corporate Affirmative Action for Women Strategy Program started in 2005 SEID (Indonesia) Manufacturing/sales 82.1 17.9 62.2 37.8 63.5 36.5 *3 Managers at Sharp Corporation in Japan, including personnel posted to domestic affiliates SATL (Thailand) Manufacturing 81.4 18.6 27.8 72.2 30.1 69.9 SMM (Malaysia) Manufacturing 72.5 27.5 34.5 65.5 40.0 60.0 Words from Sharp’s First-Ever SESC (China) Sales 80.4 19.6 59.7 40.3 61.8 38.2 Foreign Executive Officer SOCC (China) Manufacturing 91.8 8.2 31.4 68.6 33.5 66.5 It is with great pride that I accepted the position of CEO for the NSEC (China) Manufacturing 65.8 34.2 62.4 37.6 62.8 37.2 European operation on October 1st 2011. WSEC (China) Manufacturing 66.8 33.2 39.1 60.9 41.3 58.7 Europe is a region with many different countries, cultures, languages and behaviour. Our task within Europe is to celebrate this diversity and harness it to optimise the overall performance Expanding Opportunities for Non-Japanese Employees in Japan within the region. This means we have to create a people-centric Paul Molyneux organisation that promotes the development and inclusion of all of Executive Officer With the globalization of business, Sharp is working globally to secure and systematically train human Group General Manager, Europe Group, resources who match the needs of each workplace. In addition to promoting greater employment of our employees in a consistent manner. Sharp Corporation President, Sharp Electronics (Europe) GmbH international students and people of other nationalities residing in Japan, Sharp has also launched a We believe the strength of the region in the future will come from program to enhance the training of non-Japanese employees working in Japan. Called the Corporate our people and we have to ensure there is the right platform to give them a voice and a role in the Affirmative Action for Non-Japanese Employees in Japan Program, surveys are conducted with employees creation of a sustainable Europe. This is a key task of the leadership team within Europe, to create an and their superiors to investigate their approaches to career development. Career development worksheets environment that optimises the skills and abilities of all employees as a strategic resource. are also created for each individual based on the survey results. My personal challenge is to create an organisational culture that delivers this and starts to create order To support this program, Sharp carries out additional initiatives to build a rewarding workplace environment out of complexity through the inclusion of diverse individuals within an overall team. that include considerations when taking promotional exams, consultation services in each office, establishment of communities, and others. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 087 For Employees Promoting the Employment of the Physically or Mentally Challenged Promoting Work-Life Balance Since its establishment, Sharp has been actively involved in social service and welfare. The entire Sharp In line with its promotion of diversity, Sharp supports its employees by creating a rewarding, safe, and Group makes efforts to promote the employment of the physically or mentally challenged and create a healthy workplace. Sharp gives employees a choice of work styles—allowing them to select the style that better work environment for these employees. best suits them at various stages in their lives—thereby helping them achieve a work-life balance that will enable them to lead rich lives both at work and at home. Specifically, Sharp launched a website addressing the employment of physically or mentally challenged people; the website contains information on initiatives to hire such individuals in the Sharp Group. Sharp is Specifically, Sharp is expanding support programs focusing on childcare and nursing care and distributing also striving to make the company an easier place to work, through efforts such as sign language lessons in guidebooks and providing other information to promote use of the programs. In addition, to help employees departments that intend to hire the hearing impaired. realize an efficient working style that offers satisfaction both at the company and at home, Sharp labor and management continuously work together to The ratio of physically or mentally challenged employees in the Sharp Group (including affiliated companies) change the way people work through initiatives like is 2.12%, exceeding the rate mandated by law (1.8%) as stated in the Act for Employment Promotion etc. No Overtime Day and by encouraging employees of Persons with Disabilities. to plan for and take their annual paid vacation ■ Physically or Mentally Challenged Employment Rate in Japan days. (%) 2.5 These efforts have earned high appraisal from 2.28 Sharp Group outside the company, with Sharp receiving 2.02 2.02 2.09 2.19 （ 2.12% ） certification from the Japanese Ministry of Health, The Next-Generation Certification mark 2.0 Rate mandated by law Labour and Welfare based on the Act on (nicknamed Kurumin) shows that the 1.5 1.80 Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Work-Life Balance company is certified by Guidebook and Nursing Care Guidebook 1.55 1.59 1.63 1.68 1.65 Next-Generation Children. the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare 1.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) Sharp Tokusen Industry’s current office building ■ Work-Life Balance Support Programs (Main Programs and Participation at Sharp Corporation) Sharp Corporation + Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. Average of all private-sector firms (based on a survey by the Japanese Ministry of Heath, Labour and Welfare) Participation Program Description (year and no. of persons) name Case Study Efforts of Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. 2009 2010 2011 Allows a leave of any length until the last day of March following the child’s first The precursors of Sharp Tokusen Industry Co., a special subsidiary, were the Hayakawa Branch Factory, a pressing birthday or until the child is 18 months old. (In 2009–2010, 98.5% of those who took childcare leave returned to work.) 109 288 334 factory where blinded WWII veterans worked, and later the Tokusen Metal Limited Partnership, which was founded in Childcare Childcare assistance grants: ( ): Men 1950—both established on the strong feelings of Sharp founder, Tokuji Hayakawa, who wanted to repay persons Leave 1) The 10-day period beginning at the start of the childcare leave period is treated as a period with pay. （54） （211）（273） with disabilities for opening up his life path. In 1977, Sharp Tokusen Industry was the first company to be certified as 2) An allowance of 60,000 yen a month is provided during the leave period a special subsidiary to employ the physically or mentally challenged in Japan. It changed its operations to fit the (excluding the 10-day period when salary is paid). development of Sharp Corporation’s electronics business and contributed to the expansion of business as a member of the Sharp Group. Sharp Tokusen Industry will continue to proactively expand employment of persons with a Reduced-Hours A system by which an employee can reduce work time for a maximum of three Employment During hours per day in units of 30 minutes during pregnancy. Also allows a female/male disability and will further develop its areas of business. 72 62 58 Childbearing/ employee the same reduced-hours employment system until the last day of Childcare March after her/his child has reached the sixth year of elementary school. Related information Page 93: Social Welfare Activities in Japan Childcare Allows flexible work schedules (work day start and end times) until the last day of March Support Work after the child has reached the sixth year of elementary school. Allows an employee to 389 428 449 Program shorten working hours up to an average of three hours per day in one-hour units. Reemployment of Seniors, Life Planning Support Nursing Allows an employee to take leave to care for a family member Care requiring nursing care for a total of two years (can be divided up). 11 9 12 In response to the fact that public pension is not paid until a retiree is 65 years of age in Japan, Sharp Leave basically reemploys interested employees who have reached the mandatory retirement age of 60 until they Nursing Care Allows flexible work schedules (work day start and end times) for nursing care, as are 65. This is not in response to a legal request, but from the stance of the company to promote the Support Work needed. Employee can shorten working hours in one-hour units up to an average 9 9 6 utilization of senior employees who have a strong work ethic, and from the stance of the employees who Program of three hours per day. wish to give back to society their skill and knowledge accumulated over many years. Reduced-Hours Employment for Nursing Care, Reemployment after Nursing Care, Guaranteed Reemployment after Other Childbearing/Childcare, Paternity Leave, Daycare Adaptation Leave, Reduced Weekly Working Days for Nursing Care, In addition, Sharp holds life-planning seminars for 45and 55-year-old employees and their spouses so that Programs Home Helper Expense Subsidies, Volunteer Leave, Multipurpose Leave, Leave of Absence/Increasing Half-Day Use after retirement they can enjoy their new life with peace of mind. About 900 employees attended the of Annual Paid Holidays for Fertility Treatment, Fertility Treatment Financing System, Multipurpose Leave Taken in One-Hour Units (or half-day units) seminars in fiscal 2011. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 088 For Employees Sharp Group Basic Policies on Safety and Health ■ Sharp Group (Japan) Annual Industrial Accident Rates (Frequency Rate of Lost-Worktime Industrial Accidents) Basic Philosophy 2.0 1.9 1.83 The Sharp Group regards protecting the safety, security, and health of employees all over the world 1.75 as indispensable to its business activities, and is dedicating appropriate management resources in a 1.62 1.61 1.62 spirit of Sincerity and Creativity, in order to achieve a safe and pleasant working environment. 1.5 Basic Policy 1.02 1.09 1.12 1.05 1.0 0.99 0.98 1. Legislative Compliance In addition to strict compliance with legislation related to safety and health in each country and region, all Group companies must comply with in-house standards established in line with the All-industry average *3 0.5 standard Group policy, with the aim of improving levels of safety and health. 0.29 Manufacturing 2. Establishment of Management Organization 0.15 0.18 0.23 0.15 0.23 industry average *3 The Sharp Group has established a management organization to deal with safety and health, with 0.0 Sharp Group (Japan) clearly delineated roles, authority, and responsibilities, and is promoting activities at the structural 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) level. *3 Averages for all industries and the manufacturing industry are based on a survey by the Japanese Ministry of Health, 3. Establishment and Operation of Management System Labour and Welfare. The Sharp Group has established an occupational safety and health management system, and is engaged in continuous evaluation and improvement of its activities, with a view to eliminating potential hazards and risks to safety and health in the workplace. Promoting the Introduction of the Occupational Safety and Health 4. Implementation of Education and Training Management System The Sharp Group is endeavoring to raise awareness of safety and health and to promote voluntary Sharp is promoting the introduction of an occupational safety and health management system in an effort to activities by implementing for all employees the education and training required to improve safety further address the potential risk of accidents in the workplace and to firmly set in motion proactive safety and health. activities that prevent or reduce risks. As of fiscal 2010, Sharp Corporation’s 11 domestic production sites 5. Setting Targets and Full Employee Participation in Practical Activities had acquired OHSAS 18001 certification*4. In order to implement preventive safety measures in line with The Sharp Group sets targets for preventing accidents and improving employees’ health, and is those employed at Sharp Corporation’s production sites, the company’s non-production sites and affiliates striving to meet these targets by means of practical activities in which all employees participate. are formulating standards for an original occupational safety and health management system. In addition, to raise the standard of its occupational safety and health management globally, Sharp is also Aiming for a Secure, Safe, and Healthy Workplace making continued efforts to acquire OHSAS 18001 or certification for occupational safety and health management system standards in each country*5 for its overseas manufacturing bases. Sharp Corporation holds periodic Central Safety and Health Committee Meetings that bring the company and the labor union together to confirm the status of company-wide safety and health efforts and share *4 One of the occupational safety and health management system certification standards; it is the most widely used standard around the world today. valuable information. It has also organized a team consisting of Central Safety and Health Committee *5 For example, manufacturing subsidiary SATL in Thailand acquired TIS 18001 Thai occupational safety and health members to conduct safety and health inspections at each site. certification in August 2007. Moreover, a Safety and Health Committee consisting of labor and management representatives at each business location holds a monthly meeting to report and discuss safety and health activities and decide on ■ OHSAS 18001-Certified Sites and Overseas Bases improvement measures. A Safety and Health Council at each business location holds meetings in which subcontractors who are permanently stationed within Sharp sites also take part. Participants discuss liaison and coordination among related work projects and share information in an attempt to improve the safety Tochigi, Kameyama, Mie, Yao, Sakai, Nara, Katsuragi, Toyama, Japan and health management system for the entire business location. Mihara, Fukuyama, Hiroshima The result of these continuing measures is that the Sharp Group’s*1 industrial accident rate (frequency rate Overseas SMPL (Poland), SSI, (Indonesia), WSEC (China) of lost-worktime industrial accidents*2) in Japan in 2011 was 0.23. This rate is consistently below the national average for the manufacturing industry. *1 Sharp Group in Japan: Sharp Corporation, SEMC, SEO, SAS, SSP, SEK, SDS, SFC, SMS, SDP, STC, OSS, SOR, iDeep Solutions *2 Indicator that represents the incidence of industrial accidents per million work hours (one day or more of suspended operations) Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 089 For Employees Enhancing Mental Health Care and Expanding the Support System for Getting and Keeping Employees in Shape Employees Taking or Returning from Medical Leave Sharp in Japan has achieved a participation rate for lifestyle disease checkups (periodic health checkups) of In order to help employees prevent mental illnesses or deal with them at an early stage and to support 99.99%. employees on medical leave in making a smooth return to work, Sharp in Japan has a counseling system in Sharp also provides active one-on-one health guidance to improve employees’ lifestyles and holds small which medical specialists or industrial counselors are stationed at main offices and plants. The company group workshops as a population approach* to improving health. Other initiatives to improve the health of also conducts various training and educational activities to deepen employees’ knowledge of mental health employees include holding team walking events—in which 17,300 employees participated last year—and care and to have them acquire methods for dealing with mental health. expanding the company-wide no-smoking campaign aimed at reducing smoking rates. Also, as part of periodic health checkups, Sharp carries out mental stress checkups on all employees by Long working hours and other hard labor can increase risk factors that can lead to health problems such as self-diagnosis (99.0% participation rate in fiscal 2011). For employees who are diagnosed with high stress cerebrovascular disorders, heart diseases, and mental illness. Sharp strives to prevent health problems by levels, Sharp gives one-on-one counseling through industrial physicians or counselors. having industrial physicians give face-to-face guidance to employees working long hours using criteria that In fiscal 2011, Sharp strengthened cooperation among its staff (General Affairs Department, industrial surpass legal standards. physicians, Healthcare Division, union chapters, counselors, etc.) at Sharp sites and affiliates. It also (1) * This approach works to prevent lifestyle diseases and reduce health risks in all of Sharp by helping individual employees conducted mental health group work training, (2) raised knowledge of mental health-related issues by exercise regularly and eat properly. encouraging employees to acquire third-party certification in mental health management, and (3) encouraged the use of counseling resources both inside and outside the company. Sharp will continue to Case Studies expand and improve measures such as these to enhance mental health care. Holding Mini Workshops in the Workplace Programs for Mental Health Care Upon requests from Shoku.com workplace meetings held at each workplace, industrial physicians, health nurses, nurses, and dental hygienists visited the location and provided 30-minute-long Sharp carries out initiatives from the three perspectives of illness prevention and health promotion; workshops based on themes early detection and treatment; and returning to work and preventing recurrence. such as “Relieving your ■ Number of Shoku.com mini workshops by theme physical strain,” “Refreshing (No. of times) 80 Primary prevention yourself after work,” “Coping • Educating employees through job-level-specific mental health group work training 60 Illness prevention • Distributing a Workplace Mental Health Handbook to all employees well with stress,” and “The 40 and health • Holding certification tests for mental health management at the company secret power of saliva.” About 20 promotion 270 of these useful workshops 0 have been held at different Handling Chewing Coping Refreshing The Relieving Helping The power of locations with a total of about alcohol well to well yourself Recording your you sleep saliva in Secondary prevention • Providing mental stress checkups simultaneously with regular physical checkups for all better improve with stress after work Diet physical better periodontal employees 4,000 employees participating. health strain disease • Providing face-to-face counseling at main sites by company counselors or medical Early detection specialists Company-Wide No-Smoking Campaign and treatment • Giving advice by e-mail, phone, or in-person counseling through specialized outside organizations Sharp No-Smoking Day, during which employees are asked to refrain from smoking for an entire day, • Counseling for those employees who have experienced major changes in their was held for the first time in fiscal 2010. Stimulated by the cigarette tax hike adopted in October environment, such as transfer, transfer not accompanied by family, and job promotion 2011, the smoking rate among Sharp employees dropped from 29.2% to 26.8% in fiscal 2011. In addition to maintaining a strong support system provided by doctors and industrial healthcare staff who provide nicotine patches and oral Tertiary prevention • A support system that provides ongoing communication with employees on medical medicine prescribed by the Healthcare ■ Smoking rate among employees leave from work (Japan) Division, the entire company makes • A support program to help employees who were on medical leave from work make a efforts to reduce the smoking rate that (%) smooth return to work, in cooperation with an industrial physician, one’s assigned 33.0 32.3 Returning to work department, and the General Affairs Department include posting hand-made no-smoking and preventing • Providing a trial period for employees who were on medical leave to support their 31.0 30.1 recurrence posters created each season throughout 29.2 return-to-work training 29.0 the company and posting no-smoking • Enhance support for each mental illness case by improving the support system for 27.0 26.8 employees returning from medical leave support stories in the no-smoking column on the Sharp Health Insurance 25.0 No-smoking Association’s website. 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) awareness poster Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 090 For Local Communities Social Contribution Activities as a Corporate Citizen As Sharp approaches the 100th year of its founding, the company is undertaking social contribution activities that show its gratitude towards society in an effort to carry on the sentiment of its founder. Based on its business philosophy “to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of people throughout the world” and as a corporate citizen, Sharp addresses various social challenges with a global viewpoint—recognizing the environment, education, and social welfare as priority fields—and conducts community-based social contribution activities, aiming for a harmonious coexistence with society. Objectives for Fiscal 2011 Achievements for Fiscal 2011 Objectives for Fiscal 2012 • Hold community-based Sharp Forest activities that lead to the • Held Sharp Forest activities 46 times with a total of about 1,700 employees participating • Actively expand and enhance environmental and biodiversity protection protection of biodiversity activities in Sharp Forests and Ramsar Convention wetlands • Provide environmental education at 500 elementary schools • Provided environmental education at 500 elementary schools • Continue environmental education at 500 elementary schools • Continue educational support for persons with disabilities at (including 30 special-needs schools for the hearing impaired) • Expand and enhance educational support activities for persons with special-needs schools) disabilities; expand the range of participants • Provide craftsmanship education at 100 elementary schools; • Provided craftsmanship education at 83 elementary schools; provided programs that combine • Continue craftsmanship education at 100 elementary schools; continue continue educational programs that combine factory tours, visits to factory tours and environment/craftsmanship classes at 33 schools educational programs that combine factory tours and visits to the Sharp the Sharp Technology Hall, and environment/craftsmanship classes Technology Hall • Continue local social contribution activities at all Sharp sales and • A total of about 33,000 employees participated in volunteer activities, with about 12,000 • Carry out local social contribution activities at all sales and service bases service bases in Japan participants from Sharp sales and service bases in Japan and about 21,000 participants from all centered around the month Sharp was founded (September) • Encourage volunteering among employees, with a goal of having Sharp offices and bases • Encourage volunteering among employees (55,000 participants from all 30,000 employees volunteer Sharp Group companies including overseas subsidiaries) • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in China • In China, donated humidifying air purifiers, provided scholarships, carried out beautification • Continue activities centered on Sharp Charity Foundation in China • Continue expanding environmental education in overseas regions campaigns in areas near Sharp bases, conducted tree-planting activities, etc. • Continue expanding educational support activities, such as • Promote environmental protection activities and other social action • Expanded environmental education activities to ASEAN regions with programs held at a total of 75 schools environmental education in overseas regions programs in overseas regions • In overseas regions, carried out activities linked to protection of the environment and biodiversity • Continue promoting environmental and biodiversity protection activities as well as social welfare activities and other social action programs in overseas regions Fundamental View of Social Contribution Activities Sharp also works to foster a corporate climate conducive to volunteering and to enhance employees’ social awareness by providing the systems and the type of environment that make it easier for its employees in Sharp promotes social contribution activities based on the business ■ Three Important Fields Japan to participate in social contribution activities. Sharp provides employees with opportunities to philosophy “to contribute to the culture, benefits and welfare of of Social Contribution Activities volunteer and has a volunteer leave system, whereby employees can take up to a one-year leave from work people throughout the world.” Sharp focuses on social challenges to engage in volunteer activities, and a multipurpose leave system, whereby employees can receive eight from a global viewpoint and uses its own resources to conduct days of extra paid leave per year to engage in socially valuable activities. community-based activities that contribute to society in Japan and Environment in areas around the world. In a unique initiative, Sharp and its labor union in Japan jointly established the Sharp Green Club (SGC) to Harmony and carry out such activities as local cleanup campaigns and forest preservation activities. Sharp recognizes the environment, education, and social welfare as Coexistence priority fields for these activities, has created structures and with Society systems for these activities, and voluntarily and continuously tackles Education S Social Welfare these areas. These activities will help Sharp both maintain the trust Progress in Social Contribution Activities of society and aim for a harmonious coexistence with society. In fiscal 2011, Sharp continued carrying out global and local community-based social contribution activities centered on the three fields of the environment, education, and social welfare. Structures and Systems for Promoting Social Contribution Activities To assist in reconstruction efforts after the Great East Japan Earthquake that caused enormous damage, particularly in the Tohoku region, Sharp provided monetary aid and various products. It also harnessed its Sharp Corporation’s Head Office has a division that specializes in the planning and promotion of all resources—including employee volunteers—to assist with reconstruction activities such as educational domestic and overseas social contribution activities. This division plans social action measures and builds support programs for elementary schools in disaster areas. structures and systems for implementing social contribution activities. These efforts earned Sharp social recognition, with the company receiving letters of appreciation from local For its educational support programs, Sharp continues to develop human resources, including training governments and prestigious awards. employees to serve as instructors in regions throughout Japan and registering those employees as in-house-qualified personnel. Sharp also encourages employees to acquire a skill—like sign language—that In fiscal 2012, Sharp will step up its social contribution activities as it reaches its 100th year, based on the would enable them to contribute to society. sentiment of gratitude held by its founder. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 091 For Local Communities Case Studies Environment As a corporate citizen, Sharp undertakes activities to protect biodiversity, as well as other environmental conservation activities, and contributes to the global environment through its business activities, as laid out in its vision of “Becoming an Eco-Positive Company.” Sharp also carries out activities led by the joint labor-management organization Sharp Green Club (SGC). In Japan, these activities include Sharp Forest work, Ramsar Convention wetland protection activities, cleanup campaigns, and greening activities at all production sites and sales and service bases. Forest preservation work, biodiversity protection campaigns, and other environmental conservation activities are also conducted continuously at bases outside of Japan, in a manner rooted in local lifestyles and social climates. Related information Page 62 & 63: Protecting Biodiversity Environmental Conservation Activities in Japan Owls are a symbol of Sharp is developing 12 Sharp Forests as an initiative to protect satoyama habitats. They biodiversity and regenerate the area between the foot of a mountain cannot live in forests with and arable land, known in Japan as satoyama. In addition, the insufficient biodiversity. I company is also carrying out conservation activities in 10 Ramsar hope we can continue Convention* wetlands. In particular, Sharp launched a new initiative carrying out activities such under the Sharp Forests banner to “create forests where owls can as tree-thinning at I & I Land Sharp Forest in Shijonawate, live.” The aim of the initiative is to promote forests with even richer Osaka Prefecture to create a Katsunori Kubo ecosystems. Representative brighter and richer NPO Satoyama Salon Sharp promotes cleanup campaigns, greening activities, and other ecosystem in the forest. Cleanup Campaign at Manko Filling Sharp Forests with Owls biodiversity protection activities in areas and communities near its in Okinawa Prefecture From 2011, numerous employees and their production sites and offices. The Sendai Building received a letter of A wonderful part of the appreciation from the city of Sendai for its successful cleanup IIn December 2011, 34 people—including family members have been carrying out activities being carried out at campaigns following the Great East Japan Earthquake. employees and their family members—carried preservation activities in I & I Land Sharp Forest Konoyama Sharp Forest in out a cleanup campaign in the Manko tidal flat, in Shijonawate and Konoyama Sharp Forest in Kishiwada, Osaka In fiscal 2011, a total of approximately 21,000 employees a Ramsar Convention wetlands. The group Kishiwada, Osaka Prefecture. Efforts include Prefecture, is that participated in approximately 800 campaigns. Sharp will continue to worked to clear the mud flats, which serve as a periodically thinning trees and installing nesting participants enjoy their work expand its community-based activities and contribute to local feeding ground for waterfowl. boxes to create forests where owls—a symbol as they try to turn the entire communities. forest into a good habitat for Miho Kazama of rich biodiversity—can live. Kishiwada Board of Education owls. I hope the activities will Natural History Museum * A convention to protect internationally important wetlands as a habitat for keep going for a long time. Kishiwada City waterfowl and to protect the wildlife inhabiting those wetlands. Overseas Environmental Conservation Activities As a corporate citizen, Sharp is proactively undertaking environmental conservation activities—such as planting and nurturing trees and releasing juvenile fish into water areas—that lead to biodiversity protection. Through such efforts that target various environmental social issues at local bases around the world, Sharp aims to develop environmental awareness among its employees, while at the same time contributing to the global environment. Sharp will continue developing community-based environmental conservation activities while further cooperating with local Setting up Honeybee Hives in the UK Biodiversity Learning Session in Taiwan Tree Planting in Canada organizations. In June 2011, UK-based sales subsidiary SUK set In June 2011, 44 people including employees of In October 2011, 15 employees of up beehives on the roof of its building as the first Taiwan-based sales subsidiary SECT and their Canada-based sales subsidiary SECL planted step to preserving honeybees—species whose family members took part in a biodiversity learning 250 indigenous tree seedlings along a local decreasing populations are a global concern. session and carried out a local cleanup campaign. river. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 092 For Local Communities Case Studies Education Sharp is undertaking educational support activities directed at children, on whose shoulders the future will rest, to increase their awareness of global environmental issues and their interest in science, and to get them thinking about future careers. In fiscal 2011, various classes were held at approximately 690 schools in Japan and overseas (for about 36,500 children) that were well received by the schools and children. Sharp also earned high praise from communities for these activities, receiving an award from the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology three consecutive years in a prestigious commendation system. Sharp is expanding its activities throughout the globe, including North America, China, and ASEAN regions. By the end of December 2011, classroom presentations had been given to a total of approximately 3,000 schools around the world, reaching roughly 190,000 children. Educational Activities in Japan Words from an Educational and Since October 2006, Sharp has been conducting ■ Future direction of Sharp’s educational support activities Administrative Authority environmental education activities at elementary schools in collaboration with the Weathercaster From fiscal 2012 Increasing mutual understanding, collaboration, and cooperation Overseas environmental between corporations and educators is absolutely essential for Network (WCN) and with the cooperation of the Asaza Expand range of participants education improving education throughout society as a whole. Sharp’s Fund. The aim of the classes is to foster concern for educational support initiatives, which involve programs such as Career education for persons the global environment in children by conveying to Environmental education with disabilities (plan) environmental education and craftsmanship education, do at schools for the visually them the global warming problem in easy-toimpaired (plan) precisely that. I want to thank Sharp again for providing an initiative understand lessons, leading them to save power, Factory tours and Sharp won the Award from the Minister of Education, that greatly increases children’s motivation to learn by raising practice the 3Rs, and carry out other specific Environmental education environmental/craftsmanship Culture, Sports, Science and Technology at the 2011 awareness in the classroom of day-to-day environmental issues at schools for the hearing classes Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Achievement eco-friendly actions. Another aim is to increase impaired and by fostering a greater curiosity about everyday products. Commendations for its elementary school children’s interest in science through experiments and environmental education program Hiroshi Yamashita Elementary school other methods. Based on advice and requests received craftsmanship education Director, Office for Supporting Regional and School Education from teachers at the schools while implementing these Social Education Division, Lifelong Learning Policy Bureau Elementary school Words from an Elementary School Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology programs, the fields and range of participants is being Environmental Education Instructor environmental expanded to include education for hearing-impaired education The classes have a great balance between offering a place for children and for children overseas. In addition, Sharp is Expand number of educational fields By giving these classes, I’ve increased my students to learn about environmental issues and a place for them also developing activities such as craftsmanship own environmental awareness. I’ve also to get hands-on experience through become aware of experimentation. I also feel that the learning education, factory tours and environmental/ various things I program excels from the viewpoint of career craftsmanship classes that lead to solving various hadn’t noticed before social issues in the future. Plans are also in motion to education by giving children the opportunity to in my life. watch weather casters and Sharp employees expand and improve educational support activities for Masanori Unoki up close teach classes with great passion. persons with disabilities. Such activities will include Junior Manager holding environmental education classes at schools for Shizuoka Branch Keiko Morikawa Sharp Electronics Education Supervisor, School Planning Division the visually impaired and providing career education for Marketing Corporation School Education Department, Sakai City Board of Education hearing-impaired children by having Sharp employees Elementary school environmental education with disabilities visit schools and conduct classes. Overseas Environmental Education Overseas environmental education began in fiscal 2008, starting in the United States and China, and has since expanded to ASEAN countries and Europe where community-based activities are held. For example, Sharp began holding environmental classes focusing on solar power in Indonesia. In fiscal 2011, approximately 7,500 students in 75 elementary schools overseas learned about the environment. Classes at Canada-based sales subsidiary SECL Classes at Indonesia-based manufacturing and Classes at China-based manufacturing subsidiary SSEC sales subsidiary SEID Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 093 For Local Communities Case Studies Social Welfare In the field of social welfare, Sharp focuses on providing support for the physically or mentally challenged. Activities include employment for disabled persons at a special Sharp subsidiary; job assistance for the physically or mentally challenged, in the form of sales opportunities through vocational training centers; and environmental education classes for children with disabilities in Japan. Sharp also undertakes support activities, such as donations to welfare facilities and charities overseas, to combat various social issues in an effort to improve the social welfare of local communities. Social Welfare Activities in Japan ■ Efforts for the Employment of the Disabled ■ Providing Sales Opportunities for Vocational Sharp Tokusen Industry Co. was the first company to be Training Center* Products Words from a Cooperating Support Group established as a special subsidiary in Japan and employ the As a joint effort between labor and management, Sharp Every month, our organization uses Sharp’s facilities physically or mentally challenged, allowing them to participate in provides sales opportunities on its premises for to support physically or mentally challenged people society. handmade products from vocational training centers, by selling bread and other products they make at working together with local governments and non-profit vocational training centers. Everyone who is involved Sharp Tokusen Industry organizations. As of the end of fiscal 2011, sales took in the project is very pleased that our products are also actively fulfills requests place at 13 locations throughout Japan, with a total of bought by many employees and that the project has for work experience from Selling vocational training center products about 11,000 employees buying. There are plans to not only provided support to physically or mentally special-needs schools and expand sales to other sites in the future. challenged individuals, but has even led to greater other schools. In fiscal harmonious coexistence. We 2011, 143 students * A workplace for the physically or mentally challenged are undertaking this initiative participated in the work jointly with Sakai City, as part experience program and ■ Environmental Education at Special-Needs Schools of an Osaka Prefecturefound it a useful experience sponsored trial program that for their future careers. Work experience training Sharp conducts environmental education lessons at supports people with approximately 30 special-needs elementary schools for disabilities through educating the hearing impaired across Japan annually. The Page 87: Promoting the Employment of the collaborations with Related information lessons are based on the government curriculum Physically or Mentally Challenged corporations. We will continue Katsura Chujo guidelines and incorporate visual lesson aids and Chairman to expand the scope of this NPO Together interactive experiments, with the aim of increasing the Environmental education at a initiative. students’ environmental awareness and interest in science. special-needs school Overseas Social Welfare Activities As a corporate citizen, Sharp is targeting priority issues in social welfare even at local bases around the world. The company focuses on undertaking donation and charity activities for facilities and schools for the physically or mentally challenged and the elderly. These activities lead to an improved social awareness in Sharp employees, while at the same time contributing to local society. Sharp will continue actively developing community-based social action programs. Donating School Bags in Malaysia Volunteer House Building in the US Supporting Victims of the Thailand Floods In February 2012, employees of Malaysia-based In September 2011, employees of US-based In October 2011, Thailand-based sales subsidiary manufacturing subsidiary SOEM visited an sales subsidiary SEC worked together with an STCL worked together with a local company to elementary school and donated 100 school NPO to build homes for impoverished people in donate relief supplies to people whose homes bags to the children there. the local area. were destroyed in the massive flood. Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 094 For Local Communities Case Studies Employee Volunteer Activities and Others In an effort to pass on the gratitude of its founder, Sharp actively encourages its employees to take part in volunteer activities to give back to local communities. These locally rooted activities aimed at resolving social issues lead to greater social awareness in employees and foster a volunteer spirit at the company. Employee Volunteers Sharp works to create an environment where each and every employee can actively participate in Environmental Volunteer Activities Held Jointly by Labor and Management community-based social action programs and volunteer activities based on three points: developing The volunteer organization Sharp Green Club (SGC) is a joint effort between labor and management that volunteer leave and other company systems, developing the volunteer organization Sharp Green Club was launched in June 2003. The aim of this project is to foster awareness of environmental protection (SGC) as a joint effort between labor and management, and providing employees opportunities to among employees and give back to local communities by having each and every employee take part in participate in volunteer activities together with NPOs and other third-party organizations. Sharp uses these community-based social action programs. community-based volunteer activities as a way to foster a volunteer spirit at the company and enhance social awareness among its employees. Sharp carried out environmental and biodiversity protection activities in fiscal 2011 as well. Included were such activities as community cleanup campaigns, tree planting, forest cultivating activities, and efforts to protect rare flora and fauna. About 21,000 employees took part in these volunteer activities. These activities have earned high praise. The Sendai Building and Tokyo Chuo Building received letters of appreciation from local governments in fiscal 2011 for their activities. In particular, the Sendai Building received great praise for continuing its cleanup campaign—carried out for some time under the cooperation of labor and management—even after it was affected by the earthquake. In fiscal 2012, SGC set its action plan as “contribute to local communities by stepping up community-based environmental and biodiversity protection Sharp continues to provide its employees with Employees increase their understanding of persons with Yoshihide Sakai activities.” We will continue to further our collaboration with local SGC Chief Secretariat opportunities to take part in disaster area reconstruction disabilities by taking part in support activities at welfare assistance activities that are still greatly needed, in an facilities governments and NPOs to undertake even more effective activities. Social Contribution Promotion effort to help reconstruct the areas as soon as possible Department CSR Promotion Division Legal Group Related information Page 95: Reconstruction Efforts to Support Areas Devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake Sharp Corporation TO P I C S Sharp Charity Foundation in China Actively Helps Out the Community in Fiscal 2011 Through Air Purifier Donations, Scholarships, and Other Measures Every year, the Sharp Charity Foundation (SCF), established in 2006, continues its social contribution activities, such as donating Sharp products, granting scholarships, cleaning and tree-planting activities, and conducting environmental education. In fiscal 2011, Sharp donated 88 humidifying air purifiers to 15 hospitals and 10 child welfare facilities and provided about 200 scholarships to students at 11 universities. Donating to the Shanghai Charity Foundation (August 2011) Scholarships were given to 35 students at Wuxi Jiangnan University (December 2011) Sharp and Society Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 095 For Local Communities Close-Up Reconstruction Efforts to Support Areas Devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake Sharp’s Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction support initially involved providing about 140 million yen in company and employee donations and Words from Certified NPO Japan Platform with Whom Sharp Collaborated to Supply Products to Devastated Areas about 1,900 Sharp products (such as home appliances and solar power Japan Platform is an organization that works with NGOs, the business community, and the government systems) to assist in reconstruction efforts. Following that, Sharp then to provide humanitarian assistance. As part of Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction effort, launched ongoing support activities, such as educational support activities to Japan Platform matched NGOs that needed certain supplies in devastated areas with the corporations cheer up children in devastated areas (a Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, that could provide those supplies. When we called on companies with requests for support, we were Science and Technology Reconstruction Partner Enterprise project) and met with a swift response from Sharp. Sharp did not stop at simply providing solar power systems and volunteer reconstruction activities by employees. home appliances, but even went so far as to provide product explanations, responding with a sense of Various activities are also being undertaken outside the devastated areas that responsibility. After seeing how useful Sharp technology was in devastated areas, for example air include purchasing products made in vocational aid centers in devastated purifiers helping to improve the environment in emergency shelters with closed windows, I am very glad areas and participating in events such as the “3.11 from KANSAI” event held Naoya Hirano we are collaborating with the company. in the Kansai region to support afflicted areas. Certified NPO Japan Platform Sharp has received many letters of appreciation from administrative organizations and local governments of Miyagi Prefecture and other A Message from the Minamisanriku Town Reconstruction Support Ambassador devastated areas. Minamisanriku Town suffered extensive damage in the earthquake. We are hosting Minamisanriku Town Ongoing support is still greatly needed in devastated areas. Sharp will volunteer tours as an effort to reconstruct the town. Numerous Sharp employees come out for each continue efforts to contribute to the earliest possible reconstruction through tour and are actively involved in the activities. educational support activities and volunteer reconstruction efforts. Sharp also kindly fulfilled our request and donated a 3D LCD TV to put in the community center for the people of Minamisanriku Town. The people of the town are overjoyed by the TV. One year has passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake. As support activities are slowly waning, we are exceptionally grateful to Sharp for actively continuing to provide us with support. Anji Hino (former Takarazuka Review member) Minamisanriku Town Reconstruction Support Ambassador Words from Employees Who Participated in Volunteer Reconstruction Activities Despite ongoing reconstruction efforts As a native of Sendai, I wanted to do in disaster-stricken areas, there is still something to help my hometown and a great need for volunteers. I hope so I volunteered for the “3.11 from many people will go to these areas to KANSAI” reconstruction support event carry out activities and get a real in Osaka. At the event, I distributed sense of the current situation there. I newspapers for organizations working also want to continue helping as in disaster-stricken areas and helped much as I can and put up photo panels of the disasterKenji Sunahara Megumi Ohgiya Junior Manager never forget the No. 3 Laboratory stricken areas. I hope to Letter of appreciation from Volunteer reconstruction activities by employees Quality Assurance Department Energy Technology Laboratories continue taking part in the Miyagi prefectural governor Health and Environmental Systems Group lessons we learned in Corporate Research and Sharp Corporation this disaster. Development Group reconstruction support Sharp Corporation activities here in Kansai. Related information Page 94: Employee Volunteers Honors from Third Parties Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 096 Since Fiscal 2011 Honors from Third Parties ■ Efforts Year Month Award Sponsor Winner Carre-CCSL (Carre-Center for Customer Satisfaction 5 SQ Golden Award (home entertainment and home appliances), Indonesian Service Quality Awards 2012 and Loyalty), Marketing magazine (Indonesia) PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia Fortune China CSR Ranking 2012; top 25 foreign companies Fortune China magazine, InnoCSR Sharp (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 3 New Energy Policy Category Award; 15th Green Reporting Awards and Sustainability Reporting Awards Toyo Keizai Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 2012 China’s No. 1 flat-panel TV; 2011 China High-Efficiency and Energy-Saving Product Leader Company China Standard Certification Center Nanjing Sharp Electronics Co., Ltd. (China) Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize (top prize); Widespread Career Education Model category; Ministry of Economy, 2nd Career Education Awards Trade and Industry (Japan) Sharp Corporation 1 Environmental Protection Agency, ENERGY STAR Award for Excellence 2012 ® Department of Energy (US) Sharp Electronics Corporation (US) 2011 China Best CSR Award 21st Century Business Herald (China) Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. 12 2011 Outstanding CSR Award China Business News Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. Excellent Company Award; 2011 Internet IR Best Company Awards (Japan) Sharp Corporation 11 Green Management Prize; 2011 China Business News Green Love Eco-Series Green Awards China Business News Sharp Electronics Sales (China) Co., Ltd. Clean Japan Center Chairman’s Prize; 2011 Resource Recycling Technologies and Systems Commendation Clean Japan Center Sharp Corporation (for development of closed-loop recyclable bioplastic) Award from the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology; 2011 Reduce, Reuse, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Recycle Promotion Achievement Commendations Promotion Association (Japan) Sharp Corporation, Weathercaster Network (for elementary school environmental education) 10 Award from the Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Promotion Association Chairman; 2011 Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Sharp Corporation Mie Plant (for reducing waste fluid) Promotion Achievement Commendations Promotion Association (Japan) Sharp Corporation Fukuyama Plant (for reducing chemical use in semiconductor production) 2011 Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Prize, Family-Friendly Enterprise category; Osaka Labour Bureau Director’s Prize, Ministry of Health, Equality Promotion Enterprise category; 2011 Equal Employment/Work-Family Balance Corporation Awards Labour and Welfare (Japan) Sharp Corporation ChemoBio Integrated 9 Award for Encouragement: ChemoBio Integrated Management Society 2011 Management Society (Japan) Sharp Corporation No. 1 in five categories of the After-Sales Service Satisfaction Ranking 7 (flat-screen TV, DVD/HDD recorder, washing machine/dryer, air conditioner, smartphone) Nikkei BP Marketing, Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation Letter of appreciation from the Governor of Osaka Prefecture Osaka Prefecture Sharp Green Club (for Konoyama Sharp Forest) 5 Carre-CCSL (Carre-Center for Customer Satisfaction SQ Golden Award (home entertainment and home appliances), Indonesian Service Quality Awards 2011 and Loyalty), Marketing magazine (Indonesia) PT. Sharp Electronics Indonesia Special award, 4th Diversity Management Awards Toyo Keizai Inc. (Japan) Sharp Corporation 4 Environmental Protection Agency, ENERGY STAR® Award for Excellence 2011 Department of Energy (US) Sharp Electronics Corporation (US) ■ Products JEMA (Japan Electrical Development of top-loading washing machine/dryer pulsator modeled on a Award of Merit, 2012 (61st) Electrical Technology Achievement Awards Manufacturers’ Association) dolphin’s tail fin and skin wrinkles for high washing power and water savings 4 JEMA (Japan Electrical Development of dust-compression blade in a cyclonic vacuum cleaner modeled Award of Encouragement, 2012 (61st) Electrical Technology Achievement Awards Manufacturers’ Association) on the surface structure of a cat’s tongue 3 China’s No. 1 flat-panel TV; 2011 China High-Efficiency Leader Products China Standard Certification Center LCD-70X55A LCD TV 2012 Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize; Energy Conservation Grand Prize Energy Conservation Center, Japan AQUOS L5 Series 1 Energy Conservation Center Chairman’s Prize; Energy Conservation Grand Prize Energy Conservation Center, Japan PN-V602 LCD monitor Grand Prize, 2011 (54th) 10 Best New Products Awards Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun, Ltd. (Japan) Practical application and sales of protein analysis equipment 11 2011 Good Design Gold Award Japan Institute of Design Promotion NS-F135G5 thin-film solar module 5 Winner (Best Home Appliance category), Mother’s Selection, 4th Best Mother Awards 2011 Japan Mothers Society Plasmacluster air purifiers, ion generators 2011 JEMA (Japan Electrical Development of highly efficient, lightweight air conditioner indoor unit cross-flow fan Award of Merit, 2010 (60th) Electrical Technology Achievement Awards Manufacturers’ Association) modeled on the shape of a dragonfly wing 4 JEMA (Japan Electrical Development of energy-efficient SJ-XW44T and X Series odor-absorbing Award of Encouragement, 2010 (60th) Electrical Technology Achievement Awards Manufacturers’ Association) Plasmacluster refrigerators Outline of Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 097 the Sharp Group Sharp’s business activities comprise “Consumer/Information Products” (i.e., end-user consumer electronics and information products) and “Electronic Components” (i.e., key components of electronic products). By undertaking the development both of key devices based on proprietary technologies and of products in which these devices and technologies are applied, Sharp aims to inspire and impress its customers. The company is working actively to develop its business by pioneering new markets and by bringing forth never-before-seen, one-of-a-kind products and devices. Corporate Profile Name Sharp Corporation Operations* Manufacture and sales of audio-visual and communication equipment, health and environmental equipment, Head Office 22-22, Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka information equipment, LCDs, solar cells, and other electronic devices 545-8522, Japan Capital Stock* 204,675 million yen (rounded down to the nearest million) Representative Takashi Okuda, President Number of Employees* Consolidated: 56,756 Founded September 15, 1912 Entire Sharp Group: 64,429 (30,889 in Japan; 33,540 overseas) * As of March 31, 2012 Main Products Audio-Visual and LCDs Communication Equipment AQUOS Quattron 3D Smartphones Multi-screen display system 3D LCD LCD color TVs, color TVs, projectors, DVD recorders, Blu-ray Disc recorders, Blu-ray Disc players, mobile TFT LCD modules, Duty LCD modules, System LCD modules phones, mobile communications handsets, electronic dictionaries, calculators, facsimiles, telephones Health and Solar Cells Environmental Plasmacluster Equipment LED ceiling light Residential-use high-efficiency Solar power plant in southern Italy Robotic cleaning appliance slim ion fan monocrystalline solar module Refrigerators, superheated steam ovens, microwave ovens, air conditioners, washing machines, vacuum cleaners, air Crystalline solar cells, thin-film solar cells purifiers, dehumidifiers, humidifiers, electric heaters, small cooking appliances, beauty appliances, Plasmacluster Ion generators, LED lights, solar-powered LED lights, network control units Other Information Electronic Equipment Devices Touchscreen Digital signage player module LED driver for flashlights Digital full-color MFP LCD monitor POS systems, handy data terminals, electronic cash registers, information displays, digital MFPs (multifunction printers), CCD/CMOS imagers, LSIs for LCDs, microprocessors, flash memory, analog ICs, components for satellite broadcasting, options and consumables, software, FA equipment, ultrasonic cleaners terrestrial digital tuners, RF modules, network components, laser diodes, LEDs, optical pickups, optical sensors, components for optical communications, regulators, switching power supplies Corporate information Outline of Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 098 the Sharp Group ■ Net Sales, Operating Income, and Net Income (Consolidated) ■ The Sharp Group at a Glance (as of March 31, 2012) Operating income, net income Net sales (billions of yen) (billions of yen) 3,600 3,417.7 360 • Consolidated subsidiaries: 78 (17 in Japan, 61 overseas) 3,000 2,847.2 3,021.9 300 2,755.9 2,400 2,455.8 240 • Overseas structure 1,800 183.6 180 1,200 101.9 120 Regional headquarters 1 company in 1 country/region 51.9 78.8 600 60 4.3 19.4 0 0 Sales subsidiaries 30 companies in 26 countries/regions -60 -55.4 -37.5 -120 Manufacturing bases 21 companies in 13 countries/regions -125.8 -180 -240 R&D bases 7 companies in 5 countries/regions -300 -360 R&D company and parts supplier 1 company in 1 country/region -376.0 -420 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Solar power bases 3 companies in 3 countries/regions Net sales Operating income Net income Finance company 1 company in 1 country/region ■ Fiscal 2011 Net Sales Component Ratio ■ Fiscal 2011 Net Sales Component Ratio Total 64 companies in 27 countries/regions by Product Group (Consolidated) by Region (Consolidated) Consumer/ Electronic components information products Overseas 51.9% Domestic 33.6% 66.4% 48.1% Other electronic devices Others 9.0% Solar cells 7.4％ ■ Number of Sharp Group Employees 9.1％ (Persons) China Japan 65,000 64,246 64,429 LCDs Audio-visual and 19.7％ 48.1% 61,734 348 371 17.1％ 60,000 59,639 58,912 319 communication equipment Europe 331 318 11.5％ 55,000 Information 43.2％ equipment Americas 50,000 Health and 11.3％ 11.7％ 23,272 23,830 environmental equipment 45,000 19,167 18,556 21,071 11.9％ 40,000 4,687 4,226 4,177 4,600 4,652 ■ Principal Financial Performance Indicators ■ R&D Expenditures (Consolidated) 35,000 (%) (Consolidated) (Billions of yen) (%) 4,730 4,795 4,471 4,516 4,687 30,000 12 8.4 200 196.1 195.5 12 6 25,000 0.4 1.9 166.5 173.9 0 -4.4 154.7 3.4 150 9 20,000 -6 0.2 0.7 -12 6.9 30,724 31,017 31,696 31,510 30,889 6.0 6.3 15,000 Others -18 -11.1 -13.7 100 5.7 5.8 6 -24 Asia 10,000 -30 Europe 50 3 5,000 -36 Americas -42 0 Japan -48 -45.5 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Note: Sharp Group comprises Sharp Corporation, its consolidated subsidiaries, ROE (return on equity) R&D expenditures Ratio to net sales Corporate information affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method, and other affiliated ROA (return on assets) companies. Figures as of the end of each fiscal year (March 31). Investor relations Independent Assurance Report Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 099 Third-Party Opinion and Response Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 100 ■ World-Class Report I found Sharp’s 2012 Sustainability Report to be world class both in quality and quantity. I applaud Sharp for conducting measures to deal directly with issues in management, environment, and society, and for giving a detailed report on the results Sharp Sustainability Report 2012 of these measures. In particular, I like how the report opens with fiscal 2011 objectives and achievements, fiscal 2012 Third-Party Opinion objectives, and environmental objectives all the way up to fiscal 2015. This shows that Sharp works to ensure sustainability with thorough PDCA, and it makes this report a model for other companies. ■ Eco-Positive Company Sharp has for years worked towards its corporate vision of becoming an ‘Eco-Positive Company’. It is great that Sharp goes beyond simply reducing CO2 emissions from its business activities; it has come up with the idea of ‘size of contribution to CO2 emission reductions’ as it strives to do its part to help society as a whole reduce its carbon footprint. Sharp’s sustainability report details the company’s concrete environmental targets, as well as its substantial achievements. Sharp has also devised various ways to make use of the latest trends in environmental accounting; for example, by incorporating the Connected Reporting Framework for environmental accounting and disclosing information based on the GHG Protocol Scope 3 reporting standard. ■ Active Efforts in the Social Area of CSR In addition to its environmental efforts, Sharp proactively carries out various activities addressing a wide range of social issues. And although the company’s sustainability report makes somewhat extensive use of qualitative language, it also provides a Katsuhiko Kokubu sincere, honest, and detailed account of both the goals set by Sharp for each social issue and the results of its efforts. It’s Professor important to note how Sharp makes observing antitrust laws a priority in its approach to compliance, and how it strives to Graduate School of Business Administration Kobe University carry out CSR throughout the entire supply chain. In the way of improvement, I would like to see Sharp engage in more interactive communication, including more dialog with stakeholders, using a variety of media. Career Overview ■ Creating New Shared Value Graduated from Graduate School/Faculty of Business, Osaka City University Doctor of Business Administration Overall, I think Sharp is doing a wonderful job in its sustainability activities. However, the company is facing an extremely tough Assistant Professor at Osaka City University and Kobe business environment at the moment. But reading this report shows me that Sharp is providing significant value to local University until 2001 communities and society as a whole. This value is shared by the company and society, and society’s recognition of the Specialized fields: Social and environmental accounting, environmental management, CSR management significance of this value is the source of the company’s competitive strength. The pursuit of sustainability creates shared Director, IEMA (Institute for Environmental Management value, and I believe that it will also help Sharp weather the current economic storm and achieve further growth. Accounting) Chairman, MFCA (Material Cost Flow Accounting) Forum Japan; Chairman, MFCA’s ISO/TC207/WG8 Chairman, Material Cost Flow Accounting Development Sharp’s Response and Dissemination Committee, Ministry of Economy, Trade This year marks the 100th anniversary of Sharp, and the start of another century based on our Noriaki Matsumoto and Industry General Manager Chairman, Committee for Evaluation of Projects to Save corporate roots: the Sharp business philosophy and the business creed of ‘Sincerity and Creativity’. I CSR Promotion Division Resources in the Supply Chain, Ministry of Economy, am extremely grateful that Professor Kokubu has praised Sharp’s approach, particularly the way we Legal Group Trade and Industry adhere to our business creed while dealing directly with CSR issues, disclose information honestly and Sharp Corporation Member, Committee for the Revision of the Environmental sincerely, and pursue our Eco-Positive Company vision and other efforts. Reporting Guidelines, Ministry of the Environment Other posts Companies are under increasing scrutiny for their contributions to social sustainability. Professor Kokubu has suggested we conduct more extensive dialog with stakeholders and that through our Books authored: Material Cost Flow Accounting, Nikkei Publishing Inc. pursuit of sustainability, we create value that is shared by the company and society. We will strive to Environmental Management and Accounting, Yuhikaku reflect these opinions in our efforts to continuously improve sustainability in society and at Sharp. Publishing Co., Ltd. 22-22 Nagaike-cho, Abeno-ku, Osaka 545-8522, Japan Phone: +81-6-6621-1221 http://sharp-world.com/ Published August 2012
