Our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact October 2012 maplecroft risk responsibility reputation 1 About Maplecroft Who we are MAPLECROFT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES are used by multinational organisations to manage risk and reputation across their operations, investments and supply chains. We analyse global risks and issues, covering political, security, legal and regulatory, social, human rights, natural hazards, climate change and environmental issues. Our research takes the form of off-the-shelf and tailored reports, focusing on countries, sectors, issues, commodities and stakeholders, alongside a portfolio of 160 risk indices (including over 500 sub-indices) and scorecards for 197 countries. Risks are quantified and visualised using GIS mapping technology, presenting detail at a regional, national and sub-national level. These interactive maps, together with risk dashboards, calculators and best-practice policies give clients the tools to manage risks, while our professional services team can advise on effective risk management strategies, reporting and stakeholder engagement. 1 Contents Table of Contents Background information Company name Maplecroft Statement of support 3 The Towers Maplecroft products and services 5 St Stephen’s Road Address Bath BA1 5JZ UK PRINCIPLE 1: Protection of internationally 13 proclaimed human rights Telephone no. +44 (0) 1225 420 000 PRINCIPLE 2: Ensure non-complicity in human 17 rights abuses Fax no. +44 (0) 1225 338 329 PRINCIPLE 3: Uphold freedom of association and 19 Web address www.maplecroft.com collective bargaining Submission date 6 October 2012 PRINCIPLE 4: Support elimination of forced and 23 compulsory labour Membership date 11 February 2005 PRINCIPLE 5: Support abolition of child labour 27 Number of 90 employees employees PRINCIPLE 6: Support elimination of discrimination 29 Professional, Scientific and Sector Technical Services PRINCIPLES 7 & 8: Precautionary approach to 33 Contact name Gus Macfarlane environmental challenges & initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Contact position Director PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage environmentally37 friendly technology PRINCIPLE 10: Work against corruption in all of 39 its forms 2 Statement of support Our strong support for the UN Global Compact is reflected in the As we build and expand our business over the next year, we will alignment of our business model with the 10 Principles: The core continue to support the Principles – within our own operations purpose of our products and services is to enable our clients to and through the services we provide our clients. This document manage risks and conduct business in a responsible way. provides an overview of just some of the initiatives that we believe are actively contributing to the success of the UN Global Compact. Maplecroft is also committed to sharing its research and analysis as widely as possible to build awareness of responsible decision making solutions and to educate as many people as possible about human rights, environmental protection and good governance. Professor Alyson Warhurst, Chief Executive and Founder We also support the Principles by providing certain products and services on a subsidised or pro bono basis to NGOs and international organisations. We do this to build awareness of approaches to responsible decision-making as well as helping to inform a wide range of stakeholders about human rights, environmental protection and good governance. We aim to ‘practice what we preach’ in the way we manage and develop our own business. Our activities include: • Membership of the Board of Transparency International (UK) (Alyson Warhurst) • Active participation in the UN Global Compact working group on Responsible Business in Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas • Provision of free and/or heavily subsidised access to selected Global Risks Portfolio products to a number of schools, universities, international organisations and NGOs (including the UN Development Programme, the UN World Food Programme, Save the Children, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs) and Amnesty International) • Discounted provision of mapping materials and/or services to the World Economic Forum and the North Star Foundation • Discounted development of the Girls Discovered website for the UN Foundation, Nike Foundation and the Coalition for Adolescent Girls Professor Alyson Warhurst, Chief Executive • Development of and free of charge support for the UN Global Compact-hosted and GE Foundation-funded Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum • Continued publication and dissemination of Ethical Insight, a free fortnightly review of corporate responsibility news and analysis that is distributed to an estimated 45,000 people via more than 5,000 subscribers • Continued provision of free public access to a selection of 3 Maplecroft maps and analysis Statement of support Case study: Pro bono and subsidised products and services for the not-for-profit community During the course of the last 12 months, Maplecroft has provided a range of products to services to NGOs and international organisations. These are provided either on a completely pro bono basis, or on the basis of subsidised ‘NGO rates’. During the reporting period, the equivalent value of these donations and subsidies has amounted to a total of £90,500. Examples include the following: • Africa Progress Panel: Free GIS maps relating to food security, respect for property rights, and water security • Girl Hub: Subsidised mapping and data generation exercise • Islamic Relief Fund: Free GIS map relating to climate change vulnerability • Nike Foundation: Subsidised mapping and data generation exercise, and provision of website maintenance and updating • Plan UK: Free bespoke GIS maps relating to female unemployment, female adolescent secondary school attendance and female adolescent educational achievement • Rio+20: Free Supply Chain Assessment Tool • Save the Children: Subsidised GIS maps relating to food security in Sierra Leone, Kenya and Mozambique • UNICEF: Free access to our ESG Risk and Sovereign Risk calculators • UNOCHA: Subsidised ‘bronze’ subscription to all our atlases, indices and maps and discounted development of the Global Focus Model for natural disaster preparedness • World Vision: Subsidised ‘bronze’ subscription to all our atlases, indices and maps The provision of pro bono and subsidised materials is a key part of how we do business for a number of reasons. It helps us develop and enhance our relationships with the not-for-profit community, improves staff morale and motivation, and helps ensure that our research and analysis continues to have a positive impact, not only for business, but for society as a whole. Charitable donations and community initiatives Maplecroft has made various donations and investments in community and charitable initiatives over the year, as well as adopting a positive approach to employee initiatives that are always encouraged and supported on a personal level by the Directors and staff. Noteworthy examples include: • Investment of £1,372 in support of our participation in the Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) – the profits from which are used to support a range of community health initiatives across the world • Investment in an Olympic bronze sculpture for the reception hall at Maplecroft and business membership to the ‘Art at the Edge’ project – the profits from which are used to support disadvantaged and disabled young people through the Youth Sport Trust and the British Paralympic Association • Corporate membership to Transparency International – including a donation of £250 4 • Donation of £100 to Children’s Hospice South West Maplecroft products and services The very nature of our work – helping global organisations Who we help: understand, map, analyse and manage global risks in order to take responsible decisions – supports the 10 Principles of the UN Our clients include some of the world’s largest organisations Global Compact. Our focus is on: across all sectors. Alongside working with various UN agencies, non-governmental and inter-governmental agencies, our clients • Political risks, including legal and regulatory frameworks, include major oil and gas, mining, engineering, ICT and agro security, terrorism and corruption commodities and retail companies, as well as investment banks, asset managers, and insurance brokers. • Social risks, including human rights, labour standards, food and water security and broader humanitarian and development issues How we help: • Environmental risks, climate change to water and food Companies use our products and professional services in a security, and natural hazards number of different ways: • Our research covers every country in the world. It takes the • To identify, manage and monitor risk across operations. form of: Clients are particularly interested in information that will help them manage risks across their global supply chains and -Off-the-shelf and tailored reports. These focus distribution networks. Here are a few examples: on countries, sectors, issues, commodities and stakeholders -Country focus: We have just helped a major investment bank understand the risks associated with -A portfolio of 160 risk indices (including over 500 subinvesting in a range of countries across Europe, Asia, indices) and scorecards Africa and the Middle East -GIS maps. These help clients visualise risks and -Commodity focus: We have just helped a major retail presenting detail at a regional, national and suboutlet understand the risks involved with sourcing national level Tuna from the South Pacific – including the political, environmental, and social risks -Interactive tools – risk dashboards, calculators – sector and sovereign, interactive maps -Issue focus: We are in the process of helping one of the world’s leading engineering companies understand the -Best-practice policies human rights issues associated with doing business in 12 countries across Latin America, Africa and Asia. • To inform their corporate strategies and plans. For instance, we are regularly commissioned by an oil and gas Maplecroft Human Rights Risk Index 2012 major to review the logistics and infrastructure framework in new markets. This helps them decide whether it’s feasible to move into the territory, and informs operational planning. Maplecroft products and services • To automate risk management processes. We have • Global Risks Atlas: The Global Risks Atlas 2012 analyses developed an award-winning range of interactive tools. These 33 different risk indices, across seven aggregate clusters can be customised and include interactive risk dashboards in 178 countries and identifies areas of high risk exposure (which enable clients to weight risks), interactive maps (which for organisations with global footprints. These are risks enable clients to visualise the impact or risks onto GIS maps), like terrorism, climate change, global financial crises and and interactive risk calculators. This provides companies with pandemics that are somewhat external to business and a consistent and efficient framework for risk management. sometimes external to the countries where they are operating but that nonetheless can have significant impacts on the • To set up or improve and embed risk management operating environment and supply chains strategies. We have a professional services team who regularly advise our clients on the following: • Political Risk Atlas: The Political Risk Atlas 2012 includes 45 risk indices (expanded from 41 in 2011) measuring -Ethical supply chain management political risks relating to two distinct areas. Dynamic risks are those which change rapidly over a relatively short period -Strategy, including auditing and gap analysis (e.g. the next few quarters) and include political violence, business and macroeconomic risks and the degree of good -Reporting – research, writing, designing CSR reports governance. Structural risks, by contrast, are those that evolve incrementally over time and which are ingrained features of a -Stakeholder engagement – mapping, prioritisation and country or society communications plans. • Legal and Regulatory Environment Atlas: Maplecroft has Products: Global Risks Portfolio created the Legal and Regulatory Environment Atlas 2012 as a practical resource to help businesses, investors and Our Global Risks Portfolio products cover a wide range of international organisations to assess, quantify, compare and issues across 10 key areas, including: monitor legal and regulatory risks and develop strategies to mitigate them. Country-by-country scorecards analyse six risk -Governance and business environment areas for each country and assess the implementation of 10 international legal instruments, including UN, ILO and World -Integrity and corruption Bank instruments -Geopolitics and emerging powers • Human Rights Risk Atlas: Maplecroft’s Human Rights Risk Atlas 2012 is designed to help business, investors and -Terrorism and conflict international organisations assess, compare and mitigate human rights risk in different investment, operation and -Resource security sourcing locations. The Atlas includes interactive maps and indices for 31 human rights categories and scorecards for -Macroeconomics and development 197 countries covering human security, labour standards and protection, civil and political rights and access to remedy. It -Human rights and labour standards also features sub-national mapping of human rights violations and human security incidents down to site-specific levels -Infectious diseases and public health • Climate Change and Environmental Risk Atlas: -Climate change and environment Maplecroft’s Climate Change Risk Atlas 2012 provides analysis of the key risks to business in the areas of climate -Natural hazards change vulnerability and adaption; emissions and energy use; environmental regulation; and ecosystem services. The Specific products include the following: Atlas includes interactive maps and indices to enable the identification, evaluation and comparison of climate change • Maps and indices: Maplecroft has developed a suite of over and environmental risks, whilst subnational indices focusing 100 indices and interactive maps designed to enable the easy on exposure, sensitivity, forests, top soil degradation and identification and comparison of political, economic, social water stress pinpoint risk vulnerability down to a 25km² scale. and environmental risks – and opportunities – worldwide. The 2012 Atlas revealed that some of the world’s fastest These indices and maps enable the easy identification, growing populations are increasingly at risk from the impacts measurement, comparison and monitoring of risks– whilst of climate related natural hazards, including sea level rise also delivering country rankings, highlighting risk hotspots and providing analysis of relevant and material issues 6 • Natural Hazards Risk Atlas: Maplecroft’s Natural Hazards • Country reports and briefings: In-depth reports and Risk Atlas 2012 features expert quantitative analysis and subbriefings are available for all countries, issues and sectors and national mapping to help organisations identify and monitor are tailored to clients’ specific risk-management needs. These the risks posed to their operations, investments and assets, include detailed summaries of the key risks affecting a country across 197 countries. In this second release of the Atlas, or sector; country scores; stakeholder viewpoints; recent Maplecroft identified that some of the most important growth events; trend analysis and forecasts; and visually compelling economies have the highest financial risk from the threat of GIS-derived sub-national maps, illustrating pertinent risks natural hazards, due to the high exposure of their cities and to a business location. Country reports are available for all trading hubs to events such as flooding, earthquakes and countries and are updated quarterly. Many are off the shelf tropical cyclones and others are commissioned with a tailored focus. • Labour standards reports: The labour standards reports • Election monitor: Maplecroft’s Election Monitor has been analyse and compare major labour issues affecting developed to identify the key risks and benefits to business countries at both national and provincial levels. Key areas and the overall stability of the investment climate presented by of focus include labour rights and protection, working hours, potential changes in regime in countries worldwide compensation, contract law, labour protests, health and safety, freedom of association and collective bargaining, Asset management products and services include discrimination, forced labour and child labour the following: • Corruption risk briefings: These analyse corruption risks • Climate Innovation Indexes: The Maplecroft Climate affecting countries at both the national and provincial level. Innovation Indexes (CIIs) provide investors and stakeholders The briefings focus on the effectiveness of the domestic with insight into the activities of leading US companies – and legislative framework in tackling corruption, the prevalence of address the compelling case for climate-related innovation and corruption in government and the public and private sectors, carbon management as leading indicators of future financial and the highest risk sectors of the economy. By so doing, the performance. They are closely aligned with the SEC guidance briefings assess the risk of complicity in corruption in countries issued in January 2010 requiring listed US companies to where a business operates or that feature in its value chain disclose climate change risks and opportunities associated with regulatory changes, market exposures and the physical • Policy bank: Maplecroft’s policies (and related guidance) impacts of climate change. Cycle 3 of the CIIs, launched in are designed to direct and inform employees, supply chain 2012, includes an assessment of the climate change risk partners, customers, investors and other stakeholders management proficiency of 360 US-based companies about subscribing companies’ sustainability standards and requirements, including how these are being implemented, • The Maplecroft CIIs are developed from an initial universe managed, monitored and reported of all US stocks with a free-float market capitalisation of over US$1billion. They include: • Human Rights Quarterly Monitor: The Human Rights Quarterly Monitor offers up-to-date, one-page country risk scorecards for -The Maplecroft CII Benchmark (Bloomberg ticker: organisations with operations, supply chains and investments CICOMP) – c.300 of the largest US companies in countries that present high levels of human rights risk. Each screened from c.1,300 companies scorecard also offers quantitative country risk scores and trends of increasing, stable or decreasing risk for 24 separate categories -The Maplecroft CII Leaders (Bloomberg ticker: CII) – of human rights violations the 100 top performing companies from the Maplecroft CII Benchmark • Political Risk Quarterly Outlook: This offers up-to-date, one-page country risk scorecards for organisations with -The Maplecroft CII US 100 (Bloomberg ticker: CI100) operations, supply chains and investments in high-risk political – the 100 largest US companies by free-float market environments. Each scorecard also offers quantitative country capitalisation risk scores and trends of increasing, stable or decreasing risk across 11 risk areas • Human Rights Benchmark: The Human Rights Benchmark (HRB) measures human rights risk exposure and management for companies across different sectors by comparing their operational footprints against our proprietary human rights risk indices. It provides vital intelligence for shareholders and stakeholders who want to engage companies in their investment portfolios and promote positive action on human rights. 7 Maplecroft products and services The objectives of the HRB are to: -Provide a quantitative framework for the assessment of companies’ human rights exposures and risk management proficiency -Understand sector-specific human rights risk exposures and assess areas of strength and weakness in risk management proficiencies -Provide constructive insight to companies, investors, international and non-governmental organisations about the evolving human rights responsibilities of business • Environmental, social and governance (ESG) rating and market research: Our comprehensive portfolio of company risk ratings, country and sub-sovereign risk indices, interactive GIS maps, and in-depth reports provide innovative and proven solutions for assessing both country and value chain risk exposures, as well as corporate ESG management proficiency. • These tools allow users to drill-down and explore the components of over 100 global risk indices, including raw data, sources and weightings. Country risk indices are used for government bond ratings as well as the rating of sub-sovereign authorities. Investors can identify risk at regional, country and site specific levels, whilst exploring the inter-relationships between different risks and their specific implications for different areas of operations. Maps can be tailored to incorporate sectorand asset-overlays for industries including agriculture, financial services, oil and manufacturing, as well as individual organisations’ specific operational footprints. The focus is on understanding future growth environments, as well as the companies and countries that will flourish within them. • Company risk reports: Maplecroft’s in-depth company reports are a vital tool for investors and corporate users needing insight into a company’s ESG and political risk exposures and management proficiency. Our reports deliver insight into risk, opportunity and sustainability for companies and sectors. They provide intelligence for those conducting due diligence and audits of entities in Giulia Zino, Senior Analyst their supply chain, joint venture partners or possible acquisition targets. They can also be used as in internal tool for organisations to assess how their own exposures and performance are perceived by external stakeholders and ratings organisations 8 Risk calculators include the following: Professional services: • ESG Atlas and Risk Calculator: The Maplecroft ESG Atlas Maplecroft delivers tailored professional services to empower and Risk Calculator simplifies the evaluation of country-level organisations to mitigate extra-financial risks in their operations, ESG risks. It allows users to choose from 49 risk indices to supply chains and distribution networks. Services include: create country scorecards and a bespoke ESG dashboard for their countries of interest. A central feature of the tool is that • Auditing, gap analysis and risk assessment: Our unique it enables investors and sustainability professionals to apply approach aligns entity risk exposure with risk management their own weightings to risk indices according to investment proficiency and covers all areas of sustainability: political, or stakeholder priorities. Identifying these risks enables users economic, social and environment. Our repository of over to monitor exposures and opportunities throughout their 700 audit criteria has been developed over 10 years and is investment portfolios or global supply chains based on best practice international standards and initiatives including ISO 14001, SA 8000, OHSAS 18001, the Dow Jones • Country/Sovereign Risk Calculator: The calculator draws Sustainability Index, the UN Global Compact, the Global on our vault of more than 500 political, economic, social and Reporting Initiative and more environmental risk indices and indicators. This Risk Calculator allows users to extract and combine over 100 risk indices • Carbon accounting: Maplecroft works extensively in the field for any country worldwide and create a bespoke country risk of carbon accounting and footprinting with some of the world’s scorecard – providing instant awareness of risk exposures largest organisations. This included over 20 separate carbon accounting and auditing engagements in 2009 alone, each of • Sector Risk Calculator: Advanced custom versions of the risk which calculated energy consumption and emissions across calculators are available. Features for such users include the a company’s own operations as well as its value chain i.e. ability to overlay multiple layers of company and supplier risk Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 management information, sector risk scores, product risk scores, spend or revenue information and even stakeholder viewpoints • Company rating tools: Our rating tools evaluate business performance in each area with respect to management, Publications include the following: adaptation, data and trends, risk mitigation and innovation. Companies are scored on the information they disclose, • Global Risks Forecast: This subscription-based publication as well as activities that they undertake and analysis by provides fortnightly analysis and forecasts of emerging trends respected third parties. Information is obtained through initial and issues across the global risks spectrum including an desk research and followed up with direct engagements to fill archive of over 2,750 articles gaps and better understand each company’s risk exposures (e.g. geographic footprint, sector, product area etc.) • Ethical Insight: This free publication provides a fortnightly review of corporate responsibility news and analysis, including • Ethical supply chains: Our approach to ethical supply a global natural hazards update chain management is to determine and map the intrinsic risk exposure of each supplier (i.e. relating to sector, product type, • Maplecroft Blog: This free online resource provides regular geography etc.). This is later aligned with specific information opinion pieces and analysis on key risks and opportunities on risk management proficiency (i.e. how well these risks across multiple sectors, issues and countries are managed by suppliers). The latter is determined through either a questionnaire or audit approach, both of which build • Map of the week: This free online resource utilises GIS on relevant ethical supply chain initiatives (e.g. Sedex (the mapping technology to visually represent a range of ESG-risks Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), Ethical Trade Initiative, at the sub-national level. This enables users to extract risk Forest Stewardship Council (FCS) etc.) values for specific locations and sectors, explore the interrelationships between different risks and see the implications • Human rights and business dilemmas: The Human Rights for specific operational areas and Business Dilemmas Forum is an online, multi-stakeholder platform, developed by Maplecroft and the UN Global Compact for multinational companies with operations or supply chains in areas that present significant human rights risks. The Forum is designed to help business understand and share experiences of real-world dilemmas, and to provide a platform for NGOs and other stakeholders to contribute and comment on suggestions. It also provides an extensive collection of resources for responsible organisations wanting to respect and support human rights – even where the means of doing so is not immediately obvious 9 Maplecroft products and services • Human rights monitoring: Maplecroft works in partnership with its clients to ensure ongoing monitoring of human rights risk as a central part of the mainstream risk-management process. This typically involves the deployment of a human rights survey at all company operations. This can be adapted and aligned with company values, principles or policies to provide an overview of human rights risk at an operational level (i.e. the risk of infringement in each of the different geographies worldwide) • Impact assessment: The Maplecroft team has pioneered social and environmental impact assessment since the early 1980s. This includes extensive on-site experience in mining and other extractive operations in Africa, Asia, the Americas and Europe. Our approach to impact assessment and closure planning is to both assess and quantify potential impacts (positive and negative). Potential impacts and baseline information are scored and indexed consistently on a scale of 0-10. This enables a clearer evaluation of possible mitigation scenarios as well as effective benchmarking and the transfer of knowledge and work programmes into the operations and projects phases • Interactive Dashboard: The Interactive Dashboard helps to improve risk management proficiency through quicker and easier access to information on business risk exposure and forecasting. It also empowers clients to better monitor key risks, thus ensuring more profitable investment and business continuity. The Interactive Dashboard can also contribute to reputational leadership, as well as ensuring a longterm social licence to operate, especially in high risk environments such as those found in many emerging economies • Investment decision-making: Intelligence includes more than 110 risk indices and 520 indicators covering all areas of political risk, human rights, climate change as well as societal and other risks including pandemics, food, energy and water security. Risk indices and indicators are combined with detailed country analysis, stakeholder viewpoints and case studies of business engagement in either 3-10 page country briefings or in-depth 25+ page country reports Chris Adams, Accounts Manager • Mapping: Maplecroft develops bespoke, interactive GIS maps for corporate, civil society and other clients. These maps allow organisations to communicate important but sometimes poorly understood risks to internal and external stakeholders. Maps are created by subject matter 10 experts in partnership with a dedicated GIS and software team to ensure outcomes are both factually accurate, as well as visually stimulating and relevant • Policy development: In addition to our “off-the-shelf” bank of 25 policies, Maplecroft also develops bespoke policies for individual companies. Each policy sets out the framework for communicating, implementing, monitoring and reporting on responsible practice, and is accompanied with guidance on how to embed the policy, as well as references and hyperlinks to similar policies from peer organisations • Reporting and assurance: Maplecroft produces award winning sustainability and integrated reporting for leading global brands, NGOs and even sectors (e.g. the recent IPC Postal Sector Sustainability Report 2011). Reports are aligned with best practice standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative and the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress framework. Reports can also be developed to focus on issues and risks that are relevant and material to the company and its stakeholders. Each report is tailored to an organisation’s needs and based on expert understanding of sustainability. Our team offers a full spectrum integrated service. Consultants develop, write, design and deliver high specification reports that are structured to demonstrate performance against defined sustainability targets. Reports also include case studies of engagement, stakeholder viewpoints, feature pages and other visually compelling tools that make the end product more accessible and engaging to interested parties • Same day risk analysis: Subscribers to our bronze, silver and gold subscription packages are able to request same day risk analysis on key events or news issues. This in-depth analysis uses a consistent framework derived from Maplecroft’s Global Risks Forecast, which draws from a wide range of sources including ad hoc reports, stakeholder views and from material provided by leading-edge subscription services • Stakeholder engagement: Our integrated approach to stakeholder engagement helps organisations: -Identify issues of importance to stakeholders in order to focus business strategy -Raise awareness of corporate commitment amongst stakeholders -Inform on the best methods of communication with specific stakeholder groups -Provide a repository of engagement tools for use subsequent to each engagement -Provide assurance that issues are being managed effectively and responsibly • Universities and schools: Some of the world’s leading universities use Maplecroft’s tailored educational products. We deliver academic quality research across 500 risks and issues, covering the key areas of political risk, human rights, climate The Towers, Bath change, the legal and regulatory environment, health, and economic risks. Our data is converted into comparable country scorecards and state-of-the-art GIS maps, which introduce 11 investigative learning for school age students and easy-to-use research tools for more advanced academics Maplecroft products and services Case study: Building links between Artisanaland Large-Scale Mining through the Gold Dialogues On 17 October 2011, the Alliance for Responsible Mining (ARM) and Maplecroft held the first in a series of ‘Gold Dialogues’ at the London offices of Norton Rose Group. The aim of the Dialogues is to bring together a range of stakeholders to engage on issues around the development of ethical and traceable gold supply chains – with a particular focus on strengthening collaboration between Small-scale Mining (ASM) and Large-Scale Mining (LSM). Over 35 participants from across business, civil society and government attended the first Dialogue. Discussions focused on: • The risks and opportunities relating to the formalisation of ASM • How can ASM ensure its concerns are reflected in global initiatives developed by or for large global companies? • How can the LSM sector work with responsible ASM operators to bring ethically produced gold to market? Through exploring ways to strengthen collaboration between ASM and LSM, the Dialogues aim to contribute to the formalisation of responsible ASM operators. Informality and the negative impacts arising from ASM are often closely related. Such impacts can include, for example: • Poor health a nd safety • Exploitative working conditions, including incidents of child labour • Poor environmental management • Land degradation • Illegal mining without relevant permissions from government These issues, as well as limited participation in national fiscal frameworks, are furthermore linked to the political and economic exclusion of ASM communities. As a result, formalisation – including through the application of ethical value chain initiatives – can be a critical means of promoting more responsible ASM, as well as the development and socio-economic integration of responsible ASM communities. 12 PRINCIPLE 1: Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Our commitment or policy We are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We turn our commitments into practice by ensuring employees are aware of their own human rights, as well as their role in helping protect the human rights of others. We also advise and assist our clients in managing their own responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations • Human Rights Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Employee Handbook, which includes guidance on our commitment to the Global Compact with respect to the protection of human rights In our products and services Maplecroft’s human rights products and services help organisations identify, manage and mitigate human rights risks in their operations, supply chains and distribution networks. They support investors to select the companies and governments that best address human rights and enable responsible business to assess, prioritise, screen and monitor human rights risk at all levels of operation Our human rights team includes a multi-disciplinary group of academic experts, lawyers, trained human rights researchers and auditors with substantial impact assessment field experience. In addition to our general products and services (see ‘Maplecroft products and services’ above), Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: James Petreta, Principal Analyst 13 Principle 1 • Human Rights Risk Atlas 2012: This includes interactive • Human Rights and Business Dilemmas: The Human Rights maps and indices for 31 human rights categories and and Business Dilemmas Forum is designed to help companies scorecards for 197 countries covering human security, labour and stakeholders understand and share experiences of-realstandards and protection, civil and political rights and access world dilemmas, particularly in emerging economies. These to remedy. It also features sub-national mapping of human include: child labour, forced labour, freedom of speech, human rights violations and human security incidents down to sitetrafficking, migrant workers and security forces specific levels worldwide • Human Rights Benchmark: The Human Rights Benchmark • Human Rights Briefings and In-depth Reports: These measures human rights risk exposure and management for include human rights risk briefings (3-10 pages) and in-depth companies across different sectors worldwide by comparing reports (25+ pages), which are available for all countries global operational footprints against our proprietary human and include expert analysis, country scores, sector details, rights risk indices. It provides vital intelligence for shareholders stakeholder viewpoints and key events, plus GIS-derived suband stakeholders who want to engage companies and promote national and regional maps positive action on human rights by business • Labour Standards Reports: These analyse and compare • Human Rights Stakeholder Viewpoints and Key Events: major labour issues affecting countries at both national and Maplecroft holds a repository of over 10,000 stakeholder provincial levels. The reports (25+ pages) include in-depth viewpoints and 20,000 key events relating to human rights analysis, risk indices and trends, stakeholder viewpoints, incidents around the world. This repository includes human recent events and sub-national maps of labour rights violations rights articles and analysis from Maplecroft’s free Ethical Insight publication, as well as its Global Risks Forecast • Human Rights Monitoring: Maplecroft works in partnership subscription publication with its clients to ensure the ongoing monitoring of human rights risks are a central part of the mainstream riskmanagement and due diligence approach to companies’ Our actions over the last year human rights responsibilities • Continued to develop, update and deliver our full range of • Human Rights Impact Assessments: These assessments human rights products and services (see above and under focus on the extent of protection of human rights by the state ‘Maplecroft products and services’). Our Human Rights Risk and the levels of respect for human rights shown by other Atlas is now in its 6th year of publication companies. These assessments will predict possible human rights impacts that may arise from an investment or business • Continued to expand and mature our Human Resources (HR) activity and will also identify the risk factors that should be policies and procedures under the oversight of our HR manager monitored in the future and that need active management (recruited during the previous reporting year). During the reporting year, this included the refining of a Cyberbullying Policy • Human Rights and Labour Standards Rating Tools: Rating tools evaluate business performance with respect to • Continued to ensure that all employees are aware of their management, adaptation, data and trends, risk mitigation and human rights and the role they can play in helping to ensure innovation. Companies are scored on information disclosed, the human rights of others are not compromised. This includes activities undertaken and on analysis by respected third parties our Employee Forum – a quarterly meeting to which all staff are invited in order to discuss company business and • Ethical Supply Chain Risk Calculators: These evaluate and employee concerns. Health and safety briefings are included map the intrinsic risk exposure of each suppliers (i.e. relating as part of these meetings to keep employees informed of to sector, product type, geography, etc.).This is then aligned ongoing health, safety and wellbeing initiatives and incorporate with specific information on risk management proficiency (i.e. their ideas and concerns into future plans. Health and safety how well these risks are managed by suppliers) is an ongoing concern and the company is up to date with its inspections and continues to be responsive to any employee • Policy Bank: Maplecroft has developed a number of best issue that is raised practice human rights policies for companies. These include child labour; ethical supply chains; forced and bonded labour; • Ongoing recruitment of human rights specialists, reflecting our and freedom of association and collective bargaining growing body of human rights work for a range of multinational corporations and other organisations • Global Risks country reports and briefings: These cover the full range of Global Risks on a country-by-country basis, • Continued facilitation by Professor Warhurst of working including societal and human rights risk groups and meetings / webinars on human rights including trafficking, as well as the provision of relevant mapping materials and dissemination of information about sexual 14 violence against women in public forum • Continued to expand and improve office space to ensure the Measurable results or outcomes provision of a safe, healthy and enjoyable working environment as employee numbers grow. This included the provision of a No formal complaints regarding company performance in this covered outdoor meeting space for all employees respect. All grievance processes are fully up to date and are reviewed regularly. The appraisal system and a system of alternate • Continued to award additional leave and financial rewards to appraisers are in place to facilitate informal rising of concerns. No employees who have (due to short-term business demands) grievance procedures have been needed. Any informal concerns worked significantly beyond their contracted hours have been sensitively and correctly addressed through appropriate human resources channels. Our targets for next year • To expand and enhance our human rights products and services and to make them available to a growing number of multi-national companies as well as other relevant organisations, in support of the UN’s “Protect, Respect and Viewpoints of employees Remedy” policy framework.1 • To continue to ensure Maplecroft promotes the respect of “By proactively and continually reviewing and updating our human rights within its own workplace through ongoing human resource policies, we maintain working conditions of monitoring of our human rights performance the highest standard as our business continues to grow. Our employees’ wellbeing is of paramount importance to us.” • To continue in our attempts to strengthen our human rights relationships with international businesses and organisations Jacqueline Marsh, Human Resources Manage 1 Special Representative of the Secretary-General on the issue of human rights and transnational corporations and other business enterprises, 7 April 2008, Protect, Respect and Remedy: a Framework for Business and Human Rights, http://www.reports-and-materials.org/Ruggie-report-7-Apr-2008.pdf 15 Principle 1 Case study: Provision of complimentary human rights webinars Over the course of 2012, Maplecroft provided companies and investors with the opportunity to attend a series of complimentary online webinar presentations detailing the key extra-financial risks affecting the global business environment. A number of these sessions focused on specific risk issues relating to business and human rights. This included, for example: • Children’s Rights and Business Principles – suggested approaches for responsible business: Maplecroft mapped the global growth landscape to understand the context for children and the associated due diligence implications for business. The results of this analysis were presented during the Children’s Rights and Business Principles webinar. The webinar also focused in-depth on children’s rights within the local context of Thailand and China, recognising key risks relating to poverty, health, education and discrimination • Girls Discovered – introducing maps and research about the development status of girls: During the Girls Discovered webinar, Maplecroft introduced research and maps relating to the development status of girls. It was recognised that investment in girls improves society as a whole. For example, investment in primary-level schooling has been linked to increased future earnings. Key issues relating to girls, such as poverty, discrimination, access to health care and education were examined in greater depth through a ‘deep-dive’ case study of India. Maplecroft also provided insight into its online resource ‘Girls Discovered’, which provides data and maps on the development status of adolescent girls worldwide. This includes data on health and wellbeing, education, economic opportunities, chore burden and legal support • Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum – Conflict Minerals: Based on a dilemma discussed through the Human Rights and Business Dilemma Forum, Maplecroft presented the question: “How do companies assure stakeholders that their products do not contain any primary commodities that are linked to the funding of conflict?” The webinar recognised that for certain ‘high’ risk sectors – such as electronics, vehicle manufacture and tool manufacturing – conflict minerals present a significant risk within international supply chains. Specific legal risks include non-compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act as well as UN sanctions. In addition, commercial risks include threats to reputation following NGO campaigns aimed at end-consumers. During the webinar, Maplecroft identified key resources and guidelines that provide best-practice tools to mitigate the risk of companies having conflict minerals in their value chains. In addition, a series of specific recommendations for business were proposed, including the implementation of relevant due diligence and chain of custody systems; value chain risk mapping; risk mitigation action plans; third-party auditing; reporting; and participation in relevant certification schemes Gus MacFarlane, Director 16 16 PRINCIPLE 2: Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to ensuring that the organisation, its employees, its suppliers and its customers are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services As part of our commitment, we ensure employees are not complicit in human rights abuses, and help clients manage their responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations • Human Rights Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Labour Standards Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Employee Handbook, which includes guidance on our non-complicity commitment to the Global Compact In our products and services • See Principle 1 Our actions over the last year Viewpoints of employees • See Principle 1 “Maplecroft has a unique database of indices, maps and trend Our targets for next year analyses that assist companies in assessing their human rights risks and responsibilities across 198 countries. Our products • See Principle 1 and services enable companies to identify the risk of potential complicity in human rights abuses at an early stage, helping James Rutherford, Associate Director Measurable results or outcomes them to adopt appropriate mitigation strategies and fulfil their responsibilities under the UN Guiding Principles on Business No formal complaints regarding company and Human Rights.” performance in this respect. Chris Kip, Principle Analyst (Human Rights) 17 Principle 2 Case study: Exploring realworld challenges through the Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum The Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum is a multi-stakeholder online platform aimed at helping companies and other human rights stakeholders understand and share real-world challenges relating to the protection of human rights, particularly in emerging economies. It does so using innovative online feedback mechanisms to allow users to propose, explore and discuss a wide range of dilemmas and potential good practice. The Forum is implemented by Maplecroft in partnership with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and is funded by the General Electric (GE) Foundation. During the past year, two new dilemmas have been added to the forum: • Working with state-owned enterprises (SOEs): This dilemma explores the question, “How can companies successfully pursue business operations and/or joint ventures with state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in countries with poor human rights records without compromising their own human rights commitments?” In certain circumstances, working with SOEs can present foreign companies with higher risks of complicity in human rights abuses – particularly if the ‘parent’ state of that SOE itself demonstrates weak human rights performance. Through the forum, Maplecroft discusses specific actions that responsible business might take to mitigate the risk of SOE partners engaging in human rights violations – as well as the risk of association with such violations • Doing business in conflict-affected countries: This dilemma explores the question, “How should a responsible company operate in conflict-affected, fragile countries and weak governance zones to ensure that its operations contribute to peace-building rather than aggravate tensions and instigate conflicts?” Through the Forum, Maplecroft discusses the role of business in conflict-affected countries and outlines suggestions for responsible businesses to mitigate complex risks posed by these operating environments. It is recognised that businesses can have either a positive or negative impact on a conflict-affected environment and (despite all intentions) are rarely able to remain neutral These add to a range of existing human rights dilemmas already hosted on the Forum. These include, for example, dilemmas relating to child labour and forced labour, indigenous peoples, and security forces. See: http://maplecroft.com/about/gr_presentations/ 18 18 PRINCIPLE 3: Uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to ensuring that all of its employees have the right to: • Freely join associations of their own choice (for the purposes of rule formation, administration and the election of representatives) • Undertake collective bargaining Our commitment means that we will not only abide by all applicable laws in this respect, but will act in the spirit in which they were made. This commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We put our commitments into practice by ensuring that our employees are aware of their right to freely join associations of their own choice and to participate in collective bargaining. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations • Ongoing implementation of our Labour Standards Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Ongoing provision of contact information for the Amicus trade union on our intranet • Invitation of all employees to our quarterly Employee Forum. The aim of these meetings is to establish a genuine dialogue between all of our employees, and to allow employees to raise issues of concern. Health and safety briefings have now been included as part of these meetings to keep employees informed of ongoing health, safety and wellbeing initiatives and to incorporate their ideas and concerns into future plans 19 Principle 3 In our products and services In addition to our general products and services (see ‘Maplecroft products and services’ above), Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: • Supply Chain Complicity Risk Index: This assesses the risk to responsible business of complicity with violations of four core labour standards committed by business partners abroad and along the supply chain • Civil and Political Rights Index: This measures the risk of complicity for responsible business in violating any of these rights • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Index: This measures the level of risk posed to business by allegations of complicity or direct involvement in violations of the rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining • Labour Rights and Protection Index: This measures the risk of association with, and involvement in, violations of labour rights within a given country. Comprised of six indices (child labour; forced labour; trafficking; freedom of association and collective bargaining; discrimination, and working conditions) • Human Rights Risk Atlas 2012: This includes freedom of association and collective bargaining, and provides country rankings, country scorecards and interactive global maps enable the identification, evaluation and comparison of human rights risk, whilst sub-national maps provide insight into risk at a local (i.e. site-specific level) • Labour Standards Reports: These include specific information on freedom of association and collective bargaining, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, stakeholder viewpoints, key events and relevant risk-mapping • Global Risks country reports and briefings: These cover the full range of Global Risks on a country-by-country basis, including societal and human rights risk • Policy Bank: This includes a specific policy on freedom of association and collective bargaining Anthony Skinner, Director 20 20 Our actions over the last year Business conditions, operational demands and ongoing expansion of the workforce meant that we have not had the opportunity yet to • Continued to hold quarterly Employee Forum meetings implement an anonymous broadcast employee survey. However, all and to encourage genuine dialogue with and between all of employees are surveyed individually through the appraisal process our employees now. Our appraisal forms have been modified so that all employees are given the opportunity to raise areas and issues which they • Continued to hold annual appraisals in which employees are believe merit improvement. given the chance to discuss openly and honestly any concerns regarding their working conditions Our targets for next year • Continued to address the issue of freedom of association and collective bargaining through our human rights reports, indices • To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to and briefings, as well as other Global Risks products build upon them through continuous improvement • Continued to implement a company policy that no employee would be required to work on a project or with a client where Measurable results or outcomes they had serious ideological, philosophical or ethical objections No formal complaints regarding company performance in • Continued to apply our five-part framework for employment this respect. negotiations, whereby significant changes to company practice are likely to affect the rights and duties employees. In such circumstances: -Company directors shall consider and propose relevant changes Viewpoints of employees -Company directors shall consult the human resources manager on the implications of these changes “Senior management operate an ‘open door’ policy so all Maplecroft employees can always raise any potential -Company directors shall consult employees on a concerns.” collective basis (for example through the company’s quarterly Employee Fora Anthony Skinner, Director -Where relevant, company directors will consult directly with individual employees who have either voiced serious concerns over such changes, or who are likely to be significantly affected by such changes -The proposed changes shall either be implemented whilst taking into account employee concerns or, where relevant, will be revised or abandoned 21 Ed Cole, Chief Operating Officer Principle 3 22 22 PRINCIPLE 4: Support elimination of forced and compulsory labour Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is against all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We implement this commitment by making sure Maplecroft is a fair and reasonable employer, whilst also helping our clients manage their responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations • Labour Standards Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • All employees are issued with basic terms and conditions of contract when they join the organisation • Employee Handbook, which includes guidance on our policies in relation to, and opposition to all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Employment of a Head of Human Resources (HR) to oversee the implementation of our HR policies and procedures, and provide employment advice to all staff • Annual performance reviews in which employees are encouraged to put forward any concerns Fiona Place, Associate Director 23 Principle 4 In our products and services In addition to our general products and services (see ‘Maplecroft products and services’ above), Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: • Supply Chain Complicity Risk Index: This assesses the risk to responsible business of complicity with violations of four core labour standards committed by business partners abroad and along the supply chain • Forced or Involuntary Labour Index: This measures the risk of complicity in the use of forced labour due to its prevalence and type, and its perpetrators. Government efforts to combat it are also taken into account • Labour Rights and Protection Index: This measures the risk of association with, and involvement in, violations of labour rights within a given country. Comprised of six indices (child labour; forced labour; trafficking; freedom of association and collective bargaining; discrimination, and working conditions) • Trafficking Index: This measures the risk of exposure to trafficking based on the prevalence of trafficking, as well as government complicity and/ or inaction • Human Rights Risk Atlas 2012: This includes interactive maps and indices for 31 human rights categories and scorecards for 197 countries covering a range of issues including labour standards and protection. It also features subnational mapping of human rights violations and human security incidents down to site-specific levels worldwide • Labour Standards Country Reports: These include specific information on forced labour, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, stakeholder viewpoints, key events and relevant risk-mapping • Global Risks country reports and briefings: These cover the full range of Global Risks on a country-by-country basis, including societal and human rights risk • Policy Bank: This includes a specific policy on forced and bonded labour 24 24 Our actions over the last year Viewpoints of employees • Continued to address the challenge of forced and compulsory labour through our human rights reports, indices and briefings, “The ILO estimates that 20.9 million people are victims of as well as other Global Risks Portfolio products forced labour worldwide in 2012. Businesses found to be complicit in or associated with forced labour may experience Our targets for next year severe reputational damage, and potentially an associated decrease in brand and shareholder value. To mitigate such • To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to risks, Maplecroft’s uses advanced mapping and research build upon them through continuous improvement methods to help businesses identify and manage areas within their supply and distribution networks where the risk of forced Measurable results or outcomes labour is greatest.” No formal complaints regarding company performance in Laura Bernal, Senior Human Rights Analyst this respect 25 Principle 4 Case study: Partnering with the UNGC to promote supply chain sustainability During 2012, Maplecroft helped develop the Quick Self-Assessment and Learning Tool through a partnership with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the not-for-profit organisation BSR (Business for Social Responsibility). It was launched by the three organisations in June 2012 at the Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum. The Quick Self-Assessment and Learning Tool is an online platform that allows companies to evaluate their approach to supply chain sustainability and compare their practices against those of their peers. It incorporates Maplecroft’s proprietary company scorecard and benchmarking tools and enables companies to: • Identify areas of strength in relation to sustainability risk management within the supply chain • Identify areas for improvement • Benchmark performance against criteria developed by the UNGC Advisory Group on Supply Chain Sustainability • Discover additional learning resources and potential partner organisations that can help mitigate supply chain risks Maplecroft has a long history of advising leading global companies on ethical supply chain and ethical value chain management. This includes, for example, the development of human rights, child labour and other policies, supplier assessment questionnaires, countryspecific risk intelligence and extra-financial risk reports, monitoring programmes and compliance systems. Maplecroft’s approach to ethical supply chain management is to determine and map the intrinsic risk exposure of each supplier, taking into account factors such as sector, product type and geography. This approach provides for: • Screening of both new and existing suppliers • More efficient vendor selection and evaluation processes • More robust and defensible business processes that link to stakeholder, shareholder and investor concerns • Enhanced ability to focus on risk mitigation in high risk areas • Enhanced understanding of supply chain risks in new markets See: http://supply-chain-self-assessment.unglobalcompact.org James Brewer, Analyst 26 26 PRINCIPLE 5: Support abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to the effective abolition of child labour. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We honour our commitment by ensuring we support the effective abolition of child labour, and by helping our clients do so. We do this using the following processes and systems: In our own operations • Labour Standards Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • The dates of birth of all new employees, who are of a sufficiently young age, are checked to ensure that they are above minimum school leaver’s age before employment In our products and services In addition to our general products and services (see ‘Maplecroft products and services’ above), Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: • Supply Chain Complicity Risk Index: This assesses the risk to responsible business of complicity with violations of four core labour standards committed by business partners abroad and along the supply chain • Child Labour Index: This measures the prevalence and type of child labour as well as government efforts to combat child labour • Children’s Rights Reports: These offer in-depth analysis of the risks that companies face of adversely impacting the rights and wellbeing of children. By providing an in-depth review of a country’s progress towards realising children’s rights, the reports also assess opportunities for the private sector to promote children’s rights throughout their operations and commercial relations • Labour Rights and Protection Index: This measures the risk of association with, and involvement in, Stephen Musson, Web Designer violations of labour rights within a given country. Comprised of six indices (child labour; forced labour; trafficking; freedom of association and collective bargaining; discrimination, and working conditions) • Human Rights Risk Atlas 2012: This includes interactive maps and indices for 31 human rights categories and scorecards for 197 countries covering human security, labour standards and protection (including child labour), civil and political rights and access to remedy. It also features sub-national mapping of human rights violations and human security incidents down to site-specific levels worldwide 27 Principle 5 • Labour Standards Country Reports: These include specific information on child labour, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, stakeholder viewpoints, key events and relevant risk-mapping • Global Risks Country Reports and Briefings: These cover the full range of Global Risks on a country-by-country basis, including societal and human rights risk • Policy Bank: This includes a specific policy on child labour Our actions over the last year • Continued to address the challenge of child labour through our human rights reports, indices and briefings, as well as other Global Risks Portfolio products Our targets for next year • To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement Measurable results or outcomes No formal complaints regarding company performance in this respect. Viewpoints of employees “Maplecroft affirms the UNICEF principle that ‘children are everyone’s business’. The issue of child labour is complex and pervasive: ILO estimates suggest that 215 million children are engaged in child labour around the world. Our products and services assist companies in understanding their impact on children’s rights, and in identifying the risks of child labour in countries of operation and throughout supply chains. Country and sector specific reports provide in-depth analysis empowering businesses to develop appropriate risk-mitigation procedures which support the effective abolition of child labour.” Amber Larsen, Human Rights Analyst 28 28 PRINCIPLE 6: Support elimination of discrimination Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all of its employees. In particular, we are committed to: • Promoting equality, diversity, as well as an inclusive and supportive working environment • Affirming the rights of the individual to be treated fairly and with respect • Maintaining an environment in which individual contribution to the company’s growth and success will be identified, recognised and encouraged • Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients These are increasingly important commitments for our company, due to our expanding and increasingly diverse workforce. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We put our commitment into practice by ensuring Maplecroft supports the elimination of discrimination, and by helping our clients support this through their own policies and actions. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations Equal opportunities: • Equal Opportunities Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Employee Handbook, which includes the policy and gives detailed guidance as to how this policy is applied Sexual and racial harassment: • Sexual and Racial Harassment Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Employee Handbook, which includes the policy, gives detailed guidance as to how this policy is applied and Thomas Nott, GIS Analyst suggests informal and formal remedies where harassment is alleged to have taken place 29 Principle 6 Employees with disabilities: • Employment with Disabilities Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Employee Handbook, which includes the policy and gives detailed guidance as to how this policy is applied In our products and services In addition to our general products and services (see ‘Maplecroft products and services’ above), Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: • Supply Chain Complicity Risk Index: This assesses the risk to responsible business of complicity with violations of four core labour standards committed by business partners abroad and along the supply chain • Civil and Political Rights Index: This measures the risk of complicity for responsible business in violating any of these rights • Labour Rights and Protection Index: This measures the risk of association with, and involvement in, violations of labour rights within a given country. Comprised of six indices (child labour; forced labour; trafficking; freedom of association and collective bargaining; discrimination, and working conditions) • Discrimination Index: This assesses the risk of complicity of responsible business in discrimination, especially if active societal or governmental discrimination exists in a country • Women’s and Girls’ Rights Index: This measures the severity and prevalence of violations against females, with particular attention paid to discrimination in the workplace • Minority Rights Index: This measures the risk of complicity in violations committed against minority groups, including discrimination, violence, and barriers to enjoying full societal participation • Indigenous Peoples Rights Index: This measures the risk of complicity in violations committed against indigenous peoples, including violations of land and cultural rights • Human Rights Risk Atlas 2012: This includes interactive maps and indices for 31 human rights categories and scorecards for 197 countries covering human security, labour standards and protection (including anti-discrimination), civil and political rights and access to remedy. It also features sub-national mapping of human rights violations and human security incidents down to site-specific levels worldwide • Labour Standards Country Reports: These include specific information on discrimination, including information on national law, legal enforcement, specific country risks, stakeholder viewpoints, key 30 events and relevant risk-mapping 30 • Global Risks country reports and briefings: These cover Our targets for next year the full range of Global Risks on a country-by-country basis, including societal and human rights risk • To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement • Policy Bank: This includes a specific policy on discrimination and equal opportunity Measurable results or outcomes Our actions over the last year No formal complaints regarding company performance in this respect. • Continued to address the challenge of discrimination through our human rights reports, indices and briefings, as well as other Global Risks Portfolio products • Continued the ongoing monitoring of employee salaries to ensure gender parity at equivalent levels of seniority, experience and capability 31 Alyson Warhurst, Chief Executive & James Rutherford, Associate Director Principle 6 32 32 PRINCIPLES 7 & 8: Precautionary approach to environmental challenges & initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to taking a precautionary approach with respect to environmental challenges, the undertaking of environmental initiatives and the use of environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitment to the environment includes continually improving our performance, preventing pollution wherever possible and complying with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards. In particular we: • Manage our processes so as to avoid or minimise waste • Work to minimise our use of energy • Minimise unnecessary travelling to reduce the impact of aircraft and road vehicle emissions • Include environmental considerations in investment decisions • Ensure all employees have an awareness of this policy so that it is implemented effectively Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We translate our commitment into action by taking a precautionary approach to the environment, undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and by assisting clients to manage their own responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations • Environment Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Employee Handbook, which includes the policy In our products and services During the reporting year, Maplecroft helped to develop the IPC’s Postal Sector Sustainability Report 2011, with a particular focus on carbon accounting and carbon management. This builds on our development of the IPC’s Postal Sector Sustainability Report 2010. 33 Principles 7 & 8 In addition to our general products and services (see ‘Maplecroft products and services’ above), Maplecroft also delivers the following relevant products: • CO2 Emissions from Energy Index: This evaluates the risk to business operating in countries which may be subject to future regulation of CO2 emissions and/or pressure from public interest groups • CO2 Emissions from Land Use Change Index: This provides insight into changes in forest biomass due to deforestation, reforestation as well as other land use change in a country • Climate Change Vulnerability Index: This evaluates the vulnerability of populations to extreme climate related events and changes in environmental parameters. It combines the risk of exposure with the degree of human sensitivity and the ability of the country to adapt to climate change • Resource Security Index: This assesses the reliability, access and affordability of three key resources; energy, food and water; as well as resource diversity, consumption and production • Sustainable Energy Index: The Sustainable Energy Index (SEI) can be interpreted as representing the risk of being unable to access energy from low carbon sources and/or operating, investing and lending in an energy intensive economy • Climate Change Risk Atlas: This provides analysis of the key risks to business in the areas of climate change vulnerability and adaption; emissions and energy use; environmental regulation; and ecosystem services • Climate Innovation Indexes: These help investors and other interested parties identify companies that are leaders in areas of climate-related innovation and carbon management. They focus on companies that display strong climate change innovation, strong financial performance and represent a diversity of sectors – and also helps encourage capital inflows into companies that develop climate change solutions • Global Risks country reports and briefings: These cover the full range of Global Risks on a country-by-country basis, including climate change and environment, as well as energy security • Policy Bank: This includes specific policies on biodiversity, energy and climate, environment, nuisances (odour, noise and dust), and waste and recycling James Allan, Principal Analyst 34 34 Our actions over the last year Our targets for next year • Continued use of recycled paper only for office printing and • To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to implementation of a company policy requiring minimal printing build upon them through continuous improvement and – unless there are good and pressing reasons – the printing of documents in black and white and on double-sided paper only • To reduce our paper use on a per capita basis • Continued operation of a company-wide recycling system for Measurable results or outcomes paper waste Paper use • Continued provision of recycling facilities in our communal areas so that employees can recycle glass, cardboard and plastic Maplecroft is continuing to record its paper use to assess future improvements in consumption. Over the last year, the company • Continued use of environmentally friendly printing, IT and purchased 183,000 pages of paper. Of this, 100% was recycled lighting technology on a replacement basis paper. This reflects an increase compared to the previous year, which was largely as a result of our expanding business and • Continued emphasis on the use of teleconferencing and remote increasing employee numbers. We have set a target to reduce our presentation technologies (e.g. WebEx and webinar techniques) paper use on a per capita basis over the next reporting year. to help reduce business travel • Continued selection (in collaboration with our IT supplier) of additional desktop PC’s (and other relevant equipment) on the basis of their performance/energy efficiency in order to accommodate growing employee numbers Viewpoints of employees • Continued planting, gardening and environmental improvement in the immediate environs of Maplecroft’s offices, to the benefit “Maplecroft has been extremely accommodating to those of the both the company and local communities like me who have taken to cycling to work every day due to the many benefits that green commuting provides. Access to Following careful consideration of financial and administrative a secure cycle shed provides peace of mind, and there are factors, we have taken the decision not to implement the ‘cycle to excellent showering facilities available.” work’ scheme. However, the company has invested considerably in providing facilities to house bikes safely on site and to Alex Rowntree, Risk Analyst provide showers for cyclists in order to promote a healthy and environmentally sound workplace. 35 Principles 7 & 8 Case study: The Global Corporate Challenge worker health initiative During the past year, four teams made up of a total of 28 Maplecroft employees took part in the Global Corporate Challenge (GCC) health initiative – the world’s largest corporate health initiative of its kind. This built on Maplecroft’s participation in the 2011 and 2010 GCC’s, when four teams of seven and two teams of 14 took part respectively. The GCC is aimed at promoting health, fitness and wellbeing – particularly within the workplace. Through the GCC, each participating employee (organised into teams of seven) is provided with a pedometer with which they record their daily step count for a total of 16 weeks (as well as swimming and bicycling activity). Participants then enter this information into a website, which adds together each individual’s step counts and converts this into a kilometre/mile distance. It then plots the team’s progression on a virtual tour of the world. To date, over 950,000 people from 3,400 organisations across 105 countries have taken part in the GCC since it was founded in 2003. During their participation in the challenge, the four Maplecroft teams walked 41 million steps – the equivalent of 16,494 miles. This compares to 37 million steps – or 15,821 miles – achieved by Maplecroft employees last year. See: http://www.gettheworldmoving.com County Risk Analysts, Maplecroft 36 36 PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage environmentallyfriendly technology Our commitment or policy See Principle 7. Relevant processes, systems, products and services Our role as an advisory business means we have the ability to influence the environmental performance of global organisations, by increasing their awareness, understanding and ability to manage environmental impacts. We aim to assist businesses in their move towards triple bottom line accounting and performance review/ measurement to maximise value, profit and responsibility. Maplecroft has developed a wide range of products and services that help improve our clients’ environmental performance and contribution to development. A summary of these services can be found in the section entitled ‘Maplecroft products and services’, and under Principles 7&8 above. Our actions over the last year See Principles 7&8 above Our targets for next year See Principles 7&8 above Measurable results or outcomes Not applicable Viewpoints of employees “Maplecroft’s products and services help responsible companies assess how current and emerging environmental risks relate to their operations, whilst also informing environmental due diligence procedures and strategic decision making. These are critical deliverables for our clients, many of whom operate in challenging geographies.” John Cusack, Associate Director James Allan, Principal Analyst (Environment) 37 Principle 9 38 38 PRINCIPLE 10: Work against corruption in all of its forms Our commitment or policy Maplecroft is committed to working transparently and is against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. No employee or associate will take or receive bribes of any form, or involve themselves in situations that may give rise to any potential conflicts of interest. Our commitment means that we will not only abide by all applicable laws in this respect, but will act in the spirit in which they were made. Our commitment applies to our own operations, our field of influence and our work with our clients. Relevant processes, systems, products and services We put our commitment into practice by taking a transparent approach towards doing business, by opposing corruption in all its forms and by helping clients manage their own responsibilities in this respect. We do so using the following processes and systems: In our own operations • Transparency Policy (as part of our overarching Corporate Responsibility Policy) • Maplecroft Anti-Corruption Officer (named in the handbook), providing a suitable and secure reporting and communication channel for employees to disclose any inappropriate or unlawful conduct, suspicions or concerns relating to bribery and corruption • Anti-bribery policy: -Ensuring compliance with anti-bribery laws, rules and regulations, not just within the UK, but also in any other country within which the company may carry out its business or in relation to which its business may be connected -Enabling employees and persons associated with the Company to understand risks associated with unlawful conduct and to enable and encourage them to be vigilant and to effectively recognise, prevent, avoid and report any wrongdoing, whether by themselves or others Caroline McGarry, Designer -Providing suitable and secure reporting and communication channels and ensuring that any information that is reported is properly and effectively dealt with -Creating and maintaining a rigorous and effective framework for dealing with any suspected instances of bribery or other unethical conduct 39 Principle 10 In our products and services In addition to our general products and services (see ‘Maplecroft products and services’ above), Maplecroft delivers the following relevant products: • Corruption Risk Index: This examines the prevalence and persistence of corruption in the public and private sectors, as well as the efficacy of the efforts of governments to combat corruption • Governance Framework Index: This assesses the structure for good governance based on the relative stability of institutions, respect for the rule of law, the extent of corruption, and standards of corporate governance • Legal and Regulatory Environment Index: The Legal and Regulatory Environment Index (LREI) identifies and monitors for business the strategic and operational risks presented by an uneven playing field in terms of regulation and government policy, the costs associated with corruption and lack of respect for the rule of law • Rule of Law Index: This evaluates the risk relating to the ineffectiveness of legal and regulatory practices, and assesses judicial independence, judicial effectiveness, and the comprehensiveness, transparency and consistent application of business-relevant regulation in a country • Policy Bank: This includes specific policies on anti-money laundering and the combat of terrorism financing, and bribery and corruption • Corruption Risk Briefings: These analyse major corruption risks affecting countries at both national and provincial levels. The briefings focus on the effectiveness of the domestic legislative framework in tackling corruption, the prevalence of corruption in government and the public and private sectors, and the highest risk sectors of the economy. By so doing, the briefings assess the risk of complicity in corruption in countries where companies operate or have value chains • Political Risk Briefings and Reports: These cover business integrity and corruption, and include analysis, stakeholder views and key 40 events on a country-by-country basis 40 Our actions over the last year Measurable results or outcomes • Continued to address the challenge of corruption through our No formal complaints regarding company performance in Global Risks products, including Corruption Risk Briefings, this respect. country reports, the Global Risks Forecast publication and relevant indices • Updated our anti-bribery policy to ensure continued compliance with anti-bribery laws, rules and regulations – not Viewpoints of employees just within the UK, but also in any other country within which we may carry out our business or in relation to which our “Maplecroft’s products and services help leading global business may be connected companies mitigate corruption risk effectively and responsibly. This is a critical business outcome, particularly in the context of • Active participation by Professor Warhurst in Board meetings increasing investment in ‘higher risk’ emerging economies and of Transparency International (UK), as well as the provision of potential legal penalties in companies’ home jurisdictions.” supporting materials from Maplecroft’s Global Risks product range Chris Dixon, Senior Risk Analyst Our targets for next year • To continue the ongoing actions carried out last year and to build upon them through continuous improvement • To further develop an Anti-Corruption practice , providing in-depth insight and analysis into countryand sector-specific corruption risks in support of clients’ compliance programmes 41 Jason McGeown, Head of Communications Principle 11 42 42 maplecroft Maplecroft | The Towers | St Stephen’s Road | Bath BA1 5JZ | UK t: 00 44 (0) 1225 420 000 | e: info@maplecroft.com | w: maplecroft.com Designed and produced by Maplecroft | Photography: William Graves
