Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Ayazağa Mah. Eski Büyükdere Cad. No: 15 Oycan Plaza Kat: 3-4-5 34398 Maslak, İstanbul Turkey Phone: +90 (212) 335 32 32 Fax: +90 (212) 335 30 90 www.dogusgrubu.com.tr Report Contacts Deniz Bayel Feyizoğlu Corporate Communications Executive Vice President, Doğuş Holding Tel: +90 (212) 335 3105 e-mail: dbayel@dogusgrubu.com.tr Başak Gürtuna Koçer Corporate Communications Assistant Manager, Doğuş Holding Tel: +90 (212) 335 3109 e-mail: bkocer@dogusgrubu.com.tr CSR Consultancy FCS Finansal İletişim Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti. Tel:+ 90 (212) 283 4146 e-mail: info@finansaliletisim.com www.finansaliletisim.com Designed and Produced by İndeks İçerik-İletişim Danışmanlık Tel: +90 (212) 347 7070 www.indeksiletisim.com © Doğuş Group 2011 Fourth consolidated Doğuş Group Corporate Responsibility Report. Online version is available at www.dogusgrubu.com.tr This report is printed on 100% recycled paper. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 01 Our leadership principles also drive us to work collaboratively to create greater value for our customers and their value chains and communities. As the corporate values of integrity, unity, understanding, excellence, responsibility and creativity have penetrated Doğuş Group, these values help us both to rise to emerging challenges and to translate them into opportunities. The more aspects of our day to day operations for which we take responsibility, the more powerful we become. In understanding responsible business behaviour, the starting point remains the leadership qualities for every sector and in every company. The ability to understand our customers, targeting excellent products and services and developing creative solutions responsibly has given us the honour of being among the most powerful group of companies and changing the lives of millions in Turkey. Doğuş Group plays a significant role in the Turkish economy with the high level of employment it creates, the taxes it pays and the total business volume it generates within the country as well as in the region. Our corporate responsibility approach stems from a broad understanding of sustainability in all the sectors in which we operate as well as our role as an employer and our dialogue with all our stakeholders. Our leadership principles also drive us to work collaboratively to create greater value for our customers and their value chains and communities. Putting our corporate vision into action, we provide solutions that help facilitate the creation of more sustainable brands and enhance the world in which we live. 02 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 03 CONTENT DOĞUŞ GROUP STRUCTURE 04 OPERATIONAL MAP 06 COMPANY PROFILE 08 Awards & Recognitions 09 Strategic Partnerships & Memberships 15 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 16 CEO MESSAGE 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT 23 LIMITATIONS and REPORT BOUNDARY 24 CSR AT A GLANCE 25 ECONOMIC ENGAGEMENT 26 Sectoral Activities in 2011 28 The Economical Impact of Climate Change 32 Local Suppliers and Local Development 33 Corporate Mechanisms 33 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 37 Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour Issues 39 Human Rights 40 Employee Health and Safety 40 Human Capital 41 Remuneration System and Benefits 43 Performance Development 43 Training and Development 45 Social Life 45 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 47 CSR Awareness 49 Customer Health and Safety 50 Product and Service Responsibility 53 Business Ethics 55 Voluntary Programs 55 Community Support Programs 56 Corporate Sponsorship Projects 62 ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT 65 Environmental Awareness 66 Energy Efficiency 71 Waste Management 72 Water Consumption 73 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 74 REPORTING CONTENT INDEX 76 GRI Index 77 GRI Application Level Check 87 UNGC Index 88 04 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Doğuş Group Structure Banking& Financial Automotive Construction Media Services Corporate Responsibility DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 05 Tourism&Services Real Energy Estate D Energy Doğuş Energy Artvin HEPP D-TES Electricity Whole Sale Co. 06 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Operational Map Croatia D-Marin Mandalina Marina Romania Garanti Bank Romania-Headquarters & 76 Branches SC Motoractive Credit SA Ralfi IFN SA Domenica Credit SA Bulgaria Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. The Netherlands GBI-Headquarters UK Garanti Bank-Representative Office Doğuş Int. Germany Garanti Bank-Representative Office GBI Branch Luxembourg Garanti Bank-Branch Morocco Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. Switzerland GBI-Representative Office D-Auto Suisse SA-Lausanne Doğuş SA-Geneva Dubai Malta Doğuş Management Garanti Bank-Branch Services Ltd. Libya Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Ukraine Garanti Bank-4 Branches GBI-Representative Office Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 07 Russia GarantiBank Moscow-Headquarters Garanti Bank-Representative Office Kazakhstan Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. China Garanti Bank-Representative Office 08 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 COMPANY PROFILE1 Founded in 1951, Doğuş Group has become one of the largest conglomerates in Turkey and has the vision of being a regional leader in the services sector. Doğuş Group is active in seven Doğuş Group has 126 companies and a source of attraction for the international core businesses: financial services, workforce of over 30,000 which enables investors who are interested in Turkey. automotive, construction, media, tourism it to offer high level technology, quality The Group has contributed to this and services, real estate and energy. brands and dynamic human resources process by creating a synergy with global to its customers. The Group seeks to giants including the following: BBVA Behind the success of Doğuş Group there maximize the value of its brands, not (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A.) in lies a customer-focused and productivityonly in Turkey but also in the regional finance, Volkswagen AG and TÜVSÜD in centered management style. This style and global context. The Group carries automotive, CNBC, MSNBC and Condé is not only formed through material the vision of becoming a regional leader Nast in media and Hyatt International gains, but it also embodies a strong especially in the services sector. Ltd. and HMS International Hotel GmbH corporate citizenship approach from (Maritim) in tourism. which the whole society can benefit. Doğuş Group always provides its The Group implements several corporate services based upon the principles of With its experience and network enabling social responsibility and sponsorship customer satisfaction and trust. As a it to keep up with the changes in the projects, with a special focus on child result of this approach, the Group has world, Doğuş Group remains as one of development, education, environment, created reputable brands with global the leaders of transformation in Turkey. culture & arts and sports. standards and has been representing our country worldwide. Its name is a 1 Detailed information about the operations of Doğuş Group can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/general/navigation/sectors DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 09 Awards & Recognitions Doğuş Holding • International Arch of Europe (IAE) for Quality Award in Gold category for Doğuş Group • Special Jury Award to Özlem Denizmen, Head of Strategy at Doğuş Holding for Para Durumu (Financial Literacy Movement), in Awards from the Heart by The Corporate Volunteers Association (ÖSGD) Banking and Financial Services Garanti Bank • The Most Successful Corporate Employee Volunteering Project Award for Elim Sende in Awards from the Heart by The Corporate Volunteer Association (ÖSGD) • The Best Bank in Turkey Award and The Best Trade Finance Bank in Turkey Award in the Best Emerging Market Banks in Central and Eastern Europe category by Global Finance Magazine • The Best Bank in Turkey Award by Euromoney/Project Finance Magazine • STP (Straight Through Processing) Quality Awards by JP Morgan Chase Bank, Citibank, Commerzbank and BNY Mellon • STP Excellence Awards by Deutsche Bank • Best Private Bank in Turkey for Garanti Masters Private Banking by the Banker and PWM (Professional Wealth Management) • 1st Place Award for Garanti Bank Call Center with Branch Calls Centralization Project at the Most Creative Call Center Implementation category by İstanbul Call Center Awards • Most Successful Bank in Turkey in the Real Estate category by Euromoney Magazine Survey • European Hydro Deal of the Year Prize for 76 MW Karakuz HEPP Project by Euromoney/Project Finance Magazine • European Power Deal of the Year Prize for Gebze CCGT Project and European Transport Privatization Deal of the Year Prize for İDO (Istanbul Ferries Inc.) privatization by Euromoney/Project Finance Magazine • Golden Spider Web Awards – 1st Prize in Banking and Financial Services category for www.garanti.com.tr • Golden Spider Web Awards – 1st Prize in Best Accessible Website for www.garanti.com.tr • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Training category for www.garantitalentcamp.com 10 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Entertainment category for www.garantisupertrader.com • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Internet Banking category for www.garanti.com.tr • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Corporate Website category for www.garanti.com.tr • Silver Medal for Campaign to promote the use of internet banking by Epica Advertising Awards • Golden Prize and Best Use of Mobile Marketing for Direct Response in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Award by MMA (Mobile Marketing Association) Awards • Best Sustainability Communications Program for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by the League of American Communications Professionals (LACP) • Gold Award in Best Annual Reports and Best Online Annual Reports in the Spotlight Awards 2010 for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by LACP • Bronze Award in Vision Awards for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by LACP • Gold Award in Non-Traditional Annual Reports category and Silver Award in Financials category in MerComm Annual Report Competition – The ARC Awards for Garanti Annual Report 2010 • Award in Best Annual Reports category for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by Stevie International Business Awards • Stockwatch Silver Prize in the News Bulletin category at the Galaxy Awards by MerComm • 1st Prize in Best Investor Relations Annual Report and Best Corporate Governance Communication categories, 2nd Prize in Turkey’s Best Investor Relations by the CEO category by Acclaro • Blue Ribbon with Garanti Bankası İnternet Bankacılığını Kullanmayan Son İnsan Project (Garanti Technology-Rabarba Digital Agency) at the MediaCat Felis Awards • 1st Prize in Finance, Consumer Engagement and Best Use of Direct Marketing categories with Garanti Bankası İnternet Bankacılığını Kullanmayan Son İnsan Project (Garanti Technology-Rabarba Digital Agency) at the MediaCat Felis Awards • Grant Prize, The Best Innovative Campaign, The Best Media Usage and Advertiser Of The Year by Felis Awards • Digitalage, Mediacat Outdoor Awards and Crystal Apple Awards • Garanti Bank entered the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Global 500 Report 2011, a global reporting system by the CDP, the world’s major initiative focusing on climate change issues DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 11 Garanti Bank SA • Most Dynamic Bank in Romania by Finmedia Media Group • Best Promotion Award for Bonus Card by No Cash Magazine • Best Innovative Banking Products Award for Bonus Card by the Business Arena Magazine • Best Product of the Year for Doctors for The Credimed by Coleguil Medicilor Organization • Best Banking Product for The Credimed by Piata Financiara Magazine • Best Bill Payment & Presentment Award for Garanti Online in Romania by Global Finance • E-payments Award for Garanti Online in Romania by e-Finance GarantiBank International N.V. • Best Forfaiting Institution, Silver Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Best Trade Bank in Western Europe, Bronze Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Best Trade Bank in Eastern Europe, Bronze Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Best Bank in Soft Commodities, Bronze Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Top Time Deposit Bank 2011 Award for GBI Germany Branch from the German television channel N-TV for its 6 and 12 months products Garanti Pension & Life • Respect for Human Award by Kariyer.Net • Community Relations Award for Back to Study: Educating, Not Employing Children Project by EMEA and Global Sabre Awards • 1st Prize in Golden World Awards for PR excellence in social responsibility category for Back to Study: Educating, Not Employing Children Project by IPRA (International Public Relations Association) • Best Insurance Website in Turkey for www.garantiemeklilik.com.tr by Golden Spider Web Awards • 2nd Best Website in the Community/Social Communication category for www.hobimlemutluyum.com by Golden Spider Web Awards • Platinum Award for the Letter to Shareholders and Report Financials categories and 5th Ranking in Top 100 List for 2010 Annual Report by LACP Vision Awards 12 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Garanti Leasing • Most Admired Leasing Company in Turkey Award by Capital Magazine Garanti Asset Management • Respect for Human Award by Kariyer.Net • Signatory to the United Nations-backed Principles of Responsible Investment Initiative (PRI) since October 2011 Garanti Securities • 2011 Best Investment Bank by Global Finance Garanti Factoring • Most Admired Factoring Company in Turkey Award by Capital Magazine Garanti Mortgage • Silver Award in Financial Services Category for www.garantimortgage.com by International Davey Awards 2011 • Standard of Excellence Award in Financial Services Category for www.garantimortgage.com by Web Award 2011 • The Best Web Site in Financial Services category for www.garantimortgage.com by Stevie Awards 2011 • Award of Distinction in Viral Marketing category for www.hizlitasin.com by Communicator Awards 2011 • Outstanding Online Video Award in Online Video category for www.hizlitasin.com by Internet Advertising Competition 2011 • 1st Prize in Most Creative Video Category for www.hizlitasin.com by Digital Age Awards 2011 • 1st Prize in Most Creative Viral Marketing Category for www.hizlitasin.com by Digital Age Awards 2011 • Outstanding Achievement Award in Intranet category for Mortgage Intranet (gm.com) by Interactive Media Awards 2011 Garanti Payment Systems • Silver Award in the Entertainment category for the Shop&Miles Bosphorus Sailing Cup 2010 Website by the Horizon Interactive Web Awards • 1st Prize in Mobile Marketing Applications category by Digital Age Creativity Awards for Which Campaign? (Hangi Kampanya?) • 1st Prize in the Best Social Media, Mobile & Digital Marketing in Credit Cards in Turkey according to CNBC-e survey for Which Campaign? (Hangi Kampanya?) • Best Social Media Marketing Brand in the CNBC-e Research 2011 for Which Campaign? (Hangi Kampanya?) Garanti Technology • ISO 10002:2004 Customer Satisfaction / Complaints Handling Certification for Garanti Technology Customer Care Center (Garanti Bank had been the first Turkish bank to receive this certificate in 2009.) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 13 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv • CSR Market Place Jury’s Special Award and Internal Social Responsibility Practice Award by Turkish CSR Association of Turkey for “Traffic is Life” Employee Trainings “First Aid Approach after Traffic Accidents Training” and “Safe Driving Techniques Training” • The Distributor of the Year Award for Doğuş Otomotiv by Customer First Award by VW AG • Crystal Apple Award for VW Passenger Cars for ‘Bir Volkswagen’e tercih edilecek tek otomobil yine bir Volkswagen’dir’ TV campaign • 1st Prize for VW Passenger Cars by Golden Spider Web Awards • The Best Digital Application for VW Passenger Cars by ODD Gladiators • Otohaber Magazine Reader Awards Transporter 1st Prize and Caddy 2nd Prize in Light Commercial Vehicles segment • Otohaber Magazine Reader Awards – Amarok 1st Prize in the Pick-up segment • The Hothatch Automotive of the Year Award for Polo Gti by Top Gear Magazine • Authorised Audi Service Şenyıldız Otomotiv-The World Champion in the Twin Cup World Final • The Most Premium Automobile of the Year for Audi A6 by the Selection of Top Gear Turkey • The Best Heavy Vehicle Tow Truck for Scania R-Series by Automobile Magazine • The Best Automobile of the Year in Ireland’s Fleet Transportation for Scania R-Series • Being Responsible in Traffic Award for Scania by the Ministry of Transportation and Communication for the Safe Vehicle Project • One Of The Top Three Brands Which Show the Highest Increase in the Customer Satisfaction for SEAT according to the 2011 IACSO results • The Best Service Manager in the Top Service People Awards for SEAT Authorized Service AVEK Otomotiv Service Manager vdf • Highest Penetration Rate-1st Rank in Automobile Insurance TÜVTURK • Outstanding Achievement in Advocacy Award for Traffic Responsibility Action Website ‘www.trafikhareketi.org’ by Interactive Media Awards 2011 • Outstanding Success Award in Kids category for www.candostlarihareketi.com • Crystal Apple Award for Traffic Responsibility Action short film ‘Accident’ in the Most Successful Advertisement category by The Turkish Association of Advertising 14 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Media Doğuş Media Group • Approximately 765 awards (between the years 2001-2011) for broadcasts and social responsibility campaigns • 80 awards in different areas from various ministries, organizations, associations and foundations, professional chambers, universities and high schools in 2011 Tourism and Services Park Hyatt İstanbul-Maçka Palas • The Certificate of Excellence by Trip Advisor for the year 2011 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur • The Blue Flag since 2004 • Marque of Excellence 2011 by Thomas Cook • Expedia Best YoY Growth 2012 Regional Turkey • The Certificate of Excellence by Trip Advisor for the year 2011 • Exemplary Institution by the business inspectors of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security Maritim Hotel Club Alantur • Blue Award 2011 and Bronze Award in All-Inclusive Category by TUI Nordic • Golden Award 2011 by TUI UK • Zoover Recommendation 2011 • Tripadvisor Recommendation 2011 D-Marin Turgutreis • The Blue Flag and Five Gold Anchors Flag from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association) since 2004 D-Marin Didim • The Best Marina Operator by Skalite International • The Blue Flag and Five Gold Anchors Flag from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association) since 2010 D-Marin Göcek • The Best Tourism Investment Award in Marina category by Capital and Economy Magazine • The Blue Flag and Five Gold Anchors Flag from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association) since 2010 D-Marin Mandalina • The Five Gold Anchors Award from the THYA (The Yacht Harbour Association) in 2011 Real Estate Doğuş Real Estate • The Most Successful Shopping Center in 2011 in the Best Marketing Campaign category by the Trade Council of Shopping Centers & Retailers DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 15 Strategic Partnerships & Memberships In 2011, Doğuş Group had memberships in the following organizations either on a corporate or individual basis: • WEF – World Economic Forum • DEİK – Foreign Economic Relations Board • TÜSİAD – Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association • Corporate Volunteer Association • KİD – Corporate Communications Association • DenizTemiz TURMEPA – Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association • PERYÖN – Personnel Management Association of Turkey • ASTD – American Society for Training and Development • TÜBİYAD – Finance & IT Executives Association • Finance Professionals’ Foundation of Turkey • KRYD – Enterprise Risk Management Association • TKYD – Corporate Governance Association of Turkey • FERMA – Federation of European Risk Management Association • TİDE – The Institute of Internal Auditing – Turkey • TÜFİDER – Financing Institutions Association 16 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Chairman’s Message Doğuş Group has based all its business practices on corporate citizenship and has adopted the mission of contributing to the community through corporate responsibility projects it has undertaken in line with the various businesses it engages in. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 17 Dear Stakeholders, I am delighted to share Doğuş Group’s Corporate Responsibility such behavior is not tolerated moreover discouraged and Report 2011, in which we outlined our performance and activities replaced with motivation for socially optimal and sustainable regarding key sustainability measures, our company’s strategic development. Sustainable development can only be achieved direction, the challenges we face and our vision going forward. if enterprises are trusted and valued for their contribution to society. Being an economically, ethically, socially sustainable Since its inception, Doğuş Group has based all its business company is our main commitment to society. We believe that practices on corporate citizenship and has adopted the the corporate responsibility targets the creation of a better mission of contributing to the community through corporate future for every member of the society. responsibility projects it has undertaken in line with the various businesses it engages in. Through this approach, the Group Sustainability principles are the framework that guide our not only contributes to the economy but also supports social corporate strategy and direct how we develop and provide development and environmental sustainability. solutions for our customers in a manner that benefits people, protects our environment and rewards our shareholders. Being The recent financial crisis has caused a very fundamental change a responsible company means understanding that our choices in the global economic landscape. In this context, companies affect the lives of our shareholders, customers, employees and need to design and implement consistent, well-thought communities. We believe that our commitment to sustainability strategies and new business models. From an organizational helps Doğuş Group and its companies to make decisions that perspective, the business community should cope with the are beneficial for today, and even better for tomorrow. transformation by allocating the necessary resources to follow the new trends. In line with the changing global landscape, our This report encompasses our corporate responsibility efforts future success hinges on the performance of the technologies undertaken by both Doğuş Group companies and the Ayhan we develop and the quality of the products and services Şahenk Foundation. I hope that this report will benefit all our we sell. But the ethical standards we work within, and the stakeholders, while revealing Doğuş Group’s efforts to become business practices we choose to adopt, are also becoming a better corporate citizen. crucial success factors which Doğuş Group intends to leverage as a competitive advantage in the marketplace. It is very natural to seek a return on investment for shareholders. However, commitment to keep the companies in a sound and sustainable basis has become more important. The objective of a business should not only be short-term profit maximization. Ferit F. Şahenk Efficiency should become equally important as much as the Chairman of the Board of Directors profitability. We must enable an environment where Doğuş Group 18 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Ceo Message Dear Stakeholders, Since our participation to the UN Global Compact in 2007, we have maintained and even strengthened our firm commitment to our corporate responsibilities and shared our improvement in this area via our annual corporate responsibility (CR) reports. Parallel to our enhancement as a Group regarding corporate sustainability, we have also aimed at expanding the scope of our reports each year by evaluating the feedbacks we received from our stakeholders. We are grateful for your invaluable inputs over the years and are proud to present you the fourth Doğuş Group CR Report covering our activities for the year 2011. As one of the largest conglomerates of Turkey and the surrounding region, we aim to bring economic, social and environmental development in every sector, in which we operate, through innovative and sustainable business models. Despite the economic and political challenges the world economy faced in 2011, in line with our country’s successful budgetary performance, we completed the year with very satisfactory results thanks to our strong forecasting ability, and experienced skilled teams. Doğuş Group’s investments in Turkey and in the region totalled US$ 1,180 million in 2011. Our Group grew by 4% in total assets and 15% in revenues. Our contribution to Turkey’s total tax revenue realized as 2% and we are also proud to declare that we provided more employment opportunities along with our investments and increased the number of our employees to over 30,000 in 2011. As one of the largest conglomerates Whilst steadily increasing our work force, maintenance of happy and motivated human resources remains to be one of of Turkey and the surrounding region, our top priorities. Creation of a sound working environment we aim to bring economic, social and for our employees, upholding respect for human rights and offering equal opportunities for all are the indispensable environmental development in every factors for us regarding our human resources management. sector, in which we operate, through Application of health and safety measures in all our working environments, especially in the sectors where exposure to jobinnovative and sustainable business related risks are higher, and provision of career development models. opportunities are the other very important criteria we hold on to in our employee engagement practices. We continuously DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 19 work on all these measures to better our working standards and Regarding environmental sustainability, most of our Group to keep our skilled teams under Doğuş Group structure. companies worked hard to better themselves and lead their sectors in Turkey towards more environment friendly business Along with our economic success and contribution to the models. Garanti Bank, which positions itself as a sector leader development of the regions under our operational map, we also in transition to a low-carbon economy, completed the formation maintained our practices regarding social and environmental of its Sustainability Committee and started to work on risks and sustainability in 2011 to bring prosperity to these regions. Our opportunities in climate change-related topics in 2011. The Bank Group continued to focus its main community engagement is also keen to remain a leader in the financing of renewable practices on two main areas: i) Education and development of energy projects through its practices. Doğuş Otomotiv, which had younger generations and, ii) Development of arts and culture in participated to the UN Global Compact in 2010, has been a pioneer our country. Financial literacy has also become one of our top in the automotive sector with its sustainability initiatives including targets concerning community engagement since it has utmost the first GRI B application level Corporate Responsibility Report significance for both economic and social development of a in its sector in Turkey. Firmly committed to its responsibilities, country. Through the Para Durumu financial literacy platform, the Company published its second report in 2011. Environmental which reaches out to masses via several channels and also investments in our tourism and services sector and energy through financial literacy trainings, Doğuş Group aims to spread efficiency focused applications implemented in the projects of our awareness on the issue in Turkey. In late 2011, Para Durumu construction sector were other noteworthy sustainability related launched a new personal finance education project for “women” initiatives in 2011. in cooperation with the Republic of Turkey Ministry of Family and Social Policies and the İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. At Doğuş Group, we will maintain this momentum in 2012 by The project aims to educate 20,000 women in İstanbul by June further developing our business practices towards fully sustainable 2013 to make them financially literate, and will be carried further business models and by extending our community engagement as a nation-wide education plan, which will be taught at various in every region under our sphere of influence. Municipality Centers across Turkey. We will continue to share our progress in corporate responsibility Environment and sports were again the other fields we focused with you all from 2012 onwards. most of our resources in 2011. Furthermore, the majority of our Group companies maintained and further developed their corporate responsibility initiatives parallel to their business lines. The Teachers Academy Foundation and SALT of Garanti Bank, “Back to Study: Educating, not Employing Children” project of Garanti Pension and Life, “Traffic is Life!” platform of Doğuş Otomotiv, Traffic Responsibility Action supported by TÜVTURK Hüsnü Akhan were among the important initiatives that marked 2011 with Chief Executive Officer regards to Doğuş Group’s corporate responsibility efforts. Along Doğuş Group with the Group companies, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation, established in 1992 by the Founder and Honorary Chairman of Doğuş Group, Mr. Ayhan Şahenk, also continued its practices in the areas of education, health, the environment, and social aid. 20 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Corporate Responsibility Approach As one of the leading conglomerates As our group-wide corporate responsibility Line Of Csr Vision in Turkey, Doğuş Group is an important strategy has ongoing relevance, we participant in several industries. We have undertaken a group-wide approach therefore see ourselves as providers of to identify issues most material to our an improved quality of life, rather than businesses. Detailed performances Opportunities simply providers of goods and services. about the social, environmental and It is this approach that has prompted economical responsibility issues can Doğuş Group to offer products and be found in related pages, under the services which support awareness related headings. The outcomes of towards society, the environment this strategy and priorities study were Resources and economical development, while used to maintain the content of this remaining sensitive to the expectations report, ensuring that it covers topics and of the community. indicators that reflect Doğuş Group’s significant impacts or could influence the Corporate Sectoral priorities (industrial material behaviour of our stakeholders. Values issues) are the point of origin defining (Top-Down Approach) our corporate responsibility approach. Identifying Stakeholders These issues construct our road map, Through our country wide experience where we can drive positive change with of developing and managing different the power of our industrial know-how, sectors and businesses, we have Corporate in addition to minimizing our negative Structure identified general and main stakeholder impact in relevant areas. groups that are significantly affected by our activities as a Group and Materiality whose actions can affect our business Last year (2010), the methodology performance. For further details about used for defining the material issues Stakeholders our stakeholders and our detailed for Doğuş Group was based on GRI key engagement platforms, see the performance indicators and the sectoral Stakeholder Engagement section. priorities of Doğuş Group companies. Benchmarking with peers brought us CSR to a prioritized analysis of industrial The Context of the Report Integration issues. In 2011, this study is being Where applicable, this report includes to Business Strategies enlarged to a Corporate Responsibility objective information with reference to Strategy Study with the establishment broader corporate responsibility areas, of a CSR Working Group, created by as recognised in regional and/or global representative members from all Doğuş publications and links between CSR Competition and Social Group companies. topics and Doğuş Group’s corporate Impact strategy. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 21 Corporate Responsibility Strategy As Doğuş Group, being a “leader” with the brands which we involved in the services sector in Turkey and Our Vision surroundings with a customer focused approach. To support economic, social and environmental development and increase the level of prosperity by creating Csr Strategy innovative and sustainable business models in every sector and region in which we operate as a Group. 22 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Our Priorities Economic Employee Community Environmental Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement We invest in economical We support the While we are We value the development models improvement of our growing, we also ecological in line with the employees and support the awareness and we operations of our recognize them as development of the manage our Group companies. the most valuable surrounding business activities company asset. community and accordingly. work to increase social welfare. Leader and Visionary Environmental Responsible Investment CSR Awareness Management Approach Awareness Employment Customer Health and Human Rights Energy Efficiency Generation Safety International Product and Service Health and Safety Waste Management Cooperations Responsibility Local Suppliers and Training and Reduction of Water Business Ethics Local Development Improvements Consumption Corporate Governance Dialogue Platforms Voluntary Programs Our Values The Group companies share a set of core values based on Public Policies integrity, understanding, excellence, creativity, unity and responsibility. These values, a part of the Group’s beliefs and convictions since the very beginning, continue to guide Community and drive business decisions made by each company within Engagement Programs Doğuş Group. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 23 Corporate Responsibility Management Cooperating, collaborating and sharing Doğuş Group, with diverse business The sustainability performance of Doğuş values with our many stakeholders operations in different regions and Group is among the responsibilities of are required to achieve our corporate countries, has already been cognizant of the Group’s Board of Directors. Risks and responsibility targets, which are based on the fact that it has to monitor and make opportunities that may have an impact corporate behaviour that earns the trust provisions for various risks including the on sustainability are also monitored and support of society. To ensure that all ones related to corporate responsibility. in coordination with industrial risk Group companies conducting business Accordingly, our Group monitors social, management divisions and committees. group-wide put this strategy into practice economic and environmental risks its and to make clear our responsibility to operations could cause on the society. In For more information on governance stakeholders, we worked on the Group’s order to maximize the benefits for all and structure, committees subject to Board Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) minimize the risks regarding sustainability, of Directors and the other relevant Strategy in 2011. We have placed CSR Doğuş Group has conveyed its groupinformation on management in Doğuş at the core of our management strategy wide Risk Management approach in Group, please visit; and are working to contribute to building support of “sustainable profitability http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr a sustainable society through our business and regional risk management-oriented activities. development” and “a management style conducive to maximizing value added for Doğuş Group defines its competitive its stakeholders. edge and draws its future roadmap through three basic means: strong Doğuş Holding’s Risk Management governance mechanisms, effective global Department, established in an effort collaboration, and transparent and close to implement Risk Management communication with its stakeholders. The across the Group, operates under the Group monitors and analyzes the progress Group’s CEO and the Risk and Audit of its operations as well as its citizenship Committee of the Board of Directors. efforts. The Group utilizes a management This Committee determines shareholder style that is both customer-focused and risk preferences, monitors risks that the productivity-centred. In addition to a Group faces and ensures that appropriate natural focus on financial performance, the risk management applications are in Group also embodies a strong corporate place. The Group CEO has the ultimate citizenship approach for the benefit of responsibility for Corporate Risk society as a whole. While integrating Management. sustainability measures in every step of its operations, Doğuş Group also supports social development through community engagement practices. 24 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Limitations AND Report Boundary Unless otherwise stated, Doğuş Group In the preparation of this report, all Doğuş Please e-mail your suggestions/views/ 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Group companies were covered and opinions to: covers all businesses, including the the information used in the report was subsidiaries, of Doğuş Group companies’ consolidated from surveys prepared Başak Gürtuna Koçer corporate responsibility performance, in according to GRI G3.1 Reporting Corporate Communications line with the Group CSR Strategy. Guidelines, filed by the reporting teams in Assistant Manager each Group company. In each section, best bkocer@dogusgrubu.com.tr The reporting period for this, Doğuş Group’s practices among the Group companies 4th Corporate Responsibility Report, is have been selected and shared throughout Location of the Group’s headquarters: the calendar year 2011. As mentioned in the report. Doğuş Holding A.Ş.2 our first Corporate Responsibility Report Ayazağa Mah. Eski Büyükdere Cad. No: 15 (2008), we remain committed to report our We encourage and appreciate feedback Oycan Plaza Kat: 3-4-5 Maslak İstanbul CSR performance annually. All our reports from all our stakeholders, both internal and are uploaded in the public domain on our external. Your suggestions are vital and company website. help us to improve both the quality of our reporting and the quality of our products We continue to follow the Global Reporting and services. Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, the most widely adopted non-financial reporting framework throughout the world, used to help communicating sustainability performance, in addition to encouraging transparency and accountability. 2 Shareholding pattern and changes in company structure during the reporting period can be found in detail at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 25 Csr At A Glance Financial Services Automotive Energy Efficiency and Waste Leadership in Renewable Initiatives for Management Energy and Energy Projects Community 60 Disabled Economical Environmental Safety in Call Center Impact Design Traffic Employees Ongoing CustomerGreen Branch Commitment Socio-Cultural Environmental Oriented Service CSR Program to Development Awareness Approach Awareness Sustainability and Efficient Management Construction Media Technological New Media Employment Developments Tools Strong Risk and Cost Environmental Team Work CSR Management Awareness Awareness LRQA Certified Development Public Trust Health & Safety, Quality Focused Quality Reliable and and Environment Sustainable Focused Broadcasting Change Awareness Systems Projects Tourism and Services Real Estate Contribution to Employment Service Quality Customer Operational Prestigious and Efficiency and Satisfaction Performance Trusted Brands Productivity Excellence in Customer Regional Environmental Stakeholder Local Hospitality Satisfaction and Leader Responsibility Expectations Economical and Higher Living Development Customer Standards Service Energy Sustainable Contributing Development to National Economy Clean Renewable Environmental Energy, Risk Awareness Domestic Management Energy Sources Economic Engagement DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 27 28 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Economic Engagement We invest in economic development models parallel to the operations of our Group companies. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (TL thousand) 2009 2010 2011 Revenues 7,819,616 8,654,592 9,929,164 Gross Profit 2,667,310 2,744,273 2,551,956 EBITDA 1,329,406 1,667,054 3,737,556 EBIT 1,133,383 1,425,944 3,455,629 Net Profit 782,887 966,015 2,691,764 General Administration (1,028,810) (1,153,172) (1,189,808) Expenses Sales, Marketing and (143,407) (204,878) (242,626) Distribution Expenses Total Assets 42,923,044 49,285,930 51,147,438 Total Shareholder’s Equity 6,728,866 7,701,796 9,864,793 Despite the ever-present risk of crisis in 2011, Doğuş Group grew by 4% in to last year, Doğuş Group plans to the past year, Doğuş Group maintained total assets and 15% in revenues. The increase its contribution to the country’s its uninterrupted growth and completed Group realized investments in various employment rate by hiring an additional the year 2011 with remarkable economic sectors totalling US$ 1,180 million 2,000 people, reaching a base of around results, both for the company itself and and contributed to Turkey’s total tax 32,000 employees. for the regions under its operation. In revenue with 2%. Additionally, parallel Sectoral Activities in 2011 Banking and Financial Services S.A. (BBVA), under the principle of equal Garanti provides a wide range of financial Garanti Bank is Turkey’s second largest partnership. Garanti’s organizational services to its 11 million customers private bank, with an established history capabilities and shareholder value through an extensive distribution network of 65 years and total consolidated assets maximization focus fosters its successful of 907 domestic branches plus 7 foreign reaching US$ 90 billion. performance. branches in Cyprus, Luxembourg and Garanti operates in every segment of the Malta; 4 international representative Automotive banking sector: corporate, commercial, offices in Moscow, London, Düsseldorf With nearly 2,000 employees, Doğuş SME, retail, private and investment and Shanghai; 3,300 ATMs; an awardOtomotiv is Turkey’s leading automotive banking. Garanti is an integrated financial winning Call Center; and the state-of-thedistributor and the leading automotive services group with eight financial art internet and mobile banking platforms importer in Turkey. The Company subsidiaries providing services in pension built on cutting-edge technological represents 14 international brands, each and life insurance, leasing, factoring, infrastructure. one the leader of the following sectors: securities, and asset management. passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, There are international subsidiaries in the Following the best practices in corporate heavy commercial vehicles, industrial and Netherlands, Russia and Romania. governance, Garanti is jointly controlled by marine engines, cooling systems. The two powerful companies, Doğuş Holding Company also encompasses a number of Co. and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria subsidiaries under its portfolio: Doğuş Oto, DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 29 DOD, D-Auto Suisse, TÜVTURK, Yüce range of career opportunities in various as well as the NTV Publications under its Auto, Oto-Fix, VDF Group and LeasePlan. locations and cultures, helping to construct portfolio, the Group has broadened its large scaled projects in domestic and operations from TV to magazines, radios, In 2011, Doğuş Otomotiv reached its global markets; The Company currently digital and other print media and has highest sales performance since its employs around 6,500 people in domestic become the leading media organization establishment, exceeding the 100,000 as well as in international projects. providing thematic content to the public. units’ level, and increasing its market With 1,381 employees, Doğuş Media share to 12.6%. The Company reached In 2011, Doğuş Construction was awarded Group is one of the largest companies in its turnover and sales targets, growing the contract for the construction of the media industry. above the sector average, thus increasing “Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro its market share. Holding one of the most Project” as a sole contractor, thereby Because of restructuring in this sector, valuable brand portfolios in the world as a strengthening its position in the metro 2011 has been a year of high activity for distributor, Doğuş Otomotiv has combined construction business. Doğuş Media Group. All media operations the resultant competitive advantage under Doğuş Group were relocated to with its vision of “creative service With regard to international projects, Doğuş Center, Maslak in İstanbul. Doğuş beyond expectations” and its “customer the Sofia Metro Extension project is still Media Group also expanded its portfolio satisfaction” oriented operational goal, in progress, and Doğuş became one of with the acquisition of the new TV thereby consolidating its market position four companies that obtained preliminary channel Star and also with the launch of in 2011 and receiving numerous awards. qualification for the Bucharest Metro Line Kral Pop radio and Kral Pop TV, operations project. In addition, in Ukraine, the Kiev of which started in 2011. Construction Boryspil State International Airport, a joint Doğuş Construction is one of the leading venture led by Doğuş Construction, is The total advertising market increased by companies of its sector due to its mega about to be completed. The Company is 23% in 2011, and Doğuş Media Group project perspective and its infrastructure also closely following the current situation has kept its share in active markets and superstructure projects undertaken and prospective projects in the Middle East. around 8.3%. The Group’s TV channels both in Turkey and in the international have kept their market share around market. Doğuş Construction, which Utilizing its mega project approach and its 10% despite the growing competition has ranked among the most reputable long-standing experience, the Company in the market. According to projections, construction companies since its continued to grow on the basis of sound the acquisition of Star TV will double the establishment in 1950, has completed 170 and sustainable profitability. In addition Group’s market share for the next three sizable projects worth approximately US$ to increasing its profitability in its sector, years. Regarding the radio stations, Doğuş 12 billion to date. Currently, the total value Doğuş Construction has gained a more Media Group increased its market share of the projects, in which Doğuş is involved, dynamic structure, continuing on the path by 2.6% to 22.8% with the launch of Kral is US$ 4,494 million and the share of Doğuş toward achieving its goal of being stable in Pop. Doğuş Media Group’s magazines in these projects is US$ 3,533 million. the markets where it is operational without also increased their market share by 2% Doğuş takes part in the execution of interruption. to 17.5%. Doğuş Media Group has a various prestigious rail mass transportation market share of approximately 3% in the system and rail projects individually and Media Internet segment. as part of the joint ventures or consortia Doğuş Media Group reaches to millions of that are established with the participation people through its innovative, informative Additionally, in 2011, Doğuş Media of international construction companies in and entertaining broadcasts on its TV Group successfully organized the second local and international markets. Because channels, radio stations and web portals; as New Media Order Conference with the of engineering applications that require well as through its outstanding periodicals participation of expert guests from all over different areas of expertise, Doğuş and books. With 8 TV channels, 8 radio the world. Construction offers employees a wide channels, 3 internet portals, 8 periodicals 30 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Tourism and Services D-Marin Didim and D-Marin Göcek REIT, Doğuş Real Estate and also with In the tourism and services sector, marinas in Turkey and D-Marin Mandalina Doğuş Turizm Sağlık Yatırımları ve Doğuş Group operates with Doğuş in Sibenik, Croatia. During 2011, even İşletmeciliği San. ve Tic. A.Ş., which owns Tourism and Retail Group, the D-Marin though the financial turmoil created 42% of the İstinyePark Shopping Mall. Marinas Group, D-Gym and D-Life in the adverse effects in the tourism sector, well-being industry and Körfez Havacılık through the efforts of skilled employees In accordance with its strategic target in the aviation industry. and high operational standards, all of investing in architecturally original the marinas operating under D-Marin and financially reasonable housing Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group was Marinas Group concluded the year with development projects with a certain established in 1976 and owns six fivesatisfactory results. D-Marin Marinas conceptual approach in metropolitan star hotels, a travel agency, Antur and Group is actively evaluating acquisition areas, Doğuş REIT seeks and evaluates the Arena Giyim retail company, the or development of prestigious marinas new investment opportunities in the creator of the In-formal brand. The in the Mediterranean and the Adriatic sector. The Doğuş REIT portfolio Group also has contracts with some of regions in order to establish a market includes Doğuş Center, Maslak and the the world’s leading luxury brands. The leader marina network. 2000 Plaza located in Antalya. Group performed a successful year as the occupancy rate of rooms increased Apart from Doğuş Tourism and Retail Doğuş Real Estate Investment and by 3% in 2011, room rate increased Group and D-Marin Marinas Group, Management Company whose shares by TL 84, and total hotel revenues Doğuş Group has also initiated are 100% held by Doğuş Group was generated TL 26,618 thousand higher investments in the well-being industry founded in 2006. Doğuş Real Estate, as well. Swissotel Göcek has been with D-Gym and D-Life. The Group’s which holds 13 assets all over Turkey taken over from Turkon Holding and first investment in this arena was the today, continues its work with great the hotel’s name is changed as D-Marin opening of D-Gym in Maslak, İstanbul in care in order to make the best use of Resort Göcek and will be operated by 2009, which has brought corporate class these assets. In 2011, the Company Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group in 2012. quality to the sports and fitness industry had a net rental income of TL 22.3 D-Hotel Maris has also been renovated in Turkey. The opening of D-Life Healthy million and employed 31 people in and will open its doors to guests in 2012 Living and Detox Center in Ulus, İstanbul addition to around 1,500 indirect with a fresh concept. came after D-Gym opening in November employment opportunities created 2011. with the Gebze Center Shopping Mall On the retail side, Arena Giyim opened project. At Gebze Center, the activities a boutique in D-Marin Didim Shopping Körfez Havacılık, under the affiliation that took place in 2011 in line with Complex in 2010 and will open an Inof Doğuş Group, was formed in 2007 the marketing strategies were longFormal store in D-Hotel Maris in 2012. and in May 2008 received its Operating term projects that will add value to Bodrum Armani Caffé and Shop were Certificate (AOC) from the Turkish the customers while creating a loyal closed but a new Emporio Armani store Civil Aviation Authority. Körfez’s fleet, customer group and increasing the was opened in Ankara and Emporio comprising of one Gulfstream 450 sales of the retailers. Along with these Armani Ristorante concept was launched aeroplane, one Hawker 900XP aeroplane projects, many corporate responsibility at İstinyePark in 2011. A new opening and one Bell 407 helicopter, is authorised initiatives were also carried out, will take place on Bağdat Caddesi in to operate commercial flights both including events designed for disabled İstanbul in the second half of 2012. domestically and internationally. citizens and information campaigns to raise awareness on the environment. D-Marin Marinas Group started its Real Estate operations in 2003 with its first marina, In the real estate sector, Doğuş Group Doğuş Group also operates with D-Marin Turgutreis, and currently includes operates with three companies; Doğuş İstinyePark in the real estate sector since DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 31 September 2007 under a partnership order to optimize its portfolio. D Energy between Doğuş Turizm Sağlık Yatırımları will continue to operate in the areas of ve İşletmeciliği San. ve Tic. A.Ş. and Orta energy generation and will focus on Gayrimenkul Yatırım Yönetim A.Ş. The electricity trading activities. In addition, ownership of the two companies on D Energy is developing investment İstinyePark is 42% and 58% respectively plans on prospective projects to have and Doğuş Turizm Sağlık is owned and optimal generation portfolio, and aims to managed by Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Since build an additional of 2 GW, mainly from its opening, İstinyePark is working nonrenewable and conventional resources. stop with its 300 stores to offer the best service to its visitors. The shopping mall More information on Doğuş Group’s provides a vast selection thanks to its businesses can be found at http:// 270,000 m2 construction area, 87,000 m2 www.dogusgrubu.com.tr and the full store area, 3,600 units carpark and wide description of Group’s subsidiaries’ range of stores. financial results can be found at 2011 Doğuş Group Annual Report at http:// Energy www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1Doğuş Group operates in the energy 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/ sector through D Energy. In terms of reports/annual_reports. generation sector which is based on renewable energy sources, D Energy is one of the leading companies in the private sector with its 1 GW installed capacity. D Energy has designated new investment projects and privatizations for the generation of electricity as well as the operation of these assets and energy trading as its core areas of business. Within the current portfolio, Artvin Hydroelectric Power Plant (332 MW), in which D Energy holds 100% share, is the latest investment of the Company after the Boyabat Hydroelectric Power Plant (513 MW), in which it holds a 34% share, and the Aslancık Hydroelectric Power Plant (120 MW), in which it holds a 33% share. Total amount of investments of these three projects exceeds US$ 2,200 million. D Energy closely monitors privatization initiatives, green and brown field projects in various regions of the country in 32 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 The Economical Impact of Climate Change Climate Change is considered among influence our operations, particularly in Group especially monitors catastrophic external risks within Doğuş Group’s Risk the construction and energy sectors. climate change. Management. The topic is monitored Climate changes could also impact within the scope of factors which could insurance programs. Therefore, Doğuş Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank includes actions to be taken in the for companies if the real sector can Garanti Bank’s approach to the events of extreme conditions and/ not adapt itself to those permanent economic impact of climate change or disasters. The Bank has full backchanges. focuses on long-term sustainable up systems and alternative working growth and on making contributions sites for its vital operations. Garanti On the other hand, apart from the through its interaction with other continuously increases its support for long-term permanent climate change sectors, customers, banking activities local and international efforts in this effects, the short-term imbalance of and operations. This includes revisions matter. climate seriously affects the financial and development of projects, products, markets. Garanti Asset Management services and procedures in all business Garanti Asset Management bears responsibility for its investments, lines (Retail, Corporate and Commercial Global Climate Change is affecting so it is appropriate that the financial Banking and Project Finance), many businesses and inducing serious results of any climate change should financing principles with environmental and permanent negativity in some be included in risk assessments. and social concerns, cost saving sectors. It causes periodical changes opportunities through greater efficiency in the business models of some (reduction of fuel consumption, companies and results in income electricity, paper and water usage), and change. It is assumed that the longemployee engagement. Garanti Bank term results of climate change may be has a Disaster Recovery and Business realized in 30 to 40 years, but Garanti Continuity management system that Asset Management foresees a risk DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 33 Local Suppliers and Local Development Doğuş Group has diversified businesses Local supply enables Doğuş Group to predictability of delivery times, a that operate in different regions, so that provide a global platform to local talent, high degree of responsiveness to the word local is defined as ‘where add value to local resources and help demand, increased speed to market operations occur for the Group’. It stimulate a vibrant local economy, all of and mitigation of climate risks due to has been the Group’s main objective which have importance to the success transportation. It also enables a higher to encourage local supply and local of Doğuş Group. degree of control and auditing of development as it provides mutual vendor’s operation to strengthen the benefit of corporate responsibility and Local supply also leads to a shorter Group’s reputation. license to operate. supply chain, greater certainty and Best Practices at Doğuş Group TÜVTURK sources 65% of its purchasing has reached TL Construction spent a total amount requirements from local suppliers, 300,000,000 in 2011. Doğuş of TL 275,600,000 of local purchasing in the amount of approximately Otomotiv paid TL 4,130,000 to and the rate of the local employment TL 800,000. LeasePlan’s local local suppliers in 2011. Doğuş of managers reached 10% in 2011. Corporate Mechanisms3 At Doğuş Group, we believe that good governance principles in its professional Doğuş Holding Board of Directors corporate governance is the foundation approach, does not discriminate Ferit F. ŞAHENK – Chairman of the for maximising stakeholder expectations, between its shareholders, and acts Board of Directors optimising operational performance, in accordance with ethical codes in Süleyman SÖZEN – Vice Chairman attracting skilled employees, clients and all fields of endeavour. The Doğuş Hüsnü AKHAN – CEO of Doğuş Group partners, and making a positive impact Holding Board of Directors is the senior Aclan ACAR – Board Member on the lives and businesses we touch. decision-making authority, and holds Ahmet KURUTLUOĞLU – Board ultimate responsibility for stakeholder Member Doğuş Group’s core values and ethical interests across all Group companies. Erman YERDELEN – Board Member business practices are central to our Gönül TALU – Board Member business operations. We have always Doğuş Holding’s Board of Directors Muhsin MENGÜTÜRK – Board Member striven to go beyond compliance. consists of eleven members, including Sadi GÖĞDÜN – Board Member its Chairman, and convenes as the Şadan GÜRTAŞ – Board Member Governance and Board Group’s business requires. Yücel ÇELİK – Board Member Structure Doğuş Group, sensitive to corporate 3 Detailed information about Board of Directors and Board Committees can be found at Group’s 2011 Annual Report http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports 34 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Committees Subject to the Board the Doğuş Holding Internal Audit • Developing common projects to of Directors Department, increase employee commitment. Three oversight bodies support the work • Evaluating the efficacy of the of Doğuş Holding Board of Directors: The internal control processes of Group Legal Advisory Council Risk and Audit Committee, the Human companies and advising on ways The Legal Advisory Council: Resources Coordination Committee and to improve the internal control • Evaluates law-related issues the Legal Advisory Council. environment, pertinent to Doğuş Group, • Overseeing the efficacy of • Identifies important matters within The Risk and Audit Committee financial control and internal audit these issues and, The Risk and Audit Committee was activities within the Group, • Specifies legal processes to be established to assist and advise the Board • Overseeing the security, efficiency followed and measures to be taken in of Directors. The Committee consists of and effectiveness of the information all such matters. three Board members elected by the systems used by Doğuş Group Board; it meets regularly a week prior to companies and reviewing and Doğuş Group Anti-Corruption Board meetings. The Committee’s major approving their contingency plans Policy responsibilities are described as follows: and, Good business ethics is a key area • Assisting the Board of Directors in our Code of Ethics, which every Risk Management: to ensure that the business activities Doğuş Group employee reads, accepts • Ensuring that a functional of the Group companies are in and signs. Bribery and corruption are risk monitoring system transmits compliance with the requirements of unacceptable behaviours, as affirmed by important issues to the Board, applicable laws and regulations. the Group’s Ethical Principles. • Reviewing regular information flow from Group companies and The Human Resources Coordination Doğuş Group has based its antievaluating risk assumed in Group Committee corruption policy on transparency and strategies, business plans, budgets The Human Resources Coordination accountability where all business-related and investments. It also evaluates Committee was established to assist the parties are highly independent and prone managerial actions to address Board of Directors with human resources to the consequences of each others’ risk along with the general risk management practices at Doğuş Group actions. In line with this policy, the Group management processes within each companies. integrates globally accepted ethical and company, social measures in all of its operations • Reviewing of Group risk levels The Committee is made up of Human and business practices and regularly to ensure that they are in line with Resources Managers from Doğuş Group communicates the consequences of its predetermined levels of shareholder companies and convenes a minimum activities to its stakeholders. risk preferences and, of two times a year as agreed upon in • Advising the Board of Directors advance by the Board of Directors. As part of its anti-corruption policy, Doğuş Group requires the same kind of in determining risk plans and actions The major responsibilities of the view through management style on the taken with regard to risk management Committee include: part of all of its stakeholders, both in the within the Group. • Carrying out human resources national and international contexts. The practices within the Group companies Group holds to the principle of “not being Audit: and know-how sharing, involved” with any party acting contrary • Overseeing the efficacy of • Arranging work groups relevant to to globally accepted standards and who actions taken by Group companies in planned issues, is unable to provide reliable disclosures response to the results of financial, • Sharing information about potential with regard to its actions. Doğuş Group’s operational, and information candidates from within the Group and anti-corruption policy is embodied in technology audits performed by possible vacant positions and, the Group’s “Code of Ethics” and most DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 35 Group companies have developed their financials are drawn up quarterly in Ethical principles are spelled out and own documents on anti-corruption. accordance with International Financial documented in procedures under the Reporting Standards (IFRS). Independent following headings: Transparency and Accountability semi-annual and year-end audit reports • time and resource utilization at Doğuş Group adheres to strict business are shared with the public. the companies, ethics that include transparency and • relations with customers, accountability in an environment where All Doğuş Group affiliated companies subcontractors, suppliers of goods all players, from large corporations to listed on the İstanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) and other companies and individuals individual customers and from employees have their individual Investor Relations with whom the company has to society in general are affected by each departments that are able to effectively commercial interactions, other’s actions. In all of its operations manage the flow of information to • the acceptance of gifts, invites, and business activities, Doğuş Group their stakeholders in line with national aids and donations, has fully integrated globally-accepted regulations. The fields of activity and • relations with the media, principles of responsible business performance of the Group’s publicly-floated • actions that can result in conflict conduct. The stakeholders have been companies are disclosed in conformity with of interest, informed of these actions. principles of their respective companies by • safeguarding of information the Capital Markets Board of Turkey (SPK). pertaining to the companies, personal Upholding these principles and high In terms of public disclosure requirements, information, professional misconduct, ethical standards is not limited to its the ISE Material Event disclosures are the security and harassment. own business dealings; the Group also responsibility of the Holding’s Finance requires that the same approach is Department. Credit Ratings5 followed by all stakeholders, on both Doğuş Holding can be instantly recognized national and international levels. Doğuş Corporate practices and safeguards that based on the ratings given by international Group embraces the principle of “not promote corporate transparency and rating agencies. The Group has become being involved” with any party that acts accountability, coupled with sustainable well-known for both its quality of contrary to globally-accepted standards social and environmental practices, management and the global principles of and that cannot provide reliable ultimately support stable markets, which corporate governance it supports. disclosures with regards to its actions. are crucial for viable economic growth and the long-term returns to our stakeholders. Transparency and accountability are the Much attention is paid by Doğuş Group two key components of Doğuş Group’s to the disclosure of its financial and nonEthical Principles4 management approach. Consequently, financial information to its shareholders, Strict compliance with the Code of Doğuş Holding has been rated by two of employees, customers, national and Conduct and Standards is a key principle the major international rating agencies; international business partners, suppliers, for Doğuş Group. As such, actions that Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s since present and potential investors of its violate the Company’s Code of Conduct 2000 and 2006 respectively. publicly-floated companies, and the public are subject to disciplinary measures. As at large. a participant to the United Nations Global The Group makes all relevant information Compact since April 2007, the Group available on its website, and informs has reaffirmed its commitment to fight the public about its corporate strategy, corruption both internally and in other activities and new fields of investment areas that might fall within its sphere of via Annual Reports and periodic press influence. releases and conferences. The Group’s 4 Doğuş Group Code of Conduct and detailed information about ethical principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-278-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/code_of_ethics 5 Detailed information on Credit Ratings of the Group can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-271-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/dogus_holding_a_s__ratings_ 36 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 37 Employee Engagement 38 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Employee Engagement Our people at Doğuş Group are our management strategy is an integral part authority and responsibility and provide transformation agents who move beyond of Doğuş Group’s vital business strategy. challenging projects which translate their limits, think alternatively and drive We make it a priority to empower potential into performance. positive change; a well-defined talent every Doğuş Group team member with Doğuş Group Total Workforce (2011 Year End)* Tourism and Services Holding 4,1% 1,2% Media 4,5% Construction Real Estate Energy 21,3% 0,1% 0,3% Banking and Financial Services Automotive 61,8% 6,8% *Doğuş Group’s total workforce by the year end 2011 was 30,621. In the chart above, the percentage given for Holding encompasses of Doğuş Holding, Doğuş Yeni İnternet and the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 39 Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour Issues Doğuş Group practices and endorses We are committed to provide a safe and We are also committed to operate in line equal opportunity employment and does healthy work environment and ensure with the UN Global Compact principles not discriminate on the basis of gender, adherence to all labour legislations. on labour standards. religion, language, race or disability. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş HoldingWorking Life the related period. In accordance with can directly communicate with the Assessment Survey the survey output, action plans are CEO about their problems in every In Doğuş Holding, a Working Life drawn for the areas of improvement in subject except personal issues. Assessment Survey is conducted Doğuş Holding. The last Working Life • Garanti is open to suggestions: every 2 years and is made online by Assessment Survey was conducted in Suggestions are received and an independent research company. December 2011. considered in all development The Working Life Assessment Survey areas. The bank-wide smoking ban targets the identification of both Doğuş Satisfaction at Garanti is of Great has come into effect through this Holding’s strengths and areas needing Importance system. improvement and action plans for these • Everyone at Garanti is the leader of • According to the 2010 and areas to be implemented based on the his/her job. They take initiatives and 2011 results of the “Employee output of the survey. make their own decisions. Satisfaction Survey” conducted • Being an equal opportunity employer by an independent research in every aspect from selection to company with the participation of The content of the survey questionnaire training programs, Garanti respects all employees, the level of sense is designed under 3 main chapters: the different knowledge and skills of belonging towards the bank was “Employee Loyalty,” “Rational and possessed by its employees, and above the averages in Turkey. Emotional Motivations,” and “Human supports these differences. • To serve mutual external clients, Resource Practices.” Under Human • Open communication is always the units and branches within the Resource Practices, the following encouraged. institution receive services from topics are measured: internal • Intranet, created as an “internal each other. The “Internal Customer communications; leadership/reporting internet website,” is a bank-wide Satisfaction” survey which evaluates manager; individual and professional communication platform. the quality of these services is improvement; monitoring of • The “Executives Meeting” where conducted every year. achievements and their appreciations; the managers assess the past year total wages and benefits; recruitment and determine the objectives of of high quality work force; teamwork the next, and the “Vision Meeting” and collaboration; physical conditions directed by the CEO and organized of working environment and job topics. regionally to be attended by all These topics may change according employees are regularly held every to the needs and circumstances in year. In this meeting, employees 40 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Human Rights As Doğuş Group, we adhere to the UN trainings bi-annually, including human Doğuş Group is wary of partnering with Global Compact principles on human rights issues. 100% of our security staff organizations which have a history of rights. Discrimination, forced and had this training in 2011 and the security incidents related to either human rights compulsory labour and child labour are staff in the majority of Group companies violations or other illegal activities. strictly prohibited. We also denounce has likewise been given training Compliance is very important for bribery or corruption in any form and our regarding human rights. investment decisions as the protection processes ensure that such negative of human rights is of significant concern practices are strictly discouraged. As Doğuş Group, we are very attentive to for Doğuş Group. compliance with all laws and regulations The security staff of Doğuş Holding have while deciding on new investments. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Otomotiv-Human Rights Principles and all of the employees rights of the people living in the Policy and business partners are regions where it operates, takes expected to comply with these precautions against violation of • Doğuş Otomotiv bases its principles and Doğuş Otomotiv rights and manages related risks. commitments regarding Human Human Rights policy. Rights on the United Nations • Doğuş Otomotiv obeys national The number of distinct persons Global Compact and the United and international laws and visiting the Human Rights e-learning Nations Universal Declaration of regulations with regard to human application was 391 in 2011. There Human Rights. rights, and expects that business are 470 white collar employees using • Human rights are also an integral partners do as well. computers; as such the read rate of part of Doğuş Otomotiv Ethical • Doğuş Otomotiv safeguards the the e-learning is 83%. Employee Health and Safety Doğuş Group ensures employee safety Resources Policy outlines the Group’s the mental and physical well-being of and health as a universal value without commitment to strengthen a safety and employees. regard to time. The Doğuş Group Human health oriented culture conductive to Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Otomotiv-Safe and Economic influence, and the dissemination of which has been carried out for years, Driving Trainings information to assist the development in order to reach more people, Doğuş of safe vehicle driving culture in Otomotiv organized Safe Driving Doğuş Otomotiv takes, among its Turkey, by collaborating with relevant Techniques Traninig Days, beginning areas of responsibility, the creation institutions and organizations for with its employees, at Istanbul Park in of awareness on such topics as the awareness projects. 2011. The program’s goal is to extend importance of traffic safety and safe the importance of the traffic safety vehicle driving for sake of all the To this end, enlarging the scope of the awareness to employees of all Doğuş stakeholders within its sphere of “Traffic is Life!” awareness campaign, Group companies in the next stages. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 41 Traffic Safety e-learning application is Doğuş Construction is certified by Local and international occupational planned for the sales teams of all the Lloyd’s Register (LRQA) with ISO health and safety requirements are Authorized Dealers, again within the 9001:2008 Quality Management, meticulously enforced in every phase “Traffic is Life!” campaign. A First OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational of construction work. Compliance Aid in Accidents course for all Doğuş Health & Safety Management, and with project-specific and general Otomotiv employees was also included ISO 14001:2004 Environmental environmental and labour safety within 2011 targets. Management systems. requirements of each project is key to the high service quality TÜVTURK informs the legal authorities The issue of safety is among the most offered by Doğuş Construction to in a timely manner with regard to any important subjects for the Company; its clients. Accordingly, employees occupational accidents that occurs according to the Occupational Accidents the risk management system includes are continuously provided training Procedure. To analyze the occupational the operational controls and potential courses to keep up with the changing health and safety risks which are dangers for the employees. In every requirements in the areas of Quality, centrally put into practices, employees operational center, Doğuş Construction the Environment, Occupational Health are consulted and their expectations and has Employee Health and Safety and Safety Management Systems. concerns are taken account. Committees, which meet monthly. Human Capital At Doğuş Group, the most valuable asset is its human resources. Investing in and sharing offered by the work is our human capital. We constantly its employees’ areas of development, place, invest in the sustainable growth and the Group has created a robust human • wishing to work in an environment development of our employees. We resources pool, based on the vision where thoughts are shared out provide a vibrant work environment of “The Right Person for The Right loud, where equal emphasis is given to Job” in order to enable personal • wishing to work in an environment professional and personal improvement. development and achieve corporate where new and innovative ideas A plethora of enabling mechanisms helps objectives. are appreciated, Doğuş Group people and businesses to • and wishing to work in an perform at their peak potential. For people who are: environment where a long-term • planning their careers in service career development is possible, With more than 30,000 employees, sectors where both local and Doğuş Group creates group synergy by international leading brands are Doğuş Group is the right address. bringing together an understanding of present, quality service, innovative thinking and • aiming to make a difference The Human Resources Teams of Doğuş customer focused approach. by adopting the principles of Group companies select individuals to openness, fairness, honesty and be included in the Group from among As Doğuş Group’s Founder and Honorary humbleness in a competitive those who solve problems, execute and Chairman Mr. Ayhan Şahenk said years environment, develop plans and who are able to say ago, Doğuş Group believes that within • wishing to work in an environment “we” instead of “I” while doing all this. the keen competitive environment of providing them confidence and the globalising world, its real capital support based on the solidarity 42 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 The meaning of being a Doğuş Member in the words of the employees: CEM ECEVİT his/ her client and society at large are Each day, my curiosity, enthusiasm Doğuş Energy, Finance and impacted. I believe such awareness and enjoyment increased; this must Administration Project Manager, can only take shape in a work have caught the attention of my Working at Doğuş Group for 9 years environment where the employees managers, for in 2007, I was offered I first entered Doğuş in 2002 through are valued; Doğuş Group is among the position of Doğuş Otomotiv, one of its farthest gates, in Morocco. the few organisations able to shoulder Porsche Turkey Chief of After-Sales I had little idea about the Group, but I leadership in every sector and render Services. My greatest passion had learned there, for the first time, what this leadership sustainable. become my job. I also started moving respect for employees meant, without up in the Company; after a couple of ascribing value to them because TUĞBA KARA years I was transferred to the position of their nationality, race, language, NTV & NTV Sports, Broadcasting of Regional Sales Manager at the culture or rank. I learned that being a Manager, Working at Doğuş Group SEAT sales department but, about a Doğuş member meant I could walk for 12 years year later, I returned to the Porsche into the office of any top executive, When I joined Doğuş Group in 1999 brand (which I love and could never and he would get up to shake my as an intern, I was both curious and really leave) as Sales and Marketing hand. Being a Doğuş member means contented from the moment I began. Manager. to respect others, be respected, and To embark upon a business career feel valuable. was like swimming in uncharted During my one and a half year stint waters, but being in Doğuş Group as the Porsche Deputy Sales and SİNEM DURMUŞ IŞIK always gave me confidence. It is 2011 Marketing Manager, the personal Garanti Factoring, Human and I am still happy to be a member development training and personal Resources Supervisor, Working at of this Group. An organisation that coaching developed specifically for Doğuş Group for 4 years has developed its quality into a me by the Human Resources Division Imagine a work place where your brand also makes its employees feel enabled me to become aware of my ideas are valued, where you feel privileged. That awareness is always shortcomings and deal with them. that you are working in a family accompanied with the question, “How This prepared me for my present environment; imagine a school where can I contribute?” It gives us the position as the Porsche Sales and you are taught something new every opportunity to be open to innovation, Marketing Manager, which I have held day and what you have learned is put and to renew ourselves. since July 2010. into daily practice; think of a group of services which ascribes leadership KAAN OĞUL My career story at Doğuş Otomotiv status to its employees. Doğuş Otomotiv, Porsche Sales and illustrates how one’s motivation, Marketing Manager, Working at enthusiasm and experience play To be an employee of Doğuş Group Doğuş Group for 6 years a very important role in one’s life. means doing your job efficiently, I have been working with Doğuş Doğuş Group is an ever-developing, backed by a strong technological Group since 2005. My interest in warm entity open to new ideas. It is infrastructure, being valued as a automobiles started when I was a place where people’s performance leader regardless of level, and being young, and turned into passion when is constantly followed up, where ready to learn at all times, like a newly I was in high school. In university, my achievements are recognised and recruited employee. As I complete my only dream was to work in a job that most importantly, provides a wide fourth year within Doğuş Group, I have had to do with cars. In December range of various career opportunities realised that doing my job well is not 2004, after finishing my university to its employees. I am proud and merely doing the particular task I have degree, I was accepted to the position happy to be a part of this closely knit been given. Each Doğuş employee of Porsche Service Consultant at family and what I am doing here. adopts continuous development as an Doğuş Oto, the authorised dealer of indispensable value and in each task Doğuş Otomotiv. that is accomplished, because both DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 43 Remuneration System and Benefits Salary level adjustments in Doğuş the task in hand as well as individual’s • Transportation Group companies are determined taking education, expertise and competencies • Lunch into consideration intra-organisational are the primary bases. equilibrium and market conditions Additionally, where there is appropriate based on fair and consistent systems In addition to salary payments to Doğuş space, fitness centres and hairdresser laid down for each sector and business Group employees based on their net services are also available to employees. groups. Employees demonstrating wages, the following benefits are outstanding performance are rewarded provided: in proportion to their contributions. In • Private health insurance and/or Life determining the wages of new recruits Insurance in Doğuş Group, the responsibilities of Performance Development The most important goal of the Doğuş Group. For the measurement of are expected to take responsibility for performance management systems work performance along with these goals, their own performance, development used in Doğuş Group companies is to employees and managers reach mutual and careers. This means that the enable our employees to develop and agreement on business objectives. The employees’ enthusiasm to constantly exploit their potentials to the fullest. To competencies necessary for realising learn, support and development of this end, the data obtained as a result these objectives are determined and their subordinates and team mates, of performance appraisal are used in managers provide feedback on these and rapid adaptation to the changes the implementation of Training and issues. in their sectors are among important Development, Career Management and performance indicators. Wage Management systems. During the performance evaluation process, each individual’s compliance In performance management, goals are with the values of Doğuş Group set on basis of sectors and companies and his/her work performance are conforming to the basic strategies of considered. Doğuş Group employees 44 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Holding manage their own career goals 360 Degree Feedback Process In Doğuş Holding, a new performancetogether with their managers. Through Garanti Bank implements a 360 based bonus scheme was launched this process, Garanti also develops its Degree Evaluation Process once a in 2011. The rewarding system aims managers from within. year to determine the strengths and to segregate high, good and poor development areas of Regional, Unit and Goal-Oriented Management and performance, and to spread the message Branch Managers in terms of managerial Performance Evaluation on the behaviours and success measures qualifications and to contribute to their Open performance evaluation is based that are upheld by our company to all professional and personal development. on concrete and measurable goals, and employees. After the implementation, the managers thus very objective. In line with the bank’s are provided with one-to-one feedback With this new scheme, all department goals determined at the beginning of regarding their strengths and areas that managers conduct one-to-one career the year, employees, together with their they need to improve and awareness interviews with each of their team managers, determine objectives that about these areas is created. members, to clarify performance in suit their jobs. Through the year, these the past year as well as to determine objectives are followed and necessary Assessment & Development Center training and career planning needs for changes are made. At the end of the year, The Assessment & Development the upcoming year. The performance they are compared against the realized Center Implementation aims to reveal evaluation is conducted according objectives and the performance level the strengths, development areas and to business targets, job definitions, is determined. The performance levels potential areas of the Branch Manager new job/project, Doğuş Group values, of people who work at Garanti enable Candidates in terms of their qualifications improvements, team work, vision, and them to create their own career plans and to prepare them for management managerial skills dimensions. Upon and nominate themselves for various positions. After the assessment, the the completion of the interviews, the positions, and affect their salaries. candidates are provided with feedback managers determine a performance regarding their strengths, development Qualification-based Career grading for each team member and areas and potential areas. Every candidate Development submit “the Department Performance that goes through the assessment process Determination of education and Map” to the Human Resources undergoes certain training programs in line development needs, education department. A five scale system is with his/her development areas. programs and creation of career plans used in the rewarding system and form the basis of all Human Resources IIP (Investors in People) Certificate information drawn from the career Management Systems. After receiving the ISO 9001 Quality interviews constitutes a basis for System Certificate, with its qualitytraining, career and promotion planning Career Opportunities Program oriented philosophy, Garanti Bank in for the next year. For open positions within the bank, priority 2005 became the first Turkish company is given to current bank employees. The Garanti Bank whose human resources practices were positions and required qualifications for The most important key to Garanti’s awarded certification for compliance these positions are announced through success is its human capital, and therefore with Investors in People (IIP) standards, the Career Opportunities Bulletin. the Human Resources Department has the world’s only recognized human Candidates who find themselves suitable a strategic role. With a proactive and resources quality standard. As a result of for these positions can apply without creative approach, the department is an assessment conducted in late 2008, approval from their managers or anyone actively involved in the decision making Garanti’s certification was renewed. In else. Candidates who fill these criteria process of the bank. The Human 2009, IIP introduced a new program are notified and invited to enrol in the Resources Department, in line with aimed at recognizing and awarding firms selection process. Garanti’s objectives and by working in whose performance in human resources cooperation with other units, conducts Promotion at Garanti is directly related practices surpassed the standard and success-oriented modern human to success. Authority brings along added “Gold”, “Silver”, and “Bronze” resources programs. responsibility and salary increase. To move classifications to its existing certification up to a higher position, one must possess process. Under this new ranking system, Employees Create Their Own Career the knowledge and experience required Garanti Bank’s human resources practices Plans for that position, but the most important were awarded “Silver” certification, an Every employee at Garanti is the factor is the performance level. Careers at honour bestowed on only 1% of the leader of his/her job. As a result of Garanti are not limited to the positions in approximately 35,000 concerns that have their competency and performance banking; transfer between other Garanti received IIP certification worldwide. evaluations, they define, plan and subsidiaries is also possible. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 45 Training and Development As Doğuş Group, we believe that Local Training employees only, or participating in investing in people has the highest In order to contribute to an employee’s training provided by consulting firms returns. Through local and overseas professional and personal development open to the public at large. training to enable our employees to and to further develop his/her strengths, Overseas Training perform their duties both most efficiently our companies provide in-house training The Human Resources Division follows and enjoyably, we aim to meet business covering a wide range of areas, from overseas training activities which requirements and obtain results that special training targeting the sectors employees may need in connection with will increase their existing performance. they operate in all the way to personal their duties and make the necessary The following training opportunities are training. Such training may be in the form arrangements for their participation to provided to Doğuş Group employees: of corporate training limited to company such activities. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Employees Always levels. When they advance in their to e-learnings: Garlive, (a web-based Improve Themselves career, they can develop themselves TV application which is a first in the with the tools based on their financial services sector in Turkey with Garanti invests in its employees in competencies. Besides, Garanti a professional live broadcast studio set every step of their careers by offering Leadership Academy (GLA) is the talent up, where every development in bank them: in class trainings, coaching, on management program to develop broadcasted to all employees); webinar the job trainings, e-courses, library, leadership skills for both branch and (a virtual classroom for follow up e-books, training videos on demand headquarter employees. It is significant trainings, best practice sharing, internal and many other development tools. that 85% of managers are alumni of knowledge sharing); GBTube (a video New development tools are designed GLA, which serves the proposition of portal for best practice sharing and and integrated into trainings for the promoting Garanti Leadership Culture. internal knowledge sharing). employees continuously. One of the strengths of Garanti is Garanti was honored with the “BEST” Employees receive training when they its technology, which can be seen in award by the American Society of first start Garanti Bank. Every new the Learning & Development Center. Training and Development (ASTD) for its employee receives certification trainings Technology involvement started in successful training practices, and with the which include orientation, technical 1998, initiating Garanti E-learning “Silver Best Leadership Training Program” trainings and soft skills trainings. Garanti platform. Garanti Bank launched various by Brandon Hall for its talent management offers wide learning solutions to all learning technology tools for employee practices in Turkey and in the world. employees in different organizational development purposes in addition Social Life Each employee of all Doğuş Group activities for the Foundation’s projects take volleyball, football, bowling, carting, sailing, companies is issued a “d-Card” with place. Aside from the social responsibility tennis, table tennis and billiards are held which he/she can benefit preferentially aspect, these events provide the Group as the “Doğuş Champions League” with from the services offered by the Group. employees the opportunity to socialize a view to strengthening relations among Additionally, through agreements with with co-workers outside their daily Group companies and instilling the team cafes, restaurants, hotels, travel agencies, business environment. spirit among employees through sports. educational establishments and stores, Yet another meeting venue created for Doğuş Group employees could benefit In the event realised with the slogan the employees of the Group companies to from campaigns and price reductions “Natural Champions Are Sought”, strengthen social ties are the social clubs. adding value to their social life. players of the award winning teams are Most of Doğuş Group companies have given their prizes at a ceremony where social clubs including photography, scuba, Cultural Activities the entire Doğuş Family comes together. dance, drama and nature sports clubs. The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation organizes The coordination of the program is carried annual events whereby all Doğuş Group Doğuş Champions’ League out by the Doğuş Holding Corporate employees get together and fundraising Since 2005, sports contests in basketball, Communications Department. 46 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 47 Community Engagement 48 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Community Engagement The communities where we do are committed to that promise. Our and awareness campaigns in addition to business are important stakeholders community involvement is a combination sponsorships. for Doğuş Group. We promise to make of community engagement programs, the community a better place, and we philanthropy, and employee volunteerism Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Holding ELELE. Para Durumu actively uses with 200 young female students social media channels via Facebook between ages 15-18 in Şanlıurfa Financial Literacy and Twitter and also operates a very and bringing them along to Harran Para Durumu (First financial literacy popular blog+internet site: University, which was their first initiative of Turkey that reaches out www.paradurumu.tv visit to a university. These special to masses) programs were presented as a Financial literacy is an individual’s Para Durumu has soon become an model for financial education to ability to make informed judgements address where people seek out to the Republic of Turkey Ministry of and effective decisions about the use solve and be guided for personal National Education. and management of his/her money. finance problems, financial product • Para Durumu runs special projects Thus, financially literate consumers questions, saving for a house, budget with “children” (Elementary manage their income, save and invest decisions, investment choices, credit school students). The initiative wisely and avoid fraudulent practices. card issues, and ‘making it through’ organized a six week project with The term has gained much importance problems. It has become a popular Lütfi Banat Elementary School, all around the world, since each (and only) venue for people to “talk where students were taught how ‘person’ and ‘household’ is the base of money” in public. to use and manage money, make economic sustainability in a country. investments in the environment, The initiative is recognized as a health, education. The special Para Durumu is the first private media Financial Literacy initiative of Turkey by program was presented as a and interaction based financial literacy OECD. model for financial education to initiative of Turkey, which reaches out the Republic of Turkey Ministry of to masses via several channels: the Among the activities that make Para Family and Social Policies. TV show started out in CNBC-e for the Durumu an outstanding initiative are: • Para Durumu launched a new first year, and then transferred to A • The initiative reaches out to personal finance education Haber, where it airs twice a week at 7 youth (University students) movement for “women” with pm, prime time. It also pages on the via physical meetings as well. the cooperation and support of highest circulated national newspaper In 2010-2011, it visited 12 the Republic of Turkey Ministry Posta and also on Hürriyet and is universities across the country of Family and Social Policies as broadcasted at the highest rated radio where average participation was well as the İstanbul Metropolitan channel Kral FM. Para Durumu is also 1,000 students. It also visited highMunicipality. The project aims to broadcasted on the daily morning schools and elementary schools in educate 20,000 women in İstanbul show of Capital Radio and published different parts of Turkey meeting to make them financially literate on the monthly women’s magazine DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 49 until June 2013. The project has government employees (3 million headed by the Deputy Prime a special significance, as İstanbul people in Turkey). It also organizes Minister of Turkey, Mr. Ali Babacan is a major city in the world that is seminars with different profession as the government institution on its path to become one of the groups including police officers, responsible for the Financial ‘World Financial Centers’. After the teachers and doctors. It is currently Literacy issues in Turkey. completion of this first phase of in dialogue with the Government • Para Durumu brought “The Best the movement, education model Personnel Department in bringing Volunteer” award to Özlem developed by Para Durumu will about a web-based financial Denizmen, by The Corporate be carried further and become education program that reaches Volunteer Association, which is a nation-wide education plan, out to 3 million state employees. founded to help establish corporate which will be taught at various • Para Durumu aims to be a catalyst employee volunteering in the Municipality Centers across Turkey. to bring about “national strategy” corporate cultures of companies in • Para Durumu encourages women on financial literacy in Turkey. Turkey. entrepreneurs. Mrs. Denizmen This requires efforts on research, • Para Durumu is appointed as is the official ‘Personal Finance’ policy, practice and coordination in a member of the Advisory educator of KAGİDER (Women general. For this, Mrs. Denizmen Committee and jury for the Child Entrepreneurs Association has been regularly visiting top & Youth Finance International, an of Turkey) and attends TOBB executives of Republic of Turkey organization that aims to provide (The Union of Chambers and Ministry of National Education, financial education and access Commodity Exchanges of Turkey) Republic of Turkey Ministry to 100 million children in 100 Women Entrepreneurship of Family and Social Policies, countries. meetings. Para Durumu educates Ministry of Economy and financial • Özlem Denizmen, who spearheads the trainers of AÇEV (The Mother regulatory institutions such as this initiative, received international Child Education Foundation), which Capital Markets Board, İstanbul honors as well, with the is a Turkish non-governmental Stock Exchange, Inter Card Center, recognition of the ‘sustainable organization that has vast research, Credit Bureau, Banking Regulatory change’ Para Durumu brings about program development, program Institution, the Central Bank of the to Turkish household economy. implementation and advocacy Republic of Turkey. The White House Entrepreneurship experience in early childhood, Summit, Global Clinton Initiative, parenting education and women In line with these efforts, by the World Economic Forum, OECD literacy/empowerment. end of 2011, Capital Markets Board are among the institutions which • Para Durumu opts to bring about was appointed by the National acknowledged these efforts thru personal finance education to Economic Stability Committee their rewards. CSR Awareness Operating in an emerging market profitability in the long run is that of its employees and the other key economy, characterized by rapid fulfilling the rising expectations of society stakeholders about the concept of CSR advances in information and to be responsible corporate citizens. A so that they are not only aware of the communication technology, globalization business, however, will not succeed in concept of CSR, but also understand its and liberalization, businesses in Turkey its attempt to be responsible if it does importance and the role that they can play are faced with stiff challenges to survive not fully understand the concept of CSR. to ensure that Doğuş Group companies and maintain a competitive edge. One are committed to CSR-related efforts. of the biggest challenges of businesses One avenue for action is for Doğuş today that will have an impact on Group to continue efforts to educate 50 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Customer Health and Safety As Doğuş Group, we uphold the in all our operations and reshape our projects to further increase the overall health and safety of our customers practices where needed. Furthermore, awareness on the issue of customer and take all the necessary precautions Doğuş Group companies also develop health and safety. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank both in written and oral ways on corporate spokespeople of Doğuş Privacy and confidentiality are as a number of occasions. Any kind Otomotiv have continued to support important for Garanti Bank as they are of violation is investigated and the cause, and the activities carried for its customers. The same approach disciplinary decisions are made by the out as part of the “Traffic is Life!” is followed by all Garanti subsidiaries. Disciplinary Board. platform have been structured so as In keeping with its approach to to reach and benefit all segments of Doğuş Otomotiv modern banking and to its service the public. All activities are created Traffic is Life! with an integrated approach and the philosophy focused on customer satisfaction and security and, indeed, Doğuş Otomotiv social responsibility 360-degree communications method as a requirement of the business of projects are combined under one is used to reach a wide audience. banking, Garanti Bank complies with single heading, “Traffic is Life!”, the essential principles in order to focusing on the traffic issue, in order Employee Training protect the privacy of any information to raise public awareness on traffic Following a strategy of creating traffic that customers may provide to the safety since 2004. safety awareness by starting with Garanti Bank corporate website and Doğuş Otomotiv employees and In line with the aim of creating social to the Garanti Online Branch. reaching the rest of the public, new awareness and cultural change, training programs have been prepared Doğuş Otomotiv continues its social Private information of customers on the targeted subjects together responsibility projects in order is never shared with third parties with academicians specialized on to create public consciousness without permission of the owner those titles.“First Aid Approach concerning traffic safety. As part of of the information, in accordance after Traffic Accidents Training” and this main theme, the slogan and logo with the law. Additionally, for the “Safe Driving Techniques Training” of “Traffic is Life!” have been used security of customer information, only have been rolled out for all Doğuş since 2004 as the social responsibility authorized employees are permitted Otomotiv employees in 2011. During platform under which all corporate to access sensitive information these training sessions attended by projects are gathered to raise the and any kind of information use the employees of all Doğuş Group awareness of drivers and pedestrians is recorded. As the issue is also companies active in different sectors, alike. All activities carried out to regulated by the Banking laws and first aid techniques to be applied after create a positive change in the target legislation, the importance of the traffic accidents have been taught in group regarding traffic culture have issue and employee behaviours theory and practice. The “Safe Driving been stepped up in 2011. The target are stated to the employee from Techniques Training” was given at the group is divided into 3 segments; the moment of employment, and Istanbul Park F1 track, again covering (1)Doğuş Group employees, (2) reviewed during the working years theory and practice, with the aim of children and youth and (3)public. The DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 51 improving the driving skills of 1,114 Employee Volunteering and Traffic Digital Media Doğuş Group employees; employees Safety Films A professional web site who spent longer hours driving As part of employee volunteering, www.trafikhayattir.com is created were offered “Advanced Driving Doğuş Otomotiv employees continue to keep the public updated about the Techniques Training.” to take part in 3 short films, available activities by adding important content on social media, to raise public related to “Traffic is Life!”. Social By the Employee Training programs, awareness regarding traffic safety. media pages, such as Facebook, 2 awards in the Internal Social Traffic Safety Training for Children Twitter are created to connect instantly Responsibility Practice category were As a result of the cooperation since with vast network of audience in order given to Doğuş Otomotiv by Corporate 2011 between Doğuş Otomotiv and to interact and share helpful traffic Social Responsibility Association after Turkish Science Center Foundation, information and events. the CSR solutions were examined by which is located in Şişli and visited the Evaluation Institution formed by by 400 children daily on average, a TÜVTURK CSR Europe and various organizations Traffic Safety Exhibition has been in Europe focusing on corporate social Traffic Responsibility Action opened for primary school children, responsibility. Traffic Responsibility Action, which with the aim of informing them on Authorized Dealer Employee traffic safety issues and raising their is supported by TÜVTURK, arose Training and Informing Customers awareness. Another training intended from efforts to ensure the support Doğuş Otomotiv aims to train for Doğuş Group employees is the of private sector corporations and employees to act responsibly in traffic safety awareness training for individuals, along with the public traffic and to volunteer to be role children. During the 2011 Doğuş institutions and organizations, to models; for this purpose, a traffic Fair Day, trainers gave the children various solutions to the problems safety training program has been a wide-range training on the special suffered in traffic, underscoring the prepared for Authorized Dealers course, covering traffic lights and principle of personal responsibility. and shared online with all their signs, using safety belts and zebra On this basis, Traffic Responsibility employees, more than 500 of crossings for traffic safety. The Action is a corporate social whom completed the program. children also learned the specially responsibility project aimed at target Doğuş Otomotiv also aims at written Traffic Pledge. groups with general training and communicating directly with its awareness-raising activities. High School Slogan Competition customers and reaching the broader in collaboration with Doğuş Media public through its Authorized Dealer The project stems from the fact Group network, which already has high that it is possible to produce With the permission of İstanbul traffic safety awareness. In addition, durable and sustainable solutions National Education Administration, the vehicle delivery procedures to maintain safety of life in traffic Doğuş Otomotiv is collaborating are being renewed. Trained only through the participation of with Virgin Radio and visiting high Authorized Dealer employees have the stakeholders of the issue. The schools to increase the traffic safety communicated directly to 53,000 project is coordinated by the Ministry awareness of high school students. customers about traffic safety during of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Students who pass the mini-test on the vehicle purchasing process, Communications and with the traffic safety propose traffic safety giving them correct and useful contribution of several stakeholders slogans, and the writers of the three information on the subject; this comprising of other governmental selected slogans enter the slogan procedure is now part of business bodies, public institutions, the competition live on radio. processes. academia and NGOs. 52 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 All the activities carried out in the Within the scope of Bosom Buddies December 13, 2011, came together development and execution phase of Action, two seminars were held in to contribute to increasing traffic the project have been presented for December 2010 for representative safety, and create a declaration the consideration of the stakeholders teachers from 36 cities. This project that will guide these efforts. Aviva during the Stakeholder Meetings continues; it anticipates reaching Insurance, BP, Brisa, Ceva Logistics, held on May 4, 2010, July 15, 2010, 3,200 teachers, over 100,000 Doğuş Otomotiv, Goodyear, Michelin, December 23, 2010, April 6, 2011 students, 200,000 parents and 6,000 Renault Mais, Temsa Global, Tofaş, and January 30, 2012; the project school bus drivers in 300 schools. Toyota, Turkey Petroleum and has been structured in line with their TÜVTURK representatives shared ideas and suggestions. their experiences and exchanged Following the main introductory ideas about their work in the field of films, ‘Kaza’ (The Accident) and Traffic Responsibility Action traffic safety. The initiative, started ‘Göz Yumma’ (Don’t Condone) of is executed through three in the coordination of the Ministry Traffic Responsibility Action, a total subprojects: of Transport, Maritime Affairs and of 8 films were made for three a) Safe Vehicle Action’s target Communications, is open to all subprojects. Films were broadcasted audience is commercial vehicle private sector enterprises sensitive to on 25 national television channels drivers in particular safety of life in traffic. more than 16,500 times. Celebrities b) Responsible Citizen Action’s target supported the project on television audiences are university students and In 2012, Traffic Responsibility Action and radio stations in particular on the public, and will continue activities in other cities. NTV Radyo, NTV Spor Radyo, N101, c) Bosom Buddies Action’s target Kral FM, NTV, CNBC-e and e2. Traffic LeasePlan audiences are teachers, students and Responsibility Action pages on their parents. Fleet management services are social networks such as Twitter and directly related with customer health Facebook have had over 43,000 likes. Traffic Responsibility Action started and safety. LeasePlan is aware of in May 2010. Safe Vehicle Action Two web pages were developed its responsibility to prevent potential reached nearly 170,000 individuals in within the scope of the project: equipment failures of vehicles field activities and 3,000 commercial <www.trafikhareketi.org> updates before delivery. Furthermore, vehicle vehicle drivers at training seminars in the knowledge on traffic, and <www. controls and important safety 36 cities. candostlarihareketi.com> is for notifications are continuously tracked primary school students. by our employees and reminders are Responsible Citizen Action reached sent regularly to the fleet customers. Additionally, since May 4, 2010, 2,500 teachers and instructors over 2 million materials and before Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group working in Public Training Centers the holiday of the Feast of Sacrifice, The hotels operating under Doğuş in 25 cities. The courses are carried one million Safe Vehicle Cards and Tourism and Retail Group provide out at Public Training Centers; 124,000 posters were distributed all food and beverages, and therefore the total number reached is over over the country thanks to the efforts food hygiene and safety, the 50,000. Additionally, Responsible of the stakeholders. preparation of food and beverages Citizen Action reached 712 university according to predetermined health students at the seminars in 6 The business community, organized standards, is of utmost importance universities. under the platform meeting by for the customers’ health and Traffic Responsibility Movement on DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 53 satisfaction. HACCP (Hazard Analysis regulations are conducted twice a changing rooms and the Spa and Critical Control Points) System is year by ISIS and Johnson Diversey in section. Besides offering a hygienic one of the most significant systems all production areas of the kitchens in laundry service, all surfaces and in terms of food safety. Hygiene, the Group’s establishments. equipment at D-Gym are applied with sanitation and food safety are very bio nanotech material which prevents D-Gym important topics for hotel kitchens. bacterial growth. The swimming D-Gym gives utmost importance Failure to give the necessary pool of D-Gym is sanitized by ozone to the health and safety of its importance to these concepts may technology. In addition, D-Gym members and takes the necessary threaten both kitchen employees’ provides ambulance service to its precautions in all its gym units, as and hotel guests’ health. For members. well as other areas including the this purpose, audits for HACCP Product and Service Responsibility Consumers want product choices that performance they require and value they and livelihoods in more ways than one. integrate environmental improvements need. By engaging corporate responsibility and social expectations, but will switch with Group values and operations, Doğuş their purchasing decisions only when Doğuş Group is aware of the fact that its Group has adapted a transformative the product or service retains the products and services touch many lives approach throughout its processes. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank-Customer understands and meets customer fast and good service, supporting Satisfaction Assessments needs. Moreover, Internet Banking customers at hard times. Garanti Bank carried out a variety Usage and Attitudes Research was Garanti Pension and Life-Responsible of marketing research surveys in conducted in 2011 and the results Marketing Communication 2011, to get feedback from the showed that Garanti Internet Banking is found reliable, fast, easy to use and The private pension and life insurance customers about the Bank’s products has a rich diversity of transactions. sector, in which Garanti Pension and and services, and to provide insights Results of SME Banking Satisfaction Life operates, is regulated by a variety for the development of innovative Research showed that, Garanti of legal requirements in marketing products and services. According to Bank is the first bank that comes communication. In compliance with the results of Brand Image Research, up to SME’s mind for SME banking. these regulations, Garanti Pension banking customers consider that Among SMEs, Garanti Bank has and Life ensures all internal and Garanti is innovative, technologic, acquired higher results compared to external control processes and uses sufficient advertisement, competition on image components communication activities before its employs helpful and kind staff, such as; being innovative, providing operations. 54 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Doğuş Otomotiv-Product and Service Responsibility Policy Doğuş Otomotiv tracks the social and for training and correctly inform satisfaction by taking special environmental impacts stemming stakeholders directly or indirectly action concerning issues to be from its products and services, and affected by its products and improved. is aware of the responsibility towards services. • Embraces the principles of all of the social stakeholders and • Focus on choosing the right responsible communication, the ecological environment. Doğuş equipment, reasonable price, and seeks well beyond the Otomotiv adopts and implements right launch, for Authorized laws and regulations to comply the following policy within the Dealers and Authorized Service with OEM (Original Equipment framework: Centers trainings and inform the Manufacturers) standards in customers correctly, to serve accordance with the values • Manage audits and continuously beyond expectations. and expectations of the brands improve the procedures relating • Consistently audit service represented. to customer health and safety. standards, aiming to reach the • Apply international standards highest standards of customer Focus Area (Social Responsibility) Product and Service Goal Method International standards of service and a full, Process Management, Audit and Controling Customer Health and Safety accurate and timely information disclosure Mechanisms, Disclosure, Dialogue Training Informing the stakeholders effected from Dialogue Platforms, Safe and Economic Diving Training and Disclosure our products and services, trainings in cases Techniques Trainings, Indicator Rooms, Being Role of need Model Choosing the Right Equipment, Reasonable Price, Customer Satisfaction Trust, loyalty, service beyond expectations Right Launch, Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Trainings, Informing the Customer Responsible Approach Beyond The Laws and Responsible communication techniques, Responsible Marketing Regulations, Preliminary Evaluation and Folow-up of accordance with OEM expectations The Global Voluntary Codes TÜVTURK-Customer Safety Policy customers are safe during the of the process is audited by the To provide and pursue the health and vehicle inspection facilities. Quality Management Department. safety of our customers during the Every precaution for personal Improvement studies are carried service delivery in TÜVTURK stations safety and vehicle safety are out by evaluating complaints of the is one of the “Customer Promise” taken. customers about the issues. At principles of TÜVTURK. TÜVTURK stations, the customers Customer health and safety issues and their vehicles are insured against • Secure Service (Customer and the process are governed by the all kinds of damages during their stay. Promise Article 6): Our Station Managers and the continuity DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 55 Business Ethics We live in an age of innovation, the With increasing urgency, market and their communities. growth of free markets, and a world of social forces are rewriting the roles economy. New technologies, roles for and responsibilities of business as well. We, as Doğuş Group, direct our government, and players on the global Though the profit motive of business employees toward a greater scene offer challenging opportunities, is understood and accepted, the public consideration of ethics by critically demands, and constraints. More people no longer accepts it as an excuse for evaluating our own organizational and nations are working together ignoring the basic norms, values, and views and the processes that we have to spread freedom and democratic standards of being a good citizen. established in order to build an ethical principles; to nurture free markets; to Modern businesses are expected to environment. For Doğuş Group, being protect individual property rights; and to be responsible stewards of community a good business person and having an encourage respect for human rights, the resources working toward the growth ethical organization are not separate rule of law, and the environment. and success of both their companies and frames of mind. Voluntary Programs Increasingly, corporate philanthropy service participation on their job attitudes person-role congruence that will enhance includes both monetary donations and and on the community recipients they their job satisfaction and organizational service contributions of employees to serve, is a vital approach for voluntary commitment and foster their caring community projects. Doğuş Group’s programs. Specifically, we propose and helpfulness toward community employees’ readiness to volunteer, that, to the extent that employees have recipients. which interacts with their perceived higher readiness to volunteer, they will, link between company-sponsored regardless of their perceptions of the community service and salient link between service and organizational organizational rewards and resources to rewards, derive from their companymoderate the impact of their community sponsored community service a sense of Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank-Elim Sende education, more than 200 Garanti Bank Volunteers and their families refurbished 12 kindergarten classrooms Garanti Bank initiated a voluntary program with the aim of in 8 cities. The program was recognized as The Most creating a positive change in the community called Elim Successful Voluntary Program in 2011 by the Corporate Sende. Within the scope of supporting the development Volunteer Association of Turkey. of children’s kindergarten education before primary 56 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Community Support Programs The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation of the project in 1997. The project has In addition, the Foundation established Since its inception in 1992, The Ayhan been implemented by means of fully a food tent in Erciş in cooperation with Şahenk Foundation has been undertaking equipped modern health units designed Doğuş Holding, the worst affected area initiatives in education, health and the particularly to render service in the in the city, and served food for 1,700 environment as well as offering social fields of “Visual Health-Ophthalmology,” people per day for a month. aid to those in disadvantaged areas. “General Health-Internal Medicine” and As in previous years, the Foundation “Children’s Health-Pediatrics.” Health For detailed information about the has continued to implement significant services including the laboratory workfoundation and its projects: projects in 2011 for the benefit of our ups are free of charge to all the patients www.ayhansahenkvakfi.org.tr people and community with a responsible with limited financial income; and also perspective to help our government in to children attending primary schools in Doğuş Holding fulfilling its social welfare duty. underserved districts taking precedence. Child Development Education Social Aid Doğuş Kids (Doğuş Çocuk) In 2011, The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation As a part of the Foundation’s ongoing Established in December 2004, Doğuş and Doğuş Holding supported the commitment to provide social aid to Kids is the social responsibility platform “Kızlarımız Okullaşıyor” (Girls Go the underprivileged, the Ayhan Şahenk of Doğuş Group and it is based on the to School) campaign led by the Foundation provided clothing to 1,000 perspective that our future will be Governorship of Şanlıurfa, by building students and food supplies to 2,500 poor largely shaped by today’s children and a 24 classroom high-school and a 200 families in 2011. During the month of child development. We believe that this student dormitory for female students Ramadan in 2011, the Foundation served perspective should be given utmost in Şanlıurfa. By supporting this project, “iftar” dinners to approximately 2,500 importance by all players today, including the Foundation aims to help female people per day, hosting 51,000 people in the business sector. students get secondary level education total. and thereby contribute to the creation Contributing to the development of of equal opportunities in education. The Furthermore, the Foundation also young children, through education, Foundation completed the construction extended its support to the victims entertainment activities and projects of both buildings before the 2011/2012 of the Van earthquake of October 23, since its inception, Doğuş Kids aims to school year and presented them to the 2011, which caused loss of many lives create a more conscious and responsible use of the Ministry of National Education and mass physical destruction in the society in the areas of child development, of Turkey. area. In order to support the provision education and culture and arts. of basic human needs in the region, Health the Foundation donated urgent needs With this objective in mind, Doğuş Kids In 2011, the number of people who including 200 tents, 4,000 blankets, engages in partnerships with other benefited from the “Mobile Healthcare 500 pairs of shoes, 50 catalytic stoves, institutions including non-governmental Units” project totalled 17,910, thereby baby food and clothes in cooperation organizations, international organizations, reaching a cumulative number of with Turkish Red Crescent (Kızılay) and state and governmental bodies. All of 394,220 patients, since the initiation Disaster Coordination Center (AKOM). these other institutions share the Doğuş DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 57 Kids’ vision of cultivating social change in November 2011 and a seminar was a five-year protocol has been signed with through our children. organized with his participation on the the Ministry of National Education in relationship between music and child relation to the Foundation’s first project, Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra development. ‘’Öğretmenin Sınırı Yok’’ (No Limits in The “Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra” Teaching) which seeks to contribute to Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra was established in 2006 as Turkey’s the current education model, supporting Website first national, and permanent, children’s analytical thinking and research. Through Having reached its target member symphony orchestra. The Orchestra is the project that is formulated to provide number of 100,000 in less than 5 years, comprised of conservatory students teachers with training activities on the Doğuş Kids website was replaced between 11 and 18 years of age personal and professional development, by the Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra from different regions of Turkey, and 100,000 elementary school teachers, website as of July 2010. The Doğuş Kids introduces the wonder of symphonic directors and superintendents will Symphony Orchestra website aims to music to Turkish children as performed receive face-to-face training. The project create a communication platform among by their peers. started in April 2009 with pilot runs in the orchestra members and furthermore, five cities, and reached around 48,000 it aims to inform and educate young In 2011, Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra teachers in 68 cities by the end of 2011. people on classical music. performed 4 concerts with “Symphonic The aim is to spread the project across Cabaret,” which is a musical comedy. It the country. Education was particularly written for Doğuş Group Send Me to School Campaign (Baba Beni by Gani Müjde, famous screenplay writer Community Volunteers Foundation Okula Gönder) and joined by young actors Serhan Arslan (TOG) Since 2006, Doğuş Holding has been and Sinan Çalışkanoğlu. The “Symphonic Since 2003, Garanti has been the main providing scholarship for the education Cabaret,” concerts took place in Ankara, sponsor of TOG, a foundation that of 50 female students on an annual basis, Eskişehir and İstanbul reaching a total acts toward achieving social harmony, through its support to the Send Me to audience of over 3,500. Furthermore, solidarity and change through the School campaign, a joint effort with the aside from this project, the Orchestra involvement and leadership of youth. Milliyet newspaper, together with the also performed 2 concerts, one in the Association in Support of Contemporary Ayvalık Antique Theatre and the other Since 2006, Garanti Pension and Life has Living (ÇYDD). in the Çeşme Castle with the world supported several children’s education renowned Turkish pianist Fazıl Say and and personal development projects Banking and Financial Services reached another total audience of 3,500. carried out by the Community Volunteers Education Foundation. Granting the Foundation In addition, in 2011, the book “The Teachers Academy Foundation a specific percentage of its monthly Music Calls You” in which the story (Öğretmen Akademisi Vakfı) sales, Garanti Pension and Life supports behind the establishment of the Doğuş Garanti, recognizing the role education many projects carried out by the young Kids Symphony Orchestra was told by plays in upgrading the overall well-being Community Volunteers, including help Dr. Erdal Atabek, Social Psychologist of the society, set up a foundation in 2008, to school repairs in villages, helping and Mentor of the Orchestra, was also an initiative exhibiting its sensitivity in this street children, helping younger children republished specially for April 23, 2011, aspect and its long-term commitment. whose parents have limited means in the National Sovereignty and Children’s The objectives of the Teachers Academy their preparation for university exams, Day in Turkey. The proceeds of the Foundation include, among others, teaching literacy, and offering computer book have been donated to the TOHUM supporting the personal and professional courses. Garanti Pension and Life plans Autism Foundation. Furthermore, Dr. development of teachers who educate to continue and increase its support in Atabek participated in TÜYAP Book Fair future generations. In this context, this field. 58 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 “Deniz Yıldızları” (Sea Stars) Project chiefly intends to spread the project to “Mobile Healthcare Units Project” carried The Deniz Yıldızları (Sea Stars) Project other schools to let more children benefit out by the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. The has been supported by the donations from the project. Project has been implemented by means of Garanti employees, customers, and of modern health vehicles designed friends since 1998. Every year 2,500 Support to Cappadocia Vocational School particularly to render service in the fields students receive education at the Since 2008, Garanti Pension and Life has of “Visual Health”, “General Health” and campus in Darıca, which includes a been supporting the education programs “Children’s Health.” primary school and four vocational and held by the banking and insurance technical high schools. department of Cappadocia Vocational Women School and preparations of the students Supporting Women Entrepreneurs Garanti Pension and Life “Back to Study: for the Individual Pension Licensing Exam, Garanti, the first private bank in Turkey Educating, not Employing Children” and is contributing to the development of providing services specific to women Project the students towards being prepared for entrepreneurs, supports entrepreneurial Since 2010, aiming to lure students business life. women in terms of encouragement, working on the street back to the school training and funding. In cooperation on a full time basis, Garanti Pension Garanti Pension and Life managers with the Ekonomist magazine, the bank and Life has carried out İşimiz Okumak have been lecturing students on “Life organized the fifth edition of “Turkey’s (Back to Study: Educating, not Employing Insurance” and “The Individual Pension Women Entrepreneur Competition.” Children) project, in collaboration with System” since the 2008-2009 academic İstanbul Province National Education year. Garanti Pension and Life also “Send Me to School” (Baba Beni Okula Directorate and Bosphorus University. supports students in their preparation for Gönder) Project As a part of the project, about 2,500 business life by offering summer practice Since 2006, Garanti has annually been children at 26 primary schools in İstanbul and job opportunities. The Company providing scholarship for the education of were taught at their individual schools to maintained its support to the school in 100 female students through its support enhance their achievements and increase 2011. to the “Send Me to School” project, a their loyalty to school. In addition, joint effort of Milliyet newspaper and the nearly 400 Garanti Pension employee Garanti Technology Support to Hacı Association in Support of Contemporary volunteers participated in school Yakup Primary School Düzce Living (ÇYDD). activities on weekends and provided Aware of its responsibilities to community educational support in foreign language and education, Garanti Technology has Customers and other courses. They also joined aimed at meeting various educational Garanti Anatolian Meetings (GAS) personal development activities with the expenditure needs since the 2009-2010 In 2002, Garanti initiated a series of children such as acting, dancing, painting, academic year, making common cause conferences, known as Garanti Anatolian photography and chess. Furthermore, with the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. Meetings, to bring together SMEs and Garanti Pension’s volunteers organized Garanti Technology has been giving local administrators from all around activities such as basketball, cinema, financial support to 25 students at Hacı Turkey. Paving the way for professionals national park and museums visits. The Yakup Primary School in Gölyaka, Düzce and experts to discuss changing interaction set up between children and during the past 3 years and will maintain economic and market conditions, volunteers was remarkable. its support for another 5 years. evaluate regional and international opportunities, explore potential areas of Since the beginning of the project, Health business, and find regional solutions in 8% of the students stopped working Support to the Mobile Healthcare Units cooperation with local businesses and completely. Having achieved a very Project officials, these meetings gathered more significant success by taking many Since 2005, Garanti Pension and Life than 25,000 SMEs in 56 different cities children off the streets, Garanti Pension has been a permanent supporter of the so far. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 59 Women Entrepreneur Gatherings their social lives and communities exhibition and conference hall; as well as In 2007, in collaboration with Women concurrently. the Ottoman Bank Museum. Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGİDER), a small-scale training event Art and Culture The architectural renovation of both was held for 100 women. From 2008 SALT buildings was undertaken by Mimarlar onwards, the context and scope of these Garanti, through its own cultural and Tasarım/Han Tümertekin, with specific events expanded; Women Entrepreneur artistic institutions, provides solid interiors commissioned to six design Gatherings are held annually in 5 cities support to culture and the arts in and architecture offices from Turkey across Turkey, where training is provided Turkey, and takes on “sustainable” in an effort to underscore SALT’s on fundamental topics to enable women initiatives in these areas. Garanti Bank’s desire to advocate new experimental to create new opportunities for their successful cultural institutions -Ottoman environments for living and working. businesses, and to establish networks. Bank Museum, Platform Garanti Moreover, women get a chance to Contemporary Art Center and Garanti Automotive meet with role models who share their Galleryhave been restructured as a experiences, and gather tips about single autonomous organization. The Education marketing, management, technology, new institution is founded on a “Two Doğuş Otomotiv and Local Vocational future trends and EU integration. As of Buildings, One Program” idea, and called High Schools Cooperation 2011, 2,500 women had participated in SALT. Şişli Industrial Vocational High 15 cities. School students are provided with SALT explores critical and timely issues in internship at Doğuş Oto Maslak while Garanti Pension Hobby Clubs Project visual and material culture, and cultivates Samandıra Industrial Vocational High In 2008, Garanti Pension and Life innovative programs for research and School students do their internship at initiated the Hobby Clubs Project with experimental thinking. Assuming an Doğuş Oto Kartal. During their 4 year the purpose of keeping customers open attitude and establishing itself as a education, the developments of the happy by providing pleasant moments site of learning and debate, SALT aims students studying at these schools not only after their retirement but to challenge, excite and encourage its are monitored regularly by a training also during the accumulation phase. visitors to offer critique and response. supervisor in Doğuş Oto. Depending Currently, the Project covers 19 different on their development process, each hobbies ranging from arts to sports and SALT’s activities are distributed between student is placed in various positions, is implemented with the participation of two landmark buildings located no more the ones not placed continue with their 200 partners, all leading institutions in than a fifteen-minute walk apart, and also graduate education. their fields. shared via saltonline. The first building, SALT Beyoğlu, is on the pedestrian vdf’s Support to Education Garanti Pension and Life members street İstiklal Caddesi, and shares its vdf has been supporting education participating in Hobby Clubs benefit from audience with a cluster of private cultural through its contributions to the discounts up to 50% on hobby courses, institutions, galleries and organizations. Community Volunteers Foundation. The training and hobby equipment they use SALT Beyoğlu’s program and circulation Company also donates its disused IT in their different hobby fields. The Hobby interiors are mostly occupied by exhibition office equipment and computers to the Clubs website, hobimlemutluyum. and event spaces. The second building, Association in Support of Contemporary com, gives members the opportunity to SALT Galata, is the former 19 century th Living (ÇYDD) and to other educational discover the different aspects of their Imperial Ottoman Bank headquarters institutions. In 2011, vdf donated 4 hobbies and share their thoughts and designed by Alexandre Vallaury. SALT printers to the association and 30 accomplishments with other members. Galata houses a specialized public library computers to the Ertuğrul Gazi Anatolian New events are organized every month and archive, open to the public; spaces High School. to allow members the chance to develop dedicated to research, workshops, an 60 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 LeasePlan Turkey’s Support to LeasePlan stations, and make a contribution to the the employment of the disabled. ChildPlan traffic safety, however indirectly, assigns LeasePlan has created LeasePlan a special sense and significance to this Construction ChildPlan, an umbrella for all social service. activities aimed at supporting Health and Safety disadvantaged children in developing In line with its employment policy for Local and international occupational countries and LeasePlan Turkey has the Call Center, TÜVTURK gives priority health and safety requirements are been supporting the activities of the to employing individuals with any kind meticulously enforced in every phase platform in Turkey. of disability due to a traffic accident. of construction work. Compliance Following the participation of TÜVTURK with project-specific and general In 2011, on behalf of every employee in “Count Me Too In Transport, environmental and labor safety participating in the İstanbul Marathon, Communication and Life!” project, requirements of each project is key to LeasePlan Turkey donated money to such employment has accelerated; the high service quality offered by Doğuş LeasePlan ChildPlan. LeasePlan Turkey currently, TÜVTURK Call Center employs Construction to its clients. Accordingly, employees also supported the Van 85 individuals, including 60 customer employees are continuously provided earthquake victims by donating money representatives who work from home. training courses to keep up with the to construct a prefabricated house. changing requirements in the areas of Since the date when TÜVTURK decided Quality, the Environment, Occupational Accessibility to expand the scope of the project Health and Safety Management TÜVTURK Count Us in Too! all over the country, new employees Systems. “Count Me Too In Transport, have joined the Call Center staff from Communication and Life!” (Ulaşımda, different cities. During the recruiting Doğuş Construction is certified by İletişimde, Hayatın İçinde Ben de Varım!) procedure, candidates with clear voices Lloyd’s Register (LRQA) with ISO is a project initiated by the Turkish and smooth diction were determined 9001:2008 Quality Management, Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs through phone interviews first, and then OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational and Communication. It is based on the trainers were sent to their cities, where Health & Safety Management, and ISO belief that those disabled individuals can they gave theoretical training regarding 14001:2004 Environmental Management work despite their disadvantages, and vehicle inspection. The second phase of systems. therefore both they and their families the training involved visits to inspection might hold on to life more firmly. stations; with the participation of local Community business associates, theoretical training Renovation of Dere Cuma Mosque TÜVTURK contributes to this meaningful was reinforced by on-site observations The 400-year-old historical Cuma project of high spiritual values by saying and inspections. Following instruction Mosque that was recognized during the ‘Count us in too!’. TÜVTURK has offered on the computer and communication construction of Sinop – Boyabat Road job opportunity for disabled citizens at substructure, the candidates were ready (with Tunnel Crossing) was renovated by the TÜVTURK Call Center. In addition to answer initial questions and become Doğuş Construction and opened with a to those who come to work, TÜVTURK employed within the body of TÜVTURK ceremony subsequently. has made the necessary hardware Call Center. and substructure accessible for new This historic structure in the village of candidates, and created an environment Currently, 56 disabled employees from 16 Boyalıca, which had sunk into oblivion; where individuals are able to provide callcities all over the country answer nearly was rediscovered and brought back to center services from their own homes. 250,000 calls monthly along with other life by Doğuş Construction during the The fact that victims of traffic accidents 40 customer representatives. TÜVTURK construction of the 55 km Sinop – Boyabat answer the questions about the services believes it sets an example for all Road (with Tunnel Crossing) that connects provided at TÜVTURK vehicle inspection corporations on solutions for facilitating the Black Sea Region to Central Anatolia DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 61 Region. The mosque, which had been the participation of the employees in devarious rehabilitation centers’ shows providing service to neighbouring villages cisions, and contribute to social, cultural were presented at the event. for centuries only on Fridays until quite and educational development of the areas • A parade held on June 5th, on World recently, was revived because of the under its operation. Acting on these basic Environment Day in cooperation Boyabat Road (with Tunnel Crossing) that principles, various civil society initiatives, with the Gebze Municipality, from passes right in front of the mosque. organizations and events were organized Eskihisar to Gebze Center with the during 2011 in the Gebze Center Shopping participation of store employees Tourism and Services Mall, which is one of the most important and management; and at the same projects of the company: time stands related to environmental Education consciousness were set up in the • A slide show of District Police Shopping Center. Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group maintains its support to Ayhan Şahenk Alantur PriDepartment on security issues was • Stands organized by Gebze District mary School in Alanya Kestel, which was held on January 15 – 16. Governor’s Office were set up inside built by the Group in 1985 and extended the Shopping Center for Aid to • 1st Gebze Book Days exhibition in 2005 with the addition of 8 extra classopened on January 19 with the guest Somali. rooms. of honor Yalvaç Ural together with • In addition, a joint aid stand was the participation of Gebze District set up and an aid campaign was Other social initiatives of Doğuş Tourism Governor, Mayor, District National organized together with Red and Retail Group include fundraising supEducation, Director and President for Crescent for a month for the port to “Make a Wish” (Bir Dilek Tut) FounChamber of Commerce. earthquake in Van. dation at the Grand Hyatt Hotel. Grand • International Culture Festival with Hyatt also supports other non-profit orga• A joint Blood Donation Campaign AIESEC Kocaeli representation was was organized with TÜMSİAD (All nizations and universities with its services. held on February 27. Industrialists and Businessmen • In collaboration with the Çanakkale Association) and with Private Yüzyıl Real Estate Hospital on October 30. War Museum, the items from the museum used during the war were Community • A photograph exhibition of Gebze opened for the visitors of Gebze Doğuş REIT intends to contribute to the Art of Photography Association, Center free of charge. social, cultural, artistic and economic consisting of portraits and sceneries • University Presentation Days project, from nature, was held on November development of communities in which organized in cooperation with the 3-13, 2011. it operates. The Company has been implementing several social responsibility Gebze Municipality, was realized on • Favorite songs of Mustafa Kemal April 14-15; and 17 universities and projects to achieve this. The most Atatürk, the Founder of the Turkish approximately 6,140 students in total significant example of these projects is the Republic, were broadcasted via the attended the events. Company’s support to the Dudullu Cultural general sound system inside the • On April 23, shopping center was Shopping Center on November 10, Center with the aim of contributing to the transferred entirely to children Atatürk Commemoration Day. social and cultural development of the area, in parallel with the Evidea Residential and Children’s Center Project was • A photograph exhibition, was held realized. Approximately 80 student Project in Çekmeköy. within the scope of Teachers’ Day groups were brought from Lithuania, on November 24, depicting the lives Guinea and TRNC; and shows were Doğuş Real Estate has also initiated variof the teachers who passed away in presented at the center. ous civil society initiatives to produce high the earthquake in Van. quality products and services, to be sen• ‘Sensitivity Days’ were organized for • An art exhibition of Gebze Çolakoğlu sitive to environmental problems, to take the disabled citizens on May 30-April 1. Girls’ Vocational High School on public’s wishes and complaints into con“Book Love,” was opened on • The exhibition of Çayırova Disabled sideration, to observe and have respect for December 17. Society, was opened on May 14 and the employees’ personal rights, to provide 62 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Corporate Sponsorship Projects Doğuş Holding Foundation’s private school for children orchestra has never visited, to promote with autism and for the training of classical music among university Art and Culture teachers specialized in this area. students and regional communities. D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical In 2009 and 2010, the project covered Music Festival The Festival has already constituted the universities of Konya-Selçuk, Niğde, Doğuş Group continues to contribute to a loyal audience of its own which Gaziantep, Kars Kafkas, Erzurum-Atatürk, and provide support for the development constantly increases each year. In 2011, Rize, Giresun and Trabzon-Black Sea of classical music. The Group strives to a total of 17,500 audiences followed the Technical Universities reaching a total ensure its access to a wider section of festival, which was joined with nearly audience of nearly 8,000. the population and help Turkish artists 200 artists at seven concerts during four produce world-class pieces. Since 2005, days. In 2011, the project was planned Doğuş Group has been organizing the between October 22-29 with 6 concerts D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Presidential Symphony Orchestra of in 5 cities in the regions of Middle and Music Festival in Bodrum. This Festival Turkey-Symphony on Campus Project Southeastern Anatolia. However, the highlights the support that is required The Presidential Symphony Orchestra concerts were cancelled due to the for the development of diverse forms of of Turkey, which was established in national mourning after the terrorist music. 1826, has been one of the few special attacks in the Hakkari region of Turkey. orchestras in the world that has managed The project will continue, covering more D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical to survive to date. In November 2007, regions and universities, in 2012. Music Festival is a member of the Doğuş Group signed an agreement, with European Festivals Association (EFA) the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Leyla Gencer Voice Competition which is the umbrella organization for to become the main sponsor of the Since 2006, Doğuş Holding and Garanti festivals across Europe. For more than Orchestra for a period of 3 years and to Bank have been the sponsors of the 50 years, the Association has grown start the “Technical Betterment Project” Leyla Gencer Voice Competition. This into a dynamic network representing of the concert building of the Orchestra. international voice competition was more than 100 music, dance, theatre The renovation work was completed started by Ms. Gencer herself in 1995, and multidisciplinary festivals, national in less than a year, by October 2008, and it has supported several young opera festival associations and cultural covering the renovation of the entire singers, from all over the world, through organizations from about 40 (mainly inner building and the concert hall, the their career paths. The 7th Biennial Leyla European) countries. landscaping as well as the renewal of the Gencer Voice Competition will be held in orchestral and office furniture. İstanbul on September 20, 2012. In 2011, on its 7th anniversary, the Festival took place on July 9-10 & 12In line with its main sponsorship of Santral İstanbul 13, hosted many gifted artists and wellthe Presidential Symphony Orchestra In cooperation with İstanbul Bilgi known orchestras from Turkey and other of Turkey, which was renewed in early University, Doğuş Group became countries, including the world-renowned 2012 for another 3 years, Doğuş Holding the strategic founding partner of the Turkish pianist Fazıl Say and famous initiated a new corporate sponsorship International Modern Art Museum and cellist Mischa Maisky. The proceeds project in 2009: “Symphony on Campus.” Cultural Center, Santral İstanbul in 2006. obtained from the Festival was donated The objective of this project is to take Opened in September 2007, Santral to the TOHUM Autism Foundation to the orchestra on a tour, covering state İstanbul, the first power station of the be used for educational materials at the universities in Anatolian cities where the Ottoman Empire, has recently turned into DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 63 one of the main attractions in İstanbul in Garanti Mini Bank Children’s Film Festival line is the official sponsor of the Turkish terms of culture & arts. Garanti has been the main sponsor of Equestrian Federation since 2008. Turkey’s first film festival for children, Banking and Financial Services the Garanti Mini Bank Children’s Film Football Festival, organized by the Turkish In order to contribute to improvement in Art and Culture Foundation of Cinema and Audiovisual football, and broadening the scope of its Garanti Jazz Green Culture (TÜRSAK). The festival, which commitment to support sports, Garanti Garanti, aiming to broaden and spice started six years ago in İstanbul, has, for became one of the main sponsors of the up music lovers’ horizons in the genre the last two years, expanded to Anatolia, Turkish National Men’s Football Team in of jazz, is among the leading sponsors reaching children in İzmir, Urfa, Mardin, 2008. Garanti extended the range of its of jazz music in Turkey, extending longDiyarbakır, Adıyaman, Ordu and Kars. support to football and became a prime term support with the slogan “Garanti sponsor of the Garanti Beach Football Jazz Green.” Garanti has, for the past Sports League that has been organized by the 14 years, been the main sponsor of Basketball Turkish Football Federation (TFF) since 2006. the International Istanbul Jazz Festival, A long-time supporter of basketball organized by the Istanbul Foundation a game that reflects Garanti’s values Automotive for Culture and Arts (IKSV). Supporting of teamwork, dedication, confidence Babylon, Istanbul Jazz Center, Tamirane, and discipline the Bank has been Art and Culture Salon IKSV, Romeo&Juliet, Ghetto, the main sponsor of the 12 Giant Men TIM Show Center Nublu Istanbul and Nardis Jazz Club (Turkish National Men’s Basketball Team) Since 2006, Doğuş Otomotiv sponsors concerts, Garanti has been creating since 2001 and of the Turkish National TIM Show Center, the first venue opportunities to listen to worldwide Women’s Basketball Team since 2005. in Turkey authorized by “Cultural famous jazz artists. Garanti was also a main sponsor of 2010 Entrepreneurship Certificate” granted FIBA World Championship that took by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism Istanbul Museum of Modern Art place in Turkey. of Turkey. TIM hosts stage to top quality Garanti Bank sponsors the education performing arts events, national and program of İstanbul Modern, Turkey’s 12 Giant Men Basketball Schools Project international meetings and conferences, first and only modern and contemporary Since 2002, Garanti has supported the 12 movie premiers, concerts, exhibitions, art museum. The program aims to play Giant Men Basketball Schools (12 DABO) company events, new product launches a central role in raising creative, literate which were initiated in cooperation with and contests. and inquisitive individuals who are the Turkish Basketball Federation in an actively involved in the arts, and also in effort to inculcate basketball culture Sports supplementing classroom education. in young children, and help basketball Darüşşafaka Ayhan Şahenk Sport Through the ongoing Garanti-sponsored become a commonly played game and Complex İstanbul Modern training programs, over reach a broad base in Anatolia. At 12 Since 2006, Doğuş Group has supported 300,000 children and teenagers have DABO schools, 40,000 youngsters have the Darüşşafaka Ayhan Şahenk Sport received training to date. received basketball training in 65 centers Complex facilities located in Maslak, to date. İstanbul, at the Darüşşafaka High School, The Lycian Way one of the most prominent and influential Garanti sponsored a way-marking system Equestrian Sports schools in Turkey. according to international standards along Believing that the discipline and the Lycian Way, a 500 km long-distance aesthetics inherent in equestrian sports The Darüşşafaka Center is a multitrail stretching from Fethiye to Antalya, coincide perfectly with its service notion, purpose center with the ability to host and further contributed to tourism in the Garanti Masters Private Banking has various cultural activities in addition to region by publishing a guidebook for the undertaken sponsorships of various sports events to world-class standards. Lycian Way in 2006. equestrian competitions and events Doğuş Group will continue to support the since 2005. Additionally, the business complex in the forthcoming years. 64 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 65 Environmental Engagement 66 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Environmental Engagement At Doğuş Group, we value ecological awareness and manage our business activities accordingly. At Doğuş Group, we believe that broader part of the organisation than environmental conservation is a critical before, where it had been mainly related challenge facing humanity. We will to awareness programs. remain mindful of the environment in all our operations and contribute to the The target guiding this approach is: world through awareness programs and “To be a respected leader in Turkey employee engagement. and to be recognised as a responsible and sustainable Group, continuously The Group’s environmental approach minimizing environmental impacts while aims to incorporate environmental remaining focused on business growth.” protection at all levels within the Group companies. In this approach, we The approach has four elements: employ a group-wide scope, engaging • Environmental Awareness operations, and sourcing units in within the Group. reducing our environmental footprint by • Energy Efficiency Programs. working with products and services and • Waste Management Strategies their environmental profile. This extends and Programs. the responsibility for minimizing Doğuş • Reduction of Water Group’s environmental footprint to a Consumption. Environmental Awareness The social characteristics of a company The human dimensions of Doğuş probability of successful implementation. include what the employees think, feel, Group play an important role in the Employee participation is also important and do in the organization. We are not only introduction of cleaner operations and because the employees are an important addressing the skills and abilities already environmentally responsible behaviour in source of knowledge, expertise, and possessed by employees, but also of our business. Therefore, the introduction ingenuity when it comes to the Group what the employees, as individuals, care of environmental management into our companies’ procedures and equipment. about, believe is important, and to which procedures and operations is the first they are committed. step in a continuing process. As an Doğuş Group encourages the role of its integral part of Doğuş Group, employees employees in attaining the goals of its The Doğuş Group employees are the are allowed and encouraged to participate environmental management system and ultimate actors in the environmental in the environmental initiatives of the other environmental and sustainability management initiatives of the Group companies, for it to function at its initiatives. because they implement the changes in greatest potential. behaviours and routines that are required to reach the targeted improvements in Employees are an important part of the the environmental performance of the implementation process because their Group. support of the initiative will increase the DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 67 Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Holding and Turmepa impacts created by financing of projects extended project finance facility worth Since 2007, Doğuş Holding has been and business. Garanti has specific of USD 30 billion to renewable energy one of the corporate members of mechanisms to consider climate projects with total installed capacity of the DenizTemiz Turmepa Foundation. change as a part of business strategy, 3.100 MW. The Bank aims to increase DenizTemiz Foundation was founded both at the company-level and for its financial support to renewable on April 8, 1994 by leading business business lines. energy investments such as run-off institutions and the marine sector river type hydroelectricity, wind and • Communication to senior to protect the seas and the 8,333 geothermal energy. leadership and relevant kilometer coast line, stretching from departments by the Sustainability b. Unmatched convenience and Hopa to the İskenderun region around Committee, which is primarily customer satisfaction: most of Turkey. responsible from identifying and Garanti seeks to provide customers Ayhan Şahenk Forests of assessing climate change risks with convenient, uninterrupted service, Endearment and opportunities, which neatly aligns with the Company’s In the context of Ayhan Şahenk Forests • Company-wide communication desire to reduce carbon emissions and of Endearment Project (Ayhan Şahenk for specific efforts energy. Garanti is the market leader Sevgi Ormanları) which was founded (e.g., branch and office in utilization of Alternative Delivery with the aim of leaving a healthy energy efficiency opportunities), Channels, which include internet and and habitable environment for future • The nature of the mobile banking. These channels reduce generations, 540,000 trees have been Sustainability Committee itself, the use of energy, paper and other planted to date in the forest areas which has a high level resources associated with operations which were demolished through fires, involvement of top management, and customer travel. Also, Garanti has mining, or erosion. • Company-wide emission a comprehensive program for ensuring reduction targets, business continuity. This includes plans In 2011, the Foundation continued to • The evaluation of the projects for minimizing disruption at branches provide its maintenance support to to be financed within the scope and maintenance of data functions. Ayhan Şahenk Forests of Endearment of Environmental Credit Policies planted in Marmaris, Bodrum, Niğde c. Process excellence throughout the and Environmental Risk and İstanbul without interruption, in line organization: Assessment System. with a protocol signed with the Ministry Actions to address climate change of Environment and Forestry. The Company-wide strategic priorities, with naturally align with Garanti’s maintenance support involved repairing a description of sample climate change commitment to operational efficiency fences and gates, as well as tending initiatives that now support these and effective cost management, to plants and replacing dead ones with priorities and the specific forces that essential for a large, facility intensive fresh plants. have influenced this integration: company. In particular, the bank Garanti Bank-Environmental Risk a. High product and service quality is committed to increased energy Management Systems with continuous innovation: efficiency across all operations. This Garanti Bank views climate change As part of our commitment to product priority is influenced by a clear business as a strategic issue that requires full and service innovation, Garanti plays case for cost optimization, industry best integration into the core business a substantial role in the growing practices, emerging technology and a practices. This includes the direct “low-carbon economy.” Retaining its desire to get ahead of future regulations impacts created by the Bank’s own leadership with over 40% market share that could increase energy prices. operations and rations and the indirect in wind energy financing, Garanti has 68 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 To further drive progress against climate associated regulation, physical marketing displays, this opportunity, Garanti has set a impacts and other factors affect • Reduction of staff travel company-wide CO2 reduction goal. project performance. through reliance on e-learning and Specific related efforts include retrofit teleconferencing. Ultimately, integration of climate of branches (including lighting and AC change risks and opportunities into WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife units), virtualization of data centers, business strategy improves the bank’s Foundation Turkey) and promotion of e-learning techniques competitive position by reducing costs Garanti Bank has been the main sponsor and teleconferences which do not and protecting and enhancing reputation, of the WWF-Turkey since 1992, thereby require travel. and thus achieving higher revenues. To helping the conservation of natural d. Supporting the sustainable date, Garanti has emerged as the market resources and creating enhanced public development: leader for use of low-impact alternative awareness of environmental issues. Garanti has been creating an delivery channels (such as internet and Doğuş Otomotiv Environmental Management mobile banking) and grant financing Doğuş Otomotiv’s environmental policy System and Environmental Policy for renewable energy projects. Garanti is defined under five main headings: to measure, evaluate and minimize aims to support sustainable growth by water, waste, energy, logistics, and the direct environmental impacts introducing “green” banking services, environmentally friendly products. caused by electricity, water, fuel, starting with energy efficiency. paper usage of branches, buildings Total profitability is enhanced by Doğuş Otomotiv: and ATM machines, air travels and numerous efforts that lower cost, while vehicle usages of employees. It is reducing carbon emissions. • Considers environmental targeted to cover all of the branches, Additionally, Garanti believes the effects while giving managerial and regional offices and departments at cumulative weight of these efforts will operational decisions, examines headquarters. Furthermore, the Bank further the company’s reputation as a the direct and indirect environmental aims the policies and procedures to responsible business entity that cares effects derived from its operations, and be compatible with the ISO 14001 about stakeholder concerns. is committed to reducing those effects, certification, ensuring the procedures to meet certain standards. Garanti has made a number of • Beyond the requirements of the law, substantial business decisions during feels responsibility for society regarding Garanti is focused on the efforts the past reporting year that have been environmental protection and use of mentioned above: positioning to influenced by climate change related resources, meet the growing market for energyrisks and opportunities. These include efficient banking products and services but are not limited to: • Works at motivating employees, (which includes the financing of employee families, and business renewable energy), provision of low• Refurbishment of bank branches to partners to gain the same level of impact alternative banking options, increase energy efficiency, environmental consciousness, energy and operational efficiency and • Continuing to be the leader in financing communicating these efforts to key of wind energy farms, • Targets to install the required systems stakeholders. • Virtualization of data centers to to measure, monitor and refine the Garanti also intends to increasingly increase server efficiency, environmental effects, focus on integration of climate-change • Piloting of ATMs with the ability to and other environmental concerns into receive deposits, update accounts in real • Cooperates within the value chain all project finance activities to further time and redispense deposited money, and provides awareness for better ensure selection of projects with the greatly reducing the need to service recognition, understanding, and sales of least impact on the environment. This machines and associated transportation, high-standard, environmentally friendly includes further understanding how • Use of energy-efficient LED lighting for products of brands distributed. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 69 Focus Area (Environmental Responsibility) Goal Method Awareness, Measuring Monitoring Mechanisms, Water Reducing the water used in all operations Targeting Waste Management, Awareness of Waste Line, Waste Recycing Boxes, Pilot study, Waste Authorized Dealers and Customers Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Job Descriptions Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Thermal isolation Establisment of energy consumption Energy and Efficient Use of Daylight, Stable Temperatures, monitoring mechanisms Employee Compliance, CDP Reporting Awareness, Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Reducing environmental effects, considering Logistics Environmentally Friendly Vehicles, Training, Advanced environmental effects in planning Technology Support for the introduction and a better Environmentally Friendly Products Disclosure, Dialogue Platforms understanding of the products Doğuş Construction Morocco, Argana Amskroud Project correcting common misconceptions The preservation of the environment team chose to build the required about issues such as global warming, is of great importance in the projects depots only where there was the renewable energy, organic diets, and executed by Doğuş Construction. minimum number of trees. green holidays. Particular care is taken to protect The project team compensated for any Doğuş Media Group is proud to natural resources, to minimize potential damage to wildlife by using report that it has reduced its carbon negative environmental impacts and to the depot areas to grow Argan trees impact by 32.2% per employee and adopt necessary mitigation measures. in an area of 75 hectares, as identified by 14.17% per 1 million TL turnover To this end, Doğuş Construction is in by the Moroccan Ministry of Forestry. from 2009 to 2010. The Group’s full compliance with the applicable In this way, the project team aims to total carbon footprint measured just environmental laws and regulations. protect the wildlife and the natural over 20,000 tonnes CO2 in 2010. resources which represent a valuable Morocco, Argana – Amskroud The carbon footprint measured the forest to the country. Motorway Project organization’s gas and electricity use The Argan tree is an endemic species, NTV Green Screen Awareness and also business and commuter unique to Southern Morocco, and Program travel for its 1,500 employees. the fruits resemble olives. The oil Doğuş Media Group’s reputation as from the Argan fruit is one of the To enhance the progress of their a green leader has been bolstered most valuable plant oils in the world, commitment to environmental by becoming the first company in containing an abundant amount of sustainability, Doğuş Media Group Turkey’s media sector to report its Vitamin E. The absorption rate of the has set the bold goal of becoming a carbon footprint in 2009. NTV has built oil is very high and it is used as a ‘carbon neutral’ company, using the on green success by releasing this cream to nourish the skin and to delay internationally-recognized PAS 2060 report. the aging process. standard for carbon neutrality. In the short-term, the Group will continue its This follows the success of their The Argan tree exists only in the sustainability program of awareness award-winning ‘Green Screen’ linesouth-western area of the Moroccan raising activities to reduce GHG up, which since 2008 has promoted State. This tree is an endangered emissions in collaboration with all environmental programs on NTV. The species and under protection. stakeholders. ‘Green Screen’ project aims to raise Accordingly, in collaboration with the public awareness on environmental Moroccan Forest Administration, the issues, responding to questions and 70 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Environmental Infrastructure initiatives. It also provides valuable input so that as Doğuş Group we encourage Investments in 2011 for internal cost-benefit analyses. Data on the environmental infrastructure environmental performance measured investments as part of our environmental Doğuş Group believes that measuring against environmental mitigation and approach wherever we do business. environmental mitigation and protection protection expenditures offers insights expenditures allows companies to assess into how effectively the company uses the efficiency of their environmental resources to improve performance, Environmental Investments D-Hotel Maris App. TL 620k for landscape and environmental arrangements D-Marin Turgutreis App. 25k for a waste collection facility from boats, and 90k for a multipurpose boat with waste collection capability, solid waste decomposition units (12 m3), and reverse osmosis facility (with 500 m3/day water production capacity) D-Marin Didim App. 300k for liquid and solid waste storage facilities (45 m3), solid waste decomposition units (11 m3), and reverse osmosis facility (with 700 m3/day water production capacity) D-Marin Göcek App. 28k for a waste collection facility from boats, and 151k for a multipurpose boat with waste collection capability D-Marin Mandalina App. 700k for continued work in sewage and water infrastructure, in cooperation with Sibenik municipality D-Gym App. TL 200k for environmental arrangements DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 71 Energy Efficiency Energy is one of the key cost constituent significant impact on the environment. of renewable energy investments, is in most of our products and services. Most To minimize those impacts Doğuş gradually encouraging more greener importantly, energy consumption has a Group, with an enhanced contribution processes among its companies. Best Practices at Doğuş Group TÜVTURK used in the motorway fillings. Further in basins using natural materials In some stations, TÜVTURK got a to a correspondence between the available in the environment, and Free Consumer License and specified project administration and the Turkish the treatment of water with wetland its energy supplier by itself in 2011. Republican Motorways, the borrow plants that are grown, which are small Through this independent option, 25pit excavations were backfilled with imitations of the natural structure. 30% energy saving was realized in the top layer of soil (i.e., organic Wetlands are capable of using solar 2011. layer) which was removed from the energy in the environment and motorway route. With this method, renewing themselves. They form a Doğuş Construction the Stream’s flora was replenished. wild life habitat, providing living space Sinop – Boyabat (Via Tunnel) for several species, and ensure that Motorway Project Where the motorway runs parallel to the natural balance of the atmosphere Along the projected route, there are the Stream in the project, the Stream is protected by consuming carbon 5 different areas (total length of 8.8 bed was modified to prevent soil dioxide and generating oxygen. They km) where terrain observations and erosion. have high capacity of treatment since drillings were accomplished. To reduce they can eliminate organic materials, damage to forests, steep-sloped high Boyabat Dam and HEPP Construction suspended solids, nutrients, toxic cutting excavations were eliminated. Project materials, heavy metals and biological Further, in geologically stratified flysch The Natural Wastewater Treatment components. In consideration of beds, “heel fillings” were built to form Plant that Doğuş implemented under the fact that the treatment system, the motorway platform and to reduce the title of Boyabat Dam and HEPP with no commissioning cost, is very the potential risk of landslip from Project was performed adopting inexpensive in terms of investment hydraulic underground movements. the principles of protecting natural and is an environment and human Finally, where the motorway route resources, minimizing negative friendly investment. It aims to is constructed near villages and environmental impacts and placing increase the environmental awareness neighbourhoods, high cuttings were emphasis particularly on taking of the local community with this type reduced in order to conserve the measures that are in the direction of of environmentally friendly projects. forest and to prevent landslip risk in settlements. decreasing existing negative impacts. The construction of this natural Indeed, it may be appropriate to refer In the context of the project, treatment system, where natural to this technology as “Living Machine” excavations were completed in the flora is used, is quite simple and since the treatment procedure is Gökırmak Stream borrow pit and economical. These systems are based performed by several aquatic living stream material was gathered to be on the principle of filtering wastewater beings. 72 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Waste Management Best Practices at Doğuş Group The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation-Paper 1,877,465 kg since 2007. The amount Recycling Program of paper collected from Doğuş Group During 2011, the paper collected for companies increased nearly 25% in recycling from Doğuş Group companies 2011. amounted 469,130 kg, totalling Paper Collected by the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation (Year/Kg) 2007 322,770 2008 353,800 2009 354,920 2010 376,845 2011 469,130 Total 1,877,465 Garanti Technology-Waste companies and the income generated is Management Program donated to NGOs like WWF. 15,440 kg Electronic wastes of Garanti Technology of electronic waste was disposed of in are being sold to authorized recycling 2010-2011. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 73 Water Consumption The environmental effect of water Targets are chosen to maintain used at Doğuş Group companies, use is becoming a central issue for flexibility and design freedom but strive the behaviour of our employees will all the industries in which Doğuş to reduce overall water consumption carry the most influence. Employee Group operates. A pragmatic method whilst maintaining an excellent level of awareness programs will therefore to address it, and consequently to service. be a crucial factor in the reduction of mitigate climate change and reduce water use. water consumption, involves setting While good design of water systems ‘good practice’ and achievable targets. will reduce the amount of water Doğuş Group’s Water Consumption on a Sectoral Basis (By the Year end 2011)* Energy 0,1% Banking and Real Estate Financial Services Holding 0,01% 2,8% 0,02% Automotive Tourism and Services 2,5% 32,0% Media 0,7% Construction 61,9% *Doğuş Group companies’ total water consumption was realized as 1,793,766,207 m3 in 2011 and the sectoral information shared in this chart is prepared according to the data provided by each Group company included in these sectors. Holding denotes to Doğuş Group headquarters in Maslak, İstanbul. 74 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Stakeholder Engagement Our Stakeholders Doğuş Group’s stakeholder relations Employees are shaped by the Group’s principles of transparency, accessibility and equality. Customers In addition to integrating the high ethical standards in its own businesses, Doğuş Group requires all of its stakeholders to Investors abide by these internationally-accepted standards. Business Partners In order to align our businesses to the needs and expectations of our key stakeholders, we maintain a structured process Suppliers which helps the Group to identify, review and prioritise key stakeholders, as well as issues and concerns that are material to each of the sectors. Dealers/Branches Each Group company ensures that their individual communication department engages in an active dialogue Community/Community Representatives with internal and external stakeholders through different platforms. Press and Media We are committed to strengthen our ongoing dialogue with our employees and stakeholders and create greater NGOs awareness among them on sustainability related issues. International Organizations Business Unions and Platforms Trade and Industrial Union Public Institutions Employee and Employer Organizations Academia Competitors DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 75 Means of Engagement Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Employee Satisfaction Surveys, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, CRM Practices, Customer Satisfaction Studies, Focus Group Studies, Sectoral Fairs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Actual and Budget Financial Reports, Rating Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSRrelated Activities, Conferences and Teleconferences Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Actual and Budget Financial Reports, Rating Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities, Conferences and Teleconferences Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Research Studies, Internet and Website, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Press Releases, Press Meetings, Press Trips, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Membership, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Membership Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities, Membership, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Events, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Memberships within NGOs. 76 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Reporting Content Index GRI INDEX In presentation of this year’s report, the reporting project Since Doğuş Group operates with 126 companies in seven team used the GRI indicators, submitting them to the related different sectors, every GRI indicator could not be applied departments of the Group companies through sector specific to the entire group. The responses gathered from different questionnaires. The team prepared the report content by sectors and Group companies were not always comparable consolidating the findings of the questionnaires collected from and combinable, therefore limiting the number of indicators to each sector. be used reporting. Response Status Explanations Full The indicator is fully addressed in the referenced pages of the report and other sources. Partially The indicator is partially addressed in the referenced pages of the report due to lack of data and/or information covering the entire group. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 77 GRI Index Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name Reference Pages and Location 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Senior Management Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 Declaration CEO Message 18-19 1.2 Basic effects, risks and Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 opportunities CEO Message 18-19 Corporate 20 Responsibility Approach Our Priorities 22 CSR At a Glance 25 2. Corporate Profile 2.1 Corporation Name Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary Back Cover 2.2 Brands, products and Full Doğuş Group Structure 4-5 services Company Profile 8 Economic Engagement 28-31 Detailed information about Group companies operations can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/71-211-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors 2.3 Operational structure of Full Company Profile 8 the corporation Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 2.4 Headquarters Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary Back Cover 2.5 Countries in which the Full Company Profile 8 corporation operates Economic Engagement 28-31 Detailed information about Group companies operations can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/71-211-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors 78 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 2.6 Ownership properties Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 and legal state More information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages;11; 20-22) 2.7 Markets serviced Full Company Profile 8 Economic Engagement 28-31 Detailed information about Group companies operations can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/71-211-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors 2.8 Corporation scale Full Company Profile 8 Financial Highlights 28 2.9 Important changes Full Company Profile 8 in size, structure and ownership situations More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 8-11) 2.10 Awards Full Awards & Recognitions 9-14 3. Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.2 Date of previous report Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 79 3.3 Reporting frequency Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.4 Contact information Full Limitations and Report 24 about report Boundary 3.5 Report contents Full Corporate 20 Responsibility Approach Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.6 Report contents limits Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary Reporting Content 76 Index 3.7 Report scope and Full Limitations and Report 24 contents limitations Boundary 3.8 Reporting principles on Full Limitations and Report 24 joint ventures and other Boundary subsidiary companies 3.9 Data assessment Full Corporate 20 techniques and Responsibility Approach calculation methods Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.10 Reasons for the Full Corporate 20 repetition of information Responsibility Approach in the previous report Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.11 Important changes in Full Corporate 20 the report scope and Responsibility Approach contents Limitations and Report 24 Boundary No important changes. 3.12 GRI Index Full GRI Index 76-86 3.13 Report supervision Full This report did not receive an independent assurance. 80 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 4. Governance, Liability and Sharing Practices 4.1 Corporation governance Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 structure More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 12-15, 20-22) 4.2 Autonomy of the Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 Chairman of the Board More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 12-15, 20-22) 4.3 Number of Independent Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 Members in the Board of Directors More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 20-22) 4.4 Stakeholders’ and Full Stakeholder 74-75 employees’ involvement Engagement in management DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 81 4.5 Fee paid to senior Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 management and connections with sustainability performance Transparency and 35 Accountability More information is available online in Doğuş Group Code of Conduct http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/82-278-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/ code_of_ethics 4.6 Processes preventing Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 conflicts of interest Transparency and 35 Accountability More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 12-16, 22) 4.7 CSR Management Full Corporate Responsibility 20 Strategy of the Approach corporation Corporate Responsibility 21 Strategy 4.8 Corporation’s rules of Full Corporate Responsibility 20 mission and behaviour Approach regarding CSR performance Corporate Responsibility 21 Strategy Our Priorities 22 CSR At a Glance 25 82 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 4.9 CSR performance Full CEO Message 18-19 and the supervision of its risks by senior Corporate Responsibility 20 management Approach 4.10 Self-check of senior Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 management about CSR performance 4.11 Risk management Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 attitude of the corporation in fields CEO Message 18-19 related to CSR Corporate Responsibility 21 Strategy Corporate Responsibility 23 Management 4.12 Foreign enterprises Full Ethical Principles 35 and activities in areas regarding CSR Human Rights 40 4.13 Memberships Full Strategic Partnerships & 15 Memberships 4.14 Stakeholders list Full Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement 4.15 Key stakeholders Full Identifying Stakeholders 20 determining process Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement 4.16 Stakeholder participation Full Stakeholder 74-75 process Engagement 4.17 Stakeholder participation Full Our Priorities 22 and primary subjects, responsiveness CSR At a Glance 25 performance Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement Performance Indicators Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value Partially Company Profile 8 produced and distributed Economic Engagement 28 Human Capital 41 Community Support 56-61 Programs DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 83 EC2 The effect of climate Partially CEO Message 18-19 change on the financial success of the Corporate Responsibility 21 corporation, risks and Strategy opportunities Our Priorities 22 The Economical Impact 32 of Climate Change EC3 Corporate liabilities Partially Remuneration System 43 regarding defined benefit and Benefits pension plan EC5 Starting wage level rates Partially Remuneration System 43 interval in contrast to and Benefits local minimum wage in important operation locations EC6 Policy, practice and rates Partially Local Suppliers and 33 of payment regarding Local Development payments made to local suppliers EC8 Investments made for Full Community Support 56-61 public interest Programs EC9 Important indirect Full CEO Message 18-19 economic effects Economic Engagement 28-31 Local Suppliers and 33 Local Development Employee Engagement 38 Environmental Performance EN2 Percentage of materials Partially Waste Management 72 used as recycled input material EN6 Products and services Partially Environmental 66-70 that provide energy Awareness efficiency Energy Efficiency 71 EN7 Attempts to reduce Partially Environmental 66-70 indirect energy Awareness consumption and reductions obtained Energy Efficiency 71 84 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 EN8 Total amount of water Full Water Consumption 73 used according to its sources Water Consumption units can not be given by source as all the Group companies are using the water from urban/regional mains water systems which they operate in. EN11 Production centres Full Environmental 66-70 within protected areas Awareness Energy Efficiency 71 Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. EN15 Number of the species Full Doğuş Group in IUCN Red List in companies do not have the living spaces in any operations related the areas affected by to IUCN Red List. the operations and the species in the national protection list, according to extinction risk level EN18 Attempts to reduce Partially Environmental 66 emissions Engagement Environmental 66-70 Awareness Energy Efficiency 71 EN26 Attempts to reduce the Partially Environmental 66 environmental effects of Engagement products Environmental 66-70 Awareness Energy Efficiency 71 EN30 Total amount of Partially Environmental 70 environment expenses Infrastructure and investments Investments in 2011 Labor Practices and Decent Work LA2 Total number of Partially Employee Engagement 38 employees and their circulation according to age groups, gender and district DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 85 LA3 Benefits provided for the Partially Remuneration System 43 full time employees and Benefits Social Life 45 LA8 Consultancy, precaution Partially Employee Health and 40-41 and risk control regarding Safety serious illnesses LA11 Employee training Partially Training and 45 Development LA12 Regular performance and Partially Performance 43 development monitoring Development Human Rights Performance HR1 Percentage and total Partially Leader and Visionary 39 number of significant Management Approach investment agreements in Labour Issues comprising human rights clauses and screened for Human Rights 40 human rights HR4 Total number of incidents Full Leader and Visionary 39 regarding discrimination Management Approach and precautions taken in Labour Issues Human Rights 40 Doğuş Group companies did not report any incidents of discirimination during the reporting period. HR5 Freedom of organization Partially Leader and Visionary 39 and collective bargaining Management Approach in Labour Issues Human Rights 40 HR6 Child employment and Partially Human Rights 40 precautions taken HR7 Operations having the Partially Human Rights 40 risk of forced labour and precautions taken HR11 Number of grievances Full No grievances related related to human rights to human rights filed, addressed and reported by Doğuş resolved through formal Group companies grievance mechanisms through formal mechanisms during the reporting period. 86 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Product Responsibility Performance PR1 Health and safety in the Partially Product and Service 53-54 life cycle of products and Responsibility services PR5 Customer satisfaction Partially Customer Health and 50-53 Safety Social Performance SO1 The influence of our Partially Corporate Responsibility 20 activities on local public Approach Our Priorities 22 Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement Community 48-63 Engagement SO2 Risk analysis regarding Partially Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 corruption Transparency and 35 Accountability Business Ethics 55 SO3 Corporation’s policies Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 against corruption and trainings on the subject Transparency and 35 Accountability Business Ethics 55 Doğuş Group Code of Conduct and detailed information about ethical principles can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/82-278-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/ code_of_ethics SO4 Precautions taken Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 against incidents of corruption Transparency and 35 Accountability 55 Business Ethics SO5 Attitude against public Partially Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 policy and assistance activities for public policy Transparency and 35 Accountability DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 87 88 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 UNGC Communication on Progress Index UN Global Compact Principles Stance of Performance Information in Report Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect Our Priorities – 22 internationally proclaimed human rights. Ethical Principles – 35 Human Rights – 40 Business Ethics – 55 Principle 2. Businesses should take all precautions in Our Priorities – 22 order not to be complicit with human rights abuses. Ethical Principles – 35 Human Rights – 40 Business Ethics – 55 Labour Principle 3. They should respect freedom of union and Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour collective bargaining. Issues – 39 Human Rights – 40 Principle 4. They should work for the elimination of all Human Rights – 40 forms of forces and compulsory labour. Principle 5. They should work for the complete Human Rights – 40 abolition of child employment. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour of discrimination regarding employment and Issues – 39 occupation. Human Rights – 40 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary CEO Message – 18-19 approach to environmental challenges. Corporate Responsibility Strategy – 21 Our Priorities – 22 The Economic Impact of Climate Change – 32 Environmental Engagement – 66-73 Principle 8. Businesses should support all forms Our Priorities – 22 of activity and formations that would increase environmental responsibility. Environmental Engagement – 66-73 Principle 9. They should encourage the development Environmental Engagement – 66-73 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should fight against all kinds Our Priorities – 22 of corruption including bribery and extortion. Corporate Mechanisms – 33-35 Transparency and Accountability – 35 Business Ethics – 55 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 01 Our leadership principles also drive us to work collaboratively to create greater value for our customers and their value chains and communities. As the corporate values of integrity, unity, understanding, excellence, responsibility and creativity have penetrated Doğuş Group, these values help us both to rise to emerging challenges and to translate them into opportunities. The more aspects of our day to day operations for which we take responsibility, the more powerful we become. In understanding responsible business behaviour, the starting point remains the leadership qualities for every sector and in every company. The ability to understand our customers, targeting excellent products and services and developing creative solutions responsibly has given us the honour of being among the most powerful group of companies and changing the lives of millions in Turkey. Doğuş Group plays a significant role in the Turkish economy with the high level of employment it creates, the taxes it pays and the total business volume it generates within the country as well as in the region. Our corporate responsibility approach stems from a broad understanding of sustainability in all the sectors in which we operate as well as our role as an employer and our dialogue with all our stakeholders. Our leadership principles also drive us to work collaboratively to create greater value for our customers and their value chains and communities. Putting our corporate vision into action, we provide solutions that help facilitate the creation of more sustainable brands and enhance the world in which we live. 02 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 03 CONTENT DOĞUŞ GROUP STRUCTURE 04 OPERATIONAL MAP 06 COMPANY PROFILE 08 Awards & Recognitions 09 Strategic Partnerships & Memberships 15 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE 16 CEO MESSAGE 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT 23 LIMITATIONS and REPORT BOUNDARY 24 CSR AT A GLANCE 25 ECONOMIC ENGAGEMENT 26 Sectoral Activities in 2011 28 The Economical Impact of Climate Change 32 Local Suppliers and Local Development 33 Corporate Mechanisms 33 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 37 Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour Issues 39 Human Rights 40 Employee Health and Safety 40 Human Capital 41 Remuneration System and Benefits 43 Performance Development 43 Training and Development 45 Social Life 45 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 47 CSR Awareness 49 Customer Health and Safety 50 Product and Service Responsibility 53 Business Ethics 55 Voluntary Programs 55 Community Support Programs 56 Corporate Sponsorship Projects 62 ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT 65 Environmental Awareness 66 Energy Efficiency 71 Waste Management 72 Water Consumption 73 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 74 REPORTING CONTENT INDEX 76 GRI Index 77 GRI Application Level Check 87 UNGC Index 88 04 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Doğuş Group Structure Banking& Financial Automotive Construction Media Services Corporate Responsibility DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 05 Tourism&Services Real Energy Estate D Energy Doğuş Energy Artvin HEPP D-TES Electricity Whole Sale Co. 06 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Operational Map Croatia D-Marin Mandalina Marina Romania Garanti Bank Romania-Headquarters & 76 Branches SC Motoractive Credit SA Ralfi IFN SA Domenica Credit SA Bulgaria Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. The Netherlands GBI-Headquarters UK Garanti Bank-Representative Office Doğuş Int. Germany Garanti Bank-Representative Office GBI Branch Luxembourg Garanti Bank-Branch Morocco Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. Switzerland GBI-Representative Office D-Auto Suisse SA-Lausanne Doğuş SA-Geneva Dubai Malta Doğuş Management Garanti Bank-Branch Services Ltd. Libya Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus Ukraine Garanti Bank-4 Branches GBI-Representative Office Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 07 Russia GarantiBank Moscow-Headquarters Garanti Bank-Representative Office Kazakhstan Doğuş Construction&Trade Inc. China Garanti Bank-Representative Office 08 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 COMPANY PROFILE1 Founded in 1951, Doğuş Group has become one of the largest conglomerates in Turkey and has the vision of being a regional leader in the services sector. Doğuş Group is active in seven Doğuş Group has 126 companies and a source of attraction for the international core businesses: financial services, workforce of over 30,000 which enables investors who are interested in Turkey. automotive, construction, media, tourism it to offer high level technology, quality The Group has contributed to this and services, real estate and energy. brands and dynamic human resources process by creating a synergy with global to its customers. The Group seeks to giants including the following: BBVA Behind the success of Doğuş Group there maximize the value of its brands, not (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A.) in lies a customer-focused and productivityonly in Turkey but also in the regional finance, Volkswagen AG and TÜVSÜD in centered management style. This style and global context. The Group carries automotive, CNBC, MSNBC and Condé is not only formed through material the vision of becoming a regional leader Nast in media and Hyatt International gains, but it also embodies a strong especially in the services sector. Ltd. and HMS International Hotel GmbH corporate citizenship approach from (Maritim) in tourism. which the whole society can benefit. Doğuş Group always provides its The Group implements several corporate services based upon the principles of With its experience and network enabling social responsibility and sponsorship customer satisfaction and trust. As a it to keep up with the changes in the projects, with a special focus on child result of this approach, the Group has world, Doğuş Group remains as one of development, education, environment, created reputable brands with global the leaders of transformation in Turkey. culture & arts and sports. standards and has been representing our country worldwide. Its name is a 1 Detailed information about the operations of Doğuş Group can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/71-211-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/general/navigation/sectors DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 09 Awards & Recognitions Doğuş Holding • International Arch of Europe (IAE) for Quality Award in Gold category for Doğuş Group • Special Jury Award to Özlem Denizmen, Head of Strategy at Doğuş Holding for Para Durumu (Financial Literacy Movement), in Awards from the Heart by The Corporate Volunteers Association (ÖSGD) Banking and Financial Services Garanti Bank • The Most Successful Corporate Employee Volunteering Project Award for Elim Sende in Awards from the Heart by The Corporate Volunteer Association (ÖSGD) • The Best Bank in Turkey Award and The Best Trade Finance Bank in Turkey Award in the Best Emerging Market Banks in Central and Eastern Europe category by Global Finance Magazine • The Best Bank in Turkey Award by Euromoney/Project Finance Magazine • STP (Straight Through Processing) Quality Awards by JP Morgan Chase Bank, Citibank, Commerzbank and BNY Mellon • STP Excellence Awards by Deutsche Bank • Best Private Bank in Turkey for Garanti Masters Private Banking by the Banker and PWM (Professional Wealth Management) • 1st Place Award for Garanti Bank Call Center with Branch Calls Centralization Project at the Most Creative Call Center Implementation category by İstanbul Call Center Awards • Most Successful Bank in Turkey in the Real Estate category by Euromoney Magazine Survey • European Hydro Deal of the Year Prize for 76 MW Karakuz HEPP Project by Euromoney/Project Finance Magazine • European Power Deal of the Year Prize for Gebze CCGT Project and European Transport Privatization Deal of the Year Prize for İDO (Istanbul Ferries Inc.) privatization by Euromoney/Project Finance Magazine • Golden Spider Web Awards – 1st Prize in Banking and Financial Services category for www.garanti.com.tr • Golden Spider Web Awards – 1st Prize in Best Accessible Website for www.garanti.com.tr • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Training category for www.garantitalentcamp.com 10 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Entertainment category for www.garantisupertrader.com • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Internet Banking category for www.garanti.com.tr • Golden Spider Web Awards 2nd Prize in Corporate Website category for www.garanti.com.tr • Silver Medal for Campaign to promote the use of internet banking by Epica Advertising Awards • Golden Prize and Best Use of Mobile Marketing for Direct Response in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) Award by MMA (Mobile Marketing Association) Awards • Best Sustainability Communications Program for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by the League of American Communications Professionals (LACP) • Gold Award in Best Annual Reports and Best Online Annual Reports in the Spotlight Awards 2010 for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by LACP • Bronze Award in Vision Awards for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by LACP • Gold Award in Non-Traditional Annual Reports category and Silver Award in Financials category in MerComm Annual Report Competition – The ARC Awards for Garanti Annual Report 2010 • Award in Best Annual Reports category for Garanti Annual Report 2010 by Stevie International Business Awards • Stockwatch Silver Prize in the News Bulletin category at the Galaxy Awards by MerComm • 1st Prize in Best Investor Relations Annual Report and Best Corporate Governance Communication categories, 2nd Prize in Turkey’s Best Investor Relations by the CEO category by Acclaro • Blue Ribbon with Garanti Bankası İnternet Bankacılığını Kullanmayan Son İnsan Project (Garanti Technology-Rabarba Digital Agency) at the MediaCat Felis Awards • 1st Prize in Finance, Consumer Engagement and Best Use of Direct Marketing categories with Garanti Bankası İnternet Bankacılığını Kullanmayan Son İnsan Project (Garanti Technology-Rabarba Digital Agency) at the MediaCat Felis Awards • Grant Prize, The Best Innovative Campaign, The Best Media Usage and Advertiser Of The Year by Felis Awards • Digitalage, Mediacat Outdoor Awards and Crystal Apple Awards • Garanti Bank entered the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Global 500 Report 2011, a global reporting system by the CDP, the world’s major initiative focusing on climate change issues DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 11 Garanti Bank SA • Most Dynamic Bank in Romania by Finmedia Media Group • Best Promotion Award for Bonus Card by No Cash Magazine • Best Innovative Banking Products Award for Bonus Card by the Business Arena Magazine • Best Product of the Year for Doctors for The Credimed by Coleguil Medicilor Organization • Best Banking Product for The Credimed by Piata Financiara Magazine • Best Bill Payment & Presentment Award for Garanti Online in Romania by Global Finance • E-payments Award for Garanti Online in Romania by e-Finance GarantiBank International N.V. • Best Forfaiting Institution, Silver Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Best Trade Bank in Western Europe, Bronze Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Best Trade Bank in Eastern Europe, Bronze Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Best Bank in Soft Commodities, Bronze Medal by Trade & Forfaiting Review Magazine • Top Time Deposit Bank 2011 Award for GBI Germany Branch from the German television channel N-TV for its 6 and 12 months products Garanti Pension & Life • Respect for Human Award by Kariyer.Net • Community Relations Award for Back to Study: Educating, Not Employing Children Project by EMEA and Global Sabre Awards • 1st Prize in Golden World Awards for PR excellence in social responsibility category for Back to Study: Educating, Not Employing Children Project by IPRA (International Public Relations Association) • Best Insurance Website in Turkey for www.garantiemeklilik.com.tr by Golden Spider Web Awards • 2nd Best Website in the Community/Social Communication category for www.hobimlemutluyum.com by Golden Spider Web Awards • Platinum Award for the Letter to Shareholders and Report Financials categories and 5th Ranking in Top 100 List for 2010 Annual Report by LACP Vision Awards 12 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Garanti Leasing • Most Admired Leasing Company in Turkey Award by Capital Magazine Garanti Asset Management • Respect for Human Award by Kariyer.Net • Signatory to the United Nations-backed Principles of Responsible Investment Initiative (PRI) since October 2011 Garanti Securities • 2011 Best Investment Bank by Global Finance Garanti Factoring • Most Admired Factoring Company in Turkey Award by Capital Magazine Garanti Mortgage • Silver Award in Financial Services Category for www.garantimortgage.com by International Davey Awards 2011 • Standard of Excellence Award in Financial Services Category for www.garantimortgage.com by Web Award 2011 • The Best Web Site in Financial Services category for www.garantimortgage.com by Stevie Awards 2011 • Award of Distinction in Viral Marketing category for www.hizlitasin.com by Communicator Awards 2011 • Outstanding Online Video Award in Online Video category for www.hizlitasin.com by Internet Advertising Competition 2011 • 1st Prize in Most Creative Video Category for www.hizlitasin.com by Digital Age Awards 2011 • 1st Prize in Most Creative Viral Marketing Category for www.hizlitasin.com by Digital Age Awards 2011 • Outstanding Achievement Award in Intranet category for Mortgage Intranet (gm.com) by Interactive Media Awards 2011 Garanti Payment Systems • Silver Award in the Entertainment category for the Shop&Miles Bosphorus Sailing Cup 2010 Website by the Horizon Interactive Web Awards • 1st Prize in Mobile Marketing Applications category by Digital Age Creativity Awards for Which Campaign? (Hangi Kampanya?) • 1st Prize in the Best Social Media, Mobile & Digital Marketing in Credit Cards in Turkey according to CNBC-e survey for Which Campaign? (Hangi Kampanya?) • Best Social Media Marketing Brand in the CNBC-e Research 2011 for Which Campaign? (Hangi Kampanya?) Garanti Technology • ISO 10002:2004 Customer Satisfaction / Complaints Handling Certification for Garanti Technology Customer Care Center (Garanti Bank had been the first Turkish bank to receive this certificate in 2009.) DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 13 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv • CSR Market Place Jury’s Special Award and Internal Social Responsibility Practice Award by Turkish CSR Association of Turkey for “Traffic is Life” Employee Trainings “First Aid Approach after Traffic Accidents Training” and “Safe Driving Techniques Training” • The Distributor of the Year Award for Doğuş Otomotiv by Customer First Award by VW AG • Crystal Apple Award for VW Passenger Cars for ‘Bir Volkswagen’e tercih edilecek tek otomobil yine bir Volkswagen’dir’ TV campaign • 1st Prize for VW Passenger Cars by Golden Spider Web Awards • The Best Digital Application for VW Passenger Cars by ODD Gladiators • Otohaber Magazine Reader Awards Transporter 1st Prize and Caddy 2nd Prize in Light Commercial Vehicles segment • Otohaber Magazine Reader Awards – Amarok 1st Prize in the Pick-up segment • The Hothatch Automotive of the Year Award for Polo Gti by Top Gear Magazine • Authorised Audi Service Şenyıldız Otomotiv-The World Champion in the Twin Cup World Final • The Most Premium Automobile of the Year for Audi A6 by the Selection of Top Gear Turkey • The Best Heavy Vehicle Tow Truck for Scania R-Series by Automobile Magazine • The Best Automobile of the Year in Ireland’s Fleet Transportation for Scania R-Series • Being Responsible in Traffic Award for Scania by the Ministry of Transportation and Communication for the Safe Vehicle Project • One Of The Top Three Brands Which Show the Highest Increase in the Customer Satisfaction for SEAT according to the 2011 IACSO results • The Best Service Manager in the Top Service People Awards for SEAT Authorized Service AVEK Otomotiv Service Manager vdf • Highest Penetration Rate-1st Rank in Automobile Insurance TÜVTURK • Outstanding Achievement in Advocacy Award for Traffic Responsibility Action Website ‘www.trafikhareketi.org’ by Interactive Media Awards 2011 • Outstanding Success Award in Kids category for www.candostlarihareketi.com • Crystal Apple Award for Traffic Responsibility Action short film ‘Accident’ in the Most Successful Advertisement category by The Turkish Association of Advertising 14 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Media Doğuş Media Group • Approximately 765 awards (between the years 2001-2011) for broadcasts and social responsibility campaigns • 80 awards in different areas from various ministries, organizations, associations and foundations, professional chambers, universities and high schools in 2011 Tourism and Services Park Hyatt İstanbul-Maçka Palas • The Certificate of Excellence by Trip Advisor for the year 2011 Maritim Hotel Grand Azur • The Blue Flag since 2004 • Marque of Excellence 2011 by Thomas Cook • Expedia Best YoY Growth 2012 Regional Turkey • The Certificate of Excellence by Trip Advisor for the year 2011 • Exemplary Institution by the business inspectors of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security Maritim Hotel Club Alantur • Blue Award 2011 and Bronze Award in All-Inclusive Category by TUI Nordic • Golden Award 2011 by TUI UK • Zoover Recommendation 2011 • Tripadvisor Recommendation 2011 D-Marin Turgutreis • The Blue Flag and Five Gold Anchors Flag from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association) since 2004 D-Marin Didim • The Best Marina Operator by Skalite International • The Blue Flag and Five Gold Anchors Flag from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association) since 2010 D-Marin Göcek • The Best Tourism Investment Award in Marina category by Capital and Economy Magazine • The Blue Flag and Five Gold Anchors Flag from the TYHA (The Yacht Harbour Association) since 2010 D-Marin Mandalina • The Five Gold Anchors Award from the THYA (The Yacht Harbour Association) in 2011 Real Estate Doğuş Real Estate • The Most Successful Shopping Center in 2011 in the Best Marketing Campaign category by the Trade Council of Shopping Centers & Retailers DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 15 Strategic Partnerships & Memberships In 2011, Doğuş Group had memberships in the following organizations either on a corporate or individual basis: • WEF – World Economic Forum • DEİK – Foreign Economic Relations Board • TÜSİAD – Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association • Corporate Volunteer Association • KİD – Corporate Communications Association • DenizTemiz TURMEPA – Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association • PERYÖN – Personnel Management Association of Turkey • ASTD – American Society for Training and Development • TÜBİYAD – Finance & IT Executives Association • Finance Professionals’ Foundation of Turkey • KRYD – Enterprise Risk Management Association • TKYD – Corporate Governance Association of Turkey • FERMA – Federation of European Risk Management Association • TİDE – The Institute of Internal Auditing – Turkey • TÜFİDER – Financing Institutions Association 16 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Chairman’s Message Doğuş Group has based all its business practices on corporate citizenship and has adopted the mission of contributing to the community through corporate responsibility projects it has undertaken in line with the various businesses it engages in. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 17 Dear Stakeholders, I am delighted to share Doğuş Group’s Corporate Responsibility such behavior is not tolerated moreover discouraged and Report 2011, in which we outlined our performance and activities replaced with motivation for socially optimal and sustainable regarding key sustainability measures, our company’s strategic development. Sustainable development can only be achieved direction, the challenges we face and our vision going forward. if enterprises are trusted and valued for their contribution to society. Being an economically, ethically, socially sustainable Since its inception, Doğuş Group has based all its business company is our main commitment to society. We believe that practices on corporate citizenship and has adopted the the corporate responsibility targets the creation of a better mission of contributing to the community through corporate future for every member of the society. responsibility projects it has undertaken in line with the various businesses it engages in. Through this approach, the Group Sustainability principles are the framework that guide our not only contributes to the economy but also supports social corporate strategy and direct how we develop and provide development and environmental sustainability. solutions for our customers in a manner that benefits people, protects our environment and rewards our shareholders. Being The recent financial crisis has caused a very fundamental change a responsible company means understanding that our choices in the global economic landscape. In this context, companies affect the lives of our shareholders, customers, employees and need to design and implement consistent, well-thought communities. We believe that our commitment to sustainability strategies and new business models. From an organizational helps Doğuş Group and its companies to make decisions that perspective, the business community should cope with the are beneficial for today, and even better for tomorrow. transformation by allocating the necessary resources to follow the new trends. In line with the changing global landscape, our This report encompasses our corporate responsibility efforts future success hinges on the performance of the technologies undertaken by both Doğuş Group companies and the Ayhan we develop and the quality of the products and services Şahenk Foundation. I hope that this report will benefit all our we sell. But the ethical standards we work within, and the stakeholders, while revealing Doğuş Group’s efforts to become business practices we choose to adopt, are also becoming a better corporate citizen. crucial success factors which Doğuş Group intends to leverage as a competitive advantage in the marketplace. It is very natural to seek a return on investment for shareholders. However, commitment to keep the companies in a sound and sustainable basis has become more important. The objective of a business should not only be short-term profit maximization. Ferit F. Şahenk Efficiency should become equally important as much as the Chairman of the Board of Directors profitability. We must enable an environment where Doğuş Group 18 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Ceo Message Dear Stakeholders, Since our participation to the UN Global Compact in 2007, we have maintained and even strengthened our firm commitment to our corporate responsibilities and shared our improvement in this area via our annual corporate responsibility (CR) reports. Parallel to our enhancement as a Group regarding corporate sustainability, we have also aimed at expanding the scope of our reports each year by evaluating the feedbacks we received from our stakeholders. We are grateful for your invaluable inputs over the years and are proud to present you the fourth Doğuş Group CR Report covering our activities for the year 2011. As one of the largest conglomerates of Turkey and the surrounding region, we aim to bring economic, social and environmental development in every sector, in which we operate, through innovative and sustainable business models. Despite the economic and political challenges the world economy faced in 2011, in line with our country’s successful budgetary performance, we completed the year with very satisfactory results thanks to our strong forecasting ability, and experienced skilled teams. Doğuş Group’s investments in Turkey and in the region totalled US$ 1,180 million in 2011. Our Group grew by 4% in total assets and 15% in revenues. Our contribution to Turkey’s total tax revenue realized as 2% and we are also proud to declare that we provided more employment opportunities along with our investments and increased the number of our employees to over 30,000 in 2011. As one of the largest conglomerates Whilst steadily increasing our work force, maintenance of happy and motivated human resources remains to be one of of Turkey and the surrounding region, our top priorities. Creation of a sound working environment we aim to bring economic, social and for our employees, upholding respect for human rights and offering equal opportunities for all are the indispensable environmental development in every factors for us regarding our human resources management. sector, in which we operate, through Application of health and safety measures in all our working environments, especially in the sectors where exposure to jobinnovative and sustainable business related risks are higher, and provision of career development models. opportunities are the other very important criteria we hold on to in our employee engagement practices. We continuously DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 19 work on all these measures to better our working standards and Regarding environmental sustainability, most of our Group to keep our skilled teams under Doğuş Group structure. companies worked hard to better themselves and lead their sectors in Turkey towards more environment friendly business Along with our economic success and contribution to the models. Garanti Bank, which positions itself as a sector leader development of the regions under our operational map, we also in transition to a low-carbon economy, completed the formation maintained our practices regarding social and environmental of its Sustainability Committee and started to work on risks and sustainability in 2011 to bring prosperity to these regions. Our opportunities in climate change-related topics in 2011. The Bank Group continued to focus its main community engagement is also keen to remain a leader in the financing of renewable practices on two main areas: i) Education and development of energy projects through its practices. Doğuş Otomotiv, which had younger generations and, ii) Development of arts and culture in participated to the UN Global Compact in 2010, has been a pioneer our country. Financial literacy has also become one of our top in the automotive sector with its sustainability initiatives including targets concerning community engagement since it has utmost the first GRI B application level Corporate Responsibility Report significance for both economic and social development of a in its sector in Turkey. Firmly committed to its responsibilities, country. Through the Para Durumu financial literacy platform, the Company published its second report in 2011. Environmental which reaches out to masses via several channels and also investments in our tourism and services sector and energy through financial literacy trainings, Doğuş Group aims to spread efficiency focused applications implemented in the projects of our awareness on the issue in Turkey. In late 2011, Para Durumu construction sector were other noteworthy sustainability related launched a new personal finance education project for “women” initiatives in 2011. in cooperation with the Republic of Turkey Ministry of Family and Social Policies and the İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality. At Doğuş Group, we will maintain this momentum in 2012 by The project aims to educate 20,000 women in İstanbul by June further developing our business practices towards fully sustainable 2013 to make them financially literate, and will be carried further business models and by extending our community engagement as a nation-wide education plan, which will be taught at various in every region under our sphere of influence. Municipality Centers across Turkey. We will continue to share our progress in corporate responsibility Environment and sports were again the other fields we focused with you all from 2012 onwards. most of our resources in 2011. Furthermore, the majority of our Group companies maintained and further developed their corporate responsibility initiatives parallel to their business lines. The Teachers Academy Foundation and SALT of Garanti Bank, “Back to Study: Educating, not Employing Children” project of Garanti Pension and Life, “Traffic is Life!” platform of Doğuş Otomotiv, Traffic Responsibility Action supported by TÜVTURK Hüsnü Akhan were among the important initiatives that marked 2011 with Chief Executive Officer regards to Doğuş Group’s corporate responsibility efforts. Along Doğuş Group with the Group companies, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation, established in 1992 by the Founder and Honorary Chairman of Doğuş Group, Mr. Ayhan Şahenk, also continued its practices in the areas of education, health, the environment, and social aid. 20 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Corporate Responsibility Approach As one of the leading conglomerates As our group-wide corporate responsibility Line Of Csr Vision in Turkey, Doğuş Group is an important strategy has ongoing relevance, we participant in several industries. We have undertaken a group-wide approach therefore see ourselves as providers of to identify issues most material to our an improved quality of life, rather than businesses. Detailed performances Opportunities simply providers of goods and services. about the social, environmental and It is this approach that has prompted economical responsibility issues can Doğuş Group to offer products and be found in related pages, under the services which support awareness related headings. The outcomes of towards society, the environment this strategy and priorities study were Resources and economical development, while used to maintain the content of this remaining sensitive to the expectations report, ensuring that it covers topics and of the community. indicators that reflect Doğuş Group’s significant impacts or could influence the Corporate Sectoral priorities (industrial material behaviour of our stakeholders. Values issues) are the point of origin defining (Top-Down Approach) our corporate responsibility approach. Identifying Stakeholders These issues construct our road map, Through our country wide experience where we can drive positive change with of developing and managing different the power of our industrial know-how, sectors and businesses, we have Corporate in addition to minimizing our negative Structure identified general and main stakeholder impact in relevant areas. groups that are significantly affected by our activities as a Group and Materiality whose actions can affect our business Last year (2010), the methodology performance. For further details about used for defining the material issues Stakeholders our stakeholders and our detailed for Doğuş Group was based on GRI key engagement platforms, see the performance indicators and the sectoral Stakeholder Engagement section. priorities of Doğuş Group companies. Benchmarking with peers brought us CSR to a prioritized analysis of industrial The Context of the Report Integration issues. In 2011, this study is being Where applicable, this report includes to Business Strategies enlarged to a Corporate Responsibility objective information with reference to Strategy Study with the establishment broader corporate responsibility areas, of a CSR Working Group, created by as recognised in regional and/or global representative members from all Doğuş publications and links between CSR Competition and Social Group companies. topics and Doğuş Group’s corporate Impact strategy. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 21 Corporate Responsibility Strategy As Doğuş Group, being a “leader” with the brands which we involved in the services sector in Turkey and Our Vision surroundings with a customer focused approach. To support economic, social and environmental development and increase the level of prosperity by creating Csr Strategy innovative and sustainable business models in every sector and region in which we operate as a Group. 22 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Our Priorities Economic Employee Community Environmental Engagement Engagement Engagement Engagement We invest in economical We support the While we are We value the development models improvement of our growing, we also ecological in line with the employees and support the awareness and we operations of our recognize them as development of the manage our Group companies. the most valuable surrounding business activities company asset. community and accordingly. work to increase social welfare. Leader and Visionary Environmental Responsible Investment CSR Awareness Management Approach Awareness Employment Customer Health and Human Rights Energy Efficiency Generation Safety International Product and Service Health and Safety Waste Management Cooperations Responsibility Local Suppliers and Training and Reduction of Water Business Ethics Local Development Improvements Consumption Corporate Governance Dialogue Platforms Voluntary Programs Our Values The Group companies share a set of core values based on Public Policies integrity, understanding, excellence, creativity, unity and responsibility. These values, a part of the Group’s beliefs and convictions since the very beginning, continue to guide Community and drive business decisions made by each company within Engagement Programs Doğuş Group. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 23 Corporate Responsibility Management Cooperating, collaborating and sharing Doğuş Group, with diverse business The sustainability performance of Doğuş values with our many stakeholders operations in different regions and Group is among the responsibilities of are required to achieve our corporate countries, has already been cognizant of the Group’s Board of Directors. Risks and responsibility targets, which are based on the fact that it has to monitor and make opportunities that may have an impact corporate behaviour that earns the trust provisions for various risks including the on sustainability are also monitored and support of society. To ensure that all ones related to corporate responsibility. in coordination with industrial risk Group companies conducting business Accordingly, our Group monitors social, management divisions and committees. group-wide put this strategy into practice economic and environmental risks its and to make clear our responsibility to operations could cause on the society. In For more information on governance stakeholders, we worked on the Group’s order to maximize the benefits for all and structure, committees subject to Board Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) minimize the risks regarding sustainability, of Directors and the other relevant Strategy in 2011. We have placed CSR Doğuş Group has conveyed its groupinformation on management in Doğuş at the core of our management strategy wide Risk Management approach in Group, please visit; and are working to contribute to building support of “sustainable profitability http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr a sustainable society through our business and regional risk management-oriented activities. development” and “a management style conducive to maximizing value added for Doğuş Group defines its competitive its stakeholders. edge and draws its future roadmap through three basic means: strong Doğuş Holding’s Risk Management governance mechanisms, effective global Department, established in an effort collaboration, and transparent and close to implement Risk Management communication with its stakeholders. The across the Group, operates under the Group monitors and analyzes the progress Group’s CEO and the Risk and Audit of its operations as well as its citizenship Committee of the Board of Directors. efforts. The Group utilizes a management This Committee determines shareholder style that is both customer-focused and risk preferences, monitors risks that the productivity-centred. In addition to a Group faces and ensures that appropriate natural focus on financial performance, the risk management applications are in Group also embodies a strong corporate place. The Group CEO has the ultimate citizenship approach for the benefit of responsibility for Corporate Risk society as a whole. While integrating Management. sustainability measures in every step of its operations, Doğuş Group also supports social development through community engagement practices. 24 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Limitations AND Report Boundary Unless otherwise stated, Doğuş Group In the preparation of this report, all Doğuş Please e-mail your suggestions/views/ 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report Group companies were covered and opinions to: covers all businesses, including the the information used in the report was subsidiaries, of Doğuş Group companies’ consolidated from surveys prepared Başak Gürtuna Koçer corporate responsibility performance, in according to GRI G3.1 Reporting Corporate Communications line with the Group CSR Strategy. Guidelines, filed by the reporting teams in Assistant Manager each Group company. In each section, best bkocer@dogusgrubu.com.tr The reporting period for this, Doğuş Group’s practices among the Group companies 4th Corporate Responsibility Report, is have been selected and shared throughout Location of the Group’s headquarters: the calendar year 2011. As mentioned in the report. Doğuş Holding A.Ş.2 our first Corporate Responsibility Report Ayazağa Mah. Eski Büyükdere Cad. No: 15 (2008), we remain committed to report our We encourage and appreciate feedback Oycan Plaza Kat: 3-4-5 Maslak İstanbul CSR performance annually. All our reports from all our stakeholders, both internal and are uploaded in the public domain on our external. Your suggestions are vital and company website. help us to improve both the quality of our reporting and the quality of our products We continue to follow the Global Reporting and services. Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, the most widely adopted non-financial reporting framework throughout the world, used to help communicating sustainability performance, in addition to encouraging transparency and accountability. 2 Shareholding pattern and changes in company structure during the reporting period can be found in detail at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 25 Csr At A Glance Financial Services Automotive Energy Efficiency and Waste Leadership in Renewable Initiatives for Management Energy and Energy Projects Community 60 Disabled Economical Environmental Safety in Call Center Impact Design Traffic Employees Ongoing CustomerGreen Branch Commitment Socio-Cultural Environmental Oriented Service CSR Program to Development Awareness Approach Awareness Sustainability and Efficient Management Construction Media Technological New Media Employment Developments Tools Strong Risk and Cost Environmental Team Work CSR Management Awareness Awareness LRQA Certified Development Public Trust Health & Safety, Quality Focused Quality Reliable and and Environment Sustainable Focused Broadcasting Change Awareness Systems Projects Tourism and Services Real Estate Contribution to Employment Service Quality Customer Operational Prestigious and Efficiency and Satisfaction Performance Trusted Brands Productivity Excellence in Customer Regional Environmental Stakeholder Local Hospitality Satisfaction and Leader Responsibility Expectations Economical and Higher Living Development Customer Standards Service Energy Sustainable Contributing Development to National Economy Clean Renewable Environmental Energy, Risk Awareness Domestic Management Energy Sources Economic Engagement DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 27 28 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Economic Engagement We invest in economic development models parallel to the operations of our Group companies. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (TL thousand) 2009 2010 2011 Revenues 7,819,616 8,654,592 9,929,164 Gross Profit 2,667,310 2,744,273 2,551,956 EBITDA 1,329,406 1,667,054 3,737,556 EBIT 1,133,383 1,425,944 3,455,629 Net Profit 782,887 966,015 2,691,764 General Administration (1,028,810) (1,153,172) (1,189,808) Expenses Sales, Marketing and (143,407) (204,878) (242,626) Distribution Expenses Total Assets 42,923,044 49,285,930 51,147,438 Total Shareholder’s Equity 6,728,866 7,701,796 9,864,793 Despite the ever-present risk of crisis in 2011, Doğuş Group grew by 4% in to last year, Doğuş Group plans to the past year, Doğuş Group maintained total assets and 15% in revenues. The increase its contribution to the country’s its uninterrupted growth and completed Group realized investments in various employment rate by hiring an additional the year 2011 with remarkable economic sectors totalling US$ 1,180 million 2,000 people, reaching a base of around results, both for the company itself and and contributed to Turkey’s total tax 32,000 employees. for the regions under its operation. In revenue with 2%. Additionally, parallel Sectoral Activities in 2011 Banking and Financial Services S.A. (BBVA), under the principle of equal Garanti provides a wide range of financial Garanti Bank is Turkey’s second largest partnership. Garanti’s organizational services to its 11 million customers private bank, with an established history capabilities and shareholder value through an extensive distribution network of 65 years and total consolidated assets maximization focus fosters its successful of 907 domestic branches plus 7 foreign reaching US$ 90 billion. performance. branches in Cyprus, Luxembourg and Garanti operates in every segment of the Malta; 4 international representative Automotive banking sector: corporate, commercial, offices in Moscow, London, Düsseldorf With nearly 2,000 employees, Doğuş SME, retail, private and investment and Shanghai; 3,300 ATMs; an awardOtomotiv is Turkey’s leading automotive banking. Garanti is an integrated financial winning Call Center; and the state-of-thedistributor and the leading automotive services group with eight financial art internet and mobile banking platforms importer in Turkey. The Company subsidiaries providing services in pension built on cutting-edge technological represents 14 international brands, each and life insurance, leasing, factoring, infrastructure. one the leader of the following sectors: securities, and asset management. passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, There are international subsidiaries in the Following the best practices in corporate heavy commercial vehicles, industrial and Netherlands, Russia and Romania. governance, Garanti is jointly controlled by marine engines, cooling systems. The two powerful companies, Doğuş Holding Company also encompasses a number of Co. and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria subsidiaries under its portfolio: Doğuş Oto, DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 29 DOD, D-Auto Suisse, TÜVTURK, Yüce range of career opportunities in various as well as the NTV Publications under its Auto, Oto-Fix, VDF Group and LeasePlan. locations and cultures, helping to construct portfolio, the Group has broadened its large scaled projects in domestic and operations from TV to magazines, radios, In 2011, Doğuş Otomotiv reached its global markets; The Company currently digital and other print media and has highest sales performance since its employs around 6,500 people in domestic become the leading media organization establishment, exceeding the 100,000 as well as in international projects. providing thematic content to the public. units’ level, and increasing its market With 1,381 employees, Doğuş Media share to 12.6%. The Company reached In 2011, Doğuş Construction was awarded Group is one of the largest companies in its turnover and sales targets, growing the contract for the construction of the media industry. above the sector average, thus increasing “Üsküdar – Ümraniye – Çekmeköy Metro its market share. Holding one of the most Project” as a sole contractor, thereby Because of restructuring in this sector, valuable brand portfolios in the world as a strengthening its position in the metro 2011 has been a year of high activity for distributor, Doğuş Otomotiv has combined construction business. Doğuş Media Group. All media operations the resultant competitive advantage under Doğuş Group were relocated to with its vision of “creative service With regard to international projects, Doğuş Center, Maslak in İstanbul. Doğuş beyond expectations” and its “customer the Sofia Metro Extension project is still Media Group also expanded its portfolio satisfaction” oriented operational goal, in progress, and Doğuş became one of with the acquisition of the new TV thereby consolidating its market position four companies that obtained preliminary channel Star and also with the launch of in 2011 and receiving numerous awards. qualification for the Bucharest Metro Line Kral Pop radio and Kral Pop TV, operations project. In addition, in Ukraine, the Kiev of which started in 2011. Construction Boryspil State International Airport, a joint Doğuş Construction is one of the leading venture led by Doğuş Construction, is The total advertising market increased by companies of its sector due to its mega about to be completed. The Company is 23% in 2011, and Doğuş Media Group project perspective and its infrastructure also closely following the current situation has kept its share in active markets and superstructure projects undertaken and prospective projects in the Middle East. around 8.3%. The Group’s TV channels both in Turkey and in the international have kept their market share around market. Doğuş Construction, which Utilizing its mega project approach and its 10% despite the growing competition has ranked among the most reputable long-standing experience, the Company in the market. According to projections, construction companies since its continued to grow on the basis of sound the acquisition of Star TV will double the establishment in 1950, has completed 170 and sustainable profitability. In addition Group’s market share for the next three sizable projects worth approximately US$ to increasing its profitability in its sector, years. Regarding the radio stations, Doğuş 12 billion to date. Currently, the total value Doğuş Construction has gained a more Media Group increased its market share of the projects, in which Doğuş is involved, dynamic structure, continuing on the path by 2.6% to 22.8% with the launch of Kral is US$ 4,494 million and the share of Doğuş toward achieving its goal of being stable in Pop. Doğuş Media Group’s magazines in these projects is US$ 3,533 million. the markets where it is operational without also increased their market share by 2% Doğuş takes part in the execution of interruption. to 17.5%. Doğuş Media Group has a various prestigious rail mass transportation market share of approximately 3% in the system and rail projects individually and Media Internet segment. as part of the joint ventures or consortia Doğuş Media Group reaches to millions of that are established with the participation people through its innovative, informative Additionally, in 2011, Doğuş Media of international construction companies in and entertaining broadcasts on its TV Group successfully organized the second local and international markets. Because channels, radio stations and web portals; as New Media Order Conference with the of engineering applications that require well as through its outstanding periodicals participation of expert guests from all over different areas of expertise, Doğuş and books. With 8 TV channels, 8 radio the world. Construction offers employees a wide channels, 3 internet portals, 8 periodicals 30 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Tourism and Services D-Marin Didim and D-Marin Göcek REIT, Doğuş Real Estate and also with In the tourism and services sector, marinas in Turkey and D-Marin Mandalina Doğuş Turizm Sağlık Yatırımları ve Doğuş Group operates with Doğuş in Sibenik, Croatia. During 2011, even İşletmeciliği San. ve Tic. A.Ş., which owns Tourism and Retail Group, the D-Marin though the financial turmoil created 42% of the İstinyePark Shopping Mall. Marinas Group, D-Gym and D-Life in the adverse effects in the tourism sector, well-being industry and Körfez Havacılık through the efforts of skilled employees In accordance with its strategic target in the aviation industry. and high operational standards, all of investing in architecturally original the marinas operating under D-Marin and financially reasonable housing Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group was Marinas Group concluded the year with development projects with a certain established in 1976 and owns six fivesatisfactory results. D-Marin Marinas conceptual approach in metropolitan star hotels, a travel agency, Antur and Group is actively evaluating acquisition areas, Doğuş REIT seeks and evaluates the Arena Giyim retail company, the or development of prestigious marinas new investment opportunities in the creator of the In-formal brand. The in the Mediterranean and the Adriatic sector. The Doğuş REIT portfolio Group also has contracts with some of regions in order to establish a market includes Doğuş Center, Maslak and the the world’s leading luxury brands. The leader marina network. 2000 Plaza located in Antalya. Group performed a successful year as the occupancy rate of rooms increased Apart from Doğuş Tourism and Retail Doğuş Real Estate Investment and by 3% in 2011, room rate increased Group and D-Marin Marinas Group, Management Company whose shares by TL 84, and total hotel revenues Doğuş Group has also initiated are 100% held by Doğuş Group was generated TL 26,618 thousand higher investments in the well-being industry founded in 2006. Doğuş Real Estate, as well. Swissotel Göcek has been with D-Gym and D-Life. The Group’s which holds 13 assets all over Turkey taken over from Turkon Holding and first investment in this arena was the today, continues its work with great the hotel’s name is changed as D-Marin opening of D-Gym in Maslak, İstanbul in care in order to make the best use of Resort Göcek and will be operated by 2009, which has brought corporate class these assets. In 2011, the Company Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group in 2012. quality to the sports and fitness industry had a net rental income of TL 22.3 D-Hotel Maris has also been renovated in Turkey. The opening of D-Life Healthy million and employed 31 people in and will open its doors to guests in 2012 Living and Detox Center in Ulus, İstanbul addition to around 1,500 indirect with a fresh concept. came after D-Gym opening in November employment opportunities created 2011. with the Gebze Center Shopping Mall On the retail side, Arena Giyim opened project. At Gebze Center, the activities a boutique in D-Marin Didim Shopping Körfez Havacılık, under the affiliation that took place in 2011 in line with Complex in 2010 and will open an Inof Doğuş Group, was formed in 2007 the marketing strategies were longFormal store in D-Hotel Maris in 2012. and in May 2008 received its Operating term projects that will add value to Bodrum Armani Caffé and Shop were Certificate (AOC) from the Turkish the customers while creating a loyal closed but a new Emporio Armani store Civil Aviation Authority. Körfez’s fleet, customer group and increasing the was opened in Ankara and Emporio comprising of one Gulfstream 450 sales of the retailers. Along with these Armani Ristorante concept was launched aeroplane, one Hawker 900XP aeroplane projects, many corporate responsibility at İstinyePark in 2011. A new opening and one Bell 407 helicopter, is authorised initiatives were also carried out, will take place on Bağdat Caddesi in to operate commercial flights both including events designed for disabled İstanbul in the second half of 2012. domestically and internationally. citizens and information campaigns to raise awareness on the environment. D-Marin Marinas Group started its Real Estate operations in 2003 with its first marina, In the real estate sector, Doğuş Group Doğuş Group also operates with D-Marin Turgutreis, and currently includes operates with three companies; Doğuş İstinyePark in the real estate sector since DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 31 September 2007 under a partnership order to optimize its portfolio. D Energy between Doğuş Turizm Sağlık Yatırımları will continue to operate in the areas of ve İşletmeciliği San. ve Tic. A.Ş. and Orta energy generation and will focus on Gayrimenkul Yatırım Yönetim A.Ş. The electricity trading activities. In addition, ownership of the two companies on D Energy is developing investment İstinyePark is 42% and 58% respectively plans on prospective projects to have and Doğuş Turizm Sağlık is owned and optimal generation portfolio, and aims to managed by Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Since build an additional of 2 GW, mainly from its opening, İstinyePark is working nonrenewable and conventional resources. stop with its 300 stores to offer the best service to its visitors. The shopping mall More information on Doğuş Group’s provides a vast selection thanks to its businesses can be found at http:// 270,000 m2 construction area, 87,000 m2 www.dogusgrubu.com.tr and the full store area, 3,600 units carpark and wide description of Group’s subsidiaries’ range of stores. financial results can be found at 2011 Doğuş Group Annual Report at http:// Energy www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1Doğuş Group operates in the energy 1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/ sector through D Energy. In terms of reports/annual_reports. generation sector which is based on renewable energy sources, D Energy is one of the leading companies in the private sector with its 1 GW installed capacity. D Energy has designated new investment projects and privatizations for the generation of electricity as well as the operation of these assets and energy trading as its core areas of business. Within the current portfolio, Artvin Hydroelectric Power Plant (332 MW), in which D Energy holds 100% share, is the latest investment of the Company after the Boyabat Hydroelectric Power Plant (513 MW), in which it holds a 34% share, and the Aslancık Hydroelectric Power Plant (120 MW), in which it holds a 33% share. Total amount of investments of these three projects exceeds US$ 2,200 million. D Energy closely monitors privatization initiatives, green and brown field projects in various regions of the country in 32 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 The Economical Impact of Climate Change Climate Change is considered among influence our operations, particularly in Group especially monitors catastrophic external risks within Doğuş Group’s Risk the construction and energy sectors. climate change. Management. The topic is monitored Climate changes could also impact within the scope of factors which could insurance programs. Therefore, Doğuş Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank includes actions to be taken in the for companies if the real sector can Garanti Bank’s approach to the events of extreme conditions and/ not adapt itself to those permanent economic impact of climate change or disasters. The Bank has full backchanges. focuses on long-term sustainable up systems and alternative working growth and on making contributions sites for its vital operations. Garanti On the other hand, apart from the through its interaction with other continuously increases its support for long-term permanent climate change sectors, customers, banking activities local and international efforts in this effects, the short-term imbalance of and operations. This includes revisions matter. climate seriously affects the financial and development of projects, products, markets. Garanti Asset Management services and procedures in all business Garanti Asset Management bears responsibility for its investments, lines (Retail, Corporate and Commercial Global Climate Change is affecting so it is appropriate that the financial Banking and Project Finance), many businesses and inducing serious results of any climate change should financing principles with environmental and permanent negativity in some be included in risk assessments. and social concerns, cost saving sectors. It causes periodical changes opportunities through greater efficiency in the business models of some (reduction of fuel consumption, companies and results in income electricity, paper and water usage), and change. It is assumed that the longemployee engagement. Garanti Bank term results of climate change may be has a Disaster Recovery and Business realized in 30 to 40 years, but Garanti Continuity management system that Asset Management foresees a risk DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 33 Local Suppliers and Local Development Doğuş Group has diversified businesses Local supply enables Doğuş Group to predictability of delivery times, a that operate in different regions, so that provide a global platform to local talent, high degree of responsiveness to the word local is defined as ‘where add value to local resources and help demand, increased speed to market operations occur for the Group’. It stimulate a vibrant local economy, all of and mitigation of climate risks due to has been the Group’s main objective which have importance to the success transportation. It also enables a higher to encourage local supply and local of Doğuş Group. degree of control and auditing of development as it provides mutual vendor’s operation to strengthen the benefit of corporate responsibility and Local supply also leads to a shorter Group’s reputation. license to operate. supply chain, greater certainty and Best Practices at Doğuş Group TÜVTURK sources 65% of its purchasing has reached TL Construction spent a total amount requirements from local suppliers, 300,000,000 in 2011. Doğuş of TL 275,600,000 of local purchasing in the amount of approximately Otomotiv paid TL 4,130,000 to and the rate of the local employment TL 800,000. LeasePlan’s local local suppliers in 2011. Doğuş of managers reached 10% in 2011. Corporate Mechanisms3 At Doğuş Group, we believe that good governance principles in its professional Doğuş Holding Board of Directors corporate governance is the foundation approach, does not discriminate Ferit F. ŞAHENK – Chairman of the for maximising stakeholder expectations, between its shareholders, and acts Board of Directors optimising operational performance, in accordance with ethical codes in Süleyman SÖZEN – Vice Chairman attracting skilled employees, clients and all fields of endeavour. The Doğuş Hüsnü AKHAN – CEO of Doğuş Group partners, and making a positive impact Holding Board of Directors is the senior Aclan ACAR – Board Member on the lives and businesses we touch. decision-making authority, and holds Ahmet KURUTLUOĞLU – Board ultimate responsibility for stakeholder Member Doğuş Group’s core values and ethical interests across all Group companies. Erman YERDELEN – Board Member business practices are central to our Gönül TALU – Board Member business operations. We have always Doğuş Holding’s Board of Directors Muhsin MENGÜTÜRK – Board Member striven to go beyond compliance. consists of eleven members, including Sadi GÖĞDÜN – Board Member its Chairman, and convenes as the Şadan GÜRTAŞ – Board Member Governance and Board Group’s business requires. Yücel ÇELİK – Board Member Structure Doğuş Group, sensitive to corporate 3 Detailed information about Board of Directors and Board Committees can be found at Group’s 2011 Annual Report http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-337-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/annual_reports 34 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Committees Subject to the Board the Doğuş Holding Internal Audit • Developing common projects to of Directors Department, increase employee commitment. Three oversight bodies support the work • Evaluating the efficacy of the of Doğuş Holding Board of Directors: The internal control processes of Group Legal Advisory Council Risk and Audit Committee, the Human companies and advising on ways The Legal Advisory Council: Resources Coordination Committee and to improve the internal control • Evaluates law-related issues the Legal Advisory Council. environment, pertinent to Doğuş Group, • Overseeing the efficacy of • Identifies important matters within The Risk and Audit Committee financial control and internal audit these issues and, The Risk and Audit Committee was activities within the Group, • Specifies legal processes to be established to assist and advise the Board • Overseeing the security, efficiency followed and measures to be taken in of Directors. The Committee consists of and effectiveness of the information all such matters. three Board members elected by the systems used by Doğuş Group Board; it meets regularly a week prior to companies and reviewing and Doğuş Group Anti-Corruption Board meetings. The Committee’s major approving their contingency plans Policy responsibilities are described as follows: and, Good business ethics is a key area • Assisting the Board of Directors in our Code of Ethics, which every Risk Management: to ensure that the business activities Doğuş Group employee reads, accepts • Ensuring that a functional of the Group companies are in and signs. Bribery and corruption are risk monitoring system transmits compliance with the requirements of unacceptable behaviours, as affirmed by important issues to the Board, applicable laws and regulations. the Group’s Ethical Principles. • Reviewing regular information flow from Group companies and The Human Resources Coordination Doğuş Group has based its antievaluating risk assumed in Group Committee corruption policy on transparency and strategies, business plans, budgets The Human Resources Coordination accountability where all business-related and investments. It also evaluates Committee was established to assist the parties are highly independent and prone managerial actions to address Board of Directors with human resources to the consequences of each others’ risk along with the general risk management practices at Doğuş Group actions. In line with this policy, the Group management processes within each companies. integrates globally accepted ethical and company, social measures in all of its operations • Reviewing of Group risk levels The Committee is made up of Human and business practices and regularly to ensure that they are in line with Resources Managers from Doğuş Group communicates the consequences of its predetermined levels of shareholder companies and convenes a minimum activities to its stakeholders. risk preferences and, of two times a year as agreed upon in • Advising the Board of Directors advance by the Board of Directors. As part of its anti-corruption policy, Doğuş Group requires the same kind of in determining risk plans and actions The major responsibilities of the view through management style on the taken with regard to risk management Committee include: part of all of its stakeholders, both in the within the Group. • Carrying out human resources national and international contexts. The practices within the Group companies Group holds to the principle of “not being Audit: and know-how sharing, involved” with any party acting contrary • Overseeing the efficacy of • Arranging work groups relevant to to globally accepted standards and who actions taken by Group companies in planned issues, is unable to provide reliable disclosures response to the results of financial, • Sharing information about potential with regard to its actions. Doğuş Group’s operational, and information candidates from within the Group and anti-corruption policy is embodied in technology audits performed by possible vacant positions and, the Group’s “Code of Ethics” and most DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 35 Group companies have developed their financials are drawn up quarterly in Ethical principles are spelled out and own documents on anti-corruption. accordance with International Financial documented in procedures under the Reporting Standards (IFRS). Independent following headings: Transparency and Accountability semi-annual and year-end audit reports • time and resource utilization at Doğuş Group adheres to strict business are shared with the public. the companies, ethics that include transparency and • relations with customers, accountability in an environment where All Doğuş Group affiliated companies subcontractors, suppliers of goods all players, from large corporations to listed on the İstanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) and other companies and individuals individual customers and from employees have their individual Investor Relations with whom the company has to society in general are affected by each departments that are able to effectively commercial interactions, other’s actions. In all of its operations manage the flow of information to • the acceptance of gifts, invites, and business activities, Doğuş Group their stakeholders in line with national aids and donations, has fully integrated globally-accepted regulations. The fields of activity and • relations with the media, principles of responsible business performance of the Group’s publicly-floated • actions that can result in conflict conduct. The stakeholders have been companies are disclosed in conformity with of interest, informed of these actions. principles of their respective companies by • safeguarding of information the Capital Markets Board of Turkey (SPK). pertaining to the companies, personal Upholding these principles and high In terms of public disclosure requirements, information, professional misconduct, ethical standards is not limited to its the ISE Material Event disclosures are the security and harassment. own business dealings; the Group also responsibility of the Holding’s Finance requires that the same approach is Department. Credit Ratings5 followed by all stakeholders, on both Doğuş Holding can be instantly recognized national and international levels. Doğuş Corporate practices and safeguards that based on the ratings given by international Group embraces the principle of “not promote corporate transparency and rating agencies. The Group has become being involved” with any party that acts accountability, coupled with sustainable well-known for both its quality of contrary to globally-accepted standards social and environmental practices, management and the global principles of and that cannot provide reliable ultimately support stable markets, which corporate governance it supports. disclosures with regards to its actions. are crucial for viable economic growth and the long-term returns to our stakeholders. Transparency and accountability are the Much attention is paid by Doğuş Group two key components of Doğuş Group’s to the disclosure of its financial and nonEthical Principles4 management approach. Consequently, financial information to its shareholders, Strict compliance with the Code of Doğuş Holding has been rated by two of employees, customers, national and Conduct and Standards is a key principle the major international rating agencies; international business partners, suppliers, for Doğuş Group. As such, actions that Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s since present and potential investors of its violate the Company’s Code of Conduct 2000 and 2006 respectively. publicly-floated companies, and the public are subject to disciplinary measures. As at large. a participant to the United Nations Global The Group makes all relevant information Compact since April 2007, the Group available on its website, and informs has reaffirmed its commitment to fight the public about its corporate strategy, corruption both internally and in other activities and new fields of investment areas that might fall within its sphere of via Annual Reports and periodic press influence. releases and conferences. The Group’s 4 Doğuş Group Code of Conduct and detailed information about ethical principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/82-278-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/code_of_ethics 5 Detailed information on Credit Ratings of the Group can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-271-1-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/investor_relations/reports/dogus_holding_a_s__ratings_ 36 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 37 Employee Engagement 38 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Employee Engagement Our people at Doğuş Group are our management strategy is an integral part authority and responsibility and provide transformation agents who move beyond of Doğuş Group’s vital business strategy. challenging projects which translate their limits, think alternatively and drive We make it a priority to empower potential into performance. positive change; a well-defined talent every Doğuş Group team member with Doğuş Group Total Workforce (2011 Year End)* Tourism and Services Holding 4,1% 1,2% Media 4,5% Construction Real Estate Energy 21,3% 0,1% 0,3% Banking and Financial Services Automotive 61,8% 6,8% *Doğuş Group’s total workforce by the year end 2011 was 30,621. In the chart above, the percentage given for Holding encompasses of Doğuş Holding, Doğuş Yeni İnternet and the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 39 Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour Issues Doğuş Group practices and endorses We are committed to provide a safe and We are also committed to operate in line equal opportunity employment and does healthy work environment and ensure with the UN Global Compact principles not discriminate on the basis of gender, adherence to all labour legislations. on labour standards. religion, language, race or disability. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş HoldingWorking Life the related period. In accordance with can directly communicate with the Assessment Survey the survey output, action plans are CEO about their problems in every In Doğuş Holding, a Working Life drawn for the areas of improvement in subject except personal issues. Assessment Survey is conducted Doğuş Holding. The last Working Life • Garanti is open to suggestions: every 2 years and is made online by Assessment Survey was conducted in Suggestions are received and an independent research company. December 2011. considered in all development The Working Life Assessment Survey areas. The bank-wide smoking ban targets the identification of both Doğuş Satisfaction at Garanti is of Great has come into effect through this Holding’s strengths and areas needing Importance system. improvement and action plans for these • Everyone at Garanti is the leader of • According to the 2010 and areas to be implemented based on the his/her job. They take initiatives and 2011 results of the “Employee output of the survey. make their own decisions. Satisfaction Survey” conducted • Being an equal opportunity employer by an independent research in every aspect from selection to company with the participation of The content of the survey questionnaire training programs, Garanti respects all employees, the level of sense is designed under 3 main chapters: the different knowledge and skills of belonging towards the bank was “Employee Loyalty,” “Rational and possessed by its employees, and above the averages in Turkey. Emotional Motivations,” and “Human supports these differences. • To serve mutual external clients, Resource Practices.” Under Human • Open communication is always the units and branches within the Resource Practices, the following encouraged. institution receive services from topics are measured: internal • Intranet, created as an “internal each other. The “Internal Customer communications; leadership/reporting internet website,” is a bank-wide Satisfaction” survey which evaluates manager; individual and professional communication platform. the quality of these services is improvement; monitoring of • The “Executives Meeting” where conducted every year. achievements and their appreciations; the managers assess the past year total wages and benefits; recruitment and determine the objectives of of high quality work force; teamwork the next, and the “Vision Meeting” and collaboration; physical conditions directed by the CEO and organized of working environment and job topics. regionally to be attended by all These topics may change according employees are regularly held every to the needs and circumstances in year. In this meeting, employees 40 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Human Rights As Doğuş Group, we adhere to the UN trainings bi-annually, including human Doğuş Group is wary of partnering with Global Compact principles on human rights issues. 100% of our security staff organizations which have a history of rights. Discrimination, forced and had this training in 2011 and the security incidents related to either human rights compulsory labour and child labour are staff in the majority of Group companies violations or other illegal activities. strictly prohibited. We also denounce has likewise been given training Compliance is very important for bribery or corruption in any form and our regarding human rights. investment decisions as the protection processes ensure that such negative of human rights is of significant concern practices are strictly discouraged. As Doğuş Group, we are very attentive to for Doğuş Group. compliance with all laws and regulations The security staff of Doğuş Holding have while deciding on new investments. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Otomotiv-Human Rights Principles and all of the employees rights of the people living in the Policy and business partners are regions where it operates, takes expected to comply with these precautions against violation of • Doğuş Otomotiv bases its principles and Doğuş Otomotiv rights and manages related risks. commitments regarding Human Human Rights policy. Rights on the United Nations • Doğuş Otomotiv obeys national The number of distinct persons Global Compact and the United and international laws and visiting the Human Rights e-learning Nations Universal Declaration of regulations with regard to human application was 391 in 2011. There Human Rights. rights, and expects that business are 470 white collar employees using • Human rights are also an integral partners do as well. computers; as such the read rate of part of Doğuş Otomotiv Ethical • Doğuş Otomotiv safeguards the the e-learning is 83%. Employee Health and Safety Doğuş Group ensures employee safety Resources Policy outlines the Group’s the mental and physical well-being of and health as a universal value without commitment to strengthen a safety and employees. regard to time. The Doğuş Group Human health oriented culture conductive to Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Otomotiv-Safe and Economic influence, and the dissemination of which has been carried out for years, Driving Trainings information to assist the development in order to reach more people, Doğuş of safe vehicle driving culture in Otomotiv organized Safe Driving Doğuş Otomotiv takes, among its Turkey, by collaborating with relevant Techniques Traninig Days, beginning areas of responsibility, the creation institutions and organizations for with its employees, at Istanbul Park in of awareness on such topics as the awareness projects. 2011. The program’s goal is to extend importance of traffic safety and safe the importance of the traffic safety vehicle driving for sake of all the To this end, enlarging the scope of the awareness to employees of all Doğuş stakeholders within its sphere of “Traffic is Life!” awareness campaign, Group companies in the next stages. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 41 Traffic Safety e-learning application is Doğuş Construction is certified by Local and international occupational planned for the sales teams of all the Lloyd’s Register (LRQA) with ISO health and safety requirements are Authorized Dealers, again within the 9001:2008 Quality Management, meticulously enforced in every phase “Traffic is Life!” campaign. A First OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational of construction work. Compliance Aid in Accidents course for all Doğuş Health & Safety Management, and with project-specific and general Otomotiv employees was also included ISO 14001:2004 Environmental environmental and labour safety within 2011 targets. Management systems. requirements of each project is key to the high service quality TÜVTURK informs the legal authorities The issue of safety is among the most offered by Doğuş Construction to in a timely manner with regard to any important subjects for the Company; its clients. Accordingly, employees occupational accidents that occurs according to the Occupational Accidents the risk management system includes are continuously provided training Procedure. To analyze the occupational the operational controls and potential courses to keep up with the changing health and safety risks which are dangers for the employees. In every requirements in the areas of Quality, centrally put into practices, employees operational center, Doğuş Construction the Environment, Occupational Health are consulted and their expectations and has Employee Health and Safety and Safety Management Systems. concerns are taken account. Committees, which meet monthly. Human Capital At Doğuş Group, the most valuable asset is its human resources. Investing in and sharing offered by the work is our human capital. We constantly its employees’ areas of development, place, invest in the sustainable growth and the Group has created a robust human • wishing to work in an environment development of our employees. We resources pool, based on the vision where thoughts are shared out provide a vibrant work environment of “The Right Person for The Right loud, where equal emphasis is given to Job” in order to enable personal • wishing to work in an environment professional and personal improvement. development and achieve corporate where new and innovative ideas A plethora of enabling mechanisms helps objectives. are appreciated, Doğuş Group people and businesses to • and wishing to work in an perform at their peak potential. For people who are: environment where a long-term • planning their careers in service career development is possible, With more than 30,000 employees, sectors where both local and Doğuş Group creates group synergy by international leading brands are Doğuş Group is the right address. bringing together an understanding of present, quality service, innovative thinking and • aiming to make a difference The Human Resources Teams of Doğuş customer focused approach. by adopting the principles of Group companies select individuals to openness, fairness, honesty and be included in the Group from among As Doğuş Group’s Founder and Honorary humbleness in a competitive those who solve problems, execute and Chairman Mr. Ayhan Şahenk said years environment, develop plans and who are able to say ago, Doğuş Group believes that within • wishing to work in an environment “we” instead of “I” while doing all this. the keen competitive environment of providing them confidence and the globalising world, its real capital support based on the solidarity 42 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 The meaning of being a Doğuş Member in the words of the employees: CEM ECEVİT his/ her client and society at large are Each day, my curiosity, enthusiasm Doğuş Energy, Finance and impacted. I believe such awareness and enjoyment increased; this must Administration Project Manager, can only take shape in a work have caught the attention of my Working at Doğuş Group for 9 years environment where the employees managers, for in 2007, I was offered I first entered Doğuş in 2002 through are valued; Doğuş Group is among the position of Doğuş Otomotiv, one of its farthest gates, in Morocco. the few organisations able to shoulder Porsche Turkey Chief of After-Sales I had little idea about the Group, but I leadership in every sector and render Services. My greatest passion had learned there, for the first time, what this leadership sustainable. become my job. I also started moving respect for employees meant, without up in the Company; after a couple of ascribing value to them because TUĞBA KARA years I was transferred to the position of their nationality, race, language, NTV & NTV Sports, Broadcasting of Regional Sales Manager at the culture or rank. I learned that being a Manager, Working at Doğuş Group SEAT sales department but, about a Doğuş member meant I could walk for 12 years year later, I returned to the Porsche into the office of any top executive, When I joined Doğuş Group in 1999 brand (which I love and could never and he would get up to shake my as an intern, I was both curious and really leave) as Sales and Marketing hand. Being a Doğuş member means contented from the moment I began. Manager. to respect others, be respected, and To embark upon a business career feel valuable. was like swimming in uncharted During my one and a half year stint waters, but being in Doğuş Group as the Porsche Deputy Sales and SİNEM DURMUŞ IŞIK always gave me confidence. It is 2011 Marketing Manager, the personal Garanti Factoring, Human and I am still happy to be a member development training and personal Resources Supervisor, Working at of this Group. An organisation that coaching developed specifically for Doğuş Group for 4 years has developed its quality into a me by the Human Resources Division Imagine a work place where your brand also makes its employees feel enabled me to become aware of my ideas are valued, where you feel privileged. That awareness is always shortcomings and deal with them. that you are working in a family accompanied with the question, “How This prepared me for my present environment; imagine a school where can I contribute?” It gives us the position as the Porsche Sales and you are taught something new every opportunity to be open to innovation, Marketing Manager, which I have held day and what you have learned is put and to renew ourselves. since July 2010. into daily practice; think of a group of services which ascribes leadership KAAN OĞUL My career story at Doğuş Otomotiv status to its employees. Doğuş Otomotiv, Porsche Sales and illustrates how one’s motivation, Marketing Manager, Working at enthusiasm and experience play To be an employee of Doğuş Group Doğuş Group for 6 years a very important role in one’s life. means doing your job efficiently, I have been working with Doğuş Doğuş Group is an ever-developing, backed by a strong technological Group since 2005. My interest in warm entity open to new ideas. It is infrastructure, being valued as a automobiles started when I was a place where people’s performance leader regardless of level, and being young, and turned into passion when is constantly followed up, where ready to learn at all times, like a newly I was in high school. In university, my achievements are recognised and recruited employee. As I complete my only dream was to work in a job that most importantly, provides a wide fourth year within Doğuş Group, I have had to do with cars. In December range of various career opportunities realised that doing my job well is not 2004, after finishing my university to its employees. I am proud and merely doing the particular task I have degree, I was accepted to the position happy to be a part of this closely knit been given. Each Doğuş employee of Porsche Service Consultant at family and what I am doing here. adopts continuous development as an Doğuş Oto, the authorised dealer of indispensable value and in each task Doğuş Otomotiv. that is accomplished, because both DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 43 Remuneration System and Benefits Salary level adjustments in Doğuş the task in hand as well as individual’s • Transportation Group companies are determined taking education, expertise and competencies • Lunch into consideration intra-organisational are the primary bases. equilibrium and market conditions Additionally, where there is appropriate based on fair and consistent systems In addition to salary payments to Doğuş space, fitness centres and hairdresser laid down for each sector and business Group employees based on their net services are also available to employees. groups. Employees demonstrating wages, the following benefits are outstanding performance are rewarded provided: in proportion to their contributions. In • Private health insurance and/or Life determining the wages of new recruits Insurance in Doğuş Group, the responsibilities of Performance Development The most important goal of the Doğuş Group. For the measurement of are expected to take responsibility for performance management systems work performance along with these goals, their own performance, development used in Doğuş Group companies is to employees and managers reach mutual and careers. This means that the enable our employees to develop and agreement on business objectives. The employees’ enthusiasm to constantly exploit their potentials to the fullest. To competencies necessary for realising learn, support and development of this end, the data obtained as a result these objectives are determined and their subordinates and team mates, of performance appraisal are used in managers provide feedback on these and rapid adaptation to the changes the implementation of Training and issues. in their sectors are among important Development, Career Management and performance indicators. Wage Management systems. During the performance evaluation process, each individual’s compliance In performance management, goals are with the values of Doğuş Group set on basis of sectors and companies and his/her work performance are conforming to the basic strategies of considered. Doğuş Group employees 44 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Holding manage their own career goals 360 Degree Feedback Process In Doğuş Holding, a new performancetogether with their managers. Through Garanti Bank implements a 360 based bonus scheme was launched this process, Garanti also develops its Degree Evaluation Process once a in 2011. The rewarding system aims managers from within. year to determine the strengths and to segregate high, good and poor development areas of Regional, Unit and Goal-Oriented Management and performance, and to spread the message Branch Managers in terms of managerial Performance Evaluation on the behaviours and success measures qualifications and to contribute to their Open performance evaluation is based that are upheld by our company to all professional and personal development. on concrete and measurable goals, and employees. After the implementation, the managers thus very objective. In line with the bank’s are provided with one-to-one feedback With this new scheme, all department goals determined at the beginning of regarding their strengths and areas that managers conduct one-to-one career the year, employees, together with their they need to improve and awareness interviews with each of their team managers, determine objectives that about these areas is created. members, to clarify performance in suit their jobs. Through the year, these the past year as well as to determine objectives are followed and necessary Assessment & Development Center training and career planning needs for changes are made. At the end of the year, The Assessment & Development the upcoming year. The performance they are compared against the realized Center Implementation aims to reveal evaluation is conducted according objectives and the performance level the strengths, development areas and to business targets, job definitions, is determined. The performance levels potential areas of the Branch Manager new job/project, Doğuş Group values, of people who work at Garanti enable Candidates in terms of their qualifications improvements, team work, vision, and them to create their own career plans and to prepare them for management managerial skills dimensions. Upon and nominate themselves for various positions. After the assessment, the the completion of the interviews, the positions, and affect their salaries. candidates are provided with feedback managers determine a performance regarding their strengths, development Qualification-based Career grading for each team member and areas and potential areas. Every candidate Development submit “the Department Performance that goes through the assessment process Determination of education and Map” to the Human Resources undergoes certain training programs in line development needs, education department. A five scale system is with his/her development areas. programs and creation of career plans used in the rewarding system and form the basis of all Human Resources IIP (Investors in People) Certificate information drawn from the career Management Systems. After receiving the ISO 9001 Quality interviews constitutes a basis for System Certificate, with its qualitytraining, career and promotion planning Career Opportunities Program oriented philosophy, Garanti Bank in for the next year. For open positions within the bank, priority 2005 became the first Turkish company is given to current bank employees. The Garanti Bank whose human resources practices were positions and required qualifications for The most important key to Garanti’s awarded certification for compliance these positions are announced through success is its human capital, and therefore with Investors in People (IIP) standards, the Career Opportunities Bulletin. the Human Resources Department has the world’s only recognized human Candidates who find themselves suitable a strategic role. With a proactive and resources quality standard. As a result of for these positions can apply without creative approach, the department is an assessment conducted in late 2008, approval from their managers or anyone actively involved in the decision making Garanti’s certification was renewed. In else. Candidates who fill these criteria process of the bank. The Human 2009, IIP introduced a new program are notified and invited to enrol in the Resources Department, in line with aimed at recognizing and awarding firms selection process. Garanti’s objectives and by working in whose performance in human resources cooperation with other units, conducts Promotion at Garanti is directly related practices surpassed the standard and success-oriented modern human to success. Authority brings along added “Gold”, “Silver”, and “Bronze” resources programs. responsibility and salary increase. To move classifications to its existing certification up to a higher position, one must possess process. Under this new ranking system, Employees Create Their Own Career the knowledge and experience required Garanti Bank’s human resources practices Plans for that position, but the most important were awarded “Silver” certification, an Every employee at Garanti is the factor is the performance level. Careers at honour bestowed on only 1% of the leader of his/her job. As a result of Garanti are not limited to the positions in approximately 35,000 concerns that have their competency and performance banking; transfer between other Garanti received IIP certification worldwide. evaluations, they define, plan and subsidiaries is also possible. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 45 Training and Development As Doğuş Group, we believe that Local Training employees only, or participating in investing in people has the highest In order to contribute to an employee’s training provided by consulting firms returns. Through local and overseas professional and personal development open to the public at large. training to enable our employees to and to further develop his/her strengths, Overseas Training perform their duties both most efficiently our companies provide in-house training The Human Resources Division follows and enjoyably, we aim to meet business covering a wide range of areas, from overseas training activities which requirements and obtain results that special training targeting the sectors employees may need in connection with will increase their existing performance. they operate in all the way to personal their duties and make the necessary The following training opportunities are training. Such training may be in the form arrangements for their participation to provided to Doğuş Group employees: of corporate training limited to company such activities. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Employees Always levels. When they advance in their to e-learnings: Garlive, (a web-based Improve Themselves career, they can develop themselves TV application which is a first in the with the tools based on their financial services sector in Turkey with Garanti invests in its employees in competencies. Besides, Garanti a professional live broadcast studio set every step of their careers by offering Leadership Academy (GLA) is the talent up, where every development in bank them: in class trainings, coaching, on management program to develop broadcasted to all employees); webinar the job trainings, e-courses, library, leadership skills for both branch and (a virtual classroom for follow up e-books, training videos on demand headquarter employees. It is significant trainings, best practice sharing, internal and many other development tools. that 85% of managers are alumni of knowledge sharing); GBTube (a video New development tools are designed GLA, which serves the proposition of portal for best practice sharing and and integrated into trainings for the promoting Garanti Leadership Culture. internal knowledge sharing). employees continuously. One of the strengths of Garanti is Garanti was honored with the “BEST” Employees receive training when they its technology, which can be seen in award by the American Society of first start Garanti Bank. Every new the Learning & Development Center. Training and Development (ASTD) for its employee receives certification trainings Technology involvement started in successful training practices, and with the which include orientation, technical 1998, initiating Garanti E-learning “Silver Best Leadership Training Program” trainings and soft skills trainings. Garanti platform. Garanti Bank launched various by Brandon Hall for its talent management offers wide learning solutions to all learning technology tools for employee practices in Turkey and in the world. employees in different organizational development purposes in addition Social Life Each employee of all Doğuş Group activities for the Foundation’s projects take volleyball, football, bowling, carting, sailing, companies is issued a “d-Card” with place. Aside from the social responsibility tennis, table tennis and billiards are held which he/she can benefit preferentially aspect, these events provide the Group as the “Doğuş Champions League” with from the services offered by the Group. employees the opportunity to socialize a view to strengthening relations among Additionally, through agreements with with co-workers outside their daily Group companies and instilling the team cafes, restaurants, hotels, travel agencies, business environment. spirit among employees through sports. educational establishments and stores, Yet another meeting venue created for Doğuş Group employees could benefit In the event realised with the slogan the employees of the Group companies to from campaigns and price reductions “Natural Champions Are Sought”, strengthen social ties are the social clubs. adding value to their social life. players of the award winning teams are Most of Doğuş Group companies have given their prizes at a ceremony where social clubs including photography, scuba, Cultural Activities the entire Doğuş Family comes together. dance, drama and nature sports clubs. The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation organizes The coordination of the program is carried annual events whereby all Doğuş Group Doğuş Champions’ League out by the Doğuş Holding Corporate employees get together and fundraising Since 2005, sports contests in basketball, Communications Department. 46 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 47 Community Engagement 48 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Community Engagement The communities where we do are committed to that promise. Our and awareness campaigns in addition to business are important stakeholders community involvement is a combination sponsorships. for Doğuş Group. We promise to make of community engagement programs, the community a better place, and we philanthropy, and employee volunteerism Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Holding ELELE. Para Durumu actively uses with 200 young female students social media channels via Facebook between ages 15-18 in Şanlıurfa Financial Literacy and Twitter and also operates a very and bringing them along to Harran Para Durumu (First financial literacy popular blog+internet site: University, which was their first initiative of Turkey that reaches out www.paradurumu.tv visit to a university. These special to masses) programs were presented as a Financial literacy is an individual’s Para Durumu has soon become an model for financial education to ability to make informed judgements address where people seek out to the Republic of Turkey Ministry of and effective decisions about the use solve and be guided for personal National Education. and management of his/her money. finance problems, financial product • Para Durumu runs special projects Thus, financially literate consumers questions, saving for a house, budget with “children” (Elementary manage their income, save and invest decisions, investment choices, credit school students). The initiative wisely and avoid fraudulent practices. card issues, and ‘making it through’ organized a six week project with The term has gained much importance problems. It has become a popular Lütfi Banat Elementary School, all around the world, since each (and only) venue for people to “talk where students were taught how ‘person’ and ‘household’ is the base of money” in public. to use and manage money, make economic sustainability in a country. investments in the environment, The initiative is recognized as a health, education. The special Para Durumu is the first private media Financial Literacy initiative of Turkey by program was presented as a and interaction based financial literacy OECD. model for financial education to initiative of Turkey, which reaches out the Republic of Turkey Ministry of to masses via several channels: the Among the activities that make Para Family and Social Policies. TV show started out in CNBC-e for the Durumu an outstanding initiative are: • Para Durumu launched a new first year, and then transferred to A • The initiative reaches out to personal finance education Haber, where it airs twice a week at 7 youth (University students) movement for “women” with pm, prime time. It also pages on the via physical meetings as well. the cooperation and support of highest circulated national newspaper In 2010-2011, it visited 12 the Republic of Turkey Ministry Posta and also on Hürriyet and is universities across the country of Family and Social Policies as broadcasted at the highest rated radio where average participation was well as the İstanbul Metropolitan channel Kral FM. Para Durumu is also 1,000 students. It also visited highMunicipality. The project aims to broadcasted on the daily morning schools and elementary schools in educate 20,000 women in İstanbul show of Capital Radio and published different parts of Turkey meeting to make them financially literate on the monthly women’s magazine DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 49 until June 2013. The project has government employees (3 million headed by the Deputy Prime a special significance, as İstanbul people in Turkey). It also organizes Minister of Turkey, Mr. Ali Babacan is a major city in the world that is seminars with different profession as the government institution on its path to become one of the groups including police officers, responsible for the Financial ‘World Financial Centers’. After the teachers and doctors. It is currently Literacy issues in Turkey. completion of this first phase of in dialogue with the Government • Para Durumu brought “The Best the movement, education model Personnel Department in bringing Volunteer” award to Özlem developed by Para Durumu will about a web-based financial Denizmen, by The Corporate be carried further and become education program that reaches Volunteer Association, which is a nation-wide education plan, out to 3 million state employees. founded to help establish corporate which will be taught at various • Para Durumu aims to be a catalyst employee volunteering in the Municipality Centers across Turkey. to bring about “national strategy” corporate cultures of companies in • Para Durumu encourages women on financial literacy in Turkey. Turkey. entrepreneurs. Mrs. Denizmen This requires efforts on research, • Para Durumu is appointed as is the official ‘Personal Finance’ policy, practice and coordination in a member of the Advisory educator of KAGİDER (Women general. For this, Mrs. Denizmen Committee and jury for the Child Entrepreneurs Association has been regularly visiting top & Youth Finance International, an of Turkey) and attends TOBB executives of Republic of Turkey organization that aims to provide (The Union of Chambers and Ministry of National Education, financial education and access Commodity Exchanges of Turkey) Republic of Turkey Ministry to 100 million children in 100 Women Entrepreneurship of Family and Social Policies, countries. meetings. Para Durumu educates Ministry of Economy and financial • Özlem Denizmen, who spearheads the trainers of AÇEV (The Mother regulatory institutions such as this initiative, received international Child Education Foundation), which Capital Markets Board, İstanbul honors as well, with the is a Turkish non-governmental Stock Exchange, Inter Card Center, recognition of the ‘sustainable organization that has vast research, Credit Bureau, Banking Regulatory change’ Para Durumu brings about program development, program Institution, the Central Bank of the to Turkish household economy. implementation and advocacy Republic of Turkey. The White House Entrepreneurship experience in early childhood, Summit, Global Clinton Initiative, parenting education and women In line with these efforts, by the World Economic Forum, OECD literacy/empowerment. end of 2011, Capital Markets Board are among the institutions which • Para Durumu opts to bring about was appointed by the National acknowledged these efforts thru personal finance education to Economic Stability Committee their rewards. CSR Awareness Operating in an emerging market profitability in the long run is that of its employees and the other key economy, characterized by rapid fulfilling the rising expectations of society stakeholders about the concept of CSR advances in information and to be responsible corporate citizens. A so that they are not only aware of the communication technology, globalization business, however, will not succeed in concept of CSR, but also understand its and liberalization, businesses in Turkey its attempt to be responsible if it does importance and the role that they can play are faced with stiff challenges to survive not fully understand the concept of CSR. to ensure that Doğuş Group companies and maintain a competitive edge. One are committed to CSR-related efforts. of the biggest challenges of businesses One avenue for action is for Doğuş today that will have an impact on Group to continue efforts to educate 50 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Customer Health and Safety As Doğuş Group, we uphold the in all our operations and reshape our projects to further increase the overall health and safety of our customers practices where needed. Furthermore, awareness on the issue of customer and take all the necessary precautions Doğuş Group companies also develop health and safety. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank both in written and oral ways on corporate spokespeople of Doğuş Privacy and confidentiality are as a number of occasions. Any kind Otomotiv have continued to support important for Garanti Bank as they are of violation is investigated and the cause, and the activities carried for its customers. The same approach disciplinary decisions are made by the out as part of the “Traffic is Life!” is followed by all Garanti subsidiaries. Disciplinary Board. platform have been structured so as In keeping with its approach to to reach and benefit all segments of Doğuş Otomotiv modern banking and to its service the public. All activities are created Traffic is Life! with an integrated approach and the philosophy focused on customer satisfaction and security and, indeed, Doğuş Otomotiv social responsibility 360-degree communications method as a requirement of the business of projects are combined under one is used to reach a wide audience. banking, Garanti Bank complies with single heading, “Traffic is Life!”, the essential principles in order to focusing on the traffic issue, in order Employee Training protect the privacy of any information to raise public awareness on traffic Following a strategy of creating traffic that customers may provide to the safety since 2004. safety awareness by starting with Garanti Bank corporate website and Doğuş Otomotiv employees and In line with the aim of creating social to the Garanti Online Branch. reaching the rest of the public, new awareness and cultural change, training programs have been prepared Doğuş Otomotiv continues its social Private information of customers on the targeted subjects together responsibility projects in order is never shared with third parties with academicians specialized on to create public consciousness without permission of the owner those titles.“First Aid Approach concerning traffic safety. As part of of the information, in accordance after Traffic Accidents Training” and this main theme, the slogan and logo with the law. Additionally, for the “Safe Driving Techniques Training” of “Traffic is Life!” have been used security of customer information, only have been rolled out for all Doğuş since 2004 as the social responsibility authorized employees are permitted Otomotiv employees in 2011. During platform under which all corporate to access sensitive information these training sessions attended by projects are gathered to raise the and any kind of information use the employees of all Doğuş Group awareness of drivers and pedestrians is recorded. As the issue is also companies active in different sectors, alike. All activities carried out to regulated by the Banking laws and first aid techniques to be applied after create a positive change in the target legislation, the importance of the traffic accidents have been taught in group regarding traffic culture have issue and employee behaviours theory and practice. The “Safe Driving been stepped up in 2011. The target are stated to the employee from Techniques Training” was given at the group is divided into 3 segments; the moment of employment, and Istanbul Park F1 track, again covering (1)Doğuş Group employees, (2) reviewed during the working years theory and practice, with the aim of children and youth and (3)public. The DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 51 improving the driving skills of 1,114 Employee Volunteering and Traffic Digital Media Doğuş Group employees; employees Safety Films A professional web site who spent longer hours driving As part of employee volunteering, www.trafikhayattir.com is created were offered “Advanced Driving Doğuş Otomotiv employees continue to keep the public updated about the Techniques Training.” to take part in 3 short films, available activities by adding important content on social media, to raise public related to “Traffic is Life!”. Social By the Employee Training programs, awareness regarding traffic safety. media pages, such as Facebook, 2 awards in the Internal Social Traffic Safety Training for Children Twitter are created to connect instantly Responsibility Practice category were As a result of the cooperation since with vast network of audience in order given to Doğuş Otomotiv by Corporate 2011 between Doğuş Otomotiv and to interact and share helpful traffic Social Responsibility Association after Turkish Science Center Foundation, information and events. the CSR solutions were examined by which is located in Şişli and visited the Evaluation Institution formed by by 400 children daily on average, a TÜVTURK CSR Europe and various organizations Traffic Safety Exhibition has been in Europe focusing on corporate social Traffic Responsibility Action opened for primary school children, responsibility. Traffic Responsibility Action, which with the aim of informing them on Authorized Dealer Employee traffic safety issues and raising their is supported by TÜVTURK, arose Training and Informing Customers awareness. Another training intended from efforts to ensure the support Doğuş Otomotiv aims to train for Doğuş Group employees is the of private sector corporations and employees to act responsibly in traffic safety awareness training for individuals, along with the public traffic and to volunteer to be role children. During the 2011 Doğuş institutions and organizations, to models; for this purpose, a traffic Fair Day, trainers gave the children various solutions to the problems safety training program has been a wide-range training on the special suffered in traffic, underscoring the prepared for Authorized Dealers course, covering traffic lights and principle of personal responsibility. and shared online with all their signs, using safety belts and zebra On this basis, Traffic Responsibility employees, more than 500 of crossings for traffic safety. The Action is a corporate social whom completed the program. children also learned the specially responsibility project aimed at target Doğuş Otomotiv also aims at written Traffic Pledge. groups with general training and communicating directly with its awareness-raising activities. High School Slogan Competition customers and reaching the broader in collaboration with Doğuş Media public through its Authorized Dealer The project stems from the fact Group network, which already has high that it is possible to produce With the permission of İstanbul traffic safety awareness. In addition, durable and sustainable solutions National Education Administration, the vehicle delivery procedures to maintain safety of life in traffic Doğuş Otomotiv is collaborating are being renewed. Trained only through the participation of with Virgin Radio and visiting high Authorized Dealer employees have the stakeholders of the issue. The schools to increase the traffic safety communicated directly to 53,000 project is coordinated by the Ministry awareness of high school students. customers about traffic safety during of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Students who pass the mini-test on the vehicle purchasing process, Communications and with the traffic safety propose traffic safety giving them correct and useful contribution of several stakeholders slogans, and the writers of the three information on the subject; this comprising of other governmental selected slogans enter the slogan procedure is now part of business bodies, public institutions, the competition live on radio. processes. academia and NGOs. 52 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 All the activities carried out in the Within the scope of Bosom Buddies December 13, 2011, came together development and execution phase of Action, two seminars were held in to contribute to increasing traffic the project have been presented for December 2010 for representative safety, and create a declaration the consideration of the stakeholders teachers from 36 cities. This project that will guide these efforts. Aviva during the Stakeholder Meetings continues; it anticipates reaching Insurance, BP, Brisa, Ceva Logistics, held on May 4, 2010, July 15, 2010, 3,200 teachers, over 100,000 Doğuş Otomotiv, Goodyear, Michelin, December 23, 2010, April 6, 2011 students, 200,000 parents and 6,000 Renault Mais, Temsa Global, Tofaş, and January 30, 2012; the project school bus drivers in 300 schools. Toyota, Turkey Petroleum and has been structured in line with their TÜVTURK representatives shared ideas and suggestions. their experiences and exchanged Following the main introductory ideas about their work in the field of films, ‘Kaza’ (The Accident) and Traffic Responsibility Action traffic safety. The initiative, started ‘Göz Yumma’ (Don’t Condone) of is executed through three in the coordination of the Ministry Traffic Responsibility Action, a total subprojects: of Transport, Maritime Affairs and of 8 films were made for three a) Safe Vehicle Action’s target Communications, is open to all subprojects. Films were broadcasted audience is commercial vehicle private sector enterprises sensitive to on 25 national television channels drivers in particular safety of life in traffic. more than 16,500 times. Celebrities b) Responsible Citizen Action’s target supported the project on television audiences are university students and In 2012, Traffic Responsibility Action and radio stations in particular on the public, and will continue activities in other cities. NTV Radyo, NTV Spor Radyo, N101, c) Bosom Buddies Action’s target Kral FM, NTV, CNBC-e and e2. Traffic LeasePlan audiences are teachers, students and Responsibility Action pages on their parents. Fleet management services are social networks such as Twitter and directly related with customer health Facebook have had over 43,000 likes. Traffic Responsibility Action started and safety. LeasePlan is aware of in May 2010. Safe Vehicle Action Two web pages were developed its responsibility to prevent potential reached nearly 170,000 individuals in within the scope of the project: equipment failures of vehicles field activities and 3,000 commercial <www.trafikhareketi.org> updates before delivery. Furthermore, vehicle vehicle drivers at training seminars in the knowledge on traffic, and <www. controls and important safety 36 cities. candostlarihareketi.com> is for notifications are continuously tracked primary school students. by our employees and reminders are Responsible Citizen Action reached sent regularly to the fleet customers. Additionally, since May 4, 2010, 2,500 teachers and instructors over 2 million materials and before Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group working in Public Training Centers the holiday of the Feast of Sacrifice, The hotels operating under Doğuş in 25 cities. The courses are carried one million Safe Vehicle Cards and Tourism and Retail Group provide out at Public Training Centers; 124,000 posters were distributed all food and beverages, and therefore the total number reached is over over the country thanks to the efforts food hygiene and safety, the 50,000. Additionally, Responsible of the stakeholders. preparation of food and beverages Citizen Action reached 712 university according to predetermined health students at the seminars in 6 The business community, organized standards, is of utmost importance universities. under the platform meeting by for the customers’ health and Traffic Responsibility Movement on DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 53 satisfaction. HACCP (Hazard Analysis regulations are conducted twice a changing rooms and the Spa and Critical Control Points) System is year by ISIS and Johnson Diversey in section. Besides offering a hygienic one of the most significant systems all production areas of the kitchens in laundry service, all surfaces and in terms of food safety. Hygiene, the Group’s establishments. equipment at D-Gym are applied with sanitation and food safety are very bio nanotech material which prevents D-Gym important topics for hotel kitchens. bacterial growth. The swimming D-Gym gives utmost importance Failure to give the necessary pool of D-Gym is sanitized by ozone to the health and safety of its importance to these concepts may technology. In addition, D-Gym members and takes the necessary threaten both kitchen employees’ provides ambulance service to its precautions in all its gym units, as and hotel guests’ health. For members. well as other areas including the this purpose, audits for HACCP Product and Service Responsibility Consumers want product choices that performance they require and value they and livelihoods in more ways than one. integrate environmental improvements need. By engaging corporate responsibility and social expectations, but will switch with Group values and operations, Doğuş their purchasing decisions only when Doğuş Group is aware of the fact that its Group has adapted a transformative the product or service retains the products and services touch many lives approach throughout its processes. Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank-Customer understands and meets customer fast and good service, supporting Satisfaction Assessments needs. Moreover, Internet Banking customers at hard times. Garanti Bank carried out a variety Usage and Attitudes Research was Garanti Pension and Life-Responsible of marketing research surveys in conducted in 2011 and the results Marketing Communication 2011, to get feedback from the showed that Garanti Internet Banking is found reliable, fast, easy to use and The private pension and life insurance customers about the Bank’s products has a rich diversity of transactions. sector, in which Garanti Pension and and services, and to provide insights Results of SME Banking Satisfaction Life operates, is regulated by a variety for the development of innovative Research showed that, Garanti of legal requirements in marketing products and services. According to Bank is the first bank that comes communication. In compliance with the results of Brand Image Research, up to SME’s mind for SME banking. these regulations, Garanti Pension banking customers consider that Among SMEs, Garanti Bank has and Life ensures all internal and Garanti is innovative, technologic, acquired higher results compared to external control processes and uses sufficient advertisement, competition on image components communication activities before its employs helpful and kind staff, such as; being innovative, providing operations. 54 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Doğuş Otomotiv-Product and Service Responsibility Policy Doğuş Otomotiv tracks the social and for training and correctly inform satisfaction by taking special environmental impacts stemming stakeholders directly or indirectly action concerning issues to be from its products and services, and affected by its products and improved. is aware of the responsibility towards services. • Embraces the principles of all of the social stakeholders and • Focus on choosing the right responsible communication, the ecological environment. Doğuş equipment, reasonable price, and seeks well beyond the Otomotiv adopts and implements right launch, for Authorized laws and regulations to comply the following policy within the Dealers and Authorized Service with OEM (Original Equipment framework: Centers trainings and inform the Manufacturers) standards in customers correctly, to serve accordance with the values • Manage audits and continuously beyond expectations. and expectations of the brands improve the procedures relating • Consistently audit service represented. to customer health and safety. standards, aiming to reach the • Apply international standards highest standards of customer Focus Area (Social Responsibility) Product and Service Goal Method International standards of service and a full, Process Management, Audit and Controling Customer Health and Safety accurate and timely information disclosure Mechanisms, Disclosure, Dialogue Training Informing the stakeholders effected from Dialogue Platforms, Safe and Economic Diving Training and Disclosure our products and services, trainings in cases Techniques Trainings, Indicator Rooms, Being Role of need Model Choosing the Right Equipment, Reasonable Price, Customer Satisfaction Trust, loyalty, service beyond expectations Right Launch, Authorized Dealers and Service Centers Trainings, Informing the Customer Responsible Approach Beyond The Laws and Responsible communication techniques, Responsible Marketing Regulations, Preliminary Evaluation and Folow-up of accordance with OEM expectations The Global Voluntary Codes TÜVTURK-Customer Safety Policy customers are safe during the of the process is audited by the To provide and pursue the health and vehicle inspection facilities. Quality Management Department. safety of our customers during the Every precaution for personal Improvement studies are carried service delivery in TÜVTURK stations safety and vehicle safety are out by evaluating complaints of the is one of the “Customer Promise” taken. customers about the issues. At principles of TÜVTURK. TÜVTURK stations, the customers Customer health and safety issues and their vehicles are insured against • Secure Service (Customer and the process are governed by the all kinds of damages during their stay. Promise Article 6): Our Station Managers and the continuity DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 55 Business Ethics We live in an age of innovation, the With increasing urgency, market and their communities. growth of free markets, and a world of social forces are rewriting the roles economy. New technologies, roles for and responsibilities of business as well. We, as Doğuş Group, direct our government, and players on the global Though the profit motive of business employees toward a greater scene offer challenging opportunities, is understood and accepted, the public consideration of ethics by critically demands, and constraints. More people no longer accepts it as an excuse for evaluating our own organizational and nations are working together ignoring the basic norms, values, and views and the processes that we have to spread freedom and democratic standards of being a good citizen. established in order to build an ethical principles; to nurture free markets; to Modern businesses are expected to environment. For Doğuş Group, being protect individual property rights; and to be responsible stewards of community a good business person and having an encourage respect for human rights, the resources working toward the growth ethical organization are not separate rule of law, and the environment. and success of both their companies and frames of mind. Voluntary Programs Increasingly, corporate philanthropy service participation on their job attitudes person-role congruence that will enhance includes both monetary donations and and on the community recipients they their job satisfaction and organizational service contributions of employees to serve, is a vital approach for voluntary commitment and foster their caring community projects. Doğuş Group’s programs. Specifically, we propose and helpfulness toward community employees’ readiness to volunteer, that, to the extent that employees have recipients. which interacts with their perceived higher readiness to volunteer, they will, link between company-sponsored regardless of their perceptions of the community service and salient link between service and organizational organizational rewards and resources to rewards, derive from their companymoderate the impact of their community sponsored community service a sense of Best Practices at Doğuş Group Garanti Bank-Elim Sende education, more than 200 Garanti Bank Volunteers and their families refurbished 12 kindergarten classrooms Garanti Bank initiated a voluntary program with the aim of in 8 cities. The program was recognized as The Most creating a positive change in the community called Elim Successful Voluntary Program in 2011 by the Corporate Sende. Within the scope of supporting the development Volunteer Association of Turkey. of children’s kindergarten education before primary 56 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Community Support Programs The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation of the project in 1997. The project has In addition, the Foundation established Since its inception in 1992, The Ayhan been implemented by means of fully a food tent in Erciş in cooperation with Şahenk Foundation has been undertaking equipped modern health units designed Doğuş Holding, the worst affected area initiatives in education, health and the particularly to render service in the in the city, and served food for 1,700 environment as well as offering social fields of “Visual Health-Ophthalmology,” people per day for a month. aid to those in disadvantaged areas. “General Health-Internal Medicine” and As in previous years, the Foundation “Children’s Health-Pediatrics.” Health For detailed information about the has continued to implement significant services including the laboratory workfoundation and its projects: projects in 2011 for the benefit of our ups are free of charge to all the patients www.ayhansahenkvakfi.org.tr people and community with a responsible with limited financial income; and also perspective to help our government in to children attending primary schools in Doğuş Holding fulfilling its social welfare duty. underserved districts taking precedence. Child Development Education Social Aid Doğuş Kids (Doğuş Çocuk) In 2011, The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation As a part of the Foundation’s ongoing Established in December 2004, Doğuş and Doğuş Holding supported the commitment to provide social aid to Kids is the social responsibility platform “Kızlarımız Okullaşıyor” (Girls Go the underprivileged, the Ayhan Şahenk of Doğuş Group and it is based on the to School) campaign led by the Foundation provided clothing to 1,000 perspective that our future will be Governorship of Şanlıurfa, by building students and food supplies to 2,500 poor largely shaped by today’s children and a 24 classroom high-school and a 200 families in 2011. During the month of child development. We believe that this student dormitory for female students Ramadan in 2011, the Foundation served perspective should be given utmost in Şanlıurfa. By supporting this project, “iftar” dinners to approximately 2,500 importance by all players today, including the Foundation aims to help female people per day, hosting 51,000 people in the business sector. students get secondary level education total. and thereby contribute to the creation Contributing to the development of of equal opportunities in education. The Furthermore, the Foundation also young children, through education, Foundation completed the construction extended its support to the victims entertainment activities and projects of both buildings before the 2011/2012 of the Van earthquake of October 23, since its inception, Doğuş Kids aims to school year and presented them to the 2011, which caused loss of many lives create a more conscious and responsible use of the Ministry of National Education and mass physical destruction in the society in the areas of child development, of Turkey. area. In order to support the provision education and culture and arts. of basic human needs in the region, Health the Foundation donated urgent needs With this objective in mind, Doğuş Kids In 2011, the number of people who including 200 tents, 4,000 blankets, engages in partnerships with other benefited from the “Mobile Healthcare 500 pairs of shoes, 50 catalytic stoves, institutions including non-governmental Units” project totalled 17,910, thereby baby food and clothes in cooperation organizations, international organizations, reaching a cumulative number of with Turkish Red Crescent (Kızılay) and state and governmental bodies. All of 394,220 patients, since the initiation Disaster Coordination Center (AKOM). these other institutions share the Doğuş DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 57 Kids’ vision of cultivating social change in November 2011 and a seminar was a five-year protocol has been signed with through our children. organized with his participation on the the Ministry of National Education in relationship between music and child relation to the Foundation’s first project, Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra development. ‘’Öğretmenin Sınırı Yok’’ (No Limits in The “Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra” Teaching) which seeks to contribute to Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra was established in 2006 as Turkey’s the current education model, supporting Website first national, and permanent, children’s analytical thinking and research. Through Having reached its target member symphony orchestra. The Orchestra is the project that is formulated to provide number of 100,000 in less than 5 years, comprised of conservatory students teachers with training activities on the Doğuş Kids website was replaced between 11 and 18 years of age personal and professional development, by the Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra from different regions of Turkey, and 100,000 elementary school teachers, website as of July 2010. The Doğuş Kids introduces the wonder of symphonic directors and superintendents will Symphony Orchestra website aims to music to Turkish children as performed receive face-to-face training. The project create a communication platform among by their peers. started in April 2009 with pilot runs in the orchestra members and furthermore, five cities, and reached around 48,000 it aims to inform and educate young In 2011, Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra teachers in 68 cities by the end of 2011. people on classical music. performed 4 concerts with “Symphonic The aim is to spread the project across Cabaret,” which is a musical comedy. It the country. Education was particularly written for Doğuş Group Send Me to School Campaign (Baba Beni by Gani Müjde, famous screenplay writer Community Volunteers Foundation Okula Gönder) and joined by young actors Serhan Arslan (TOG) Since 2006, Doğuş Holding has been and Sinan Çalışkanoğlu. The “Symphonic Since 2003, Garanti has been the main providing scholarship for the education Cabaret,” concerts took place in Ankara, sponsor of TOG, a foundation that of 50 female students on an annual basis, Eskişehir and İstanbul reaching a total acts toward achieving social harmony, through its support to the Send Me to audience of over 3,500. Furthermore, solidarity and change through the School campaign, a joint effort with the aside from this project, the Orchestra involvement and leadership of youth. Milliyet newspaper, together with the also performed 2 concerts, one in the Association in Support of Contemporary Ayvalık Antique Theatre and the other Since 2006, Garanti Pension and Life has Living (ÇYDD). in the Çeşme Castle with the world supported several children’s education renowned Turkish pianist Fazıl Say and and personal development projects Banking and Financial Services reached another total audience of 3,500. carried out by the Community Volunteers Education Foundation. Granting the Foundation In addition, in 2011, the book “The Teachers Academy Foundation a specific percentage of its monthly Music Calls You” in which the story (Öğretmen Akademisi Vakfı) sales, Garanti Pension and Life supports behind the establishment of the Doğuş Garanti, recognizing the role education many projects carried out by the young Kids Symphony Orchestra was told by plays in upgrading the overall well-being Community Volunteers, including help Dr. Erdal Atabek, Social Psychologist of the society, set up a foundation in 2008, to school repairs in villages, helping and Mentor of the Orchestra, was also an initiative exhibiting its sensitivity in this street children, helping younger children republished specially for April 23, 2011, aspect and its long-term commitment. whose parents have limited means in the National Sovereignty and Children’s The objectives of the Teachers Academy their preparation for university exams, Day in Turkey. The proceeds of the Foundation include, among others, teaching literacy, and offering computer book have been donated to the TOHUM supporting the personal and professional courses. Garanti Pension and Life plans Autism Foundation. Furthermore, Dr. development of teachers who educate to continue and increase its support in Atabek participated in TÜYAP Book Fair future generations. In this context, this field. 58 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 “Deniz Yıldızları” (Sea Stars) Project chiefly intends to spread the project to “Mobile Healthcare Units Project” carried The Deniz Yıldızları (Sea Stars) Project other schools to let more children benefit out by the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. The has been supported by the donations from the project. Project has been implemented by means of Garanti employees, customers, and of modern health vehicles designed friends since 1998. Every year 2,500 Support to Cappadocia Vocational School particularly to render service in the fields students receive education at the Since 2008, Garanti Pension and Life has of “Visual Health”, “General Health” and campus in Darıca, which includes a been supporting the education programs “Children’s Health.” primary school and four vocational and held by the banking and insurance technical high schools. department of Cappadocia Vocational Women School and preparations of the students Supporting Women Entrepreneurs Garanti Pension and Life “Back to Study: for the Individual Pension Licensing Exam, Garanti, the first private bank in Turkey Educating, not Employing Children” and is contributing to the development of providing services specific to women Project the students towards being prepared for entrepreneurs, supports entrepreneurial Since 2010, aiming to lure students business life. women in terms of encouragement, working on the street back to the school training and funding. In cooperation on a full time basis, Garanti Pension Garanti Pension and Life managers with the Ekonomist magazine, the bank and Life has carried out İşimiz Okumak have been lecturing students on “Life organized the fifth edition of “Turkey’s (Back to Study: Educating, not Employing Insurance” and “The Individual Pension Women Entrepreneur Competition.” Children) project, in collaboration with System” since the 2008-2009 academic İstanbul Province National Education year. Garanti Pension and Life also “Send Me to School” (Baba Beni Okula Directorate and Bosphorus University. supports students in their preparation for Gönder) Project As a part of the project, about 2,500 business life by offering summer practice Since 2006, Garanti has annually been children at 26 primary schools in İstanbul and job opportunities. The Company providing scholarship for the education of were taught at their individual schools to maintained its support to the school in 100 female students through its support enhance their achievements and increase 2011. to the “Send Me to School” project, a their loyalty to school. In addition, joint effort of Milliyet newspaper and the nearly 400 Garanti Pension employee Garanti Technology Support to Hacı Association in Support of Contemporary volunteers participated in school Yakup Primary School Düzce Living (ÇYDD). activities on weekends and provided Aware of its responsibilities to community educational support in foreign language and education, Garanti Technology has Customers and other courses. They also joined aimed at meeting various educational Garanti Anatolian Meetings (GAS) personal development activities with the expenditure needs since the 2009-2010 In 2002, Garanti initiated a series of children such as acting, dancing, painting, academic year, making common cause conferences, known as Garanti Anatolian photography and chess. Furthermore, with the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. Meetings, to bring together SMEs and Garanti Pension’s volunteers organized Garanti Technology has been giving local administrators from all around activities such as basketball, cinema, financial support to 25 students at Hacı Turkey. Paving the way for professionals national park and museums visits. The Yakup Primary School in Gölyaka, Düzce and experts to discuss changing interaction set up between children and during the past 3 years and will maintain economic and market conditions, volunteers was remarkable. its support for another 5 years. evaluate regional and international opportunities, explore potential areas of Since the beginning of the project, Health business, and find regional solutions in 8% of the students stopped working Support to the Mobile Healthcare Units cooperation with local businesses and completely. Having achieved a very Project officials, these meetings gathered more significant success by taking many Since 2005, Garanti Pension and Life than 25,000 SMEs in 56 different cities children off the streets, Garanti Pension has been a permanent supporter of the so far. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 59 Women Entrepreneur Gatherings their social lives and communities exhibition and conference hall; as well as In 2007, in collaboration with Women concurrently. the Ottoman Bank Museum. Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGİDER), a small-scale training event Art and Culture The architectural renovation of both was held for 100 women. From 2008 SALT buildings was undertaken by Mimarlar onwards, the context and scope of these Garanti, through its own cultural and Tasarım/Han Tümertekin, with specific events expanded; Women Entrepreneur artistic institutions, provides solid interiors commissioned to six design Gatherings are held annually in 5 cities support to culture and the arts in and architecture offices from Turkey across Turkey, where training is provided Turkey, and takes on “sustainable” in an effort to underscore SALT’s on fundamental topics to enable women initiatives in these areas. Garanti Bank’s desire to advocate new experimental to create new opportunities for their successful cultural institutions -Ottoman environments for living and working. businesses, and to establish networks. Bank Museum, Platform Garanti Moreover, women get a chance to Contemporary Art Center and Garanti Automotive meet with role models who share their Galleryhave been restructured as a experiences, and gather tips about single autonomous organization. The Education marketing, management, technology, new institution is founded on a “Two Doğuş Otomotiv and Local Vocational future trends and EU integration. As of Buildings, One Program” idea, and called High Schools Cooperation 2011, 2,500 women had participated in SALT. Şişli Industrial Vocational High 15 cities. School students are provided with SALT explores critical and timely issues in internship at Doğuş Oto Maslak while Garanti Pension Hobby Clubs Project visual and material culture, and cultivates Samandıra Industrial Vocational High In 2008, Garanti Pension and Life innovative programs for research and School students do their internship at initiated the Hobby Clubs Project with experimental thinking. Assuming an Doğuş Oto Kartal. During their 4 year the purpose of keeping customers open attitude and establishing itself as a education, the developments of the happy by providing pleasant moments site of learning and debate, SALT aims students studying at these schools not only after their retirement but to challenge, excite and encourage its are monitored regularly by a training also during the accumulation phase. visitors to offer critique and response. supervisor in Doğuş Oto. Depending Currently, the Project covers 19 different on their development process, each hobbies ranging from arts to sports and SALT’s activities are distributed between student is placed in various positions, is implemented with the participation of two landmark buildings located no more the ones not placed continue with their 200 partners, all leading institutions in than a fifteen-minute walk apart, and also graduate education. their fields. shared via saltonline. The first building, SALT Beyoğlu, is on the pedestrian vdf’s Support to Education Garanti Pension and Life members street İstiklal Caddesi, and shares its vdf has been supporting education participating in Hobby Clubs benefit from audience with a cluster of private cultural through its contributions to the discounts up to 50% on hobby courses, institutions, galleries and organizations. Community Volunteers Foundation. The training and hobby equipment they use SALT Beyoğlu’s program and circulation Company also donates its disused IT in their different hobby fields. The Hobby interiors are mostly occupied by exhibition office equipment and computers to the Clubs website, hobimlemutluyum. and event spaces. The second building, Association in Support of Contemporary com, gives members the opportunity to SALT Galata, is the former 19 century th Living (ÇYDD) and to other educational discover the different aspects of their Imperial Ottoman Bank headquarters institutions. In 2011, vdf donated 4 hobbies and share their thoughts and designed by Alexandre Vallaury. SALT printers to the association and 30 accomplishments with other members. Galata houses a specialized public library computers to the Ertuğrul Gazi Anatolian New events are organized every month and archive, open to the public; spaces High School. to allow members the chance to develop dedicated to research, workshops, an 60 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 LeasePlan Turkey’s Support to LeasePlan stations, and make a contribution to the the employment of the disabled. ChildPlan traffic safety, however indirectly, assigns LeasePlan has created LeasePlan a special sense and significance to this Construction ChildPlan, an umbrella for all social service. activities aimed at supporting Health and Safety disadvantaged children in developing In line with its employment policy for Local and international occupational countries and LeasePlan Turkey has the Call Center, TÜVTURK gives priority health and safety requirements are been supporting the activities of the to employing individuals with any kind meticulously enforced in every phase platform in Turkey. of disability due to a traffic accident. of construction work. Compliance Following the participation of TÜVTURK with project-specific and general In 2011, on behalf of every employee in “Count Me Too In Transport, environmental and labor safety participating in the İstanbul Marathon, Communication and Life!” project, requirements of each project is key to LeasePlan Turkey donated money to such employment has accelerated; the high service quality offered by Doğuş LeasePlan ChildPlan. LeasePlan Turkey currently, TÜVTURK Call Center employs Construction to its clients. Accordingly, employees also supported the Van 85 individuals, including 60 customer employees are continuously provided earthquake victims by donating money representatives who work from home. training courses to keep up with the to construct a prefabricated house. changing requirements in the areas of Since the date when TÜVTURK decided Quality, the Environment, Occupational Accessibility to expand the scope of the project Health and Safety Management TÜVTURK Count Us in Too! all over the country, new employees Systems. “Count Me Too In Transport, have joined the Call Center staff from Communication and Life!” (Ulaşımda, different cities. During the recruiting Doğuş Construction is certified by İletişimde, Hayatın İçinde Ben de Varım!) procedure, candidates with clear voices Lloyd’s Register (LRQA) with ISO is a project initiated by the Turkish and smooth diction were determined 9001:2008 Quality Management, Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs through phone interviews first, and then OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational and Communication. It is based on the trainers were sent to their cities, where Health & Safety Management, and ISO belief that those disabled individuals can they gave theoretical training regarding 14001:2004 Environmental Management work despite their disadvantages, and vehicle inspection. The second phase of systems. therefore both they and their families the training involved visits to inspection might hold on to life more firmly. stations; with the participation of local Community business associates, theoretical training Renovation of Dere Cuma Mosque TÜVTURK contributes to this meaningful was reinforced by on-site observations The 400-year-old historical Cuma project of high spiritual values by saying and inspections. Following instruction Mosque that was recognized during the ‘Count us in too!’. TÜVTURK has offered on the computer and communication construction of Sinop – Boyabat Road job opportunity for disabled citizens at substructure, the candidates were ready (with Tunnel Crossing) was renovated by the TÜVTURK Call Center. In addition to answer initial questions and become Doğuş Construction and opened with a to those who come to work, TÜVTURK employed within the body of TÜVTURK ceremony subsequently. has made the necessary hardware Call Center. and substructure accessible for new This historic structure in the village of candidates, and created an environment Currently, 56 disabled employees from 16 Boyalıca, which had sunk into oblivion; where individuals are able to provide callcities all over the country answer nearly was rediscovered and brought back to center services from their own homes. 250,000 calls monthly along with other life by Doğuş Construction during the The fact that victims of traffic accidents 40 customer representatives. TÜVTURK construction of the 55 km Sinop – Boyabat answer the questions about the services believes it sets an example for all Road (with Tunnel Crossing) that connects provided at TÜVTURK vehicle inspection corporations on solutions for facilitating the Black Sea Region to Central Anatolia DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 61 Region. The mosque, which had been the participation of the employees in devarious rehabilitation centers’ shows providing service to neighbouring villages cisions, and contribute to social, cultural were presented at the event. for centuries only on Fridays until quite and educational development of the areas • A parade held on June 5th, on World recently, was revived because of the under its operation. Acting on these basic Environment Day in cooperation Boyabat Road (with Tunnel Crossing) that principles, various civil society initiatives, with the Gebze Municipality, from passes right in front of the mosque. organizations and events were organized Eskihisar to Gebze Center with the during 2011 in the Gebze Center Shopping participation of store employees Tourism and Services Mall, which is one of the most important and management; and at the same projects of the company: time stands related to environmental Education consciousness were set up in the • A slide show of District Police Shopping Center. Doğuş Tourism and Retail Group maintains its support to Ayhan Şahenk Alantur PriDepartment on security issues was • Stands organized by Gebze District mary School in Alanya Kestel, which was held on January 15 – 16. Governor’s Office were set up inside built by the Group in 1985 and extended the Shopping Center for Aid to • 1st Gebze Book Days exhibition in 2005 with the addition of 8 extra classopened on January 19 with the guest Somali. rooms. of honor Yalvaç Ural together with • In addition, a joint aid stand was the participation of Gebze District set up and an aid campaign was Other social initiatives of Doğuş Tourism Governor, Mayor, District National organized together with Red and Retail Group include fundraising supEducation, Director and President for Crescent for a month for the port to “Make a Wish” (Bir Dilek Tut) FounChamber of Commerce. earthquake in Van. dation at the Grand Hyatt Hotel. Grand • International Culture Festival with Hyatt also supports other non-profit orga• A joint Blood Donation Campaign AIESEC Kocaeli representation was was organized with TÜMSİAD (All nizations and universities with its services. held on February 27. Industrialists and Businessmen • In collaboration with the Çanakkale Association) and with Private Yüzyıl Real Estate Hospital on October 30. War Museum, the items from the museum used during the war were Community • A photograph exhibition of Gebze opened for the visitors of Gebze Doğuş REIT intends to contribute to the Art of Photography Association, Center free of charge. social, cultural, artistic and economic consisting of portraits and sceneries • University Presentation Days project, from nature, was held on November development of communities in which organized in cooperation with the 3-13, 2011. it operates. The Company has been implementing several social responsibility Gebze Municipality, was realized on • Favorite songs of Mustafa Kemal April 14-15; and 17 universities and projects to achieve this. The most Atatürk, the Founder of the Turkish approximately 6,140 students in total significant example of these projects is the Republic, were broadcasted via the attended the events. Company’s support to the Dudullu Cultural general sound system inside the • On April 23, shopping center was Shopping Center on November 10, Center with the aim of contributing to the transferred entirely to children Atatürk Commemoration Day. social and cultural development of the area, in parallel with the Evidea Residential and Children’s Center Project was • A photograph exhibition, was held realized. Approximately 80 student Project in Çekmeköy. within the scope of Teachers’ Day groups were brought from Lithuania, on November 24, depicting the lives Guinea and TRNC; and shows were Doğuş Real Estate has also initiated variof the teachers who passed away in presented at the center. ous civil society initiatives to produce high the earthquake in Van. quality products and services, to be sen• ‘Sensitivity Days’ were organized for • An art exhibition of Gebze Çolakoğlu sitive to environmental problems, to take the disabled citizens on May 30-April 1. Girls’ Vocational High School on public’s wishes and complaints into con“Book Love,” was opened on • The exhibition of Çayırova Disabled sideration, to observe and have respect for December 17. Society, was opened on May 14 and the employees’ personal rights, to provide 62 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Corporate Sponsorship Projects Doğuş Holding Foundation’s private school for children orchestra has never visited, to promote with autism and for the training of classical music among university Art and Culture teachers specialized in this area. students and regional communities. D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical In 2009 and 2010, the project covered Music Festival The Festival has already constituted the universities of Konya-Selçuk, Niğde, Doğuş Group continues to contribute to a loyal audience of its own which Gaziantep, Kars Kafkas, Erzurum-Atatürk, and provide support for the development constantly increases each year. In 2011, Rize, Giresun and Trabzon-Black Sea of classical music. The Group strives to a total of 17,500 audiences followed the Technical Universities reaching a total ensure its access to a wider section of festival, which was joined with nearly audience of nearly 8,000. the population and help Turkish artists 200 artists at seven concerts during four produce world-class pieces. Since 2005, days. In 2011, the project was planned Doğuş Group has been organizing the between October 22-29 with 6 concerts D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Presidential Symphony Orchestra of in 5 cities in the regions of Middle and Music Festival in Bodrum. This Festival Turkey-Symphony on Campus Project Southeastern Anatolia. However, the highlights the support that is required The Presidential Symphony Orchestra concerts were cancelled due to the for the development of diverse forms of of Turkey, which was established in national mourning after the terrorist music. 1826, has been one of the few special attacks in the Hakkari region of Turkey. orchestras in the world that has managed The project will continue, covering more D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical to survive to date. In November 2007, regions and universities, in 2012. Music Festival is a member of the Doğuş Group signed an agreement, with European Festivals Association (EFA) the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Leyla Gencer Voice Competition which is the umbrella organization for to become the main sponsor of the Since 2006, Doğuş Holding and Garanti festivals across Europe. For more than Orchestra for a period of 3 years and to Bank have been the sponsors of the 50 years, the Association has grown start the “Technical Betterment Project” Leyla Gencer Voice Competition. This into a dynamic network representing of the concert building of the Orchestra. international voice competition was more than 100 music, dance, theatre The renovation work was completed started by Ms. Gencer herself in 1995, and multidisciplinary festivals, national in less than a year, by October 2008, and it has supported several young opera festival associations and cultural covering the renovation of the entire singers, from all over the world, through organizations from about 40 (mainly inner building and the concert hall, the their career paths. The 7th Biennial Leyla European) countries. landscaping as well as the renewal of the Gencer Voice Competition will be held in orchestral and office furniture. İstanbul on September 20, 2012. In 2011, on its 7th anniversary, the Festival took place on July 9-10 & 12In line with its main sponsorship of Santral İstanbul 13, hosted many gifted artists and wellthe Presidential Symphony Orchestra In cooperation with İstanbul Bilgi known orchestras from Turkey and other of Turkey, which was renewed in early University, Doğuş Group became countries, including the world-renowned 2012 for another 3 years, Doğuş Holding the strategic founding partner of the Turkish pianist Fazıl Say and famous initiated a new corporate sponsorship International Modern Art Museum and cellist Mischa Maisky. The proceeds project in 2009: “Symphony on Campus.” Cultural Center, Santral İstanbul in 2006. obtained from the Festival was donated The objective of this project is to take Opened in September 2007, Santral to the TOHUM Autism Foundation to the orchestra on a tour, covering state İstanbul, the first power station of the be used for educational materials at the universities in Anatolian cities where the Ottoman Empire, has recently turned into DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 63 one of the main attractions in İstanbul in Garanti Mini Bank Children’s Film Festival line is the official sponsor of the Turkish terms of culture & arts. Garanti has been the main sponsor of Equestrian Federation since 2008. Turkey’s first film festival for children, Banking and Financial Services the Garanti Mini Bank Children’s Film Football Festival, organized by the Turkish In order to contribute to improvement in Art and Culture Foundation of Cinema and Audiovisual football, and broadening the scope of its Garanti Jazz Green Culture (TÜRSAK). The festival, which commitment to support sports, Garanti Garanti, aiming to broaden and spice started six years ago in İstanbul, has, for became one of the main sponsors of the up music lovers’ horizons in the genre the last two years, expanded to Anatolia, Turkish National Men’s Football Team in of jazz, is among the leading sponsors reaching children in İzmir, Urfa, Mardin, 2008. Garanti extended the range of its of jazz music in Turkey, extending longDiyarbakır, Adıyaman, Ordu and Kars. support to football and became a prime term support with the slogan “Garanti sponsor of the Garanti Beach Football Jazz Green.” Garanti has, for the past Sports League that has been organized by the 14 years, been the main sponsor of Basketball Turkish Football Federation (TFF) since 2006. the International Istanbul Jazz Festival, A long-time supporter of basketball organized by the Istanbul Foundation a game that reflects Garanti’s values Automotive for Culture and Arts (IKSV). Supporting of teamwork, dedication, confidence Babylon, Istanbul Jazz Center, Tamirane, and discipline the Bank has been Art and Culture Salon IKSV, Romeo&Juliet, Ghetto, the main sponsor of the 12 Giant Men TIM Show Center Nublu Istanbul and Nardis Jazz Club (Turkish National Men’s Basketball Team) Since 2006, Doğuş Otomotiv sponsors concerts, Garanti has been creating since 2001 and of the Turkish National TIM Show Center, the first venue opportunities to listen to worldwide Women’s Basketball Team since 2005. in Turkey authorized by “Cultural famous jazz artists. Garanti was also a main sponsor of 2010 Entrepreneurship Certificate” granted FIBA World Championship that took by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism Istanbul Museum of Modern Art place in Turkey. of Turkey. TIM hosts stage to top quality Garanti Bank sponsors the education performing arts events, national and program of İstanbul Modern, Turkey’s 12 Giant Men Basketball Schools Project international meetings and conferences, first and only modern and contemporary Since 2002, Garanti has supported the 12 movie premiers, concerts, exhibitions, art museum. The program aims to play Giant Men Basketball Schools (12 DABO) company events, new product launches a central role in raising creative, literate which were initiated in cooperation with and contests. and inquisitive individuals who are the Turkish Basketball Federation in an actively involved in the arts, and also in effort to inculcate basketball culture Sports supplementing classroom education. in young children, and help basketball Darüşşafaka Ayhan Şahenk Sport Through the ongoing Garanti-sponsored become a commonly played game and Complex İstanbul Modern training programs, over reach a broad base in Anatolia. At 12 Since 2006, Doğuş Group has supported 300,000 children and teenagers have DABO schools, 40,000 youngsters have the Darüşşafaka Ayhan Şahenk Sport received training to date. received basketball training in 65 centers Complex facilities located in Maslak, to date. İstanbul, at the Darüşşafaka High School, The Lycian Way one of the most prominent and influential Garanti sponsored a way-marking system Equestrian Sports schools in Turkey. according to international standards along Believing that the discipline and the Lycian Way, a 500 km long-distance aesthetics inherent in equestrian sports The Darüşşafaka Center is a multitrail stretching from Fethiye to Antalya, coincide perfectly with its service notion, purpose center with the ability to host and further contributed to tourism in the Garanti Masters Private Banking has various cultural activities in addition to region by publishing a guidebook for the undertaken sponsorships of various sports events to world-class standards. Lycian Way in 2006. equestrian competitions and events Doğuş Group will continue to support the since 2005. Additionally, the business complex in the forthcoming years. 64 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 65 Environmental Engagement 66 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Environmental Engagement At Doğuş Group, we value ecological awareness and manage our business activities accordingly. At Doğuş Group, we believe that broader part of the organisation than environmental conservation is a critical before, where it had been mainly related challenge facing humanity. We will to awareness programs. remain mindful of the environment in all our operations and contribute to the The target guiding this approach is: world through awareness programs and “To be a respected leader in Turkey employee engagement. and to be recognised as a responsible and sustainable Group, continuously The Group’s environmental approach minimizing environmental impacts while aims to incorporate environmental remaining focused on business growth.” protection at all levels within the Group companies. In this approach, we The approach has four elements: employ a group-wide scope, engaging • Environmental Awareness operations, and sourcing units in within the Group. reducing our environmental footprint by • Energy Efficiency Programs. working with products and services and • Waste Management Strategies their environmental profile. This extends and Programs. the responsibility for minimizing Doğuş • Reduction of Water Group’s environmental footprint to a Consumption. Environmental Awareness The social characteristics of a company The human dimensions of Doğuş probability of successful implementation. include what the employees think, feel, Group play an important role in the Employee participation is also important and do in the organization. We are not only introduction of cleaner operations and because the employees are an important addressing the skills and abilities already environmentally responsible behaviour in source of knowledge, expertise, and possessed by employees, but also of our business. Therefore, the introduction ingenuity when it comes to the Group what the employees, as individuals, care of environmental management into our companies’ procedures and equipment. about, believe is important, and to which procedures and operations is the first they are committed. step in a continuing process. As an Doğuş Group encourages the role of its integral part of Doğuş Group, employees employees in attaining the goals of its The Doğuş Group employees are the are allowed and encouraged to participate environmental management system and ultimate actors in the environmental in the environmental initiatives of the other environmental and sustainability management initiatives of the Group companies, for it to function at its initiatives. because they implement the changes in greatest potential. behaviours and routines that are required to reach the targeted improvements in Employees are an important part of the the environmental performance of the implementation process because their Group. support of the initiative will increase the DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 67 Best Practices at Doğuş Group Doğuş Holding and Turmepa impacts created by financing of projects extended project finance facility worth Since 2007, Doğuş Holding has been and business. Garanti has specific of USD 30 billion to renewable energy one of the corporate members of mechanisms to consider climate projects with total installed capacity of the DenizTemiz Turmepa Foundation. change as a part of business strategy, 3.100 MW. The Bank aims to increase DenizTemiz Foundation was founded both at the company-level and for its financial support to renewable on April 8, 1994 by leading business business lines. energy investments such as run-off institutions and the marine sector river type hydroelectricity, wind and • Communication to senior to protect the seas and the 8,333 geothermal energy. leadership and relevant kilometer coast line, stretching from departments by the Sustainability b. Unmatched convenience and Hopa to the İskenderun region around Committee, which is primarily customer satisfaction: most of Turkey. responsible from identifying and Garanti seeks to provide customers Ayhan Şahenk Forests of assessing climate change risks with convenient, uninterrupted service, Endearment and opportunities, which neatly aligns with the Company’s In the context of Ayhan Şahenk Forests • Company-wide communication desire to reduce carbon emissions and of Endearment Project (Ayhan Şahenk for specific efforts energy. Garanti is the market leader Sevgi Ormanları) which was founded (e.g., branch and office in utilization of Alternative Delivery with the aim of leaving a healthy energy efficiency opportunities), Channels, which include internet and and habitable environment for future • The nature of the mobile banking. These channels reduce generations, 540,000 trees have been Sustainability Committee itself, the use of energy, paper and other planted to date in the forest areas which has a high level resources associated with operations which were demolished through fires, involvement of top management, and customer travel. Also, Garanti has mining, or erosion. • Company-wide emission a comprehensive program for ensuring reduction targets, business continuity. This includes plans In 2011, the Foundation continued to • The evaluation of the projects for minimizing disruption at branches provide its maintenance support to to be financed within the scope and maintenance of data functions. Ayhan Şahenk Forests of Endearment of Environmental Credit Policies planted in Marmaris, Bodrum, Niğde c. Process excellence throughout the and Environmental Risk and İstanbul without interruption, in line organization: Assessment System. with a protocol signed with the Ministry Actions to address climate change of Environment and Forestry. The Company-wide strategic priorities, with naturally align with Garanti’s maintenance support involved repairing a description of sample climate change commitment to operational efficiency fences and gates, as well as tending initiatives that now support these and effective cost management, to plants and replacing dead ones with priorities and the specific forces that essential for a large, facility intensive fresh plants. have influenced this integration: company. In particular, the bank Garanti Bank-Environmental Risk a. High product and service quality is committed to increased energy Management Systems with continuous innovation: efficiency across all operations. This Garanti Bank views climate change As part of our commitment to product priority is influenced by a clear business as a strategic issue that requires full and service innovation, Garanti plays case for cost optimization, industry best integration into the core business a substantial role in the growing practices, emerging technology and a practices. This includes the direct “low-carbon economy.” Retaining its desire to get ahead of future regulations impacts created by the Bank’s own leadership with over 40% market share that could increase energy prices. operations and rations and the indirect in wind energy financing, Garanti has 68 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 To further drive progress against climate associated regulation, physical marketing displays, this opportunity, Garanti has set a impacts and other factors affect • Reduction of staff travel company-wide CO2 reduction goal. project performance. through reliance on e-learning and Specific related efforts include retrofit teleconferencing. Ultimately, integration of climate of branches (including lighting and AC change risks and opportunities into WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife units), virtualization of data centers, business strategy improves the bank’s Foundation Turkey) and promotion of e-learning techniques competitive position by reducing costs Garanti Bank has been the main sponsor and teleconferences which do not and protecting and enhancing reputation, of the WWF-Turkey since 1992, thereby require travel. and thus achieving higher revenues. To helping the conservation of natural d. Supporting the sustainable date, Garanti has emerged as the market resources and creating enhanced public development: leader for use of low-impact alternative awareness of environmental issues. Garanti has been creating an delivery channels (such as internet and Doğuş Otomotiv Environmental Management mobile banking) and grant financing Doğuş Otomotiv’s environmental policy System and Environmental Policy for renewable energy projects. Garanti is defined under five main headings: to measure, evaluate and minimize aims to support sustainable growth by water, waste, energy, logistics, and the direct environmental impacts introducing “green” banking services, environmentally friendly products. caused by electricity, water, fuel, starting with energy efficiency. paper usage of branches, buildings Total profitability is enhanced by Doğuş Otomotiv: and ATM machines, air travels and numerous efforts that lower cost, while vehicle usages of employees. It is reducing carbon emissions. • Considers environmental targeted to cover all of the branches, Additionally, Garanti believes the effects while giving managerial and regional offices and departments at cumulative weight of these efforts will operational decisions, examines headquarters. Furthermore, the Bank further the company’s reputation as a the direct and indirect environmental aims the policies and procedures to responsible business entity that cares effects derived from its operations, and be compatible with the ISO 14001 about stakeholder concerns. is committed to reducing those effects, certification, ensuring the procedures to meet certain standards. Garanti has made a number of • Beyond the requirements of the law, substantial business decisions during feels responsibility for society regarding Garanti is focused on the efforts the past reporting year that have been environmental protection and use of mentioned above: positioning to influenced by climate change related resources, meet the growing market for energyrisks and opportunities. These include efficient banking products and services but are not limited to: • Works at motivating employees, (which includes the financing of employee families, and business renewable energy), provision of low• Refurbishment of bank branches to partners to gain the same level of impact alternative banking options, increase energy efficiency, environmental consciousness, energy and operational efficiency and • Continuing to be the leader in financing communicating these efforts to key of wind energy farms, • Targets to install the required systems stakeholders. • Virtualization of data centers to to measure, monitor and refine the Garanti also intends to increasingly increase server efficiency, environmental effects, focus on integration of climate-change • Piloting of ATMs with the ability to and other environmental concerns into receive deposits, update accounts in real • Cooperates within the value chain all project finance activities to further time and redispense deposited money, and provides awareness for better ensure selection of projects with the greatly reducing the need to service recognition, understanding, and sales of least impact on the environment. This machines and associated transportation, high-standard, environmentally friendly includes further understanding how • Use of energy-efficient LED lighting for products of brands distributed. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 69 Focus Area (Environmental Responsibility) Goal Method Awareness, Measuring Monitoring Mechanisms, Water Reducing the water used in all operations Targeting Waste Management, Awareness of Waste Line, Waste Recycing Boxes, Pilot study, Waste Authorized Dealers and Customers Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Job Descriptions Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Thermal isolation Establisment of energy consumption Energy and Efficient Use of Daylight, Stable Temperatures, monitoring mechanisms Employee Compliance, CDP Reporting Awareness, Measuring, Monitoring, Targeting, Reducing environmental effects, considering Logistics Environmentally Friendly Vehicles, Training, Advanced environmental effects in planning Technology Support for the introduction and a better Environmentally Friendly Products Disclosure, Dialogue Platforms understanding of the products Doğuş Construction Morocco, Argana Amskroud Project correcting common misconceptions The preservation of the environment team chose to build the required about issues such as global warming, is of great importance in the projects depots only where there was the renewable energy, organic diets, and executed by Doğuş Construction. minimum number of trees. green holidays. Particular care is taken to protect The project team compensated for any Doğuş Media Group is proud to natural resources, to minimize potential damage to wildlife by using report that it has reduced its carbon negative environmental impacts and to the depot areas to grow Argan trees impact by 32.2% per employee and adopt necessary mitigation measures. in an area of 75 hectares, as identified by 14.17% per 1 million TL turnover To this end, Doğuş Construction is in by the Moroccan Ministry of Forestry. from 2009 to 2010. The Group’s full compliance with the applicable In this way, the project team aims to total carbon footprint measured just environmental laws and regulations. protect the wildlife and the natural over 20,000 tonnes CO2 in 2010. resources which represent a valuable Morocco, Argana – Amskroud The carbon footprint measured the forest to the country. Motorway Project organization’s gas and electricity use The Argan tree is an endemic species, NTV Green Screen Awareness and also business and commuter unique to Southern Morocco, and Program travel for its 1,500 employees. the fruits resemble olives. The oil Doğuş Media Group’s reputation as from the Argan fruit is one of the To enhance the progress of their a green leader has been bolstered most valuable plant oils in the world, commitment to environmental by becoming the first company in containing an abundant amount of sustainability, Doğuş Media Group Turkey’s media sector to report its Vitamin E. The absorption rate of the has set the bold goal of becoming a carbon footprint in 2009. NTV has built oil is very high and it is used as a ‘carbon neutral’ company, using the on green success by releasing this cream to nourish the skin and to delay internationally-recognized PAS 2060 report. the aging process. standard for carbon neutrality. In the short-term, the Group will continue its This follows the success of their The Argan tree exists only in the sustainability program of awareness award-winning ‘Green Screen’ linesouth-western area of the Moroccan raising activities to reduce GHG up, which since 2008 has promoted State. This tree is an endangered emissions in collaboration with all environmental programs on NTV. The species and under protection. stakeholders. ‘Green Screen’ project aims to raise Accordingly, in collaboration with the public awareness on environmental Moroccan Forest Administration, the issues, responding to questions and 70 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Environmental Infrastructure initiatives. It also provides valuable input so that as Doğuş Group we encourage Investments in 2011 for internal cost-benefit analyses. Data on the environmental infrastructure environmental performance measured investments as part of our environmental Doğuş Group believes that measuring against environmental mitigation and approach wherever we do business. environmental mitigation and protection protection expenditures offers insights expenditures allows companies to assess into how effectively the company uses the efficiency of their environmental resources to improve performance, Environmental Investments D-Hotel Maris App. TL 620k for landscape and environmental arrangements D-Marin Turgutreis App. 25k for a waste collection facility from boats, and 90k for a multipurpose boat with waste collection capability, solid waste decomposition units (12 m3), and reverse osmosis facility (with 500 m3/day water production capacity) D-Marin Didim App. 300k for liquid and solid waste storage facilities (45 m3), solid waste decomposition units (11 m3), and reverse osmosis facility (with 700 m3/day water production capacity) D-Marin Göcek App. 28k for a waste collection facility from boats, and 151k for a multipurpose boat with waste collection capability D-Marin Mandalina App. 700k for continued work in sewage and water infrastructure, in cooperation with Sibenik municipality D-Gym App. TL 200k for environmental arrangements DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 71 Energy Efficiency Energy is one of the key cost constituent significant impact on the environment. of renewable energy investments, is in most of our products and services. Most To minimize those impacts Doğuş gradually encouraging more greener importantly, energy consumption has a Group, with an enhanced contribution processes among its companies. Best Practices at Doğuş Group TÜVTURK used in the motorway fillings. Further in basins using natural materials In some stations, TÜVTURK got a to a correspondence between the available in the environment, and Free Consumer License and specified project administration and the Turkish the treatment of water with wetland its energy supplier by itself in 2011. Republican Motorways, the borrow plants that are grown, which are small Through this independent option, 25pit excavations were backfilled with imitations of the natural structure. 30% energy saving was realized in the top layer of soil (i.e., organic Wetlands are capable of using solar 2011. layer) which was removed from the energy in the environment and motorway route. With this method, renewing themselves. They form a Doğuş Construction the Stream’s flora was replenished. wild life habitat, providing living space Sinop – Boyabat (Via Tunnel) for several species, and ensure that Motorway Project Where the motorway runs parallel to the natural balance of the atmosphere Along the projected route, there are the Stream in the project, the Stream is protected by consuming carbon 5 different areas (total length of 8.8 bed was modified to prevent soil dioxide and generating oxygen. They km) where terrain observations and erosion. have high capacity of treatment since drillings were accomplished. To reduce they can eliminate organic materials, damage to forests, steep-sloped high Boyabat Dam and HEPP Construction suspended solids, nutrients, toxic cutting excavations were eliminated. Project materials, heavy metals and biological Further, in geologically stratified flysch The Natural Wastewater Treatment components. In consideration of beds, “heel fillings” were built to form Plant that Doğuş implemented under the fact that the treatment system, the motorway platform and to reduce the title of Boyabat Dam and HEPP with no commissioning cost, is very the potential risk of landslip from Project was performed adopting inexpensive in terms of investment hydraulic underground movements. the principles of protecting natural and is an environment and human Finally, where the motorway route resources, minimizing negative friendly investment. It aims to is constructed near villages and environmental impacts and placing increase the environmental awareness neighbourhoods, high cuttings were emphasis particularly on taking of the local community with this type reduced in order to conserve the measures that are in the direction of of environmentally friendly projects. forest and to prevent landslip risk in settlements. decreasing existing negative impacts. The construction of this natural Indeed, it may be appropriate to refer In the context of the project, treatment system, where natural to this technology as “Living Machine” excavations were completed in the flora is used, is quite simple and since the treatment procedure is Gökırmak Stream borrow pit and economical. These systems are based performed by several aquatic living stream material was gathered to be on the principle of filtering wastewater beings. 72 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Waste Management Best Practices at Doğuş Group The Ayhan Şahenk Foundation-Paper 1,877,465 kg since 2007. The amount Recycling Program of paper collected from Doğuş Group During 2011, the paper collected for companies increased nearly 25% in recycling from Doğuş Group companies 2011. amounted 469,130 kg, totalling Paper Collected by the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation (Year/Kg) 2007 322,770 2008 353,800 2009 354,920 2010 376,845 2011 469,130 Total 1,877,465 Garanti Technology-Waste companies and the income generated is Management Program donated to NGOs like WWF. 15,440 kg Electronic wastes of Garanti Technology of electronic waste was disposed of in are being sold to authorized recycling 2010-2011. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 73 Water Consumption The environmental effect of water Targets are chosen to maintain used at Doğuş Group companies, use is becoming a central issue for flexibility and design freedom but strive the behaviour of our employees will all the industries in which Doğuş to reduce overall water consumption carry the most influence. Employee Group operates. A pragmatic method whilst maintaining an excellent level of awareness programs will therefore to address it, and consequently to service. be a crucial factor in the reduction of mitigate climate change and reduce water use. water consumption, involves setting While good design of water systems ‘good practice’ and achievable targets. will reduce the amount of water Doğuş Group’s Water Consumption on a Sectoral Basis (By the Year end 2011)* Energy 0,1% Banking and Real Estate Financial Services Holding 0,01% 2,8% 0,02% Automotive Tourism and Services 2,5% 32,0% Media 0,7% Construction 61,9% *Doğuş Group companies’ total water consumption was realized as 1,793,766,207 m3 in 2011 and the sectoral information shared in this chart is prepared according to the data provided by each Group company included in these sectors. Holding denotes to Doğuş Group headquarters in Maslak, İstanbul. 74 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Stakeholder Engagement Our Stakeholders Doğuş Group’s stakeholder relations Employees are shaped by the Group’s principles of transparency, accessibility and equality. Customers In addition to integrating the high ethical standards in its own businesses, Doğuş Group requires all of its stakeholders to Investors abide by these internationally-accepted standards. Business Partners In order to align our businesses to the needs and expectations of our key stakeholders, we maintain a structured process Suppliers which helps the Group to identify, review and prioritise key stakeholders, as well as issues and concerns that are material to each of the sectors. Dealers/Branches Each Group company ensures that their individual communication department engages in an active dialogue Community/Community Representatives with internal and external stakeholders through different platforms. Press and Media We are committed to strengthen our ongoing dialogue with our employees and stakeholders and create greater NGOs awareness among them on sustainability related issues. International Organizations Business Unions and Platforms Trade and Industrial Union Public Institutions Employee and Employer Organizations Academia Competitors DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 75 Means of Engagement Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Employee Satisfaction Surveys, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, CRM Practices, Customer Satisfaction Studies, Focus Group Studies, Sectoral Fairs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Actual and Budget Financial Reports, Rating Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSRrelated Activities, Conferences and Teleconferences Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Actual and Budget Financial Reports, Rating Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities, Conferences and Teleconferences Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Focus Group Studies, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Internal Communication Channels, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Research Studies, Internet and Website, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Press Releases, Press Meetings, Press Trips, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Membership, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Periodical Information Meetings, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Membership Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities, Membership, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Sponsorship Activities, CSR-related Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Events, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Award Schemes Face-to-Face Meetings, Training Programs, Annual Reports, Corporate Responsibility Reports, Internet and Website, Special Activities, CSR-related Activities, Sponsorship Activities, Memberships within NGOs. 76 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Reporting Content Index GRI INDEX In presentation of this year’s report, the reporting project Since Doğuş Group operates with 126 companies in seven team used the GRI indicators, submitting them to the related different sectors, every GRI indicator could not be applied departments of the Group companies through sector specific to the entire group. The responses gathered from different questionnaires. The team prepared the report content by sectors and Group companies were not always comparable consolidating the findings of the questionnaires collected from and combinable, therefore limiting the number of indicators to each sector. be used reporting. Response Status Explanations Full The indicator is fully addressed in the referenced pages of the report and other sources. Partially The indicator is partially addressed in the referenced pages of the report due to lack of data and/or information covering the entire group. DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 77 GRI Index Profile Indicators Remark State Department Name Reference Pages and Location 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Senior Management Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 Declaration CEO Message 18-19 1.2 Basic effects, risks and Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 opportunities CEO Message 18-19 Corporate 20 Responsibility Approach Our Priorities 22 CSR At a Glance 25 2. Corporate Profile 2.1 Corporation Name Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary Back Cover 2.2 Brands, products and Full Doğuş Group Structure 4-5 services Company Profile 8 Economic Engagement 28-31 Detailed information about Group companies operations can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/71-211-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors 2.3 Operational structure of Full Company Profile 8 the corporation Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 2.4 Headquarters Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary Back Cover 2.5 Countries in which the Full Company Profile 8 corporation operates Economic Engagement 28-31 Detailed information about Group companies operations can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/71-211-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors 78 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 2.6 Ownership properties Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 and legal state More information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages;11; 20-22) 2.7 Markets serviced Full Company Profile 8 Economic Engagement 28-31 Detailed information about Group companies operations can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/71-211-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/general/ navigation/sectors 2.8 Corporation scale Full Company Profile 8 Financial Highlights 28 2.9 Important changes Full Company Profile 8 in size, structure and ownership situations More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 8-11) 2.10 Awards Full Awards & Recognitions 9-14 3. Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.2 Date of previous report Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 79 3.3 Reporting frequency Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.4 Contact information Full Limitations and Report 24 about report Boundary 3.5 Report contents Full Corporate 20 Responsibility Approach Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.6 Report contents limits Full Limitations and Report 24 Boundary Reporting Content 76 Index 3.7 Report scope and Full Limitations and Report 24 contents limitations Boundary 3.8 Reporting principles on Full Limitations and Report 24 joint ventures and other Boundary subsidiary companies 3.9 Data assessment Full Corporate 20 techniques and Responsibility Approach calculation methods Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.10 Reasons for the Full Corporate 20 repetition of information Responsibility Approach in the previous report Limitations and Report 24 Boundary 3.11 Important changes in Full Corporate 20 the report scope and Responsibility Approach contents Limitations and Report 24 Boundary No important changes. 3.12 GRI Index Full GRI Index 76-86 3.13 Report supervision Full This report did not receive an independent assurance. 80 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 4. Governance, Liability and Sharing Practices 4.1 Corporation governance Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 structure More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 12-15, 20-22) 4.2 Autonomy of the Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 Chairman of the Board More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 12-15, 20-22) 4.3 Number of Independent Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 Members in the Board of Directors More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 20-22) 4.4 Stakeholders’ and Full Stakeholder 74-75 employees’ involvement Engagement in management DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 81 4.5 Fee paid to senior Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 management and connections with sustainability performance Transparency and 35 Accountability More information is available online in Doğuş Group Code of Conduct http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/82-278-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/ code_of_ethics 4.6 Processes preventing Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 conflicts of interest Transparency and 35 Accountability More information is available online in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2011 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/web/83-3371-1/dogus_grubu_-_en/ investor_relations/reports/annual_reports (Pages; 12-16, 22) 4.7 CSR Management Full Corporate Responsibility 20 Strategy of the Approach corporation Corporate Responsibility 21 Strategy 4.8 Corporation’s rules of Full Corporate Responsibility 20 mission and behaviour Approach regarding CSR performance Corporate Responsibility 21 Strategy Our Priorities 22 CSR At a Glance 25 82 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 4.9 CSR performance Full CEO Message 18-19 and the supervision of its risks by senior Corporate Responsibility 20 management Approach 4.10 Self-check of senior Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 management about CSR performance 4.11 Risk management Full Chairman’s Message 16-17 attitude of the corporation in fields CEO Message 18-19 related to CSR Corporate Responsibility 21 Strategy Corporate Responsibility 23 Management 4.12 Foreign enterprises Full Ethical Principles 35 and activities in areas regarding CSR Human Rights 40 4.13 Memberships Full Strategic Partnerships & 15 Memberships 4.14 Stakeholders list Full Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement 4.15 Key stakeholders Full Identifying Stakeholders 20 determining process Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement 4.16 Stakeholder participation Full Stakeholder 74-75 process Engagement 4.17 Stakeholder participation Full Our Priorities 22 and primary subjects, responsiveness CSR At a Glance 25 performance Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement Performance Indicators Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value Partially Company Profile 8 produced and distributed Economic Engagement 28 Human Capital 41 Community Support 56-61 Programs DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 83 EC2 The effect of climate Partially CEO Message 18-19 change on the financial success of the Corporate Responsibility 21 corporation, risks and Strategy opportunities Our Priorities 22 The Economical Impact 32 of Climate Change EC3 Corporate liabilities Partially Remuneration System 43 regarding defined benefit and Benefits pension plan EC5 Starting wage level rates Partially Remuneration System 43 interval in contrast to and Benefits local minimum wage in important operation locations EC6 Policy, practice and rates Partially Local Suppliers and 33 of payment regarding Local Development payments made to local suppliers EC8 Investments made for Full Community Support 56-61 public interest Programs EC9 Important indirect Full CEO Message 18-19 economic effects Economic Engagement 28-31 Local Suppliers and 33 Local Development Employee Engagement 38 Environmental Performance EN2 Percentage of materials Partially Waste Management 72 used as recycled input material EN6 Products and services Partially Environmental 66-70 that provide energy Awareness efficiency Energy Efficiency 71 EN7 Attempts to reduce Partially Environmental 66-70 indirect energy Awareness consumption and reductions obtained Energy Efficiency 71 84 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 EN8 Total amount of water Full Water Consumption 73 used according to its sources Water Consumption units can not be given by source as all the Group companies are using the water from urban/regional mains water systems which they operate in. EN11 Production centres Full Environmental 66-70 within protected areas Awareness Energy Efficiency 71 Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. EN15 Number of the species Full Doğuş Group in IUCN Red List in companies do not have the living spaces in any operations related the areas affected by to IUCN Red List. the operations and the species in the national protection list, according to extinction risk level EN18 Attempts to reduce Partially Environmental 66 emissions Engagement Environmental 66-70 Awareness Energy Efficiency 71 EN26 Attempts to reduce the Partially Environmental 66 environmental effects of Engagement products Environmental 66-70 Awareness Energy Efficiency 71 EN30 Total amount of Partially Environmental 70 environment expenses Infrastructure and investments Investments in 2011 Labor Practices and Decent Work LA2 Total number of Partially Employee Engagement 38 employees and their circulation according to age groups, gender and district DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 85 LA3 Benefits provided for the Partially Remuneration System 43 full time employees and Benefits Social Life 45 LA8 Consultancy, precaution Partially Employee Health and 40-41 and risk control regarding Safety serious illnesses LA11 Employee training Partially Training and 45 Development LA12 Regular performance and Partially Performance 43 development monitoring Development Human Rights Performance HR1 Percentage and total Partially Leader and Visionary 39 number of significant Management Approach investment agreements in Labour Issues comprising human rights clauses and screened for Human Rights 40 human rights HR4 Total number of incidents Full Leader and Visionary 39 regarding discrimination Management Approach and precautions taken in Labour Issues Human Rights 40 Doğuş Group companies did not report any incidents of discirimination during the reporting period. HR5 Freedom of organization Partially Leader and Visionary 39 and collective bargaining Management Approach in Labour Issues Human Rights 40 HR6 Child employment and Partially Human Rights 40 precautions taken HR7 Operations having the Partially Human Rights 40 risk of forced labour and precautions taken HR11 Number of grievances Full No grievances related related to human rights to human rights filed, addressed and reported by Doğuş resolved through formal Group companies grievance mechanisms through formal mechanisms during the reporting period. 86 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 Product Responsibility Performance PR1 Health and safety in the Partially Product and Service 53-54 life cycle of products and Responsibility services PR5 Customer satisfaction Partially Customer Health and 50-53 Safety Social Performance SO1 The influence of our Partially Corporate Responsibility 20 activities on local public Approach Our Priorities 22 Stakeholder 74-75 Engagement Community 48-63 Engagement SO2 Risk analysis regarding Partially Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 corruption Transparency and 35 Accountability Business Ethics 55 SO3 Corporation’s policies Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 against corruption and trainings on the subject Transparency and 35 Accountability Business Ethics 55 Doğuş Group Code of Conduct and detailed information about ethical principles can be found at http://www. dogusgrubu.com.tr/ web/82-278-1-1/dogus_ grubu_-_en/investor_relations/corporate_governance_principles/ code_of_ethics SO4 Precautions taken Full Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 against incidents of corruption Transparency and 35 Accountability 55 Business Ethics SO5 Attitude against public Partially Corporate Mechanisms 33-35 policy and assistance activities for public policy Transparency and 35 Accountability DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 87 88 DOĞUŞ GROUP CR REPORT 2011 UNGC Communication on Progress Index UN Global Compact Principles Stance of Performance Information in Report Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect Our Priorities – 22 internationally proclaimed human rights. Ethical Principles – 35 Human Rights – 40 Business Ethics – 55 Principle 2. Businesses should take all precautions in Our Priorities – 22 order not to be complicit with human rights abuses. Ethical Principles – 35 Human Rights – 40 Business Ethics – 55 Labour Principle 3. They should respect freedom of union and Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour collective bargaining. Issues – 39 Human Rights – 40 Principle 4. They should work for the elimination of all Human Rights – 40 forms of forces and compulsory labour. Principle 5. They should work for the complete Human Rights – 40 abolition of child employment. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination Leader and Visionary Management Approach in Labour of discrimination regarding employment and Issues – 39 occupation. Human Rights – 40 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary CEO Message – 18-19 approach to environmental challenges. Corporate Responsibility Strategy – 21 Our Priorities – 22 The Economic Impact of Climate Change – 32 Environmental Engagement – 66-73 Principle 8. Businesses should support all forms Our Priorities – 22 of activity and formations that would increase environmental responsibility. Environmental Engagement – 66-73 Principle 9. They should encourage the development Environmental Engagement – 66-73 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should fight against all kinds Our Priorities – 22 of corruption including bribery and extortion. Corporate Mechanisms – 33-35 Transparency and Accountability – 35 Business Ethics – 55
