Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Full Edition ■ Report Parameters MUFG CSR Report 2011 Report Parameters About this Report From the Editorial Team Table of Contents We at the MUFG Group are working to enhance our informaThe MUFG Group publishes the following CSR reports to meet ２ Comprehensive Group Strengths tion disclosure concerning Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). the interests of our readers. ４ Message from the CEO To clearly convey the links between MUFG Group business ５ Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake activities and CSR activities, the content of this FY 2011 Full Edition Highlights Edition report was compiled with reference to Version 3.1 of the Global The full edition provides a The highlights edition pres６ Management Philosophy and CSR Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, comprehensive summary of ents selected highlights of 10 Corporate Governance which are international guidelines for CSR and sustainability the MUFG Group's approach our CSR activities, for a simreports. to CSR and our FY 2011 CSR pler understanding of the 15 CSR Policies activities, with detailed data. MUFG Group's CSR. 18 CSR Struc ture ● Scope of Reporting: This report mainly covers the following 19 Par ticipation in Initiatives five core Group companies. ・Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group (MUFG) ・The Bank of 21 Dialogue with Exper ts Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU)・Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and 23 Relations with Shareholders and Investors Banking (MUTB) ・Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS)・Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS (MUN) 24 Relations with Business Par tners Please note that the activities of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & 25 Environmental Policies and Initiatives Finance (MUL) and Union Bank are covered on pages 56 to 57. 35 Employee Policies and Management Where the activities relate to a specific company, the followhttp://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/csrreport/ 41 Human Rights Policies and Initiatives ing symbols are used: MUFG BTMU MUTB MUMSS MUN MUL ● Period Covered : This repor t describes ac tivities and 42 Social Contributions achievements in F Y 2010 (April 2010 to March 2011). 49 Improving Ser vices This report utilizes Color Universal Design I n some c ases, repor ting cover s ac tivities b efore or (CUD). after FY 2010. 56 Initiatives of Group Companies CUD are color design concepts seeking to real● Content Selection: Criteria for the selection of content in ize designs for buildings, products and infor56 Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance this report are as follows: (1) level of stakeholder interest mation presentation that are inherently acces(based on readers' surveys and our policies), (2) level of sible (universal) to the widest possible number 57 Union Bank of people regardless of age, sex, ability, or importance for the companies concerned (based on comother characteristics. 58 Third Par t y Comment pany's own judgment). ● This publication : December 2011. N ex t publication : 59 GRI Content Index December 2012. 64 Matching with ISO 260 0 0 Core Subjec ts 1 ■ Organizational Profile MUFG CSR Report 2011 Organizational Profile Comprehensive Group Strengths The MUFG Group is keenly aware of its social responsibility as Japan's largest domestic financial institution, with 40 million accounts for individuals, 500,000 corporate customers and 79 trillion yen in total loans outstanding. We act from our unique perspective as a comprehensive financial group. MUFG's Major Related Companies MUFG Group Network The MUFG's major related companies meet the diverse needs of our customers as a union of topThe MUFG Group has a balanced network throughout Japan, and is responsible for the provision class companies which each take pride in their performance in banking, trust banking, securities, of credit as the life-blood of society. The Group also maintains the greatest overseas network of all credit cards, leasing and other major financial services fields. Japanese financial institutions, providing financial services in many countries. ＊ Securities Electronically Recorded Monetary Claims Real Estate Brokerage Direct Channels Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Japan Electronic Monetary Claim Organization Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services ・Internet Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Factoring ・Mobile Asset Administration Leasing Mitsubishi UFJ Factors ・Telephone The Master Trust Bank of Japan Convenience Store ATMs Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Venture Capital 34 Shareholder Relations Consulting Services ・Approx. 33,600 locations 30 BOT Lease Mitsubishi UFJ Capital Europe, External ATMs Middle East, Americas NBL MU Hands-on Capital Japan Shareholder Services ・Approx. 1,700 locations etc. Marunouchi Capital Eastern Japan Region 54 404 Credit Cards/Consumer Loans/Installment Credit Online Securities Retail: 426 Asia, Oceania Foreign Exchange Kabu.com Securities Union Bank Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Western Japan Region Corporate: 160 Ryoshin DC Card Tokyo Credit Services Retail: 234 Mobile Internet Bank Corporate: 106 JAL CARD, JACCS (World Currency Shop) ACOM, Mobit Jibun Bank Central Japan Region Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Retail: 151 Housing Loans (MUFG) Internet Settlement Corporate: 69 Mitsubishi UFJ Loan Business The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Paygent (BTMU) Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Asset Management Regional Banks Senshu Ikeda Holdings (MUTB) Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings KOKUSAI Asset Management The number of locations is the simple total for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and The Chukyo Bank, TAISHO BANK (MUSHD) Banking and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. MU Investments R e t a i l : Head office and branches, including sub-branches. Numbers for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and Information Technology Debt Collection Overseas Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking do not include virtual branches (only do funds transfers, etc.), Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS loan promotion sub-branches, partner banks, etc. MU Business Engineering MU Frontier Servicer Union Bank Corporate : Including corporate sales offices Finance Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Research/Consulting International Tokyo Associates Finance (As of March 31, 2011) Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA) Nippon Mutual Housing Loan Mitsubishi Asset Brains BTMU Capital Corporation Wealth Management Mitsubishi UFJ Global Custody DC Pensions Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch PB Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Wealth Management Defined Contribution Plan Consulting of Japan Mitsubishi UFJ Personal Financial Advisers Bank (Switzerland) (As of March 31, 2011) 2 ■ Organizational Profile MUFG CSR Report 2011 Organizational Profile CSR Topics at the MUFG Group 2010 2011 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun ●Third term started for Next Generation ●Fourth Job Shadowing work experience program ●Participated in FIT For Charity Run 2010 ●Third Next Generation Leaders Training Program for Asia ended Leaders Training Program for Asia ●Invited winners of Save Our Common Treasures of ●Fourth term started for Next Generation ●Seventh and eighth tree-planting ●Held fourth MUFG Graduation Leaders Training Program for Asia events held for the Save Our ●Special television broadcast of Gifts for the Future the Earth project art contest to tree planting Mitsubishi UFJ Memorial Cup Soccer Tournament Common Treasures of the Earth ●Established MUFG NFUAJ Financial Group, ●Fifth and sixth tree-planting event held ●Held MUFG Shanghai Business Link event ●Held large Business Link East Japan Earthquake Recovery Project Inc. for the Save Our Common Treasures of the event (Tokyo) and Scholarship Fund ●Started taking applications for Earth project scholarships under MUFG NFUAJ ●Held side event at Convention on Biodiversity COP 10 jointly with UNEP FI ●Broadcast of MUFG special program East Japan Earthquake Recovery ● Established Guidelines for the Preparation of Customer Publications and Forms Cultivating Fields, Cultivating People 2 and Scholarship Fund ●Started weekend openings of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Museum ●Held briefings on METI subsidy programs ●Held environmental investment seminars ●Launched Diversity&Inclusion Office ●Exhibited at MESSE NAGOYA 2010 ●Received award from Tokyo Metropolitan Government under The Bank of Tokyo CO2 Emissions Reduction Program for Otemachi Building ●Held Seminars on Energy Conservation Measures Tokyo-Mitsubishi ●Held Kagaya Kids' Day ●Revised application forms based on universal design ●Started volunteers' flowerbed replanting UFJ, Ltd. activities under MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund ●Presented speakers ●Weed-clearing as part of Peter Rabbit® ●Received two Corporate Achievement Awards from Minister of Health, Labour and ●Started issuing bank account passbooks incorporating at the TBLI Conference Forest for the Future activities Welfare for Supporting Gender Equality and Work-Life Balance Universal Design Mitsubishi UFJ ● Launched sales of Family Anshin Trusts ●Began offering Preferential Selection Trust and Banking Service for donations ●Held Responsible Investing Seminar 2010 in cooperation with UNEP FI Corporation ●Held risk management ●Started offering Stock Grant Employee Stock Ownership seminars Plan (ESOP) Trusts as employee incentive plan ●Launched Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities ●Held fifth Dialogue with the President meetings for young employees (Nihonbashi) ●Provided lecturer from CEF Committee for International Program for Environmental Innovators at Keio University's Graduate School Mitsubishi UFJ ●Launched e-post signup campaign ●Launched project to promote the full use of women's Morgan Stanley ●Implemented Cool Earth Day (going home early) abilities in the workplace Securities Co., ●Collected relief supplies for the ●Held sixth and seventh Dialogue with the President meetings for young employees (Yokohama, Chiba) Ltd. disaster-affected area ●Participated in fourth Furusato-seiso 2010 neighborhood cleanup rally (see Note) ●Began volunteer program ●Held Internship Program for Educators ●Held eighth Dialogue with the President meetings for young employees (Omiya) to disaster area ●Held Off-Site Meetings on the Potential of Women in the Workplace ●Held Customer Service Week ●Launched Cheer Up Japan! ●Began printing compliments from customers in monthly pay stubs campaign to support recovery ●Implemented Cool Earth Day (No Overtime Day) Mitsubishi UFJ ●Held trainings for educators at private companies ●Introduced volunteer leave system NICOS Co., Ltd. ●Held Family Visit Day ● Acquired provisional certification for PCIDSS under EC Card Settlement System 3 Note: Formerly Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co., Ltd. (MUS) ■ Strategy and Analysis MUFG CSR Report 2011 Strategy and Analysis We aim to help realize a sustainable society, while fulfilling our inherent mission and roles in society as a financial group. Thank you, everyone, for your interest. First of all, to the respond to customer needs. Under the second theme, as a people who were affected by the Great East Japan Earthmember of the local community and society, we have focused quake, we express our deepest condolences and hope for our social contribution activities on employee participation in the earliest possible recovery. local activities. By fulfilling the inherent mission and role of In the face of this unprecedented disaster, the Mitsubishi finance, we would like to continue helping to address the UFJ Financial Group has been making its greatest efforts to critical issues facing society and contribute to the sustained aid Japan's recovery using its capabilities, such as the supply growth of both the Japanese and global economies. of funds, which is part our mission in society as a financial Our business is built upon the trust and confidence placed institution. in the MUFG Group by a variety of stakeholders, including I am pleased to present the MUFG Corporate Social customers, shareholders, and people in local communities. Responsibility Report 2011, which explains the Group's Through the combined efforts of management and emprinciples and initiatives relating to CSR. I invite you to ployees working together, the MUFG Group aims to be review these pages. known as a comprehensive financial group with a worldAs a financial group that is active globally, and conscious of its wide reputation, respected and sound, and built upon trust responsibility to address key issues facing society, the MUFG and confidence. We welcome your continued support. Group has been working on two priority themes for its CSR activities: Addressing Global Environmental Issues, and Nurturing Society's Next Generation. Under the first theme, guided by the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, we have Katsunori Nagayasu President and CEO sought to utilize the financial functions of each Group comMitsubishi UFJ Financial Group pany as we strive to provide products and services that September 2011 4 ■ Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake MUFG CSR Report 2011 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake We express our deepest sympathy and condolences to all of those who have been affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Everyone at the MUFG Group hopes for the swift recovery of the disaster-affected areas. All MUFG Group companies are working together to do everything possible to assist those affected, based on a medium to long-term perspective. MUFG Group Initiatives ● Preferential Selection Service and Other Efforts MUTB Mediumto Long-Term Reconstruction Support Efforts Related to Stock Transfer Agency Services ● Establishment of the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan MUFG To assist with relief efforts for disaster-affected people, and to As part of the services offered to exchange-listed corporate clients for Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund contribute to reconstruction of affected areas, we called upon all which MUTB provides stock transfer agency services, MUTB has been The MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and ScholarMUFG Group companies to provide assistance. As a result, we providing a variety of disaster-related support activities. These have ship Fund was created through the joint efforts of BTMU and the were able to provide a total of some 600 million yen to the Japan included a Preferential Selection Service, under which donations for National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan (NFUAJ). Red Cross Society and other organizations. relief efforts are made in place of the gifts normally provided to The goal of this fund is to work in cooperation with schools for up BTMU and MUTB set up an account to receive donations for disasshareholders. For shareholders who experience difficulties in attend15 years to operate a scholarship program to provide continued ter relief efforts, and many customers made donations through ing shareholders meetings due to the impacts of the disaster, MUTB emotional and material support to children and students, and conthis account. We have also been providing financing to affected offers live web video streaming that allows users to view meetings tribute to their healthy growth. BTMU decided to make a 1-billionpeople and companies through our Disaster Reconstruction online. In order to promote the exercise of voting rights by shareholdyen contribution to this fund, which began providing scholarships Fund, along with other efforts. For individuals affected by the ers, MUTB also provides a proxy voting service, through which on August 5, 2011. The MUFG Group as a whole will continue to disaster, we have been providing preferential housing loans and shareholders receive confirmations of their votes by telephone. collect donations from employees, and will continue to support interest-free loans. mediumto long-term reconstruction efforts. All MUFG Group companies have been facilitating volunteer ● Credit Card Related Support Activities MUN (1) Scholarship Program Providing scholarship funds to support children opportunities, the collection of relief supplies, and other activities. Immediately after the disaster, MUN initiated a program through which orphaned as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake, until they graduate from high school. Below are descriptions of some of the efforts by the MUFG Group. donations for relief efforts could be made through credit card payments (2) Healthy Growth Program Holding an exchange meeting among scholor by exchanging loyalty points. Also, we have offered various services for arship recipients. Conducting a workshop for teachers in the disaster-affected area regarding cardholders in the disaster-affected region, including consultation on mental health care for children. payment issues, and the waiving of fees for the reissuance of credit cards. (3) Flower-replanting Program Replanting flowerbeds at elementary and junior high schools in the disaster-affected region. A fund-raising campaign is also being conducted to involve cardholders (4) Volunteer Program Hosting opportunities for executives and employand participating merchants in relief and recovees to interact with children and students. ery support efforts, under the slogan Cheer Up Japan! Through this campaign, cardholders can register to have donations made to support relief efforts in disaster-affected areas when they make purchases using the cards. MUN will continue to promote credit card related support activities to benefit those in the Great East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Reconstruction Collecting Relief Supplies (MUMSS) disaster-affected region. Assistance Logo (MUN) Scholarship Program (BTMU) Flower-replanting Program (BTMU) 5 ■ Strategy and Analysis MUFG CSR Report 2011 Strategy and Analysis Management Philosophy and CSR Guided by the Group's Management Philosophy, the MUFG Group aims to be a comprehensive financial group that uses finance to actively address key issues facing society and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. Group's Management Philosophy A Focus on Quality The Group's Management philosophy incorporates our aspiration to promote harmony and prosperity for our customers, shareholders, local communities, employees, the environment and other stakeholders, and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. No.1 in Service・No.1 in Reliability・No.1 in Global Coverage We will respond promptly and accurately to the diverse needs of our custom1 ers around the world and seek to inspire their trust and confidence. Quality for You means that by providing high-quality service we aspire to help improve the quality of Putting Customers First life of individual customers, and the quality of each corporate customer. The You expresses the basic We will offer innovative and high-quality financial services by actively pursuing 2 the cultivation of new business areas and developing new technologies. stance of the MUFG Group that we would like to contribute not only to the development of our individual customers but also communities and society. We will comply strictly with all laws and regulations and conduct our business Observance of Laws and 3 in a fair and transparent manner to gain the public's trust and confidence. Regulations, Society's Trust We will seek to inspire the trust of our shareholders by enhancing corporate value through Group CSR Priority Themes 4 continuous business development and appropriate risk management, and by disclosing corporate information in a timely and appropriate manner. Shareholder's Trust We recognize that the very existence of the MUFG Group is sustained by society as a whole and that Contributing to Local Communities, 5 We will contribute to progress toward a sustainable society by assisting with development in the areas in which we operate and conducting our business activities with consideration for the environment. Environmental Protection we therefore have a duty to address the key issues facing society. Within our various CSR activities, we have selected Addressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation as We will provide the opportunities and work environment necessary for all Increasing Employee 6 employees to enhance their expertise and make full use of their abilities. Motivation the two priority themes for the entire Group. Nurturing Society's Next Generation Addressing Global Environmental Issues Nurture society's next generation that will address Address global warming, issues like global environmental problems and poverty biodiversity and other global on a global scale, as well as domestic problems in Japan such as low population growth, environmental issues. the aging of society and local or regional issues. 6 ■ Strategy and Analysis MUFG CSR Report 2011 Strategy and Analysis As a Premier and Comprehensive Global Financial Group ● Environmental Finance and Financial CSR In order to create an eco-friendly society through finance, we are active in environmental finance, The MUFG Group will continue to leverage its unique capabilities as a comprehensive financial whereby funds are provided directly to a project aiming to reduce environmental impacts, as well as group to provide financial support so that funds flow to companies and individuals that are pasfinancial CSR, whereby funds are provided to economic entities including businesses, groups and sionate about social and environmental initiatives. We will continue to offer products and services individuals working to reduce environmental impacts. The MUFG Group is implementing a balanced that directly lead to clients' social and environmental projects. We will also continue our initiatives approach, recognizing the significance and issues involved with each type of environmental finance. to promote biodiversity. Environmental Direct provision of funds Investment reduced CO2 ● MUFG Environmental Action Policy to projects that reduce Project = emissions, etc. Finance environmental impacts and financing The MUFG Group is concerned about global environmental issues. To put those concerns into action, we created our policy to promote concrete efforts for the environment as the MUFG Environmental Action Policy in June 2008. This policy will make employees aware of the roles that we Provision of funds to Reduced should play as a comprehensive financial group—as we work to strengthen our environmental initiaFinancial support economic Investment Economic environmental tives in various ways, such as by offering products and services that are better for the environment. CSR entities acting to reduce and financing entities impacts environmental impacts MUFG Environmental Action Policy MUFG views environmental issues with the utmost seriousness, • Through our credit card operations, we will provide access to emission use of our market intermediary functions to provide stable means for and aims to help realize a sustainable society in which future genrights, which aid global warming prevention. emissions reductions to more customers. erations can live with peace of mind. • We will promote the spread of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) • We will provide a range of services that increase the liquidity of emis◯ Environmental threats such as global warming, resource depletion, and funds, which contribute not only to the growth of customer assets but sions rights, which are created in CDM operations. pollution are increasing at an accelerating rate. In particular, in Asia, also the wellbeing of society and the planet as a whole. • We will enhance our transaction base to allow the maintenance of cost pollution of water, air, and soil is worsening. ◯ We will use our comprehensive financial capabilities to support the transparency and liquidity. ◯ Environmental issues constitute an urgent problem requiring a unified approach environmental initiatives of our corporate customers. from the entire world. It is essential that, in seeking solutions, we reexamine from an • We will provide seamless support to customers as they advance enviII. We will work to reduce our own environmental impact and also environmental perspective the patterns of our own lifestyles as well as society itself. ronmental initiatives, involving the cooperation of companies with focus on social contribution activities. ◯ MUFG gains support from customers and members of society around the world, advanced environmental technology to provide consulting, business ◯ The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, and we therefore feel it is our duty to address environmental issues, which have a matching and fund procurement, and other services. and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. have each set a target of a 25% major impact on the lives of future generations. We will channel our full capabili• We will support the activities of companies that actively engage in initiatives to reduction in emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases from 2000 levels by 2012. ties into working toward the benefit of the environment and future generations. address environmental issues by developing and selling products such as SRI-type • We will work to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gases, conducting ◯ We aim to fulfill society's expectations of us as a comprehensive financial investment products, which invest in shares of companies associated with environmeasurements of data concerning the environmental burden at each of our group that exerts a wide-reaching influence on the environment and mental measures, and by promoting SRI amongst our pension fund customers. locations, continuously operating and improving environmental managesociety through its capital flows, while working to achieve a sustainable ◯ We will actively promote initiatives overseas that take regional characment systems based on ISO 14001, switching to environmentally friendly society in which future generations can live with peace of mind. We will teristics into account. equipment, and adopting alternative energy, amongst other initiatives. also endeavor to enhance the awareness of each individual Group • In Asia (particularly China), we will use the capabilities of Group companies • We will use emission rights to offset the carbon emissions of our head employee, while taking initiatives to reduce our own environmental impact. to conduct Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and other operations. office and other main buildings. • In the Americas and Europe, we will promote initiatives centered on the ◯ We will provide environmental burden measurement tools to Group I. We will dedicate our efforts to creating an environmentally provision of finance in the fields of alternative energy and renewable energy. employees and their families in order to increase their environmental conscious society through finance. ◯ In addition to our approach based on the Equator Principles, we will further clarify awareness in relation to their own lifestyles. ◯ We will provide products and services that reflect the concerns of our lending criteria from an environmental perspective, in order to contribute to the ◯ We will pursue environmental conservation initiatives such as tree individual customers in relation to the environment. creation of an environmentally conscious society through our financial functions. planting by employees, environmental education support, and local • We will provide loans to support the installation of solar power generation systems. ◯ We will leverage the comprehensive strengths of the Group, making contribution activities both in Japan and overseas. 7 ■ Strategy and Analysis MUFG CSR Report 2011 Strategy and Analysis ● Eight Environmental Project Teams Based on the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, a total of eight project teams comprised of people from throughout the Group are leading efforts to carry out specific initiatives. The following is an overview of FY2010 results and FY2011 plans. Project Team FY2010 Plans FY2010 Results FY2011 Plans ・Promoted housing and home renovation loans ・Promote eco-equipment and eco-housing loans. Individuals ・Promote eco-equipment and eco-housing loans, etc. (expanded the scope of facilities eligible for financing). ・Study and promote new financial products related to eco-products. ・Made progress with eliminating paper use. ・Promote the elimination of paper use. ・Further develop and promote financial products and schemes. ・Released new financing products such as schemes utilizing ・Expand proposals activity, including development ・Provide more information to customers (via seminars, etc.) Domestic Ministry of the Environment's interest support program. of financing products and schemes, and energy and bolster activities proposing solutions to Corporations ・Held seminars for customers on energy-saving reduction diagnosis of real estate, etc. clients' environment-related management issues. measures and environmental investing. ・Build know-how and hold workshops on saving energy in real estate field. ・Promoted SRI outside the company through seminars and lectures. ・Promote SRI outside the company through seminars, Pension ・Make SRI funds for pension funds more attractive. ・Established an office to research environmental, lectures, etc. Funds social, and corporate governance (ESG) topics (MUTB). ・Promote initiatives by ESG research office. ・Demonstrate comprehensive strengths of the ・Participated in a feasibility study on METI's bilateral ・Demonstrate MUFG's comprehensive capabilities, starting Overseas MUFG Group, beginning with shift to environmental emission credit program. with environmental technology transfer and CDM consulting. technologies and CDM consulting. ・Expanded project finance related to renewable energy. ・Expand renewable energy-related project finance. ・Consider and develop details about screening ・Consider detailed screening from environmental and Credit ・Considered screening from environmental and social standards from environmental and social social perspectives, based on Equator Principles. Screening perspectives, based on Equator Principles. perspectives. ・Researched emissions trading market trends, ・Research emissions trading market trends, bolster ・Research emissions trading market trends, bolster Markets bolstered related systems. related systems. related systems. ・Made progress on initiatives in European market (EU-ETS). ・Make progress on initiatives in European market (EU-ETS). ・Establish numerical targets at all offices and ・CO2 emissions in FY2010 were 32% lower versus FY2000, Internal otherwise promote specific energy-reducing compared to the Group's CO2 reduction target ・Promote energy-conservation for the overall Group. activities. (25% reduction compared to FY2000 by FY2012). ・Carried out the Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth ・Promote Group collaborative activities. environmental education project. Social ・Promote Group collaborative activities. ・Implemented third term of Next Generation Leaders Contributions ・Enhance local contribution activities at each office. Training Program for Asia. ・Enhance local contribution activities at each office. ・Implemented local contribution activities at each office. 8 ■ Strategy and Analysis MUFG CSR Report 2011 Strategy and Analysis ● Summary of Key Indicators for FY2010 The following summarizes key indicators concerning the CSR initiatives of the MUFG Group. Reporting Reporting category Item Indicator Notes category Item Indicator Notes Greenhouse gas emissions MUFG Total CO2 emissions Career development for female BTMU Female general managers 42 (80) As of the end of (Actual emission factors) 240,868t employees Female chief and senior managers 180 (220) March 2011 (Adjusted emission factors) 211,324t Total 222 (300) Numbers in Female managers 11.1% (15%) parentheses Cost of environmental MUFG Investment 2,943 million yen Females among new hires for main career track 30%3 (20%) indicate targets measures by offices Expenses 1,916 million yen for March 2015 Employees Reducing paper consumption BTMU 10% reduction compared to FY2008 FY2010 Results MUTB 6.3% reduction compared to FY2009 FY2010 Results (approx. 310 tons) Amount of copy paper MUMSS Female general managers 8 As of the end of MUMSS 32.5% reduction compared to FY20071 purchased for Female deputy general managers, chief managers 11 March 2011 MUN 3.7% reduction compared to FY2009 main office building Deputy chief managers, senior managers 128 (per person) Expenditures for social BTMU MUTB MUMSS FY2010 Number of UN-registered CDM MUMSS 54 (as reported by UNFCCC) Cumulative as of contribution activities Education & culture 179 million yen Environment consulting projects July 2011 Local and Social welfare & environmental conservation 71 million yen international communities Community contributions, international exchange, others Projects reviewed for social and BTMU By Category July 2010 to 819 million yen environmental considerations based Category A 9 June 2011 Total 1,069 million yen on Equator Principles2 Category B 28 Category C 4 Customer satisfaction FY2010 Satisfied or somewhat satisfied Total 41 (individual customers) BTMU Approx. 66.9% By Sector Customers MUTB Approx. 68.5% Infrastructure 13 MUMSS Approx. 47.7% Mining 1 Oil and gas development 4 MUN Approx. 61.6% Petrochemicals 1 3. Percentage among new hires as of April 2011 Power generation 21 Other 1 Total 41 1. Consumption was 55.7 kg. per person at the Marunouchi Building 2. Detailed report available at: http://www.bk.mufg.jp/english/ourcompany/societyandenvironment/implementing.html 9 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Corporate Governance The Group is working hard to build a corporate governance framework that is commensurate with our status as a comprehensive global financial group. We aim for business in a fair and transparent manner in the eyes of the society. ● Governance Functions of the Holding Company MUFG Group Corporate Governance Structure ● Governance System of the Whole Group MUFG General Meeting The holding company (MUFG) has established a fair and transof Shareholders Corporate Auditors/Board of The holding company fulfills the function of overseeing the Corporate Auditors parent corporate governance system including a board of (3 of 5 auditors are external) management of each member company by introducing a Corporate corporate auditors and voluntary committees from external Auditors Office group-wide risk management, compliance and internal audit Chairman Reports and viewpoints. We are making ever y effort to enhance the Board of Directors recommendations structure, and by dispatching senior management to the major Voluntary committee (Several outside directors) system. subsidiaries, including the Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Advisory Board Internal Audit and In keeping with provisions specified by Japan's financial instruCompliance Committee (BTMU), Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB), Mitsubishi (External experts) ments exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, three Advice Executive Report UFJ Securities Holdings (MUSHD) and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Nomination and Committee out of the 16 members of the Board of Directors are designated President Various Compensation Committee (MUN). The board of directors of each company includes exterReport & CEO Committees as independent directors from outside the company; also in nal directors. The internal audit and compliance committees for keeping with these provisions, a majority of the five-member each company are composed of a majority of external memBoard of Corporate Auditors is comprised of independent outIntegrated Corporate Corporate Risk Audit Internal Audit bers, and these committees report to each company's Board of Business Group Staff Units Management Units Division side auditors. Directors. We also have an Internal Audit and Compliance Committee and Internal Audit and Compliance Committees of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS a Nomination and Compensation Committee under the Board Does not include external members Includes external members of Directors; they are both chaired by external directors, and the Outline of the Internal Audit and Compliance Committee, and the Nomination majority of their members are from outside the company. The and Compensation Committee (as of July 1, 2011) holding company also has an Advisor y Board of external Committee Name Issues Deliberated Members experts, which provides advice from an independent perspecInternal Audit Items regarding internal audits Chairman: Ryuji Araki (outside director) and Compliance and compliance at the holding Members: Kazuhiro Watanabe tive to the Executive Committee (which deliberates and decides Committee company and subsidiaries (outside director, attorney at law) Yoshinari Tsutsumi on important business matters) on overall management of the (outside expert, attorney at law) Hideo Kojima (outside expert, C.P.A.) Kinya Okauchi Group. (Deputy Chairman & CAO, MUFG) Nomination and Items regarding the nomination of Chairman: Takuma Otoshi (outside director) Compensation candidates for the Board of Members: Ryuji Araki (outside director) Committee Directors of the holding company; Kazuhiro Watanabe items regarding important person(outside director, attorney at law) nel at the holding company and Katsunori Nagayasu subsidiaries; items regarding the (President & CEO, MUFG) compensation of directors of the holding company and subsidiaries Members of Advisory Board (as of July 1,2011) Naotake Okubo (Director and Executive Advisor, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) Yuko Kawamoto (Professor, Waseda University, Graduate School of Finance, Accounting and Law) Shin-ichi Fukuda (Professor, Graduate School of Economics, Faculty of Economics, The University of Tokyo) Yoshihide Munekuni (Former Chairman, Honda Motor Co., Ltd.) 10 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Risk Management We comprehensively monitor and manage diverse risks to maintain sound financial health. ● Risk Management Policy MUFG ● Risk Management System MUFG Risk Management Framework Risk management is playing an increasingly important role in To dynamically manage various types of risk from both qualitaHolding Company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group) the midst of constantly changing business and regulatory conditive and quantitative perspectives, the holding company and tions, globalization of finance, and advances in information major Group companies each appoint chief risk management Board of Directors technology. The MUFG Group comprehensively identifies the officers and establish independent risk management divisions. Corporate Risk various risks arising from business operations using uniform We promote group-wide risk management through close coopManagement Committee Executive Committee criteria, and implements integrated risk management (see eration. The Group has also established committees and counNote). cils to manage and discuss important matters relating to various Market risk, Corporate Risk Under this basic policy, we identify, measure, control, and monitypes of risk. The Board of Directors determines risk manageManagement Division Liquidity risk, (Coordinates risk management) tor a wide variety of risks to achieve a stable balance between ment policies for all Group companies based on the discussions Operational risk earnings and risks, create an appropriate capital structure, and held by these committees and councils. In addition to determinCredit & Investment achieve an optimal allocation of resources. ing the basic risk management policy for the entire Group, the Management Division Credit risk Note: Integrated risk management — A risk management method for financial institutions whereby various holding company seeks to enhance group-wide risk identificarisks are measured using uniform methodologies, and overall risk is controlled in proportion to financial strength. tion, to integrate and improve the group's risk management framework and related methods, to maintain asset quality Management, guidance, reports through risk management, and to eliminate concentrations of specific risks. Each Group company implements and improves its MUFG Group own risk management framework in line with group-wide risk companies management policy determined by the holding company. Since BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUN, other subsidiaries our corporate integration, the MUFG Group has continued striving to upgrade risk management and maintain and improve our brand strength in a coordinated way. 11 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Compliance We go to great lengths to ensure full compliance throughout the MUFG Group, guided by our Group Management Philosophy, which emphasizes strict compliance with laws and regulations and the conduct of business in a transparent manner, to gain the public's trust and confidence. Compliance Framework Group-wide Efforts Compliance Divisions are in place at the holding company (MUFG), as well as at BTMU, MUTB, To promote compliance policies and measures, the MUFG Group holds forums for Group compaMUSHD and MUN. The Compliance Divisions at each company promote compliance policies and nies to share information concerning the regulatory environment, customer response and other measures by developing compliance programs and offering training, etc., and report the status of issues. The forums address important common group themes such as the amended Money Lendcompliance to the Executive Committee and to the Boards of Directors of the respective compaing Business Act, response to anti-social elements, and preventing misconducts, aiming at improvnies. All five companies have also established Compliance Committees and Internal Audit and ing the Group's overall skill to deal with such issues. Compliance Committees (a majority of which consist of external members), as voluntary bodies Furthermore, MUFG keeps the whole group informed of compliance through trainings for Group for the deliberation of important compliance issues. We have also established a Group CCO Comofficers and employees (for new employees, managers and general managers, respectively), which mittee comprising the Chief Compliance Officer and Deputy Chief Compliance Officers of the present the issues appropriate for the trainees such as basic approach to compliance, compliance holding company. The Group CCO Committee deliberates important compliance issues as well as topics. issues that require a common understanding throughout the Group, shares problematic issues for MUFG also conducts regular compliance awareness surveys of the officers and employees of the Group as a whole, and works to prevent problems from occurring. Expanded Group CCO Group companies. Recent surveys have received responses from about 80,000 Group officers and Committee meetings, with additional members, are held for deliberations on compliance issues employees, with most noting advances in compliance system, including manuals and trainings. The that are in common among multiple Group companies. surveys also reveal that many officers and employees have a shared understanding on the necessity of advancing continued efforts toward an open corporate culture to establish compliance. MUFG held discussion seminars on addressing these issues in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka with the Compliance Framework Holding Company (MUFG) participation of each Group company. Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Internal Audit and Compliance Committee Internal Reporting Systems Executive Committee Group Compliance Committee Group CCO Committee The MUFG Group has established internal reporting systems, including those with the capacity to CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) handle external inquiries, in order to identify compliance problems at an early stage and rectify them within the companies. The holding company has also the MUFG Group Compliance Helpline accessible to officers and employees of MUFG Group companies to supplement the internal Internal reporting system Compliance Division (Coordinates compliance issues) reporting systems at the individual companies. Guidance, advice and instruction Consultation and report In addition to these internal reporting systems, the holding company maintains an Accounting Auditing Hotline to receive internal and external reports concerning actual and suspected illegal BTMU MUTB MUSHD MUN Other subsidiaries Group Companies accounting treatment at Group companies, including the holding company, with a law office as the contact for receiving reports. 12 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Major Compliance Policies and Measures ● Response to Anti-Social Elements The MUFG Group has announced a Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Elements, includes organized ● Conflicts of Interest Management crime exclusion clauses in contracts, transaction terms and other agreements, and is reinforcing efforts The MUFG Group has established a system whereby items that might pose a conflict of interest are centrally to ensure that anti-social elements cannot take advantage of the financial system. managed at the holding company to avoid falsely damaging clients' interest. We have also announced a Policy for Conflicts of Interest Management, along with offering training to officers and employees to keep ● Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Elements them informed about the matter and reviewing the management framework periodically. The MUFG Group has prescribed the following basic policy regarding anti-social elements and, through the observance of this policy by all executives and employees, will strive to ensure the appropriateness Policy for Conflicts of Interest Management and safety of its business operations. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group ( MUFG ) and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, MUFG Group ) shall establish the following policy for conflicts of interest management and take all necessary actions to ensure all officers and employees to comply with the policy and not to falsely harm clients' interest. 1. Response as an organization 1. Conflicts of Interest Management 3. Companies with Requirement for Conflicts of A conflict of interest means the situation where an MUFG Interest Management In relation to anti-social elements, the Company has established the foundation of express provisions Group's client's interest conflicts with MUFG Group's or MUFG Group companies conduc ting Managed in the Ethical Framework, Code of Conduct and Internal Rules, etc., and will respond as an entire one MUFG Group's client's interest conflicts with other Businesses shall be required to develop appropriate organization, from the top management downward. In addition, the Company will guarantee the MUFG Group's clients'. management system for conflicts of interest. While such conflicts of interest occur on a day-to-day Examples of companies with requirement for conflicts of safety of employees who would respond to anti-social elements. basis as a result of conglomerations of financial instituinterest management include: 2. Cooperation with external specialist organizations tions and diversification of financial trading, MUFG Group The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ shall establish appropriate business management and Trust and Banking Corporation, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Under normal circumstances, the Company endeavors to establish a close cooperative relationship compliance system to prevent adverse effects from Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., The Senshu Ikeda Bank, Ltd., with external specialist organizations such as the police, the Centers for the Elimination of Boryokuconflicts of interest within the Group. The Taisho Bank, Ltd., and The Chukyo Bank, Ltd. dan, and lawyers. 2. Identifying Transactions with Potential Risk of 4. Management System for Conflicts of Interest Adverse Effects from Conflicts of Interest MUFG Group shall centralize the management of 3. Blocking of relationships, including business transactions MUFG Group shall identify in advance businesses, which conflicts of interest by establishing divisions responsible The Company shall block all relationships with anti-social elements, including business relationships. require special management ( Managed Businesses ), for management and control of conflicts of interest at 4. Civil and criminal legal responses in times of emergency from businesses in the following situations. MUFG Group each company under a legal duty to establish manageshall intensively manage transactions with potential risk of ment system for conflicts of interest. The Company shall reject improper demands from anti-social elements, and take legal actions on adverse effects from conflicts of interest in performing MUFG Group shall comply with applicable laws and both a civil and criminal basis, as the need arises. the Managed Businesses, taking into consideration regulations related to conflicts of interest and maintain reputation risk. appropriate management for conflicts of interest. 5. Prohibition of secret deals and provision of funds (1) Situations where a client reasonably expects MUFG 5. Measures for Management of Conflicts of Interest The Company shall absolutely not engage in secret deals with anti-social elements. Group to prioritize the client's best interest (e.g., advisory With the following measures MUFG Group shall prevent The Company shall absolutely not provide funds to anti-social elements. service) adverse effects from conflicts of interest issues and avoid (2) Situations where MUFG Group could inappropriately falsely damaging clients' interest. benefit in the market using information obtained from (1) Separating a division/company conducting a transactransactions with clients tion with potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts of (3) Situations where high reputation risk resulting from interest from other divisions/companies transactions between MUFG Group and clients could (2) Changing the conditions/methods of either/both arise transactions with potential risk of adverse effects by Examples for Managed Businesses include: conflicts of interest M&A advisory, Securitization of Assets / Receivables, (3) Terminating either one of transactions with potential Loan Syndication, Principal Investment, Equity and Debt risk of adverse effects by conflicts of interest Underwriting, and Bond Management (4) Notifying clients of potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts of interest 13 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Financial Crime Countermeasures The MUFG Group is implementing diverse countermeasures against malicious financial crimes such as money transfer and investment fraud, as well as victim assistance measures, and more. Financial Crime Countermeasures and Victim Internet-based attacks, and remain vigilant with solid security bank accounts if they were used for criminal purposes. Assistance systems to address a variety of risks, including unauthorized third-party access, information leaks, impersonation of contrac● Assistance for Victims of Fraudulent Withdrawals BTMU MUTB MUMSS ● Loss Prevention from Money Transfer and Investment tors, and so on. BTMU and MUTB compensate victims for losses suffered from Fraud MUFG the use of forged or stolen cash cards, stolen passbooks, and We take numerous measures to make customers aware of the ● Security Measures to Reduce Losses from Phishing BTMU MUTB Internet bank fraud withdrawals based on Japan's Depositor criminal methods used in money transfer and investment fraud. We have adopted an electronic signature system which displays Protection Act and on an arrangement announced by the JapaSuch measures include placing posters in branch offices and a warning message when the e-mail contents have been tamnese Bankers Association in February 2008. displaying warnings on ATM screens, and so on. Attendants pered with during transmission and allows customers to confirm MUMSS provides compensation to victims of unauthorized frequently remind customers to take precautions or to verify the the message sender. We have also made arrangements so that withdrawals that were made using forged or stolen cards based details of transactions. We also confirm identity and intended customers can easily verify that they are connected to the on a resolution of the board of directors of the Japan Securities use when new bank accounts are opened, to ensure that authentic Internet server when conducting direct banking from Dealers Association in February 2006. accounts are not used for criminal purposes. In some cases, we their personal computers. must refuse to open a new account, and on these occasions we request the customer's understanding. ● Introduction of PCIDSS to Prevent Fraudulent Card Use MUN In September 2010, MUN acquired provisional certification for ● Preventing Losses from Forged or Stolen ATM Cards BTMU MUTB the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCIDSS) for We have been introducing technologies to verify user identity, the EC Card Settlement System, a card settlement application such as electronic IC cards and biometric authentication, to preservice provider (ASP) that MUN offers to Internet venders. vent losses from cash card forgery and theft. We are also implePDICSS is an international security standard to prevent card menting countermeasures to prevent strangers from learning or information leaks and fraudulent card use. We routinely remind guessing passwords, such as installing rear-view mirrors for cardholders to exercise caution with warnings posted on our ATM users, installing polarized film on ATM screens, and website, in our cardmembers' magazine, and on monthly displaying reminders about password management on ATM account statements. screens. ● Assistance for Victims of Money Transfer Fraud BTMU MUTB ● Security Measures for Internet Banking BTMU MUTB Based on Japan's Act on Damage Recovery Benefit Distributed We are protecting customers' valuable information by using from Fund in Bank Accounts Used for Crimes, which entered advanced encryption technologies for Internet banking transacinto force in June 2008, we repay victims using funds arising tions. We have established 24-hour monitoring systems for from criminal damages and remaining in financial institutions' 14 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Major Compliance Policies and Measures ● Ethical Framework Confidentiality and information management create a strong corporate culture of compliance with laws and rules. 1. Establishment of trust We will not release customer information that we have acquired through Prohibition of unfair transactions We will remain keenly aware of the Group's social responsibilities our business to any third party without legitimate reason or customer We will not solicit transactions with customers by utilizing any and public mission and will exercise care and responsibility in the consent. We will handle customer information responsibly, and will advantageous position that we may have. We will endeavor not handling of customer and other information. By conducting strictly observe in-house rules concerning corporate information. to knowingly cause losses to customers in the pursuit of profit for sound and appropriate business operations and disclosing Accounting practices and information disclosure Group or Group companies. corporate information in a timely and appropriate manner we will We will not improperly handle company accounting records or make We will not improperly or illegitimately use information acquired seek to establish enduring public trust in the Group. entries that invite false or misleading interpretations. We will through our operations for our own gain. In particular, we will 2. Putting customers first disclose corporate information on a factual basis and in good faith. not trade in stocks using material unpublished information that We will always consider our customers, and through close 2. Putting customers first would likely influence the share prices of Group or client communication will endeavor to satisfy them and gain their Responding with integrity and consideration companies. Any such important information coming in to our support by providing financial services that best meet their needs. We will endeavor to be friendly and polite and to act with possession will be handled with the utmost care. 3. Strict observance of laws, regulations, and internal rules integrity in all our contacts with customers and by pursuing our We will endeavor not to cause losses to other companies within We will strictly observe applicable laws, regulations and internal customer first approach we will seek to avoid any inappropriate the Group in the pursuit of profit for the Group. When handling rules, and will conduct our business in a fair and trustworthy manner impairment of their interests. We will not engage in excessive undisclosed customer information or conducting transactions that conforms to societal norms. As a global comprehensive financial customer entertainment or gift exchange, and will make any such between subsidiaries, we will take every care not to commit any group we will also respect internationally accepted standards. decisions based on commonly accepted standards. prohibited acts. 4. Respect for human rights and the environment Suitability and the obligation to explain Protection of intellectual property We will respect the character and individuality of others, work to We will offer products and services to customers that we believe We will make efforts to appropriately protect our Group's own maintain harmony with society, and place due importance on the best meet their needs and experience. We will adequately explain intellectual property (patents, trademarks, copyrights, etc.), and protection of the global environment that belongs to all mankind. merits, demerits and risks, and proceed only after customers have will respect the intellectual property rights of third parties. 5. Disavowal of anti-social elements been given a reasonable opportunity to discuss with us any Prohibition of the mixing of public and personal affairs We will stand resolutely against any anti-social elements that actions we intend to take that may affect them. Regardless of any benefit or disadvantage, we will always strive threaten public order and safety Understanding of intentions to make judgments from a fair and honest standpoint. We will We will endeavor to ensure that customers properly understand draw a clear line between public and personal matters and ● Code of Conduct any contracts or agreements they enter into with us, and endeavor to avoid any conflict of interests, and will not use 1. Establishment of trust endeavor to ensure that these reflect their intentions. company resources for private purposes. Trustworthiness and ethical standards 3. Strict observation of laws, regulations and internal rules 4. Respect for human rights and the environment We will faithfully carry out our business, based on high ethical Observance of laws, regulations and internal rules Respect for human rights standards, to ensure that our corporate activities are highly As a comprehensive financial group we will strictly observe We shall take the basic position of respecting humanity, and shall transparent and honorable. We will not knowingly release false applicable laws and regulations, whether overseas or in Japan, and not discriminate against people or violate human rights on the information or otherwise knowingly hide or obscure the truth. conduct business activities fairly and honestly. We will endeavor to basis of race, nationality, belief, religion, gender, or other grounds maintain the highest ethical standards within the Group, and to where legally protected. 15 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Cultivating a work environment in which people can easily mitted by law. ● MUFG Group Environmental Policy do their jobs 3. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will educate all of its execuIn accordance with the spirit and philosophy outlined in its EnviAll directors and employees shall respect each other as work tives and employees so that they understand the importance of ronmental Statement, We, the directors and employees of partners, and be aware that acts such as sexual harassment and protecting personal information and handle customers' personal MUFG will: power harassment are an affront to human dignity and will not information properly. 1. Comply with all laws and regulations related to environmenbe tolerated in the workplace. 4. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will take necessary and tal protection and other requirements to which Group compaConsideration for the natural environment appropriate measures to ensure the security of personal infornies subscribe; We will seek to achieve harmony with society, and protect the mation and will endeavor to prevent improper access to, altera2. Support business activities that contribute to the protection global environment. tion, loss and/or leakage of personal information. and improvement of the environment through the provision of 5. Disavowal of anti-social elements 5. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will not supply any personal high-quality financial products and services, and aim to reduce Disavowal of anti-social elements information to third parties (including parties in Mitsubishi UFJ environmental risks; We will take a resolute stance against criminal groups, and Financial Group) without the prior consent of the individual con3. Recognize the environmental burden caused by consumption other anti-social elements. cerned, except as permitted by law. of resources and release of waste from our own business activiPrevention of money laundering 6. When outsourcing the handling of personal information to ties and aim to protect the environment through resource recyWe shall be fully alert to the possibility that funds handled in other institutions, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will monitor cling as well as efficient use of energy and resources; transactions by financial institutions might be used for, derived the institutions concerned to ensure that appropriate measures 4. Monitor the effects of our activities on the environment and from or intended for criminal or terrorist purposes. We shall are taken to protect customers' personal information. work towards continuous improvement and pollution prevenstrive to prevent money laundering by endeavoring to thor7. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will establish procedures for tion; oughly identify transaction parties, and if we discover transaccorrecting and disclosing personal information of customers. 5. Provide in-house environmental education and support and tions where we suspect criminal involvement, we shall not overMitsubishi UFJ Financial Group is also willing to receive opinions promote environmental protection activities of individual direclook these and shall respond appropriately. and inquiries regarding the handling of such personal informators and employees both during and outside working hours; tion. 6. Inform the entire Group and the general public of our envi● Personal Information Protection Policy 8. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will continually review and ronmental statement and policy and help raise awareness of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group believes it is the group's social improve its management systems to protect personal informaenvironmental issues through extensive communication. responsibility to handle customer's personal information proption. erly under Group's Management Philosophy. The following is our Personal Information Protection Policy. We intend to do our ● MUFG Group Environmental Statement best to protect our customers' personal information by ensuring We, the directors and employees of MUFG, recognize that prothat every executive and employee complies with this Policy. tection of the global environment is the responsibility of all 1. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will comply with laws and human beings and, as a good corporate citizen, MUFG fulfills its regulations regarding the proper handling of the customers' social responsibility by working actively towards the realization personal information. of a sustainable environment. 2. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will acquire personal informaThrough our business activities, we will support environmental tion properly. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will notify and/or protection efforts by both industry and individuals that contribdisclose the purpose of such personal information to customers ute to realizing a sustainable society. and will not use it beyond the disclosed purpose except as per16 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ● Our Approach to Addressing Biological has expressed humanitarian concerns about the impacts of these systems for management to facilitate financing. Diversity Conservation munitions. Japanese legislation, in principle, prohibits the production The company has also appointed a Director in Charge of Facilitating Biological diversity, or biodiversity, is considered to have three and possession of cluster bombs. Based on the enactment of that legisFinancing as well as Managers to Facilitate Financing at each dimensions—ecosystem diversity, species (interspecies) diversity, and lation, and in accordance with the spirit of its own Charter of Corpobranch, and established a Smooth Retail Financing Office, a intra-species (genetic) diversity; and it is said that biodiversity is facing rate Conduct, the Japanese Bankers Association, recognizing the Smooth Corporate Financing Office, an Office to Facilitate Financthree crises—reduction and extermination of species due to human activiimportance of the banking industry's public role, agreed in October ing and a Management Office to Facilitate Financing at headquarties (development and overharvesting), deterioration in the quality of 2010 that Japanese banks shall not provide financing for the manufacters as specialized units to facilitate financing. The company's officers nature due to insufficient care for woodlands, and disruption of ecosysture of cluster bombs in Japan or overseas. and employees are united in implementing works to facilitate financtems from influences such as invasive species and chemical substances. BTMU and MUTB are full members of the Japanese Bankers Associaing, with the active involvement of corporate management. In recognition of the importance of conserving the biological diversity that tion. Both clearly stipulate in their credit policies and financing checkPlease visit the following website for the status of our initiatives to supports the global environment, the MUFG Group intends to pursue sheets that the provision of financing for the manufacture of cluster facilitate financing (number of loans and amounts). efforts based on the following approaches: bombs is prohibited. Both companies strictly observe these procedures. http://www.tr.mufg.jp/ippan/soudan/kinyu_soudan_joukyou.html (1) Active engagement (in Japanese) Raise awareness among corporate officers and employees about Initiatives to Facilitate Financing biological diversity, linking them to voluntary and company-wide activi● Designated Dispute Resolution Organization BTMU MUTB ties. ● The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ BTMU System Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund (2) Promotion of social contribution activities that make use of financial The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) has adopted Management Designated dispute resolution organizations are dispute resolution products and services Regulations to Facilitate Financing as a basic policy to facilitate financbodies designated by government authorities. From a fair and neutral Support biodiversity conservation projects through the provision of ing based on the Japanese government's Act concerning Temporary standpoint, they are to deal with complaints and requests from integrated financial services. Make use of the expanding business base Measures to Facilitate Financing for Small and Medium-Sized Entercustomers for dispute resolution concerning the actions of financial and other resources of each Group company to support social contriprises, etc. institutions. The following designated dispute resolution organizations bution activities. To establish and maintain an appropriate management structure to have been contracted by BTMU and MUTB for these matters. (3) Linkages with communities and society facilitate financing, BTMU has appointed a Director in Charge of FaciliThe Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) In order to conserve biodiversity, link and cooperate with a wide tating Financing, has established an Office to Facilitate Financing and Organization Japanese Bankers Association 1 variety of partners, including international organizations, national an Office to Facilitate SME Financing, and has appointed Managers JBA Customer Relations Center Contact government, communities, and nonprofit organizations. to Facilitate Financing at each sales branch office. The entire bank is 0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 (4) Considerations related to purchasing activities working to strengthen initiatives to facilitate financing. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) Consider biodiversity protection when purchasing materials for busiPlease visit the following BTMU website for the status of initiatives to Organization Japanese Bankers Association 1 ness operations. facilitate financing (number of loans and amounts): JBA Customer Relations Center (5) Information disclosure and communications http://www.bk.mufg.jp/info/kinyu_enkatsuka/index.html (in Japanese) Contact 0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 Share information about our activities widely with society, contributing Organization Trust Companies Association of Japan 2 to the development of society's overall efforts to conserve biodiversity. ● Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking MUTB Trust Consultation Center Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) has established a ManContact 0129-817335 or 03-3241-7335 ● Activities Against Cluster Bombs agement Policy to Facilitate Financing, which specifies the basic 1. The Japanese Bankers Association is a designated dispute resolution organization under the Banking Act Cluster bombs contain multiple smaller bombs that scatter over a wide policy for facilitating financing as well as Management Regulations and the Norinchukin Bank Act. 2. The Trust Companies Association of Japan is a designated dispute resolution organization under the area. As they have often affected civilians, the international community to Facilitate Financing, which specify the basic items and internal Trust Business Act and the Act on Provision, etc. of Trust Business by Financial Institutions. 17 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement CSR Structure The MUFG Group has established a CSR structure integrated with the Group management strategies. CSR Promotion Structure of the MUFG Group The MUFG Group has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (meets twice per year) to promote CSR activities throughout the Group, consisting mostly of members of the Executive Committee of the holding company. The committee discusses the Group's CSR policies, develops strategies for the entire Group, and works to strengthen cooperation between member companies. Each Group company is engaged in CSR activities and maximizes the special characteristics of each Group company along with the Group policy. During FY 2010, the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met in April and October, and discussed future directions for activities based on the current status of CSR activities in the Group, as well as other topics. Figure 1. CSR Structure of MUFG Group Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. Executive Committee Corporate Social Stakeholder Dialogue Responsibility Committee CSR Promotion Division The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd. Executive Committee (CSR Promotion Committee) Executive Committee (CSR Committee) Executive Committee Executive Committee CSR Promotion Office, CSR Promotion Division CSR Office, Corporate Planning Division Corporate Communications Division Corporate Planning Department Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. Executive Committee (CSR Committee) Corporate Management Unit, Corporate Communications Division 18 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement The MUFG Group participates in a variety of initiatives to identify, promote and realize the adoption Participation in Initiatives of best environmental and sustainability practice. promotes the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), Custody (in FY 2010). (See page 32 for more information about ● UN Global Compact MUFG which were announced in 2006. Under the leadership of the Eco-Custody. ) MUTB is also cosponsor of the TBLI ConferenceTM The MUFG Group has endorsed the United Nations Global ComUnited Nations, the PRI are intended to address decision-making Asia 2011, held in September 2011. pact. A voluntary code of conduct advocated in 1999 by the issues related to environmental, social, and corporate goverthen-Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, it nance (ESG) for investments within the scope of an organiza● Sponsoring and Participating in Conferences and Other Events calls for corporations and organizations around the world to tion's fiduciary responsibility, and to improve the long-term work within their respective spheres of influence to support results of investments. ● Exhibiting at MESSE NAGOYA 2010 BTMU internationally recognized standards for human rights, labor, the MESSE NAGOYA 2010, one of the largest exhibitions in Japan environment, and anti-corruption, and to act based on them. bringing together representatives of diverse industries, took place ● Participation in Japan Climate Leaders Partnership BTMU The MUFG Group, as a financial group that upholds the philosoin October 2010. This exhibition, held at the same time as the phy of contributing to the realization of a sustainable society, BTMU has participated in the Japan Climate Leaders Partnership Nagoya meeting of the Tenth Conference of the Parties to the endorses the principles of the Global Compact, and works to since its launch in July 2009; the Japan-CLP is Japan's first corpoConvention on Biological Diversity (COP10), supported the COP fulfill its duties as a global citizen. rate network aiming from the business perspective to realize a 10 meeting through focusing on the themes of Environment and sustainable, low-carbon society. Japan-CLP is a corporate network Energy. At this event, BTMU introduced the environment-related that sees business opportunities for companies that spearhead initiatives of the MUFG Group through video and panel presenta● The Equator Principles BTMU the transition toward a sustainable, low-carbon society. tions. BTMU has adopted and been operating in accordance with the ● Lectures & Participation in Government Advisory Committees MUTB Equator Principles —a framework for ensuring the considerMUTB representatives periodically give lectures in Japan and over● Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) MUFG ation of environmental and social risks when engaging in the seas concerning environmental topics, and also participate in financing of large-scale projects. The Principles define certain The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a project run by institupolicy discussions, including as members of governmental advistandards for assessing social and environmental impacts, and tional investors from around the world that urges corporations to sory committees. encourage proper measures to address those impacts, as well as disclose their strategies on climate change as well as detailed data In addition to speaking at various seminars and symposia, MUTB monitoring to verify that the projects proceed as planned after on their emissions of greenhouse gases. Chairman Haruya Uehara was a participant in the general meeting financing has been provided. The MUFG Group has been participating in this effort since 2004 of the Multi-stakeholder Forum on Social Responsibility for a In our financial advisory services to support customers' procureand since 2007 has been sponsoring the publication of JapaneseSustainable Future, organized by the Cabinet Office to address ment of financing, we also support funds procurement and envilanguage versions of CDP reports. challenges related to the new sense of community. ronmental protection by advising customers to consider the ● Sponsoring UNEP Publications BTMU environment, by referring to the Equator Principles from an early The nonprofit organization Associates of the Earth conducts ● TBLI Conference MUTB stage of a project. various activities in support of the work of the United Nations MUTB cosponsored the TBLI ConferenceTM Asia 2010 (TBLI meanEnvironment Programme (UNEP), including hosting events in ing Triple Bottom Line Investing ), which held discussions on a Japan in connection with UNEP's World Environment Photo Exhi● Participating in the United Nations BTMU MUTB wide range of topics, including Socially Responsible Investing bition, and by publishing Japanese-language editions of the UNEP Environment Programme Finance Initiative (SRI), emissions trading, and microfinance. This conference, held publications Our Planet and TUNZA. In addition to cosponsoring This is a is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial in Yokohama in May 2009, was the first TBLI Asia conference to these magazines, BTMU distributes them at its branches in Japan. sector with the mission to identify, promote, and realise the be held in Japan; the second TBLI Asia conference was held in adoption of the best environmental and sustainability practice at Tokyo in May 2010. MUTB representatives served on panel discusall levels of financial institution operations. sions at both conferences, giving presentations entitled Asset UNEP FI and the United Nations' Global Compact jointly Management and ESG (in FY 2009) and Real Estate Eco19 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Our Stakeholders and the MUFG Group The MUFG Group's business activities are founded on the support of our various stakeholders. We will continue working to maintain mutually harmonious and prosperous relations with all our stakeholders and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. Environment and Shareholders Future Generations The MUFG Group is listed on the The MUFG Group indirectly influTok yo, O saka , Nagoya and N ew ences the environmental impacts Yo r k s t o c k e xc h a n g e s , a n d h a s of o u r c u s to m e r s' o p e rat i o n s a p p r ox im at e ly 7 70 , 0 0 0 in s t itu through financing and the provitional and individual shareholders. sion of various financial services. W e a l s o u s e e l e c t r i c i t y, g a s , water and other resources and e m it CO 2 a n d wa s t e fr o m o ur business activities and offices. Local and International Customers Communities The MUFG Group provides services The MUFG Group operates in to approximately 40 million hundreds of communities in Japan MUFG individual customers and 500,000 and overseas, with 811 domestic retail branches, 335 domestic Group corporate customers. We have about 124 trillion yen in deposits and 79 corporate branches and 118 overtrillion yen in loans outstanding. s e a s b ra n c h e s ( p l u s 4 0 4 U n i o n Bank branches in North America) (see Note). Employees Business Partners The MUFG Group has 236 T h e M U F G G r o u p h a s d i ve r s e consolidated subsidiaries with business partners including about 130,000 employees in total providers of financial products on a consolidated basis. and services and partners in business alliances. Note: Total number of the branch offices of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (As of March 31, 2011) 20 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Dialogue with Experts: The Sixth Stakeholder Dialogue The MUFG Group's sixth dialogue session with stakeholders was held on August 12, 2011. Experts in the environment, finance, and related fields joined MUFG Group executives responsible for CSR to discuss two main themes: the role of a financial group in creating a sustainable society; and evaluation and the expected role of the MUFG Group's CSR activities. Participants greater willingness to work toward the realization of a sustainable society. Given this context, for financial institutions to be able to fulfill their role in society, it will be important for them to clearly identify their own corporate philosophies and to re-evaluate their approaches to contributing to society. At the same time, because they are operating within a globalized economic environment and society, another key point for financial institutions will be how they can undertake collaborative activities together with their business partners, as well as local communities and governments. Mr. Matsuura: In 2006, UNESCO invited experts from around the world to participate in a dialogue on the future of humanity and the Earth. Through this effort we realized that a sustainable society requires the involvement all of society, and individuals should work to realize Kazuhiro Ueta Sachiko Kishimoto Koichiro Matsuura Noriyuki Yanagawa Professor of Environmental Economics Executive Director, Center sustainable lifestyles. Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) is a framework for Maison franco-japonaise President, Associate Professor, Graduate and Public Finance, Graduate School for Public Resources Former Director-General of School of Economics, learning about the problems confronting our world and for taking action to shift society of Economics, Kyoto University Development UNESCO The University of Tokyo onto a sustainable path in order to solve such problems. I think it is very commendable that MUFG has created a fund in cooperation with the National Federation of UNESCO AssociaTo help realize a sustainable society, tions in Japan in order to work for the healthy development of the next generation. I think a guiding philosophy and dialogue with society are vital. that another role that major financial institutions can play would be to serve in a sense as think tanks that consider the future of our planet based on a long-term perspective. Facilitator: What roles are financial groups being called on to play when it comes to creating a Ms. Kishimoto: I think that finance is, in essence, building the future. This requires that financial institutions study sustainable society? the direction in which society is headed, including what industries and lifestyles will help create Mr. Yanagawa: I think that the consciousness of citizens and corporations has changed as a result of the Great the society of future. They also have a role in coordinating the efforts of various projects and comEast Japan Earthquake. I think this disaster will result in a growing momentum in support of panies, thus fostering those industries most suited to the trends of the times. Financial institutions efforts to proactively address social issues, and it will lead to a diversification of views and a should make the most of their abilities to influence social investments and to evaluate results, 21 ■ Governance, Commitments, and Engagement MUFG CSR Report 2011 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement thereby promoting a balance between corporate social responsibilities and business endeavors. I stakeholders, so that in-depth discussions and evaluations can be held concerning each project. would also like to see financial institutions help Japan create a market for philanthropy similar to Mr. Ueta: Because finance is the lifeblood of economic activity, financial institutions must continually exerthat in the United States, where the scale of philanthropy is equivalent to some 20 trillion yen. cise good judgment with respect to how they will pursue their facilitative role. For financial instiMr. Ueta: In order to be able to address global environmental problems and other global challenges, it is tutions to be able to undertake business activities that are guided by CSR considerations, it will be essential to adopt a future-oriented attitude, one in which we continuously face the challenges necessary for them to continuously evaluate their approaches in light of the changing context of that confront us. The efforts of a single financial group are insufficient to create a sustainable socinational and international markets and trends, as well as to keep making efforts to develop new ety; this will be an effort requiring cooperation among communities, governments, and all of interstyles of operating. I think that this will lead to the birth of many new models through which businational society. To help make this possible, it will be important for financial institutions to maintain nesses can remain profitable while also making important contributions to social change. their own vision, while allowing their approaches and efforts to evolve based on dialogue with Mr. Yanagawa: As the concept of CSR evolves and expands, companies are beginning to develop a wide other stakeholders. In order to anticipate the investment needs of the future and allocate financial variety of approaches. However, the distinctiveness of these various approaches tends to not be resources appropriately and with conviction, we must have talented, adaptable, and ethical personconveyed very well through the reports that are released by various companies. I think that the nel; it will therefore be important to keep investing in the development of human resources. MUFG Group is still in the process of figuring out how your reports can best express your uniqueness. Your defining philosophy and policies are clear, and there are many examples of International financial groups should develop and promote specific activities, but perhaps you should give more thought as to their own distinctiveness and style. how to highlight the concepts that link these together. Strong expressions of individuality tend to be avoided within Japanese culture, but I Facilitator: What is your evaluation of the CSR activities of the MUFG Group? think that one of your tasks as a financial group operating on the Mr. Matsuura: I think that the Environmental Action Plan and the priority themes for CSR activities international stage will be to clearly convey the commitment guiding have been quite solid, and that your efforts can be readily understood, even at an interyour efforts and the contributions that they are making. national level. To the extent that you can clearly convey your philosophy and how it is Hamakawa: Thank you very much for all of the valuable feedback and ideas that linked to the concrete actions that you are pursuing, I think that stakeholders both you have provided. We will take to heart the insights that you have inside and outside Japan will be able to better understand and appreciate your efforts. provided today as we pursue CSR initiatives within the MUFG Group. Ichiro Hamakawa Ms. Kishimoto: It will be very beneficial for your efforts for you to report on how you are promoting your CSR We look forward to your further cooperation in the future. Managing Director, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group operations in relation to the two priority themes for your CSR activities, making sure to include explanations and evaluations of the activities that are being undertaken. In regard to your work MUFG Group Participant Ichiro Hamakawa, Managing Director, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Takashi Oyamada, Managing Director, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ on global environmental issues, I hope that the eight project teams that are now undertaking Tatsuo Wakabayashi, Senior Managing Director, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking cross-cutting activities throughout the entire MUFG Group will firmly keep in mind the PDCA Fumio Yoshimatsu, Senior Executive Officer, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings Haruo Inoue, Director＆Managing Executive Officer, Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS approach as they manage their activities. In order to promote successful CSR activities across Masaki Okada, General Manager, CSR Promotion Division, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group such a large financial group, it will be important to ensure ample opportunities for dialogue with Facilitator Mayumi Shiratsuchi, Dentsu 22 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Economy MUFG CSR Report 2011 Management Approach and Performance Indicators : Economy Relations with Shareholders and Investors We strive to increase our corporate value by improving our reliability as a financial institution, manifesting our comprehensive strengths as a Group, and responding to the expectations of customers and society. We are also striving to enhance two-way communication with our shareholders. Medium-Term Business Plan ● Basic Stance on Investor Relations MUFG ● Shareholder Composition (Common Shares) MUFG Today, the quality and appropriateness of information disclosure Financial Products Traders 2.6% National or Local Governments 0.0% ● Shifting Focus to Accelerating Growth Strategies MUFG have become essential issues from the viewpoint of investor Other Investors FY 2011 is the final year of our Medium-Term Business Plan, protection. The MUFG Group undertakes investor relations (Individuals and Others) Financial Institutions 15.7% 32.8% which began from FY 2009, and an important year for realizing activities that fairly and promptly provide the market with accusustained growth. rate information on our financial conditions and business strateWe will work to further improve efficiency while maintaining a gies, and boost shareholder value by reflecting market percepOther Corporations sound financial foundation, and aim at further earnings growth tion into the management process. 16.6% with promoting growth strategies, strengthening operating The MUFG website has won high acclaim, including awards as a foundations, and promoting CSR management and strengthsuperior site from two external rating companies. ening the MUFG brand as priority issues for enhancing sharewww.mufg.jp/english/ holder returns. Overseas Corporations 32.1% ● IR Activities for Institutional Investors MUFG Note: Excluding treasury shares; percentages calculated to the first decimal point. ● Maintaining a Solid Financial Foundation MUFG We proactively provide information to domestic and foreign institu(As of March 31, 2011) Our financial base remains firm with a consolidated capital ratio tional investors by holding investor meetings regarding our financial of 14.89% and a Tier 1 (core equity capital) ratio of 11.33% results and using various other channels. We also carry out diverse due to measures to strengthen capital including public issues of activities such as welcoming interviews and regularly visiting investors. ● MUFG Selected for SRI Indexes MUFG common shares. The non-performing loan ratio continues to In recent years, socially responsible investment (SRI) has become remain at a low level of 1.68% (all figures as of March 31, ● Shareholder Benefit Program (MUFG Shareholder Club) MUFG increasingly popular in the world of asset management as a 2011). For further details, please see our website. The MUFG Shareholder Club, which is the first shareholder benstandard for investment decisions that are based not only on www.mufg.jp/english/ir/fs/ efit program provided by a Japanese mega-bank, provides preffinancial perspectives, but also the broader views of society erential services making use of the comprehensive strengths of including environmental considerations and social contributions. Capital Management and IR the MUFG Group including preferential interest rates on time MUFG has been selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index deposits and discounted stock trading commissions. Series, the ESI Excellence Global, the MS-SRI (Morningstar SRI ● Appropriate Management of Capital MUFG Stock Index) (as of April 2011) and other SRI indexes. In our aim to raise corporate value, our capital management ● General Shareholders Meeting MUFG emphasizes maintaining balance between strengthening equity The sixth Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was held in capital, enhancing shareholder returns, and strategic investment June 2011 at the Nippon Budokan (Tokyo). A webcast of the meetfor sustained growth. ing can be viewed at the following site: www.mufg.jp/stock/meeting/ (in Japanese) 23 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Economy MUFG CSR Report 2011 Management Approach and Performance Indicators : Economy Relations with Business Partners The MUFG Group works with a wide range of business partners, including institutions that provide financial products and services and business alliance partners. We strive for fairness in all interactions with these business partners, and work to create value through collaboration. ● Fairness in Business MUFG which is produced using appropriate forest management pracExamples of Major Business Partnerships The MUFG Group has included two items in our Ethical Frametices and is otherwise manufactured in an eco-friendly manner. Date Business Partner MUFG Details work and Code of Conduct to create and sustain healthy relaWe respect companies that have obtained environmental certifiNagoya University Launched energy conservation tionships with our business partners— strict observance of laws cations and otherwise try to protect the environment, and work Apr. 2010 Hospital MUL support services. and regulations, and prohibition of unfair transactions and to deepen our partnerships with such companies. disavowal of anti-social and criminal elements —and in FY 5. Requesting Cooperation from Suppliers Launched alliance with China Jul. 2010 China UnionPay MUN UnionPay for affiliate merchant 2009 also announced its Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social We ask that our suppliers maintain fair and sound business pracnetwork in Japan. Elements. We maintain fairness in business by carefully observtices. This includes respect for basic human rights, compliance Board of Investments, Signed memorandum on cooperaing the law under all circumstances, and by building fair and with laws and regulations, elimination of business with antiJul. 2010 Republic of the Philippines BTMU tion for investment promotion. sound partnerships, while ensuring that we do not support social, corrupt, or criminal elements, and environmental considanti-social, corrupt, or criminal elements. erations. Sep. 2010 Seven Bank, Ltd. MUTB Launched alliance for using ATMs. 6. Maintaining Partnerships with Suppliers ● Approach to Purchasing Activity MUFG We respect all companies that we do business with as partDec. 2010 Netherlands Foreign BTMU Launched comprehensive Investment Agency business alliance. The MUFG Group purchases paper and other materials in accorners, and we strive to maintain relationships of trust and dance with the principles discussed below. cooperation by treating them with honesty and as equals. We Feb. 2011 UFIT Co., Ltd BTMU Established joint venture for the processing municipal tax payments. 1. Fair and Honest Selection and Treatment of Suppliers do not use a dominant bargaining position to demand or We determine suppliers fairly and honestly based on economic receive unfair benefits. Mar. 2011 Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd. MUN Began handling manaca IC common sense. We do not give special treatment to specific Card suppliers without any appropriate reasons, nor do we treat any ● Creating New Societal Value through Collaboration MUFG The Republic of Turkey, Prime Concluded investment promotion Mar. 2011 Ministry, Investment Support BTMU suppliers unfairly. Collaboration with business partners holds the potential for cooperation agreement. and Promotion Agency 2. Compliance with Laws and Social Norms creating new societal value by making the most of the merits of When purchasing goods, we comply with all related laws, regueach company's core businesses. We strive to develop relationSWS MU FUND Dispatch of directors, and consoliApr. 2011 MUTB lations and rules, and act based on high ethical standards. ships with our business partners based on this understanding MANAGEMENT CO., LTD. dation as an equity-method affiliate. 3. Secure Management of Confidential Information not only to provide services and products that are more useful We securely manage all confidential information about suppliers to society, but also to contribute to the development of healthy that we obtain through purchasing activities. financial markets and the construction and development of 4. Environmental Considerations social infrastructure. We consider environmental implications, such as mitigation of global warming and biodiversity protection, when making purchasing decisions. In principle, we only purchase office paper 24 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 Environmental Policies and Initiatives Management Approach and Performance Indicators: We work to reduce impacts on the environment and consider biodiversity through our core business as a financial institution, by providing financing to environmentally friendly business activities. Basic Policies and Structures ● Acquisition of ISO 14001 Certification MUFG Environment ISO 14001 is an international standard for management systems Reducing environmental impacts and helping create a sustainthat aim to protect the environment. This standard requires that able society are key concerns for the MUFG Group. To address the environmental impacts of business activities continually be these concerns in a unified way, in March 2006 we formulated reduced. The following locations in the MUFG Group had the MUFG Group Environmental Statement and Policy. Based on acquired ISO 14001 certification: a shared awareness within the MUFG Group of the critical ・Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. nature of global environmental challenges, in June 2008 we also —Marunouchi Head Office, Otemachi Building, Nagoya Buildadopted the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, which provides ing, Osaka Building guidelines for concrete actions to deal with the environmental ・Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation issues. Our efforts relating to the environment are based on the —Marunouchi Main Office Building, Konan Building philosophy and principles outlined in these policies. ・Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (The MUFG Group Environmental Statement and Policy and the —Divisions within the Marunouchi Building (including the MUFG Environmental Action Policy can be found on page 7). Clean Energy Finance Division in the Toyosu Building and the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Head Office Building Corporate Administration Division in the Mitsubishi Building) ● Actions Based on the MUFG Environmental MUFG ・Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd. Action Policy —Head Office Building Eight cross-cutting Environmental Project Teams (see Note) ・Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Limited have been created to advance concrete actions in their respec—All locations in Japan and affiliate companies (MUL Business tive fields based on our Environmental Action Policy. The MUFG Company Limited and MUL Eco-Business Co., Ltd.) Environmental Action Policy Promotion Committee, which includes officials responsible from each company, holds quarterly meetings to periodically follow the progress of efforts by each team. In this way, the MUFG Group continues to work to raise the level of its environmental efforts, based on an awareness of the special role that it can play as a comprehensive financial services group, through the provision of goods and services that mobilize financial flows for the benefit of the environment. Note: Environmental Project Teams: Eight cross-cutting teams within the MUFG Group that address environmental activities based on customer segments or themes (for individuals, domestic corporations, pension funds, overseas, credit screening, markets, internal, and social contributions). 25 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 Reducing Environmental Impacts Management Approach and Performance Indicators: MUFG Group companies share a common concern about environmental issues and are working to reduce their impacts on the environment. MUFG Group Environmental Burden Data and Greenhouse Gas Emissions1 Environmental Burden Data FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Item (GRI Indicators2 ) Units MUFG 4 companies MUFG Total MUFG 4 companies MUFG Total MUFG 4 companies MUFG Total Environment The MUFG Group continued this fiscal year to compute environmental impact Indicator Accuracy3 Indicator Accuracy3 Indicator Accuracy3 Indicator Accuracy3 Indicator Accuracy3 Indicator Accuracy3 Total floor space4 '000㎡ 2,130 2,226 2,186 2,282 2,255 2,348 data and greenhouse gas emissions for each of the main Group companies. Floor space monitored '000㎡ 1,791 1,888 1,882 1,980 1,974 2,069 The table summarizing MUFG Group Environmental Impact Data and GreenCoverage rate 5 ％ 84.1％ 84.8％ 86.1％ 86.8％ 87.5％ 88.1％ Direct energy consumption (EN3) house Gas Emissions includes data for the four main MUFG Group companies ■□□ ■■■ ■■■ ■■■ City gas '000㎥ 5,362 5,498 ■■□ 3,928 ■■■ 4,022 4,276 4,393 (MUFG, BTMU, MUTB and MUMSS) that have set targets for emissions of Heavy oil kl 2,205 ■■■ 2,205 ■■■ 1,948 ■■■ 1,948 ■■■ 1,714 ■■■ 1,714 ■■■ Kerosene kl 184 ■□□ 184 ■□□ 119 ■■■ 119 ■■■ 134 ■■■ 134 ■■■ greenhouse gases in 2012 (not including MUN), and indicates totals for these Indirect energy consumption (EN4) four companies (MUFG 4 companies), as well the total for all major compaElectricity '000kWh 555,526 ■■■ 584,166 ■■■ 504,729 ■■■ 532,065 ■■■ 505,865 ■■■ 531,761 ■■■ Steam GJ 42,544 ■□□ 43,257 ■□□ 22,603 ■■■ 23,476 ■■■ 33,290 ■■■ 34,122 ■■■ nies within the MUFG Group (MUFG Total). Hot water GJ 1,959 ■■■ 1,959 ■■■ 3,910 ■■■ 4,090 ■■■ With respect to CO2 emissions from indirect energy purchases of electricity, Cold water GJ 14,477 ■■■ 19,282 ■■■ 13,802 ■■■ 18,261 ■■■ 29,962 ■■■ 35,372 ■■■ two values are calculated starting with FY 2009: those based on adjusted Energy use from employee travel and transportation (EN29) Air route (international routes) '000km 63,076 ■□□ 63,392 ■□□ 48,912 ■□□ 49,228 ■□□ 56,827 ■■□ 56,982 ■■□ emission factors announced by each electric power provider (which subtract Automobiles (gasoline) kl 3,829 ■■■ 4,005 ■■■ 3,540 ■■■ 3,626 ■■■ 3,575 ■■■ 3,615 ■■■ Kyoto Protocol-related credits and other adjustments based on the Act on Water usage efficiency (EN8) Tap water '000㎥ 2,192 ■□□ 2,326 ■□□ 2,185 ■■□ 2,301 ■■□ 2,098 ■■□ 2,225 ■■□ Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures), and those based on actual Waste water '000㎥ 2,010 ■□□ 2,084 ■□□ 1,686 ■■□ 1,754 ■■□ 1,554 ■■□ 1,633 ■■□ (non-adjusted) emission factors. Total CO2 emissions for the MUFG Group Carbon dioxide emissions 6 Direct CO2 emissions (EN16) 7 t 18,644 ■■□ 18,923 ■■□ 14,354 ■■■ 14,546 ■■■ 14,538 ■■■ 14,802 ■■■ declined from FY 2009 levels by approximately 14,000 tons based on actual Indirect CO2 emissions (EN16) 8 t 237,950 ■■■ 250,416 ■■■ 212,855 ■■■ 224,739 ■■■ 199,622 ■■■ 210,191 ■■■ emission factors, and by approximately 3,000 tons based on adjusted emisAdjusted emission factors (EN16) 8 t 174,952 ■■■ 184,758 ■■■ 171,506 ■■■ 180,648 ■■■ Other indirect CO2 emissions (EN17) 9 t 17,310 ■■□ 17,812 ■■□ 14,823 ■■□ 15,112 ■■□ 15,702 ■■□ 15,875 ■■□ sion factors. Compared to the FY 2000 baseline (298,000 tons of total CO2 Total CO2 emissions (actual emission factors) t 273,904 ■■■ 287,151 ■■■ 242,032 ■■■ 254,398 ■■■ 229,863 ■■■ 240,868 ■■■ emissions), total emissions of CO 2 for the four core MUFG companies (Adjusted emission factors) 10 t 204,130 ■■■ 214,417 ■■■ 201,747 ■■■ 211,324 ■■■ CO2 emissions per unit of floor space (actual emission factors) t/'000㎡ 129 129 111 111 102 103 declined by 68,000 tons based on actual emission factors (23%), and 96,000 (Adjusted emission factors) 10 t/'000㎡ 93 94 89 90 tons based on adjusted emission factors (32%). In establishing the transparency of our data disclosure, we have classified the − Indicates not applicable. Units: '000㎡ = thousand square meters; '000㎥ = thousand cubic meters; kl = kiloliters; '000kWh = thousand kilowatt-hours; GJ = gigajoules; t = tons 1. Measurement totals include five companies: MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS and MUN. Data for to the total floor space; this rate is used to calculate the weighted average of greenhouse gas data in accordance with ISO 14064 (specifications for quantification and MUMSS includes data for MUSHD, with the exception of energy consumption for employee emissions for each category of environmental burden data. travel and road transportation (EN29). 6. CO 2 emission factors are presented based on the factors used in Japan's Ministerial Ordinance reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals). For calculations of 2. The environmental numbers (EN) shown here indicate the performance indicators and protocols Concerning Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Arising from Business Activities of outline d in the 20 0 6 Rep or ting Guid eline s of the Glo bal Rep or ting I ns titute ( G R I ) . Specified Emitters. CO 2 emissions are categorized following the five greenhouse gas inventory environmental impact data and greenhouse gas emissions, we obtained (www.globalreporting.org) components defined in ISO 14064 Part 1 ( Specification with guidance at the organization level 3. Margins of error are indicated as follows: ■■■ indicates that highly accurate data have been expert advice from Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC. (This advice did not include for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals ). collected from most offices (error within ±3%); ■■□ indicates that highly accurate data have 7. CO2 emissions associated with EN3 (direct energy consumption). an auditor's opinion or certification.) been collected from major offices (error within ±7.5%); ■ □ □ indicates a wider range of 8. CO2 emissions associated with EN4 (indirect energy consumption). measurements and data requiring greater precision (error greater than 7.5%). 9. Includes CO 2 emissions from energy consumption associated with transporting company In the future, we will work to expand the scope of items included within our 4. In FY 2010, the total area of floor space occupied was 1,763,000 square meters for MUFG and officers and employees, including domestic travel by road (gasoline) and overseas air travel BTMU combined; 360,000 square meters for MUTB; 132,000 square meters for MUMSS; and (EN29) and efficient water use (EN8). environmental impact data calculations, and to further improve the accuracy 93,000 square meters for MUN. 10. CO2 emissions related to electricity have been calculated using adjusted emission factors since 5. The coverage rate represents the percentage of floor space for which data is collected relative FY 2009. of the data. 26 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 Reducing Our Environmental Impacts sions through energy conservation and other activities under separate waste into 13 categories and recycle more than 90% its environmental management systems, as well as by purchasof their waste. Management Approach and Performance Indicators: ing emission credits to offset the greenhouse gas emissions To actively promote recycling, MUMSS sorts waste into six All MUFG Group companies are implementing plans for phasing associated with its operations. categories, and MUTB separates wastes into 19 categories at in more environmentally friendly equipment at their offices and By 2009, BTMU and MUTB had acquired a combined 90,000 its main office building and 18 categories at its Konan Building. sales outlets. Efforts are also being made to reduce energy contons of CO2 emission credits. sumption and to cut CO2 emissions, including through reduced MUMSS receives a portion of its compensation for CDM con● Leading the Banking Industry in Adopting BTMU MUTB lighting and discontinuing the use of extra elevators, promoting sulting services in the form of emission credits, which are Use of Electric Vehicles casual attire in the summertime and changing the temperature applied as offsets. Environment settings for air conditioning and heating, and having staff turn Meanwhile, MUN has introduced a program that allows In FY 2009, BTMU and MUTB became the first companies in customers to take the points they earn from using their credit Japan's banking industry to introduce electric vehicles for offioff their computers and monitors when they step away from cards and exchange them for carbon offsets. cial business use. These eco-friendly vehicles produce no CO 2 their desks. emissions when operated, and have total emissions (including CO2 emissions from the electricity used for charging) that are ● Reducing Paper Consumption MUFG only 30% of the level of emissions from gasoline vehicles in ● Reducing CO2 Emissions MUFG MUFG Group companies work to reduce the amount of copythe same class. BTMU is making an effort to utilize renewable energy, and has ing paper used in their offices, and also to recycle used paper. installed solar and wind power generation equipment for its To the extent possible, Group companies are also switching to Nagoya Building. In addition, BTMU is working to reduce elecFSC-certified paper and environmentally friendly inks (such as tricity consumption by installing upgraded heating systems and vegetable-based ink) for brochures and printed materials automatic lighting controls at each of its buildings. distributed at branches. MUTB is reducing energy consumption, including through installing energy-efficient equipment at its main buildings, and ● Otemachi Building Commended by Tokyo BTMU through more efficient area-lighting systems, utilize dimmers Metropolitan Government and motion sensors. MUMSS is augmenting its ongoing energy conservation meaThe Tokyo Metropolitan Government instituted the Tokyo sures by joining the government's Cool Earth Day, an event CO 2 Emissions Reduction Program, under which large-scale The i-MiEV Electric Vehicle held on July 7 (the date of Japan's traditional Tanabata festibusiness establishments calculate and report their emissions of val); all employees are encouraged to leave work by 6 p.m. to greenhouse gases and establish emission targets; as a result of ● Eco-Friendly Promotional Goods MUMSS participate. this program, BTMU's Otemachi Building achieved the highest MUN conserves energy by utilizing a universal plan office possible rating ( AAA ), and in March 2011 received a comMUFG Group companies also give consideration to the envilayout having no pillars or dividers in a space of 130 square mendation from the Governor of Tokyo. This high rating was ronment in connection to the promotional items that are meters. This leads to improved efficiency for air conditioning achieved due to significant reductions in CO 2 emissions resultpresented to customers, by using PVC-free materials and other and lighting systems, and allows employees to share a smaller ing from measures implemented at this building, including measures. number of facsimile machines, copiers, and other types of upgrading the heating system, reducing the use of lighting, MUMSS provides Blue Dolphin's Natural Soap (a 100% natuoffice equipment. MUN has also begun replacing all of the and installing dimmers. ral, additive-free soap) as an environmentally friendly promocompany's beverage vending machines with energy-saving tional item. This soap is made by a social services organization models utilizing heat pumps. that supports disabled persons to be independent, and is sold ● Reducing Waste MUFG by a nonprofit organization that promotes an appreciation of MUFG Group companies are working actively to separate and the global environment through awareness of dolphins and ● Carbon Offsets MUFG recycle waste. BTMU's main office buildings in Tokyo, Nagoya, whales. The MUFG Group is working to reduce greenhouse gas emisand Osaka have acquired ISO 14001 certification; these offices 27 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 BTMU Environmental Targets and Results MUTB Environmental Targets and Results MUMSS Environmental Targets and Results Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction of Copy Paper Use Reduction of Copy Paper Use Medium to Reduce FY2012 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% from the FY2010 target at Conducted campaign to reduce copy paper use at FY2010 targets Reduce by 3% from FY2007 level (see Note) long-term plan FY2000 level. Main Office Building Main Office Building. Consumption per person (Marunouchi Building): 55.7 Results Reduce FY2010 greenhouse gas emissions by 5% from the Made internal announcements of copy paper use kilograms (32.5% reduction) FY2010 targets FY2009 level. reductions for each division and office at Main Office Building. Reduction of Electricity Use Results Because of the record-hot summer, the targets were not Copy paper purchases for Main O f fice Building : Environment achieved except at the Nagoya Building: A pprox. 310 tons ( 6.3% reduc tion compared to Implemented trial measures to reduce electricity use, with FY2010 targets ・ Head Office Building: 4% reduction, Otemachi Building: previous fiscal year). aim of realizing MUFG Environmental Action Policy goals. Results 2% reduction ・ Nagoya Building: 5% reduction, Osaka Building: 1% reducWaste Recycling Set computer monitor displays to turn off when employtion ees are away from their desks, and encouraged employees FY2010 target at Implement waste sorting programs at Main Office Results to avoid working late. Main Office Building Building. Total CO 2 emissions at all business establishments: Reducing Paper Consumption 8,395.50 tons (25.0% reduction compared with FY2000). Medium to Checked compliance with waste-sorting rules at each Reduce use of copy paper. Results Note: FY 2007 has been set as the base year. long-term plan Main Office Building division and office in August 2010, November 2010 and February 2011. FY2010 targets Reduce copy paper use by 10% compared to FY2008. MUN Environmental Impact Reduction Targets Reduction of Energy Use Maintaining Our Green Procurement Ratio Achieved target of 10% reduction compared to FY2008 by Results developing and diligently implementing rules to reduce copy FY2010 target at Implement program to reduce energy use at Main FY2010 target at Achieve a green procurement ratio above 85%. paper use, including through double-sided printing, etc. Main Office Building Office Building. Main Office Building Made internal announcements on the use of air condiGreen procurement ratio: 88%. Waste Reduction tioning outside of business hours, by floor of the main Results Make an adequate ef fort to purchase goods that Medium to Firmly establish zero emissions efforts (a recycling rate of at office. comply with the Act on Promoting Green Purchasing. long-term plan least 95%). Conserved energy by checking the air conditioning settings on the Main Office Building trading floor. Reduction of Copy Paper Use Achieve a recycling rate of at least 95% for waste. Results Clearly indicated which switches control which lights FY2010 targets in Main Office Building offices, and promoted awareFY2010 target at Reduce by 1% per person compared to FY2009. Achieved rec ycling rates of at least 95% (except in the ness about diligently turning off lights. Main Office Building Otemachi Building) through careful sorting of waste: Main Office Building energy consumption per person Results ・Head Office Building: 97%, Otemachi Building: 93% (crude oil equivalent): 1.31 kiloliters (reduction of Reduced by 3.7% per person compared to FY2009. ・Nagoya Building: 99%, Osaka Building: 97% 1.7% from previous fiscal year). Results Achieved targets with double-sided printing, layout printing, and guidelines for the number of copies of printed materials distributed at meetings. Prevention of Air Pollution Medium to Reduction of Electricity Use Work at reducing air pollution from vehicle emissions. long-term plan FY2010 target at Reduce by 1% per person compared to FY2009. R e d u ce F Y 2010 co m m e rcia l ve hi cl e s by 420 ve hi cl e s Main Office Building FY2010 targets compared with FY2009. Reduced by 7.3% per person compared to FY2009. Reduced by 407 vehicles, slightly below target (97% achieveGoals achieved by diligently turning off lights in Results Results ment rate). sections of offices not being used and turning off computer monitors when employees leave their desks. 28 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 Table 1. Costs of Environmental Measures (Units: million yen) ● Environmental Accounting Information MUFG Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Previous period Previous period Current period Environmental for Our Offices conservation costs FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Category Details compared to FY20092 The MUFG Group measures and reports environmental impact Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense3 data and greenhouse gas emissions quantities for all core Group companies. 1. Operations Area costs 931 415 1,640 745 2,935 1,488 1,295 743 MUFG introduced and began sharing the results of our environCosts for asbestos surveys, removal, 1-1. Costs for pollution prevention measurement and inspection, etc. 119 147 321 174 mental accounting from FY 2009, as part of our environmenInvestments: Installation of energy-efficient lighting and Environment Details 1-2. Costs for addressing air conditioning equipment, etc. 931 188 1,640 514 2,935 1,102 1,295 588 tally conscious business activities, for the quantitative manageglobal environmental issues Costs: Depreciation for energy-efficient equipment, etc. ment of our environmental efforts. Table 1 (Costs of Environ1-3. Costs for reuse of resources Disposal of general and industrial waste 108 84 65 (19) mental Measures) presents the aggregate results for the costs of 2. Upstream/downstream costs Group environmental measures, beginning with FY 2008. Development/operation of environmental management 3. Costs for management activities 1 645 393 8 320 8 (73) Table 2 (Benefits of Environmental Measures) presents data systems, environmental information disclosure; etc. regarding the benefits of these environmental measures, includ4. Costs for research and development ing the consumption of fuel, electricity, heating and other Charitable contributions related 5. Social activity costs to environmental conservation, etc. 241 103 108 5 factors, as well as CO2 emissions. 6. Environmental remediation costs We aim to further enhance the Group's environmental measures Total 932 1,301 1,640 1,241 2,943 1,916 1,303 675 and build upon the benefits, as demonstrated through this environmental accounting, of the environmental actions taken by Table 2. Benefits of Environmental Measures the Group's core companies. 2 periods prior Previous period Current period Environmental Category Environmental performance indicators (units) benefits FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 4 compared to FY20095 □ Period covered: April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011 City gas '000 ㎥ 5,498 4,022 4,393 (371) □ Companies included : Core Group companies ( MUFG, Oil kl 2,205 1,948 1,714 234 BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS and MUN).1 □ Accounting method: Based on Environmental AccountKerosene kl 184 119 134 (15) Environmental benefits ing Guidelines 2005, published by Japan's Ministr y of related to resource inputs Electricity ’000 kWh 584,166 532,065 531,761 304 the Environment. for business activities Steam GJ 43,257 23,476 34,122 (10,646) Cold water GJ 19,282 1,959 4,090 (2,131) Tap water ’000 ㎥ 2,326 18,261 35,372 (17,111) Environmental benefits related Actual CO2 emissions based on GHG emission factors t-CO2 287,151 254,398 240,868 13,530 to goods and services produced 1. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co, Ltd. (MUN) began compiling figures in FY2010. Other companies began through business activities compiling figures in FY2008. Waste water ’000 ㎥ 2,084 1,754 1,633 121 2. Values for FY2009 are subtracted from those for FY2010. Positive numbers indicate an increase in the cost associated with environmental measures. Energy consumption associated with transportation ’000 km 63,392 49,228 56,982 (7,754) 3. Increased Operations Area costs resulted from installing energy-efficient equipment for lighting and air for officers and employees: air travel (international routes) conditioning at branches and company office buildings. Other environmental benefits 4. Achieved values of the environmental performance indicators show the totals for core Group companies. Energy consumption associated with road kl 4,005 3,626 3,615 11 5. Values for FY2009 are subtracted from those for FY2010. Positive numbers indicate that measures transportation for officers and employees: gasoline resulted in a decrease in volumes of inputs or emissions. 29 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 Biodiversity Management Approach and Performance Indicators: We are engaged in activities to protect the rich natural environment and pass on the blessings of nature to future generations. ● Raising Awareness of Biodiversity MUTB 34.8-hectare parcel of wetlands in Nemuro City, Hokkaido, and In keeping with the Ministry of the Environment's slogan on established the Wild Bird Society of Japan–MUTB Rakuyo Bird Environment biodiversity— For All the Life on Earth —MUTB strives to preSanctuary. serve a variety of existing ecosystems, and to leave behind an abundance of life for future generations. As a member of the Japan Business Initiative for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity (JBIB), launched in April 2008, we promote awareness-raising activities together with other companies that are environmental leaders. MUTB participated in the JBIB booth at the Tenth Conference of the Parties (COP 10) to the Convention on Biological Diversity, which took place in October 2010 in Nagoya. Side event held jointly with UNEP FI ● The Wild Bird and Greenery Trust Fund for MUTB Environmental Conservation MUTB created the Wild Bird and Greenery Trust fund as a finanThe Wild Bird Society of Japan–MUTB Rakuyo Bird Sanctuary (Nemuro City, Hokkaido) cial vehicle to support environmental conservation activities; income from this trust fund is donated to the Wild Bird Society ● Side Event in Collaboration with UNEP FI MUFG of Japan. When payments are made to this society, MUTB proThe MUFG Group held a joint side event at the Tenth Confervides a matching contribution from its own funds (a minimum ence of the Parties (COP 10) to the Convention on Biological of 500,000 yen, and maximum of 2,500,000 yen, semiDiversity (October 2010 in Nagoya), together with the United annually), further meeting our customers' desire to protect the Nations Environment Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). At environment. As of March 2011, the trust fund's contract this side event, MUFG supported UNEP FI to present a CEO balance was 220,220,000 yen. In FY 2010, donations from the Briefing (survey report). trust fund and matching donations from MUTB totalled This briefing, entitled Incorporating Biological Diversity and 1,130,000 yen. Ecosystem Services into Financing, explained the relationship ● Bird Sanctuary Created for Red-crowned Crane Habitat between biodiversity and the financial industry, introduced many In March 2008, MUTB contributed funds to the Wild Bird Socicase studies, and presented much useful information for the ety of Japan to acquire land to permanently protect from develcore businesses of financial institutions. At the site, an MUTB opment the nesting grounds of the red-crowned crane (also representative also presented information on our biodiversity known as the Japanese crane) in Japan. The society purchased a efforts, including the Wild Bird and Greenery Trust fund. 30 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 We protect the environment through our core businesses of Environmentally Friendly Products and Services Management Approach and Performance Indicators: financial products and services. vert each point into a donation of 5 yen to a volunteer orgaand other activities. Environmentally Friendly Products and Services nization engaged in environmental conservation or similar Note: A Main Bank consolidated statement is a monthly statement that shows at a glance the status of assets and household income and expenditures. (Currently no new requests are activities. ● Supporting Purchases of Eco-Friendly Homes BTMU MUTB accepted for postal mailing, and only the Internet option is accepted). BTMU and MUTB suppor t the greater use of renewable Environment ● Paperless Initiatives MUFG ● Promoting SRI Funds MUFG energy by offering a reduction in interest for a customer who builds or purchases an eco-friendly home meeting BTMU or In September and October 2010, BTMU conducted a promoSocially responsible investing (SRI) is a style of investing that MUTB criteria by having a photovoltaic system installed, and tional c ampaign of fering gif t c ards to cus tomer s who helps create a better society by selecting corporations based so on. switched to an Internet-based option (or no delivery) instead not only on the conventional measures of growth and profitof postal delivery of the Main Bank consolidated statement ability, but also by considering their initiatives for the environ(see Note). This approach reduces the use of paper, helps ment and society, and so on. ● Home Improvement Loans BTMU conserve forest resources and helps prevent climate change. The Mitsubishi UFJ Global Environmental Stock Fund (dubbed Responding to a growing awareness about climate change and MUTB stores electronic versions of some paper pamphlets, Future Vision ) is an investment trust (SRI fund) that invests other environmental issues, BTMU offers incentives such as su c h a s p r o s p e c t u s e s fo r m u t u a l f u n d s b e i n g s o l d i n in shares of companies making an effort to increase profits preferential interest rates on home improvement loans for branches, and has introduced the capability to print and bind and competitiveness while also seeing environmental solueco-friendly improvements. such booklets on demand using copiers. This approach tions and the resolution of environmental problems as busiFor customers to finance home improvements that incorporate reduces the use of paper that would otherwise have been ness opportunities. It has been operating since July 2008. features such as the installation of photovoltaic cells, solar therwasted when branches had to dispose of surplus pamphlets mal electricity generation, heat pumps, heat pump water heatwhen revisions were made. ● Supporting Funds-Procurement for Customers BTMU MUTB ers (such as the Eco Cute), or household fuel cells --we offer MUMSS is working to expand a service that allows customers Promoting Environmental Efforts unsecured loans to cover all installation costs (up to 10 million to view electronically by Internet (in PDF format) about 60 yen) at 0.5% below the posted interest rate for regular loans, types of documents the company sends out, including transThe MUFG Group provides extensive support–from assistance for the entire loan period of up to 15 years. action statements and account statements. Over a threein planning to providing financing–for customers that include month period from June through September 2010, we impleenvironmental consideration in their business, and for mented an e-post sign-up campaign. For every account customer initiatives that aim to reduce greenhouse gas emis● Offering a Service via Credit Cards MUN signed up for this service by the end of the campaign, we sions from business activities. MUN offers a service in which customers can contribute to donated five yen for tree-planting activities in the ShirakamiTo support funds procurement all BTMU branches are making the environment by using points accumulated with credit Sanchi World Heritage Site, for the Save Our Common Treause of our strengths in the banking business by actively procards (MUFG CARD, DC, UFJ Card, or NICOS). sures of the Earth project implemented jointly by MUFG and moting the financing of energy-efficient equipment. We have Customers who select the Carbon Offset option can obtain the National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan. established the Environmental Finance Office inside the Cor0. 2 tons of CO 2 emis sion credit s for ever y 20 0 p oint s MUN is working to expand its service by which customers can porate Banking Business Promotion Division and provide redeemed, allowing them to support efforts under the Kyoto use e-mail or the Internet to verify account statements that extensive suppor t for initiatives that introduce energyProtocol to reduce emissions. would normally be sent by postal service. By reducing the efficient equipment in new factories as well as in office buildCarbon offsetting is an approach to offset the CO 2 emisamount of paper used for account statements, we can reduce ings, retail stores, and so on. sions from daily life and economic activities with emission CO2 emissions by about 500 grams per item mailed. At all of its corporate sales branches nationwide, MUTB offers reductions achieved by activities such as clean energy develAlso, a portion of costs saved by customers signing up to environmental financing schemes and loans utilizing an interopment, forest protection, tree planting, and so on. Meancheck their MUFG CARD statements online will be donated to est subsidy program that suppor ts corporate ef for ts to while, by selecting the Charity option, customers can convolunteer organizations engaged in environmental protection address climate change. 31 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 ● Loans to Generate Emission Credits Factory of The Pack Corporation (Osaka Prefecture) (Photo 1), ● Various Services MUTB MUN BTMU offers Loans to Generate Emission Credits, which have which began operating in July 2011, and financing for reconstrucManagement Approach and Performance Indicators: been developed jointly with MUL. With this loan product, BTMU tion of the Main Plant of Ubukata Industries Co., Ltd. (Aichi Besides what is introduced on previous pages, MUFG Group comprovides financing if certain environment-related criteria have Prefecture) (Photo 2), which began operating in December 2010 panies are engaged in a variety of other initiatives and services to been met. MUL then purchases a year's worth of emission credits with energy efficient features such as highly efficient air condiaddress climate change. after a customer's emission reduction project has resulted in issutioning and up-to-date production processes. We offer a broad ● Eco-Custody ance of a certain amount of emission credits. Besides other benrange of financing to support CO2 emission reduction programs, Eco-Custody is the term MUTB uses to describe its real-estateefits, this product can help reduce operating costs by promoting not only to large corporations such as those indicated above, but related environmental initiatives for corporate customers. Activiinvestments in energy efficiency, and can accelerate the payback also to small and medium-sized enterprises. ties in this area are expanding. Environment on investment by bringing in revenues from the sale of emission Photo 1. Environmental Photo 2. Environmental For example, when a customer recently introduced high-efficiency Management Support Loans Management Support Loans credits. This is an innovative loan product that covers the entire and energy-saving equipment in a building that was entrusted process, from issuance to the purchase of emission credits. from owners, we proposed that they use a government program ● ECO Accreditation Support Loan that promotes energy-saving building refurbishment (offered by BTMU is developing products and services to support customers the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism) and that are smalland medium-sized enterprises working to reduce grants from a Chiyoda Ward subsidy program. Besides reducing impacts on the environment. We offer ECO Accreditation Support installation costs, the customer was able to choose or apply for Loans, which provide 100,000 yen in financing for customers who approaches that save energy. These efforts significantly reduced have already acquired ECO accreditation from an independent the financial burden of installation and operating costs. They also The Pack Corporation (New Tokyo Plant) Ubukata Industries Co. (Main Plant) body or have declared their intent to do so. We also offer contributed significantly to activities for a better environment. For Yukatsuryoku Eco-Action business loans, which come with ● CO2 Reduction Support Loan our trusted property, in the future we intend to continue promotpreferential interest rates for customers that have acquired ISO Since 2009, MUTB has been offering CO 2 Reduction Support ing energy saving and CO 2 emission reductions by improving 14001 or EcoAction 21 certification. Loans, its own specially-developed product with preferential interoperations, by incorporating these objectives into the long-term For small and medium-sized enterprise customers that have est rates for customers that have made a Declaration to Reduce building repair plans, and by utilizing cap and trade system and acquired Eco Stage (see Note) environmental certification, we also CO2 Emissions and wish to secure financing for environmental other opportunities. Through all these activities we will support provide the Eco Stage Bond, a bank-guaranteed private placeinitiatives. One feature of this product is that if the customer is our customers' efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. ment bond with reduced fees for bond issuance. unable to reduce emissions as much as originally declared, money ● Social Contribution-Style Shareholder Benefits Service (Eco SBS) Note: Japan-specific environmental management standards administered by the Eco Stage Institute. deposited at the outset into each segregated account will be MUTB offers corporate customers who use stock transfer agency ● Loans Utilizing the Ministry of the Environment's donated to an environmental cause. This arrangement allows the services the option of adding a Social Contribution Shareholder Interest Subsidy Program customer to publicly demonstrate its commitment to CO2 emisBenefits Service (Eco SBS) to its menu of benefits that shareholdBTMU and MUTB have developed loan products that utilize the sion reductions. ers themselves can choose. This offering allows shareholders to 3% interest subsidy program of Japan's Ministry of the Environact on their desire to make a contribution to society by choosing ment to support companies that have made a pledge to reduce Make a donation for environmental conservation as a share● Emissions Trading-Related Services MUMSS CO2 emissions. We offer financing at lower than the regular interholder benefit. est rates to large, medium, and small corporate customers who MUMSS first became involved in the emissions trading business ● Promoting Value Asset Acquisition have pledged to take steps such as reducing CO2 emissions by a when the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act came into force MUL is actively promoting the acquisition of what we refer to as certain amount. BTMU also arranges syndicated loans that make in October 2007, lifting restrictions on the trading of GHG emisvalue assets that can help to make society more recyclinguse of this subsidy program. sion credits, and allowing such credits to be traded by domestic oriented. Value assets are assets or re-leasable equipment with Through its Environmental Management Support Loans, BTMU is securities companies. MUMSS undertakes a variety of activities in a long service life (such as metal machining equipment and printmaking use of the Ministry of the Environment's 3% interest response to its clients' emission credits purchasing needs, based ing presses) that can be resold after the end of a leasing contract. subsidy program for financing costs for environment-friendly and on the financial know-how that has been accumulated in the Because the value of such value assets declines slowly over time energy-efficient equipment. Examples include loans for efficient securities business, using the credits generated by domestic and and they can generally be used for a long period of time, the use air conditioning systems and logistics processes at the New Tokyo overseas project partners. of value assets results in less waste being created. 32 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 ● Used Equipment Sales Business stage, including a project in Cambodia (Kandal Province) to genersecond largest financier of renewable energy projects in 2010, As a leasing company that deals with physical assets in the course ate electricity from rice husks. So far, we have been involved in and the top financier of such projects for the first nine months of Management Approach and Performance Indicators: of daily business, MUL is aware of its various roles and responsimore than 100 projects, 54 of which have been registered with 2011 (see Note). In the future, BTMU will continue to build on its bilities relating to topics such as waste reduction, and has for the United Nations as CDM projects (as of July 2011). achievements and know-how to further promote renewable years been trading in used equipment. For example, office equip● Fighting Climate Change with New Market Mechanisms energy. ment is reused and recycled through MUL Eco-Business Co., Ltd., One of the latest consulting projects by MUMSS was a feasibility Note: Sur vey findings were published by Project Finance International and Project Finance Magazine, specialty magazines in this field. BTMU also ranked number one overall in project an MUFG affiliate company, which has a complete in-house study for a Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA) financing in the Americas in 2010 and for the first nine months of 2011. system for erasing data, and approaches zero emissions in its from the perspective of supporting efforts to limit emissions from operations (see Note). the transportation sector in a developing country in 2010. The Environment ● Environmental Investment Seminars BTMU Note: Zero emissions refers to systems in society that employ reuse and various other means to project was a case study for an urban transportation master plan result in almost no net emissions or waste. for Vientiane, the capital city of Laos. Climate-related initiatives in BTMU, in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and the transport sector, conducted as NAMAs, are viewed as being Industry (METI), held Environmental Investment Seminars in ● Helping Build the Foundations for the CDM in China MUFG somewhat promising, as they are considered to be more difficult March 2011 in Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka. The seminars provided In June 2008, the MUFG Group concluded an agreement with to implement as CDM projects. an overview of environment-related subsidies and details of China's National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) Recently, we have also been actively involved in activities toward subsidy programs, and separate consultations were also to promote and support efforts in China related to the Clean the period after the Kyoto Protocol ends, such as several projects conducted. A total of 118 companies participated in the three Development Mechanism (CDM). Under the agreement, we have under the Feasibility Studies Program for establishing bilateral seminar s. We will continue to suppor t our cus tomer s' been developing a database system to track CDM activities in offset mechanisms of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry environmental initiatives in the future. China, and implementing training programs for regional local gov(METI) in FY 2010. We also participated in preliminary research to ernment personnel on CDM project management. consider a bilateral offset credit mechanism. ● Briefings on METI Subsidy Programs BTMU Three-day training sessions for 100 to 150 persons each time were held in six regions in China. About 50 persons were selected BTMU organized two briefings on METI subsidies under the ● Emissions Trading-Related Services BTMU to visit Japan for a two-week program that included visits to comprograms to promote siting of low carbon job creating industries panies and organizations active in climate change prevention projBTMU has been involved in numerous renewable energy project and to support strategic basic technology advancement, which ects, facilities demonstrating energy efficiency and environmental financings in North America and Europe. In Europe, BTMU has encourage corporations to invest in environmental businesses. technologies, and presentations on the environmental business been actively participating in a number of projects having chalMETI provided an outline of each program and explained the key initiatives of the MUFG Group. lenging new elements, such as the Crystal Rig wind farm, which requirements for a project to be certified under the programs. In was the first project for renewable energy finance under a new total, 113 companies attended the three briefings. We will regulatory regime adopted by the United Kingdom, and Project continue to share useful government information. CDM Consulting Activities MUMSS Boreas, the U.K.'s first project finance effort for which offshore The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is a mechanism based wind was the main portfolio component. ● Seminars on Energy Conservation Measures MUFG on Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol, designed to meet the dual As for the Americas, in December 2010, BTMU acted as a manobjectives of regional development and the reduction of greendated lead arranger for the Shepherds Flat wind farm in Oregon Japan's Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy is currently house gas emissions. Under the CDM, a developed (Annex I) State, which is among the largest wind projects in North America. being amended, and we are aware that our corporate customers' country offers technical or financial support to a developing This was an innovative financing that made use of the U.S. activities can have a major impact on the reduction of greenhouse (non-Annex I) country, the CO2 emissions reduced as a result are Department of Energy's loan guarantee program for about 80% gas emissions. In this context, we held Seminars on Energy recognized by the United Nations, and allocated to the developed of the total financing, which included the arrangement of tradiConservation Measures in July 2010 to explain concrete solutions country as an emissions credit. Specialized procedures and knowtional bank loans and project-related bonds. to our customers. The seminars held in Osaka and Nagoya were how are needed to conduct a CDM project—to select appropriate Electricity produced by Shepherds Flat will be sold to a California jointly organized by BTMU, MUL, and Mitsubishi UFJ Research & countries and projects, to develop methodologies to calculate power utility pursuant to a twenty-year electricity sales contract. Consulting Co., Ltd. amounts of emissions reduced, and to gain project approval. The 845 megawatt wind farm will provide electricity to over MUMSS became involved in CDM consulting activities at an early 200,000 households. Efforts such as this made BTMU the world's 33 ■ Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Environment MUFG CSR Report 2011 ● Environmental Accounting— Value of Environmental Impact Reductions Achieved through Financing (Annualized Basis) 2 Environmental Finance Projects by Type, 2004-2010 Management Approach and Performance Indicators: Finance to Reduce Environmental Impacts Line and scale on right indicate CO2 emissions reductions as portion of environmental impacts (1,000 tons CO2) Types of Environmental BTMU assesses projects implemented by clients receiving enviMonetary value 3,763 3,802 Finance Projects reduction CO2 reduction (Million yen) ronmental financing, to determine the extent to which the 3,568 amount (%) amount (%) Energy financed activities reduce impacts on the environment; we also 3,000 2,940 400 (Wind power, etc.) 1% 1% 3% 4% 2,619 estimate the economic value of these reductions. This helps 375.8 Recycling 371.0 351.0 7% BTMU better understand how financing environmentally 2,000 300 (Construction debris, etc.) 17% 1,503 314.7 Environment Proper processing and friendly projects indirectly benefits the environment. To ensure 293.6 disposal of waste 1,000 200 (landfills, etc.) 47% 27% 61% the transparency of the estimation process, BTMU's environConstruction of 32% mental assessments follow the ISO 14040 series of standards 158.7 energy-saving buildings 500 100 (shopping malls, etc.) for lifecycle assessment, through which we can identify sub213 Installation of energy-saving stances that have environmental impacts as well as the amount 2.7 equip't & materials 0 0 (auto part makers, etc.) by which these are reduced as a result of designing projects to FY2004 FY2005 FY2006 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 2. Reductions in value of environmental impacts and for CO 2 are based on facilities' operations plans. be more environmentally friendly. Our assessments of the benefits of environmentally friendly Estimated Reduction and Monetary Value projects have covered the construction of energy-efficient buildCumulative CO2 Reduction3 Cumulative Monetary Value4 i n g s , a s w e ll a s ins t a lla t i o n of w in d p o w e r a n d ot h e r Type (thousand tons/year) (million yen/year) alternative-energy equipment, recycling facilities for industrial FY 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 waste, and factories or facilities with proper waste processing CO2 2.7 158.7 293.6 314.7 351.0 371.0 375.8 19 1,111 2,055 2,203 2,457 2,597 2,630 such as melting furnaces and landfills. NOx 0.006 0.083 0.145 0.208 0.357 0.375 0.377 16 208 361 520 892 937 942 Substance As an example of the methodology used, in the case of equipSOx 0.008 0.048 0.071 0.081 0.099 0.113 0.115 0 2 3 3 4 5 5 ment that use alternative energy, the reduced environmental COD 0.007 0.007 0.007 0.010 0.010 0.012 0.012 34 34 38 50 50 60 60 impact resulting from the equipment introduction is represented Total Nitrogen 0.009 0.009 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.010 145 147 162 164 164 164 164 by the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, compared to emisTotal 213 1,503 2,619 2,940 3,568 3,763 3,802 sions from business-as-usual power generation equipment. 3. Reduction: Total amount of reduction (thousand tons / year) for each substance reduced by environmentally-friendly projects (fiscal year totals) To estimate the reduced environmental impact in monetary 4. Monetary Value: Reduction amount (thousand tons/year) X coefficient of maximum abatement cost method (thousand yen/ton) terms, BTMU uses evaluation coefficients from the maximum abatement cost method1 estimated from actual reduction meaEstimated Value of Environmental Impacts (Evaluation Coefficients for Maximum Abatement Cost Method) sures currently being taken in Japan.1 Coefficient Methodology for Estimation of Coefficients Substance (thousand yen/ton) 1. Maximum Abatement Cost Method: Oka,T.,M..Ishikawa,Y.Fujii,G.Huppes.2005.Calculating Cost-effectiveness for Activities with Multiple EnvironCO2 7 Highest-cost measures required to achieve targets under the Kyoto Protocol mental Effects Using the Maximum Abasement Cost Method. Journal of Industrial Ecology 9(4):97-103 NOx 2,500 Estimated from costs of Automobile NOx Law SOx 43 Estimated from flue gas desulfurization costs for thermal power plants COD 5,100 Estimated from wastewater treatment costs for Lake Biwa (Japan) Total Nitrogen 16,745 Estimated from wastewater treatment costs for Lake Biwa (Japan) 34 ■ Labor Practices & Decent Work MUFG CSR Report 2011 Employee Policies and Management We strive to create work environments that foster an effective approach towards work. Labor Practices & Decent Work ■ Number of Hires1 Basic Policies and Structures FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Main career track 530 350 507 The MUFG Group believes that higher employee satisfaction is reflected in work performance, and Main career track (specific) 159 104 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ 1,033 Area-specific track 147 245 leads to increased customer satisfaction. The Group also believes that employees' job fulfillment is Total 1,563 656 856 reflected in society and at home, fostering better communities. Based on these beliefs, we listen to Track G 183 177 147 employees' ideas to create more fulfilling workplaces. Mitsubishi UFJ Track B 189 191 103 Trust and Banking ● Employee Details Total 372 368 250 ■ Status of Employees (new criteria) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Main career track 238 84 148 Mitsubishi UFJ Regional track 183 48 50 Number of Employees1 33,827 34,902 34,797 Morgan Stanley Securities Total 421 132 198 Of these, overseas local hires 5,367 5,532 6,084 Females among new hires for main career track2 ー ー 27.7% Contract employees 2,053 2,008 2,000 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Main career 52 42 20 Temporary employees2 17,224 14,392 12,795 Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Regular service 103 70 0 Average age 37 yrs. 8 mo. 37 yrs. 6 mo. 37 yrs. 10 mo. 1. These join company on April 1 each fiscal year (only new graduates). 2. There are 41 female main career track employees. Average years of continuous service 14 yrs. 10 mo. 14 yrs. 6 mo. 14 yrs. 9 mo. Number of employees 3 7,069 7,144 7,090 Of these, contract salespersons 887 858 821 ■ Number of Employees Using Support Systems and Leave Mitsubishi UFJ Of these, overseas local hires 212 212 206 Trust and Banking 2,127 1,963 1,676 Temporary employees FY2010 FY20101 Average age 4 40 yrs. 5 mo. 40 yrs. 4 mo. 40 yrs. 6 mo. Maternity leave 654 Maternity leave 11 Average years of continuous service 15 yrs. 1 mo. 15 yrs. 1 mo. 15 yrs. 5 mo. Childcare leave 1,312 (233 men) Mitsubishi UFJ Childcare leave 74 Morgan Number of employees3 6,732 6,750 6,587 Bank of Shorter work hours for childcare 514 Shorter work hours for childcare 99 Stanley Of these, overseas local hires 5 3 4 0 TokyoRelocation recruitment system 89 Securities Family care leave 0 Mitsubishi UFJ Mitsubishi Morgan Stanley Securities Temporary employees Avg. 998 Avg. 349 Avg. 191 UFJ Family care leave 116 (25 men) Relocation requests 2 14 Average age 38 yrs. 10 mo. 38 yrs. 9 mo. 39 yrs. 7 mo. Family care leave 20 1. End of March 2011. 2. Total from April 2010 through March 2011. Average years of continuous service 11 yrs. 10 mo. 12 yrs. 1 mo. 13 yrs. 1 mo. Shorter work hours for family care 8 Number of employees 6 3,692 3,732 3,742 Childcare leave 158 (3 men) Mitsubishi Of these, contract employees 652 578 561 UFJ Shorter work hours 96 Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Average age 38 yrs. 0 mo. 38 yrs. 4 mo. 38 yrs. 8 mo. Trust and Subsidy for childcare expenses 212 Banking Average years of continuous service 14 yrs. 0 mo. 14 yrs. 4 mo. 15 yrs. 1 mo. Use of maiden name 101 1. Does not include executive officers, excludes BTMU employees seconded to other companies, includes employees of other companies seconded to BTMU. 2. Includes temporary staff. 3. Does not include executive officers. 4. Excludes executive officers, employees seconded from other companies and employees hired by overseas subsidiaries. 5. Employees hired by the Beijing office. 6. Does not include executive officers or seconded employees. 35 ■ Labor Practices & Decent Work MUFG CSR Report 2011 When employees have fulfilling lives outside of the office, they are able to gain experiences and diverse values that Work-Life Balance are impossible to obtain at work, and this leads to greater enthusiasm towards their work. Labor Practices & Decent Work Promoting Work-Life Balance ● Childcare Leave with Partial Pay BTMU BTMU MUTB ● Family Visit Day MUN In response requests by male employees to take childcare leave In August 2010, MUN held Family Visit Day, an event where ● Certification under the Act on Advancement of MUFG and be involved in raising their children, BTMU allows male employees' family members are invited to see their parents Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children employees to take up to 10 days of paid childcare leave, while working at the office. The day included a workplace tour, the Each MUFG Group company has obtained certification under the MUTB offers male employees up to two weeks of paid childcare exchanging of play business cards, and a meal. It was impresAct on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Nextleave. These options encourage male employees to take childsive to see the children's interest in the desks and chairs their Generation Children. Employers satisfying certain requirements, care leave, as part of the MUFG Group's efforts to create a parents use at the office. MUN hopes that events like this will such as having a proper employer action plan in place and supportcorporate culture conducive to realizing work-life balance. deepen the ties between family members, and between famiing the work-life balance of employees, are able to obtain certificalies and the company, and that the events will raise family tion from the directors general of prefectural labor departments. members' understanding of the company and its operations, ● Kagaya Kids' Day BTMU Going forward, each Group company will continue to provide addiand raise employees' enthusiasm towards work. tional support to enable employees to balance work and family life. BTMU held Kagaya Kids' Day at the head office buildings in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka, as well as 31 other sales branch offices. This event aims to introduce employees' children to their ● Merihari Work & Life BTMU parents' workplaces and to teach them about the role that BTMU is carrying out a program to further enhance the work-life finance plays in society. Each office developed its own program balance of employees. Named the Merihari Work & Life for ensuring that the parents and children enjoyed themselves. (meaning 'Improve work efficiency and balance' and 'Reduce Some employees said that the event led to more communication working hours') Campaign, this program aims to promote lively with their children. working styles by adding tips and improvements to what are already highly-productive working styles and efficient uses of time. In the second half of 2010, Going home signs 'Kaeru Family Visit Day Fuda' were distributed to offices and branches that requested the signs, and using the signs, employees could announce the ● Seminars for Employees Returning to Work BTMU time that they planned to finish work and go home. A number of offices are serving as model offices to show how work can be BTMU held Kagayaki Seminars for Employees on Childcare carried out more efficiently. Leave in Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka. Supervisors of the employees on childcare leave also attended the event, where together they considered the individuals' career plans after returning to work. BTMU also holds regular Kagayaki Returnees Support Kagaya Kids' Day Seminars, at which employees are invited as lecturers to talk about how they balance work with raising children. These seminars give attendees a chance to think about their own work styles as well as a chance to build a network with others who will also be returning to work. Going Home Sign 36 ■ Labor Practices & Decent Work MUFG CSR Report 2011 ● Work-Life Balance 10 Personnel System MUTB ● Childcare Support MUN To further promote a good work-life balance for its employees, In FY 2010, MUN introduced a Return to Work Program comMUTB has established a personnel system called Work-Life prising at-home learning and a class upon their return to work Labor Practices & Decent Work Balance 10. for employees taking childcare or family care leave. This proThis system consists of ten components combined into one gram helps these employees maintain their skills and feel confioverall program: dent upon returning to work when their period of leave ends. 1. Expanded childcare leave system (2 weeks of paid leave) In addition, to support diverse working styles, the scope of 2. New system for shorter work hours (up to 3 hours) employees considered to be raising children was expanded to 3. New hospital care leave system (one paid day of leave per Health, Labour and Welfare Minister's Award of Excellence Award Ceremony include an individual with a child up until the end of the fiscal month) year when the child is in the third grade of elementary school. 4. Subsidy for childcare expenses The half-day leave program was expanded to allow employees ● Expanding Maternity and Childcare Support Programs MUMSS 5. Interview on return from childcare leave to take a half-day off up to 20 times per year. 6. Voluntary flex-time system MUMSS continues to expand its programs supporting the 7. Re-Challenge Plan (rehiring program) work-life balance of its employees. Recent efforts aimed at 8. Use of maiden name creating a family-friendly work system include the expansion of 9. Training to increase knowledge and awareness (e-learning) the system allowing employees to shorten their working hours 10. Implementation of knowledgeand awareness-raising proto allow more time for childcare, adding partially paid childcare grams leave, and introducing a new leave program to support parents who have children entering elementary school. ● Health, Labour and Welfare Minister's Award MUTB for Promotion of Opportunity Equality ● Reduction of Working Hours MUN MUTB strives to give all its employees a chance to challenge MUN promotes employees' work-life balance by reducing long themselves based on their own motivation, and also strives to working hours, and encouraging employees to take consecuenhance its programs to enable employees to make the most tive days of paid annual leave. of their individual interests. In addition to promoting a No Overtime Day once each In particular, MUTB has made promoting women in the workweek at all company offices, all employees are encouraged to place one of its key management themes. In addition to having leave early on July 7 in conjunction with Cool Earth Day a staff member in the Personnel Division focus on work-life (promoted by the Ministry of the Environment), and to go balance and promoting women in the workplace, MUTB has home early all week long for two weeks in November in assoinstituted a system allowing employees to seek transfers to ciation with Family Week. other departments, an in-house internship program, as well as In addition, MUN has established a system for employees to a Post Challenge system allowing employees to apply for take five consecutive days of paid annual leave each year, as managerial-level positions. Overall, MUTB has bolstered its well as anniversary leave, which encourages employees take system for promoting positive action. In recognition of these paid annual leave each six months (twice a year). In FY 2009, efforts, under the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare's 98.6% of employees took five consecutive days of paid annual Corporate Achievement Awards for Supporting Gender Equalleave. As a result, 73.9% of overall annual leave days (13.8 ity and Work-Life Balance, in FY 2010 MUTB was given the days) were taken in FY 2009. Minister's Awards of Excellence for both promoting equality in the workplace, and for being a family-friendly company. 37 ■ Labor Practices & Decent Work MUFG CSR Report 2011 Offering an Open Workplace We use employees' ideas to create more fulfilling workplaces. Labor Practices & Decent Work ● Listening to Our Employees MUFG have posted To All Employees messages on the company intranet. The intranet also the level of understanding and satisfaction of employees' family members. In FY 2010, MUFG Group companies in Japan again utilized intranet systems to gather serves as a tool for two-way communications, as employees are able to respond to these opinions from employees and conduct employee satisfaction surveys in order to ensure messages through the intranet. Since January 2011, MUN has been holding what are ● Employee Health Promotion MUFG that employees' opinions are reflected in both operations and company systems. called Off-Site Meetings, which give the company's senior management and Four BTMU offices (the Marunouchi Head Office and the Otemachi, Nagoya, and BTMU has introduced a system on its intranet called OPEN which provides a channel employees from all divisions an opportunity to have direct talks together. Participation in Osaka Buildings) are equipped with Health Consultation Offices, where they work for employees to share their opinions anonymously or using their real names. As part these events is voluntary. The events allow information to be shared and for an with doctors and counsellors to help employees with any mental health issues they of employee and staff satisfaction surveys, in principle once each year an anonymous increased level of awareness, and foster a sense of cooperation and solidarity. face. The health consultation offices also send a monthly newsletter to employees survey of all employees in Japan is conducted for the purpose of developing corporate containing information about physical and mental health. culture. ● Customer Service Week MUN MUTB has established the Employees Counselors Division, which work with medical MUTB conducts an annual employee satisfaction survey (ES Survey) of all employees in MUN implements a Customer Service Week with a goal of becoming a company that advisors and counselors to promote the physical and mental health of employees. Japan. Survey results and employees' opinions are communicated to management and impresses. In this event, which is designed to boost the satisfaction of employees The offices work to maintain employee health, for example, by launching employees alike in order to build a shared understanding, and are also used to improve engaged in providing service and to foster a sense of workplace solidarity, the company counselling services, offering health advice based on routine medical exams, and the working environment. MUTB plans to continually make improvements around president and other direct superiors express their appreciation to employees. The third providing health-related information. issues that are raised by the survey. Customer Service Week was held from November 8 to 21, 2010, and included At the Health Promotion Division of MUMSS, medical doctors and occupational MUMSS maintains an Opinion Box via the company intranet which gives employees a approximately 9,000 people from all divisions and offices, including part-time health nurses provide healthcare support to employees based on the results of way to express their ideas and requests. The relevant departments consider these ideas employees and subcontractor staff. During the period, members of senior management routine medical exams, and also work to improve the working environment by and proposals, and management responses are communicated to employees. In visited offices and delivered handwritten cards expressing their appreciation for meeting with employees about overwork, and managing the Health Committee. addition, an Employee Satisfaction Survey is conducted, with the results utilized by employees' work on a daily basis, thereby enhancing the communication with The Health Promotion Division also publishes a newsletter, lends audio CDs for management and to improve the corporate culture. employees. Also, new initiatives were carried out to give employees opportunities to relaxation and otherwise disseminates useful information about managing and MUN conducts an employee awareness survey (morale survey) which targets all think about customer satisfaction. These included showing DVD videos containing case improving one's health, as well as information on how to combat new influenza employees, including part-time and temporary staffers. Survey results are provided as studies of customer handling at call centers, and posting messages on a message board pandemics. With respect to mental health, professional counseling is provided by feedback to management and all employees as a means of creating a shared to communicate gratitude to members of other divisions in the company. clinical psychologists who work closely with physicians, and employees are awareness of issues. encouraged to become more aware of mental health issues through activities such ● Utilizing Customers' Compliments MUN as managerial-level trainings and seminars open to all employees. ● Dialogue with Corporate Directors MUMSS MUN Since January 2011, MUN has been including compliments from customers in At MUN, a full-time supervising medical advisor in the head office works closely MUFG Group companies create opportunities for corporate directors and employees to monthly pay stubs, with the aim of having employees' family members see the with part-time medical advisors in offices throughout the country. Follow-up speak directly and work to incorporate employees' opinions into company management. positive words received from customers, encouraging their understanding of measures after medical exams, mental healthcare, meetings with employees about Since November 2009, MUMSS has held Dialogue with the President events at eight the company's significance in society, and urging them to better understand overwork, and other measures are used to promote employee health management. locations throughout Japan. At these events, employees engage in lively discussions the company's operations. The words of praise were carefully selected from Through both a checklist that allows employees to determine the degree of their with executive officers about questions that come to them in the course of daily 250 messages submitted via employees. Going forward, MUN will continue to accumulated fatigue, as well as through the company bulletin, employees are operations as well as make suggestions for the future. Since April 2011, senior managers focus on initiatives that go beyond employee satisfaction and aim to increase educated about the importance of proactively managing their own health. 38 ■ Labor Practices & Decent Work MUFG CSR Report 2011 Developing Human Resources We believe that raising the personal capacity of each and every employee is the source for raising the company's capabilities. Based on this phiLabor Practices & Decent Work losophy, we work proactively to develop our human resources. ● Enhancing Training Programs MUFG total of 10 Management Training sessions for all managers, including and aim to put in place systems that emphasize a work-life balance. BTMU divides human resources development for all employees into two main executive officers. As a means of enhancing the basic skill level of young categories, one being personal capacity, and the other skills and expertise. employees, from FY 2011 we newly established an instructor system within ● Corporate Citizenship Project BTMU While human resources development is based on reinforcement through daily the Personnel Division. This instructor will manage the development of young Since FY 2007, BTMU has included volunteer work in the training work, in order to bolster the personal capacity of employees, training is employees on an ongoing basis from the hiring stage and across all divisions. programs for new employees. By having them participate in implemented on a company-wide basis according to rank. In addition, with From FY 2010, MUN introduced a Human Resource Development Program volunteer activities in the local community, this program aims to the aim of raising the level of employees' skills and expertise, which are for young and middle-ranked employees. In addition to job rotations, a help employees become aware of their roles as members of society necessary in order to provide superior financial services, skills-training combination of age-based group training, distance learning, and e-learning and to have them adopt the basic attitude of serving society and programs are provided for each division. Furthermore, a full palette of programs, supports employees' self-directed skill development efforts. From proactively offering what they can to people and society in general. self-enrichment support systems is offered to all employees, providing them FY 2011, we will revamp our personnel development framework and open This hands-on training program, called the Corporate Citizenship with opportunities for self-directed learning. BTMU believes that enhancing the MUN Academy targeting all employees, as we work to further enhance Project, consisted of two parts. In the first part, 606 new hires these training programs helps employees think about their own aptitude and our personnel development and build our corporate culture. cleared snow from the grounds of two elementary schools in orientation at each juncture in their career, to blaze their own trail for their Yuzawa Town, Niigata Prefecture, which had helped us greatly in careers, to enhance their personal capacity, and to develop as individuals. ● Changes in Career Track and In-house Recruiting BTMU MUN carrying out our introductory training program. MUTB provides training catered to each individual's position, rank, and MUFG Group companies have put in place systems that allow In the second part of the project, new employees spent two days occupation, and through its Personnel Development Program in each field of employees to change their particular occupation or career track, as well visiting a total of 121 residential facilities for the elderly and persons business, the bank conducts practical job rotation, carries out training for the as in-house job-posting systems that let employees apply for different with disabilities, a program that was made possible with help from specific work responsibilities of each division, and supports employee efforts jobs that they want to try. As one example of this, BTMU has put in the Tokyo Voluntary Action Center and volunteer centers in other to attain job-related qualifications with the aim of strengthening its human place a system that allows non-permanent staff (contract employees, parts of Japan. resources. In addition, we are expanding the palette of programs to support etc.) to become regular employees. This is part of BTMU's pursuit of its The entire process, including the pre-visit orientation, doing the employees seeking to independently develop their careers with classes CSR goals of allowing people opportunities to try new challenges, and actual work, and post-activity reflection, gave the new employees a including time management and presentation skills development, while also of respecting the balance between work and personal lives of chance to realize a lot about the role of the bank as a corporate making training courses more readily available. employees. At the same time, this system helps BTMU hire and retain citizen and their own role as an individual. MUMSS provides both rank-specific and function-specific training to all talented personnel. Since the system was introduced in FY 2006, over At the conclusion of the training, the new hires discussed their employees, from new hires to corporate directors. In addition, MUMSS offers 420 non-permanent staff have become regular employees. experiences, with some commenting that the program was a good seminars and financial incentives to support employees' efforts to attain MUN has a system that allows regular service to change to the main opportunity to think about what they can do as a member of work-related qualifications. To strengthen compliance, monthly training career, and vice versa. In the three years since this system was launched, society and others saying that it helped them to understand the sessions focusing on a common, company-wide topic are held in each 32 employees have changed tracks and are now working with a new importance of thinking about things from someone else's point of division, and employees' level of understanding is tested every six months. In set of responsibilities and in new workplaces. Going forward, we will view. Just as importantly, the program allowed newly-hired continuation from the previous fiscal year, in FY 2010 MUMSS conducted a actively hire talented employees with a desire to change career tracks employees to recognize their significance as a member of society. 39 ■ Labor Practices & Decent Work MUFG CSR Report 2011 Promoting Diversity In order to flexibly address the changing social environment and become more competitive as a company, we embrace our employees' diverse Labor Practices & Decent Work values and working styles, and provide opportunities for employees to demonstrate their individuality and capabilities. ● Supporting the Career Development of Female Employees BTMU ● Providing Opportunities for Employees MUTB BTMU place, in FY 2010 MUN held a total of seven Off-Site Meetings on the To support the career development of female employees, BTMU has to Select Career Paths Potential of Women in the Workplace to obtain a better understanding set numerical targets and actively recruits female workers. New MUTB implements in-house recruiting two to four times per year based of female employees' needs. To help achieve a better work-life balance, numerical targets were set in April 2011, and BTMU is working to on the Job Challenge (an in-house recruitment system) for all employfemale employees were given a longer period of time during which develop female managers in domestic commercial banking offices, ees who wish to change their careers in the company and the Post they can work reduced hours when raising a child, and a program was overseas branches and headquarters that have not had many Challenge system for managerial-level employees. Recently, there have introduced to help employees on childcare or nursing care leave return female managers over the past years. We are also promoting our been cases of employees hired as area-specific employees transferring to to work. Currently, approximately 150 employees are utilizing these programs to allow employees to change their career track and supoverseas offices to take on new responsibilities. In FY 2010, as part of programs aimed at building a more supportive work environment. port contract employees who want to become regular employees. MUTB's efforts to help employees build their careers, the Active Career In addition, the Area Specific Track Relocation Recruitment System Challenge System was established, putting in place a framework ● Employing Persons with Disabilities BTMU MUTB allows AS track employees, who would normally not be given a job whereby employees can choose how they want to work until the age of Within each Group company, employees with disabilities are actively transfer that requires them to change their place of residence, to 60. Going forward, MUTB will continue to develop systems in response working in various offices. Group companies work closely with employrequest a transfer to another area for reasons such as the work reloto employees' own motivation and desire to challenge themselves. ees to match their duties to each individual's skills and aptitudes. cation of a spouse or to provide care for family members. BTMU BTMU has two special subsidiaries, MU Business Aid Co., Ltd. and MU also introduced a system giving employees shorter working hours ● Project to Promote the Full use of MUMSS Business Partner Co., Ltd., which promote the hiring of persons with for maternity, child care, or family care. These measures enable Women's Abilities in the Workplace disabilities. These companies are hiring many persons with disabilities certain employees to continue their careers without interruption. The Project for Improving the Environment for Working Women was to work on bank operations on an outsourcing basis. launched in November 2006 with the aim of creating a fulfilling work MUTB works with special subsidiary Ryoshin Data Co., Ltd., which ● Creating the Diversity＆Inclusion Office from BTMU environment for women. At MUMSS, the opinions gathered from employees specializes in data entry operations, to create employment for persons the Activities of the Working Group on Diversity through this project were used to introduce the Relocation Request System with hearing and other disabilities. The company has hired a cumulaEqual partnership activities originated from BTMU's initiatives to raise and the Reemployment Registration System. This project succeeded in tive total of 120 persons with disabilities over the past 30 years, and as the level of customer satisfaction (CS), and began in 2005 with the enhancing work-life balance and led to an increase in the number of employof May 2011, 44 such employees were engaged in a wide range of formation of the working group on diversity, tasked with thinking about ees utilizing these systems. In April 2011, the project was expanded and operations, such as data entry and creating electronic versions of new working styles for women. Through their proposals to corporate re-launched as the project to promote the full use of women's abilities in the manuals. directors, this working group comprising eight female employees paved workplace. Under the new project, MUMSS will aim to create a workplace the way for the creation of the Diversity＆Inclusion Office in 2010. environment where female employees can better attain their full potential. ● Continuing Employment of Retirees MUFG In addition to actively promoting women in the workplace, the Diversity To support workers who wish to remain active after passing the ＆Inclusion Office also aims to create a corporate culture that is recep● Identifying Female Employees' Needs and MUN mandatory retirement age, Group companies have introduced tive to diversity and allows every employee to further demonstrate their Supporting Work-Life Balance systems for ongoing employment of qualified employees who abilities. As an initiative to promote the contributions of women in the workwish to remain employed with the company. 40 ■ Human Rights MUFG CSR Report 2011 Human Rights Policies and Initiatives The MUFG Group recognizes respect for basic human rights as an important management theme, and has established an Ethical Framework, Human Rights Code of Conduct and compliance manuals. The MUFG Group recognizes respect for basic human rights as ● Consultation Systems at the Group Companies MUFG an important management theme and has established an EthiBTMU has established a Bank Employees' Consultation Office in cal Framework, Code of Conduct and compliance manuals as its offices in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. All employees, including part of its efforts to eliminate discrimination and create friendly temporary staff, can consult the Office about human rights workplaces. issues such as sexual harassment and power harassment. The Office also carries out human rights awareness activities as part Excerpted from 4. Respect for human rights and the environof efforts to create friendly workplaces. ment, the MUFG Group Code of Conduct: MUTB has established a Human Rights Awareness Promotion Respect for human rights Office in the Personnel Division. All employees, including temWe shall take the basic position of respecting humanity, and porary staff, can consult the Human Rights Awareness Promoshall not discriminate against people or violate human rights on tion Office about human rights issues such as sexual harassment the basis of race, nationality, belief, religion, gender, or other and other abuses of power in a variety of ways, including in grounds where legally protected. person, over the phone, or via e-mail. The Human Rights Cultivating a work environment in which people can Awareness Promotion Office also carries out human rights easily do their jobs awareness activities as part of its efforts to create friendly workAll directors and employees shall respect each other as work places. partners, and be aware that acts such as sexual harassment MUMSS has started hotlines both inside and outside of the and power harassment are an affront to human dignity and company to receive and handle consultations from employees will not be tolerated in the workplace. about human rights issues such as sexual harassment and other abuses of power in the workplace. Through human rights training and human rights awareness MUN has established a telephone consultation center in the activities, MUFG Group companies are working to make sure Compliance Supervising Department and an external telephone that all employees properly understand human rights issues and consultation center as help lines to receive and handle consultathat they increase their recognition of such issues. tions from employees about human rights issues such as sexual harassment and abuse of authority in the workplace. 41 ■ Society MUFG CSR Report 2011 We encourage a range of social contribution activities based on employee participation, as a member of the comSocial Contributions munities where we interact with many people, in Japan and around the world. ronmentally friendly organic farming techniques, to prepare them the degree of attention to detail and the consideration that is demonBasic Policies and Structures to serve as leaders in their home countries after their return. strated by the employees working within such a large organization. Society We recognize that the very existence of the MUFG Group is sustained by ● Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation MUFG ● Hosting the MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup MUFG society as a whole and that we have a duty to consider the key issues facing Soccer Tournament society. We have therefore identified Addressing Global Environmental The Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation plays a key role in the MUFG Group's efforts to address environmental and social concerns, supporting Each year, the MUFG Group hosts the MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation as the two priority themes a wide range of efforts. These include activities to improve the natural Soccer Tournament, a youth soccer tournament for sixth-grade students to be addressed by the entire Group. We undertake our environmental and environment, especially through tree planting (a total of one million trees who are about to graduate from elementary schools in Tokyo, Aichi, and social contribution efforts in keeping with this basic policy and philosophy. have been planted so far), village forest conservation, and the creation of Osaka (see Note). The goal of this event is to foster the healthy mental (The Group CSR Priority Themes are listed on page 6.) biotopes (natural habitat areas) at schools; organizing the Midori-no-e development of children through sports. Between January and March Concour (receiving paintings of natural subjects from nearly 30,000 2011, the Fourth MUFG Cup tournament was held in Aichi Prefecture, Major Initiatives children); offering sponsored lectures at universities and other environassisted through the volunteer participation of MUFG Group employees. mental education events; and undertaking the Headwaters Forest Note: The Fourth MUFG Cup tournaments in Tokyo and Osaka were cancelled due to the Great East Japan Earthquake. project, which since 1997 has involved participants in hands-on refores● Environmental Education Project MUFG tation and nature observation activities in the Tone River watershed. Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth ● Hosting Internships MUFG Starting in FY 2008 and running through FY 2012, the MUFG Group ● Economic/Financial Education Program MUFG and the Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation, in collaboration MUFG Group companies host opportunities for college students to Let's Learn about Finance and Economy with the National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan, are pursue internships while they undertake their academic studies. These engaged in a five-year educational project, named Save Our In collaboration with Tsukuba University, the MUFG Group has developed internships provide students with work experiences that allow them to Common Treasures of the Earth. The project's aim is to help ensure this educational support program to help students enjoy learning about make use of their talents, while providing them with a variety of that humanity's shared treasures are passed on to future generathe importance of money and the mechanisms of finance. This program insights. This program is also intended to help lead to a better match tions. This is a project designed to give children opportunities for is used in elementary school classes throughout the country. MUFG between students and the human resource needs of companies. learning, being aware and taking action, by helping them to Group company employees host field trips to branch offices, where they Participating students noted that their internships helped them to gain know the wonder of the natural environment and biodiversity, and use this program to provide explanations to teachers and students. a sense of what their careers may be like and to understand a variety to develop an interest in protecting the Earth's abundance for the of fundamental insights concerning the role of work in adult life. benefit of future generations while also considering related issues. ● Job Shadowing Work Experience Program MUFG Website: http://www.unesco-esd.jp/ (in Japanese) ● Gifts for the Future TV Program MUFG Every year since FY 2007, we have conducted a Job Shadowing Work Experience Program, through which high school students pair up with The MUFG Group has been sponsoring the TV program Gifts for the ● Next Generation Leaders Training Program for Asia MUFG employees to learn first-hand about the difficulties and joys of the work Future (broadcast every Saturday from 10 pm to 10:54 pm on BS-TBS Since FY 2008, the MUFG Group and the Organization for Indusexperience; this helps participating students to think about their future TV) since May 2009 as part of our CSR activities. This documentarytrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement (OISCA) have jointly careers and employment options. Students participating in Job Shadstyle program introduces corporations and other organizations that conducted the Next Generation Leaders Program for Asia. This owing get to experience working in the Tokyo head offices of MUFG address social issues through their business activities; more than 50 program brings youths from Asian developing countries to Group companies, in addition to participating in meetings. Past particicompanies and organizations have been profiled so far. Past episodes OISCA's training center in Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Prefecture, pants noted how the experience helped them to understand the imporof the program are available online through the MUFG website. where they receive one year of training in management and envitance of communication in the workplace, and they were impressed by Website: http://www.mufg.jp/csr/movies/ (in Japanese) 42 ■ Society MUFG CSR Report 2011 ety. BTMU has been collaborating with the National Federation ● Peter Rabbit® 'Forest for the Future' MUTB ● Scholarships and International Exchange Programs BTMU of UNESCO Associations in Japan to support the activities of Environmental Conservation Activities UNESCO Associated Schools, which serve as centers for the The Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation provides scholarships to 16 In May 2009, MUTB signed the Saitama Prefecture Afforestapromotion of ESD. In FY 2010, 54 schools received grants from graduate students and three undergraduate students from Asian tion Agreement with Nagatoro-cho in Saitama Prefecture; the newly established UNESCO Associated Schools ESD Assiscountries studying in Japan, to support human resources develbased on this, forest conservation activities were initiated for a tance Project. In FY 2011, the new ESD International Exchange opment in Asia. The foundation also holds networking events community forest (about one hectare in size) on Hodo Mountain Program was launched; this project sends high school students several times each year for these students to meet with employSociety in Nagatoro-cho. from UNESCO Associated Schools to Germany and Paris, providees. Because Peter Rabbit® has been the MUTB mascot since 1988, ing them with ESD-related learning opportunities based on The foundation also provides scholarships to approximately 550 this forest on Hodo Mountain has been named the Peter international exchanges. local students at 26 universities in eight countries, including Rabbit ® 'Forest for the Future.' Employees and their families China, Vietnam, and Myanmar. participate in tree planting and weeding activities. ● Fostering Environmental Leaders MUMSS ● The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation MUTB The transition to a low-carbon society is essential to curb global warming and to realize a sustainable society. MUMSS particiThe Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation was established pated in the development of the Designing a Low-Carbon Sociin 1953 to provide scholarships and funding to support research ety course offered since FY 2009 by Keio University's Graduate activities. Each year since 1991, the foundation has provided School (MUMSS was responsible for the Designing Environapproximately 190 million yen to over 330 students. As of mental Business component). Starting with spring 2011, this March 2011, a total of 5,290 students had received approxicourse has been updated and re-launched as the International mately 4.6 billion yen in scholarship funding and the foundaProgram for Environmental Innovators. This course aims to tion's net assets stood at approximately 9.8 billion yen, making it build a supportive environment and foster the development of the largest scholarship foundation supported by the Japanese highly skilled specialists (environmental leaders) who will help financial community. Peter Rabbit® Forest for the Future build a low-carbon society. The foundation also hosts networking events that bring together past and current scholarship recipients. In October ● Teaching as Part of Industry-Academia Partnerships MUTB MUMSS 2010, the foundation was certified as operating in the public ● Hosting Training Programs for Educators at MUMSS MUN Since April 2007, MUTB has participated in joint industryinterest, and in November 2010 completed procedures for regisPrivate Companies academia courses in cooperation with the Graduate School of tration as a Public Interest Incorporated Foundation. Engineering at the University of Tokyo. Employees provide MUMSS takes part in the Securities Companies Lecture and lectures on subjects they are working on, sharing the latest Tour, as part of the Japan Securities Dealers Association's ● Mitsubishi UFJ Technology Development Foundation BTMU information in their fields. In FY 2011, three sessions were held, Internship Program for Educators. In August 2010, MUMSS starting in June. hosted 20 teachers and others from metropolitan area high The Mitsubishi UFJ Technology Development Foundation Each year, MUMSS employees participate in special lectures schools and junior high schools, providing them with lectures (known as MU-TECH), created in 1983, has been a pioneer in organized by Nagoya University for graduate students. This and tours of the company's trading floors. providing support for private sector ventures in Japan. To comlecture was intended not only to promote an appreciation of the MUN participates in the Training Program for Educators at prehensively foster the development of the technology-oriented role played by mathematics in the financial sector, but also to Private Companies of the Keizai Koho Center, which seeks to smalland medium-sized enterprises (especially venture busiinterest science and engineering students in the field of finance. promote communication between members of the business and nesses) that are so vital for Japan's economic development, the education sectors. MUN has hosted trainees a total of ten times Foundation provides a wide range of assistance, including (with between four to nine trainees participating each year); in research and development grants, information, and consulting ● Supporting the Activities of UNESCO Associated Schools BTMU July of 2011 MUN hosted participants from Tokyo's Nerima services. In FY 2010, MU-TECH provided 9 million yen in grants Education for Sustainable Development (ESD)'s basic view is to Ward Board of Education. for a total of nine projects, including projects making significant foster each individual to take part in creating a sustainable socicontributions in the environmental field. 43 ■ Society MUFG CSR Report 2011 JAPAN PRO-FOOTBALLERS ASSOCIATION Soccer School (held shima (Hiroshima), and at the company's Okamoto and Hama● Culture Support Project: Shiki Theatre BTMU in cooperation with other companies), sending instructors to koshien dormitories. Company's Kokorono gekijou baseball tournaments and equestrian events held for people Since 2007, BTMU has cosponsored the Shiki Theatre Comwith disabilities, conducting volleyball clinics (in cooperation ● Fire Brigade Support Business Certification MUN pany's culture support project, Kokorono Gekijou, which seeks with the Setagaya-ku Volleyball Alliance and others), and invitto share stories about the things that are important in human ing American-style football youth league participants to attend MUN employees have joined the Kanda Fire Station as volunteer lives, such as instilling in children's hearts the value of life, caring adult league games, as well as leading finance and economics firefighters, and participate in nighttime patrols and other fire Society for others, and the joys of trusting in one another. In FY 2010, classes. and disaster-prevention activities in the Akihabara district of 550,000 children attended these performances nationwide. Tokyo. Employees also participate in lifesaving training and fireBTMU also donated 450 complimentary tickets to 38 children's fighting exercises. In recognition of these efforts, in January ● Supporting Volunteer Activities by Employees MUFG nursing facilities, so that children from these facilities could 2009 MUN became certified under the Fire and Disaster Manattend performances of productions including Children of the To support the desire on the part of their employees to contribagement Agency's Fire Brigade Support Business Certification Storm. ute to society in various ways, BTMU, MUTB and MUMSS all System. have programs to provide employees with information about volunteering, in addition to instituting volunteer leave systems ● Mitsubishi Asian Children's Enikki Festa MUFG ● Sponsorship of the JAL Honolulu Marathon MUN (for up to three days per fiscal year) and volunteer grants Since 1990, the Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee (MPAC), programs. Since 1994, MUN has been a co-sponsor of the JAL Honolulu comprised of 40 Mitsubishi Group companies, has collaborated In order to support the social contribution activities undertaken Marathon, the world's sixth largest city marathon; approxiwith the Asian-Pacific Federation of UNESCO Clubs and Associaby its employees, in June 2011 MUN introduced a volunteer mately 25,000 runners participated in the race held in FY 2010. tions and the National Federation of UNESCO Associations in leave system (for up to five days per fiscal year). MUN offers a photo service and other assistance contributing to Japan to hold an Asian children's illustrated diary festival known participants' fond memories of the event, as well as special as the Mitsubishi Asian Children's Enikki Festa. The festival has events arranged for cardholders. ● Sponsoring Special Olympics Nippon and Participating BTMU MUTB been held ten times so far, with the participation of 24 Asian in the Special Olympics Nippon's Tokyo Walk & Run Festival countries and regions—and the submission of 564,612 works of ● Participation in FIT For Charity Run 2010 MUFG art. This festival seeks to deepen cultural exchange and mutual BTMU and MUTB are sponsors of Special Olympics Nippon, the understanding among Asian countries and to support increased Japanese affiliate of the Special Olympics, a nonprofit internaMUFG Group companies help to organize the Financial Industry literacy rates. tional sports organization that provides support for persons with in Tokyo (FIT) For Charity Run, through which sponsored mental and developmental disabilities to participate in society by runners and walkers raise donations for charity. The sixth of creating opportunities to train for and compete in sports compethese events was held during FY 2010, with the participation of ● Sewing Volunteers BTMU MUTB titions. some 6,700 employees of 101 Tokyo-based financial sector To benefit children living in orphanages, BTMU and MUTB call The Special Olympics Nippon National Summer Games were companies. on their employees to serve as sewing volunteers, to make held in Osaka in November 2010, with employees staffing the Approximately 650 runners and volunteers participated from the and donate items that all Japanese students need at the start of event as volunteers. MUFG Group, the largest number from any of the participating each school year. In FY 2010, 665 kit bags and shoe bags were companies. The money raised was donated to 10 organizations, donated (139 from BTMU and 526 from MUTB). including social welfare organizations. ● Supporting Neighborhood Cleanup Rally MUMSS MUMSS supports the Furusato-seiso 2010 neighborhood ● Sports Club Activities BTMU cleanup rally that engages workplaces and schools in efforts to BTMU's employee sports clubs support activities that teach beautify Japan; MUMSS called on employees at all of its branch children good manners, teamwork and the spirit of fair play offices nationwide to participate. In 2010, a total of 108 employthrough sports. ees took part in neighborhood cleanup activities in Nagasaki (in Activities include hosting rugby clinics and participating in the Nagasaki Prefecture), Tsushima (Aichi), Himeji (Hyogo), Hiro44 ■ Society MUFG CSR Report 2011 Local Community Involvement by Branch Employees Based on the recognition that the MUFG Group is supported by society and the people in local In FY 2010, employees played a key role as local branch offices of the Group, and were involved in a communities in which it operates, employees in local branches show appreciation by participating wide variety of activities, such as cleanup events, planting of flower beds in front of branches, tree in local community activities. planting, educational support, company visits, seminars, and charitable projects. Society Activities by BTMU Branches in Japan to Contribute to Local Society BTMU Branch Activities Branch Activities Sapporo Branch Participated in the Welcome Flower Plan event organized by the Sapporo City Environmental Bureau Bangkok Branch With national park staff, planted trees near local schools Tokorozawa Branch Opened space in the branch to hold a blood drive Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (Malaysia) Donated books and bookshelves for children at public elementary school Ueno Area Held blood drive in coordination with the Japan Red Cross Society Labuan Branch Tokyo Call Center Sold cookies baked by social welfare center to bank employees in-house Singapore Branch Held workplace tour for students of local Japanese junior high school Sendagi Branch Branch employees made bags used in schools by hand and donated them to orphanages Jakarta Branch Invited local university students for a workplace tour Ebisu Branch, Manila Branch Visited senior citizens' facility and donated clothing, etc. Taught elementary school students about finance and economics and offered workplace tour Ebisu Commercial Banking Office Ho Chi Minh City Branch Visited local junior high school and cleaned walls to improve the learning environment Shinbashi Branch, Shinbashi Commercial Banking Office, Called for public awareness as part of the a campaign to prevent and eliminate money transfer fraud Hanoi Branch Donated goods to a Buddhist temple that provides support to people who have no families Shinbashi-Ekimae Branch Shenzhen Branch Collected books and donated them to children at local schools Oi Branch Volunteered at a nursing home to clean wheelchairs Tianjin Branch Visited local children's center, donated goods and played games with children Takanodai Sub-Branch Taught junior high school students about finance and economics, collected plastic bottle caps Wuxi Branch Collected donations from bank employees and donated to Wuxi Red Cross Society Tamagawa Branch, Futakotamagawa Branch, Participated in the UNICEF Love Walk held by the Japan Committee for UNICEF Sydney Branch In the office cafeteria, sold breakfast to employees, donated proceeds to cancer fighting organization Komazawadaigaku-Ekimae Branch Yokohama Commercial Banking Office Participated in charity run organized by the YMCA to support children with disabilities Chicago Branch Participated in project to clean Lake Michigan shoreline Atsugi Commercial Banking Office, Houston Agency Participated in local Japan festival Atsugi Branch, Honatsugi Branch Participated in tree-planting activity as part of village forest conservation near Mt. Tobio Canada Branch Participated in local charity marathon Kariya Branch Worked with the city government office to provide elementary school students a bank tour and finance/economics education Paris Branch Collected plastic bottle caps, donated wheelchairs to persons with physical handicaps Seto Commercial Banking Office, Participated in the Setomono Festival, helped with set-up and distributed eco-friendly bags Seto Branch Düsseldorf Branch Gave branch tour to students of a local Japanese junior high school Kozoji Branch Provided junior high school students with workplace experience and learning opportunities Bahrain Branch Held after-school program for local children and Japanese school students Kuwana Branch, Planted trees in Kuwana City's funeral hall, Orizuro no mori, and sprinkled water on the streets Kuwana Commercial Banking Office to reduce the summer heat, together with people in the local community Juso Area Planted vegetables in idle fields as part of environmental conservation efforts in Mt. Mikusayama area Takatsuki Branch General Manager held lecture about bank work at a local junior high school Hanaten Branch Participated in campaign to distribute leaflets in front of Hanaten Station to prevent bicycles from being abandoned Tokushima Area Participated in Awa Odori, a traditional Tokushima event, and cleaned up the event site Minoo Branch Participated in local Minoh Matsuri, taught finance and economics to local junior high school students Hiroshima Area Held a tee-ball tournament for children to commemorate a public baseball field scheduled for demolition Atsugi Branch/Commercial Banking Office, Tokushima Office Düsseldorf Branch Honatsugi Branch 45 ■ Society MUFG CSR Report 2011 Examples of Community Involvement by MUTB Branches MUTB Examples of Community Involvement Activities by MUMSS Branches MUMSS Branch Activities Branch Activities Sendai Branch Clean-up activity near branch With Sapporo City, installed sand boxes at intersections and Sapporo Branch spread sand on roads to prevent freezing of roads in winter Machida Branch Participated in Sakaigawa River clean-up operations Society Konosu Branch All branch employees participated in local summer festival and carried a portable shrine Aobadai Branch Volunteered in Eco de Camp for Elementary School Students organized by the ward Omiya Branch, Himeji Branch, Urawa Branch Arranged blood donation vehicle and held blood drive in front of Urawa Station Tanashi Branch, Fukuoka Branch, Collected plastic bottle caps, etc Business Conduct Examinations Division Omiya Branch Periodic cleaning in front of Omiya Station Koshigaya Branch Cleaned near the branch (taking turns each morning) Trust Assets Business Unit Provided support to Yamanashi grape farmers Held workplace tour for junior high school students and internship program for Clean Energy Finance Division students studying abroad Real Estate Trust and Participated in book donation Custodian Service Division 26 Divisions/Offices, Head Office Participated in Marunouchi Joint Patrol (cleanup activity) once each month Nagoya Branch Conducted training course for people who support persons with dementia Supported a local nonprofit organization providing learning opportunities for children with Handa Branch developmental delays and supported an independent movie event 6 offices in Nagoya Area, Gifu Branch Invited children from an orphanage to attend an event Helped two local NPOs run events for children with disabilities and their parents, Kyoto Branch, Nara Branch Clean-up activity at Chion-in Temple Kyoto Branch and organize animal therapy Kobe Branch Collected street donations to train guide dogs Akashi Branch Helped run a garden show held by customers and presented flower seeds and seedlings to visitors 9 offices in Osaka Area Cleaned up the beach in Osaka Nankou Bird Sanctuary ・All branch employees (approximately 50) participated twice during the year in cleanup activities Hiroshima Branch organized by a local nonprofit organization to clean Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park Okayama Branch Held a fun sign language class ・Gave workplace tours to local junior high school students Conducted a hands-on tree thinning event at the Fukuoka Branch Managed the changing and watering the flowers in the street flower beds Kochi Branch and others MUTB Omoi o tsunagu mori forest in Otoyo Town, Kochi Prefecture Nagasaki Branch, Tsushima Branch, Miyazaki Branch Planted flowers and greenery and cleaned near the branch Himeji Branch, Hiroshima Branch, Okamoto Dormitory, Cleaned near the branches (participated in Furusato-seiso 2010 neighborhood cleanup rally Kagoshima Branch Taught finance and economics class at high school Hamakoshien Dormitory London Branch Participated in charity walk to raise money for disaster relief fund Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International Limited Omiya Branch Kyoto Branch, Nara Branch Okayama Branch Kyoto Branch Akashi Branch Hiroshima Branch 46 ■ Society MUFG CSR Report 2011 Donations for Local and International Communities employees as well as significant contributions from business partners. what you do at home, Brussels Branch has spent the past few years working to have all employees reduce the environmental ● March for Babies MUFG footprint of the workplace and to separate garbage. The MUFG Group participates in the March for Babies, an annual Milano Branch (Italy) collected plastic bottle caps, gave them to a nationwide charity walk held by the March of Dimes, a nonprofit recycling company, and donated the proceeds to an initiative to Society organization that raises money to help prevent premature births dig wells in African countries. and protect the health of expectant mothers. In April 2010, Düsseldorf Branch (Germany) provided local students at the Japaemployees from Group companies participated in the event in nese junior high school with an opportunity to visit the bank and New York as a combined 350-person MUFG team, including learn about bank operations. employees' family members and friends. This is the largest charity event that the MUFG Group participates in. Group companies conWalk for Millions—Hong Kong ● Participation in Charity Walk BTMU ducted various awareness-raising and charity activities in-house MUTB's London Branch and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International Limited prior to the event, and a total of US$59,348 was donated. The ● Community Development BTMU employees participated in a charity walk to support the Oxfam's cumulative donations since 1991 now exceed $700,000. (Initiatives under the Community Reinvestment Act) disaster relief funds which help reduce illness and death resulting In the United States, BTMU provides financing to nonprofit finanfrom natural disasters, oppression and conflict. A total of 40 employcial funds and other entities that serve low-income communities ees and their family members participated in the event, which gave and help improve the lives and support the independence of them an opportunity to enjoy nature while helping to raise money. women and the poor. In FY 2010, under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), BTMU provided loans totaling $21.15 million to ● Social Contribution Activities in the United States BTMU MUMSS these Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and Located in New York City, Sunnyside Community Services (SCS) other organizations that support low-priced housing, childcare, provides a wide range of services including health care, educational and education for low-income families. Furthermore, in FY 2010 programs, and social services to underprivileged senior citizens, youth, the BTMU Foundation provided a total of $565,000 in assistance and immigrants. BTMU has supported SCS's activities since 1990. The March for Babies to organizations that support economic growth through a proBTMU Foundation has donated a total of $88,000 over 20 years. gram that builds affordable, eco-friendly housing, as well as BTMU also participates in initiatives run by Encore Community ● Walk for Millions — Hong Kong MUFG microfinance, occupational training, and local credit unions. Services, a New York City organization that provides care and housing In January 2011, a total of 164 MUFG Group staff participated in the to the elderly. In 2010, employees of BTMU and Mitsubishi UFJ SecuriWalk for Millions event organized by the Community Chest of Hong ● Social Contribution and Environmental BTMU ties (USA) volunteered weekly at Encore, with 84 individuals providing Kong. This was the largest group participating from the Japanese Initiatives by Branches in Europe a total of 285 hours of service, including helping with meals. corporate community, comparable in size to teams from Hong Kong Each year, employees of BTMU's Brussels Branch (Belgium) bring The BTMU Foundation has been supporting Encore Community companies and organizations. Walk for Millions is a major charity in used clothing and towels that are then donated to a social welServices since 2000 and has provided a total of $24,500 to the orgaevent held every year since 1971. It is well-attended event, joined this fare facility. In FY 2010, Brussels Branch received a special request nization. time by the Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative from a cooperating organization, and conducted a campaign for Also, in 1997 BTMU launched the Neighborhood Opportunities Fund Region of the People's Republic of China. In FY 2010, roughly 20,000 three weeks accordingly, ultimately collecting and donating 10 with other companies and foundations. This fund aims to support the people from over 180 organizations participated. The MUFG Group bags of clothing etc. to help those in need get through the cold development of local communities, and thus far has provided a total donated 225,000 Hong Kong dollars, which included donations from winter. In addition, based on the philosophy of do at the office of $26 million to support community development initiatives. 47 ■ Society MUFG CSR Report 2011 Donations for Local and International Communities ● Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund MUTB ● Card Gallery MUN The Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund established in 1977 MUN has a CSR display called Card Gallery on the theme of ● Social Contribution Credit Cards MUN has been collecting membership fees for over 30 years from credit cards, placed in front of the company's main office MUN issues credit cards designed to benefit society in a variety MUTB and affiliated company officers, employees, former reception desk on the sixteenth floor of the Akihabara UDX of ways. A percentage of purchases is donated to partner welemployees and their families to make donations to social welbuilding in Tokyo. The gallery's history section presents the fareand health-related organizations. Examples of credit cards fare organizations nationwide. In FY 2010, a total of 7.5 million development of credit cards in Japan over the past 60 years, Society that are helping more people participate in social welfare proyen collected from 6,842 members was donated to 25 social from the coupon system which was the predecessor to credit grams are the Bone Marrow Bank Card, the Red Cross DC welfare groups. cards in Japan, to the dawn of credit cards, and onward to the Card, and the Japan Guide Dog Association DC Card. present. It also includes examples of cards issued from the 1960s to today, including co-branded cards. The line up of ● Employee Donations Account MUMSS credit cards allows visitors to glimpse how credit cards in Japan ● Emergency Disaster Assistance MUFG In October 2007, MUMSS opened an account for collecting have changed over the years since the beginning of the ecoThe MUFG Group has a system in place to quickly provide supemployee donations. MUMSS matches the funds donated by nomic boom in the 1960s. port when a large natural disaster occurs in Japan or elsewhere employees each year (from July through June). From its establishin the world. When an earthquake, flood or other disaster ment through July 2010, the account has donated a total of strikes, we work with nonprofit organizations and others to set roughly 1.94 million yen to two organizations. up special bank accounts to collect donations for relief efforts. BTMU donated 50,0 0 0 New Zealand dollars to the ● Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Museum BTMU Christchurch Mayoral Fund, which is providing financial assistance to those impacted by the earthquake, and donated 10 The highly-acclaimed Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money million yen to the Chinese Embassy in Japan to provide support Museum (Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture) presents organized to victims of the mudslides in China's Gansu Province. BTMU displays of roughly 10,000 rare items from the history of Japaalso donated money to support victims of floods in Pakistan nese and global currency from more than two thousand years and Australia's Queensland, torrential rains in southeast Brazil, ago to the present. It is Japan's largest private collection of Card Gallery and floods in eastern Sri Lanka. monetary artifacts. Visitors can enjoy displays on the history of (The MUFG Group's response to the Great East Japan Earthmoney and ukiyo-e woodblock prints from the Edo period, quake is discussed on page 5.) including a collection of prints by Utagawa Hiroshige, famous ● Expenditures for Social Contribution Activities BTMU MUTB MUMSS for the Fifty-Three Stages of the Tokaido. ● Club for You Social Contribution Fund BTMU (Million yen) Item FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 In August 2007, BTMU launched the Club for You social contribution fund which gives money to organizations addressing Education & culture 404 250 179 social issues, using funds donated by employees through Social welfare & 286 232 71 environmental conservation deductions from their salaries each month combined with Community contributions, international exchange, others 932 881 819 matching contributions from the bank. With one more group added in FY 2010, employees can now choose from 12 differTotal (see Note) 1,621 1,363 1,069 ent recipient organizations. In FY 2010 (through June 2011), (Combined totals for BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS) approximately 4,000 employees participated and the club Note: Totals may not equal item sums, due to rounding. Also, figures do not distributed a total of about 60 million yen for the year, includinclude donations for the Great East Japan Earthquake. ing the bank's matching contributions. Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Museum 48 ■ Product Responsibility MUFG CSR Report 2011 Improving Services We aim to satisfy our customers by providing top-quality services that respond to their input and expectations. Basic Policies and Structures disabled customers. BTMU's CSR Promotion Committee, attended by the company At MUTB, a CS Guidebook was released in September 2006. president and headquarters department heads, meets regularly MUFG Group companies work to improve services using the A supplement including the ten fundamental behaviors to be to discuss measures to continuously enhance customer and emProduct Responsibility PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Act) cycle, which originates from cusfollowed by employees was issued in June 2008 as a revised ployee satisfaction and creates systems to incorporate operatomer input, with the goal of enhancing customer satisfaction. version, and distributed to all employees. tional improvements in response to customer input and comGroup companies in different business categories hold meetings At MUMSS, a Business Manners Handbook summarizing the plaints. on a regular basis to share information, discuss common polimanners to be observed when providing service to customers MUTB holds regular meetings of its Customer Satisfaction cies, and otherwise work together to further improve the qualwas released in May 2006. Improvement Committee, chaired by the president. The commitity of services of the Group as a whole. At MUN, all business units are working to improve the quality of tee discusses measures to improve customer satisfaction. their works, starting with units with direct customer contact, At MUN, important management issues relating to customer Customer Service Continuous Improvement Process toward becoming a company that impresses and takes cussatisfaction are discussed at the CS Committee chaired by the Customer tomer excitement as the wellspring for development. president. MUN also holds regular meetings of its CS Promotion opinions Liaison Committee with the mangers of each business as proCheck ● ISO 9001 Certification BTMU MUN motion leaders, and incorporates customer opinions for the Customer As one initiative to boost customer satisfaction, BTMU has improvement of works, products and services. input raised service levels by acquiring ISO 9001 certification under Do Act the International Standard for Quality Management Systems. Protecting Customer Information Develop and deliver Continuous Review by BTMU has acquired ISO 9001 certification for all branch offices products and services improvement management of services and related headquarters in Japan as a unified, company-wide ● Protecting Customer Information MUMSS MUN Plan framework that facilitates initiatives to enhance customer satis(ISO/IEC 27001 Certification) Make plans based faction. MUMSS acquired the internationally-recognized ISO/IEC 27001 on customer needs The MUN Customer Relations Office has also acquired certificacertification for information security management systems at tion. The company is working to improve service work manuals call centers, and continues working to protect customers' per● Guidelines to Improve Customer Satisfaction MUFG and working steadily to improve service quality and increase sonal information. BTMU has established Ten Commitments to Our Customers customer satisfaction. MUN has acquired ISO/IEC 27001 certification for all operating which clearly demonstrate a customer-first management divisions engaged in NICOS brand operations at the Ikebukuro approach and serve as an employee code of conduct for provid● Putting the Customer-First Approach BTMU MUTB MUN Systems Center, to increase the security of customer information ing products and services. BTMU employees also strive to boost into Practice and transaction settlement systems. customer satisfaction on a day-to-day basis by following ManCreating systems for service improvements that reflect the opinners Standards regarding appearance and service manners and ions of customers and employees who interact with them is an Hospitality Standards for providing services to elderly and important management theme. 49 ■ Product Responsibility MUFG CSR Report 2011 Example Improvements and Services for signing up for a credit card online requires the input of about ● Insurance Products BTMU Individual Customers 40 different items, the company has introduced an input assisAll BTMU branches handle 12 annuity insurance products and tance function, facilitating customer input. eight single -premium whole life insurance produc t s, in Efforts are also being made to improve the website conve● True Teller VOC (Voice of Customers) MUTB response to requests from customers who want to consult nience. This includes a better search function which lists items MUTB has introduced the True Teller VOC (Voice of Customabout insurance along with asset management. Moreover, 20 regarding common inquiries first, the opening of a dedicated ers) management system, under which opinions and requests additional products including equal-payment whole life insursite for smart phone users, which are rapidly increasing, and submitted at each branch are collected and analyzed daily. ance and nursing care insurance products are being offered at other measures to improve the user environment for a wide MUTB has implemented over 30 improvements based on these 452 BTMU branches to meet the wide-ranging needs of range of cardholders. Product Responsibility VOC analyses. The improvements include revised, easy-to-read customer. (Numbers of products and branches are as of Sepcombined bank account passbooks, time deposit applications tember 30, 2011.) ● Improvements to Branches and Facilities BTMU MUTB and other forms, considering universal design; launch of an electronic delivery service so that investment trust transactions MUFG Group companies are improving facilities to make them ● Installation of Computers for Internet Trading MUMSS documents sent by mail can be viewed via internet banking; more accessible to elderly customers and customers with at Each Branch and a change in shipping methods so that time deposit disabilities. account maturity notices are delivered at least one month To respond to customers unfamiliar with Internet trading, For example, BTMU and MUTB are improving in-branch before the maturity date. MUMSS has installed computers for customers to experience signage with large letters in easy-to-see color contrast, and Internet trading at each branch and assigned staff to assist changing the color and materials of steps and ramps to make them. With this staff support, even customers who are not them more noticeable. ● Customer Opinion Cards and Branch Action BTMU MUTB accustomed to using computers can conduct Internet trading BTMU has installed automatic doors and guide blocks for the Customer opinion cards are distributed at all BTMU and MUTB with confidence through guided, hands-on use of the computvisually impaired at the main entrances of its branches, and branches to broadly solicit customer input and requests to ers stationed at each branch. This system has been well remodeled customer restrooms. improve our products and services. received by customers. Branches respond promptly to customer opinion card items ● POINT Meijin.com Service MUN that can be addressed at the branch level. The improvements ● Notification of Suspension of Card MUN being advanced at each branch include providing loaner MUN operates POINT Meijin.com service that allows card Transactions to Prevent Fraud umbrellas for sudden downpours, furnishing special seats for members to automatically earn between two and 25 times the senior citizens, and providing magnifying glasses and eyeMUN has introduced a system to detect fraudulent use of regular points when they shop at a members-only online shopglasses for customer use. credit cards, to protect customers from malicious credit card ping site. In addition to promoting use by members, this crimes. The system monitors customer card use for unusual service contributes to increased sales by participating meractivity 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. With this system, chants, by giving them access to one of the largest member● Support for Visually Impaired Customers BTMU MUTB transactions are sometimes suspended when cards are used, ship networks in the market. At BTMU and MUTB, customers who have difficulties using until we can confirm the identity of the cardholder. In response ATMs because of visual disabilities can send funds transfers at to customer requests asking for advance notification that there bank teller counters for the same fees charged at ATMs. For are such cases, MUN now regularly prints information on customers who have difficulty reading or filling out forms, efforts to prevent fraud in its members magazine and on post employees will read and fill out forms on their behalf, with cards explaining fees. other employees present as witnesses. BTMU and MUTB hold seminars at each office and branch, and are striving to provide ● Internet Signup and Enhanced Website MUN complete service. Information MUN is working to upgrade and expand its website. Because 50 ■ Product Responsibility MUFG CSR Report 2011 Response to Japan's Aging Population and Low ● MUFG CARD Services and Benefits MUN ● Personal Trusts and Family Anshin Trust MUTB Birth Rate MUN provides MUFG CARD members with special services and MUTB manages personal trusts on behalf of customers and benefits from the companies of the MUFG Group. Specifically, their families for periods of up to 30 years, during which time ● MUFG Property Succession Seminars MUFG these include preferential BTMU interest rates and the free use our customers' valuable assets are managed and transferred to of the bank's ATMs both day and night; discounts on fees for The need for estate planning or succession planning is more beneficiaries in keeping with each trust's directives and payMUTB Testamentary Trusts ; preferential rates on purchases common than many people think, and could arise for anyone. ment specifications. As the revisions to the Trust Act increase of foreign currency through the World Currency Shop run by Wills are an effective tool for succession planning and the the design freedom, these products can be used to more Tokyo Credit Services; point rewards on real estate transaction smooth disposal of assets, but they require expertise and widely meet the diversifying asset management and succession Product Responsibility contracts through Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services Co., Ltd., know-how regarding laws, tax regulations and other diverse needs of the elderly. Also from November 2010, MUTB has and novelty gifts from MUMSS. Members also receive free use factors. begun handling the Family Anshin Trust whereby the succesof ATMs at convenience stores nationwide that are part of the The MUFG Group holds seminars where specialists use consion of valuable assets to family members or other beneficiaries BTMU network, and point rewards for MUTB direct membercrete examples to provide explanations and advice on wills and can be made in installments, rather than all at once. This prodship registration and new housing loans. inheritance planning strategies. It also provides support in line uct was jointly developed by MUTB and BTMU in response to with the individual conditions of each customer, for smooth customer opinions. We will continue providing products that property succession. respond to customer needs. ● Quality Life Club for Seniors BTMU Quality Life Club is a membership organization operated by MUFG CARD BTMU which provides services around the themes of the richness of the mind and heart, physical and mental health, and economic freedom to help customers improve their quality of ● Guidelines for the Preparation of MUFG life. Members receive many benefits including invitations to Customer Publications and Forms seminars and events, and support services related to travel, The MUFG Group established Guidelines for the Preparation health and leisure. of Customer Publications and Forms in October 2010 to ensure that our increasingly complex and diverse products and ● Health Care Consultation Services MUN services are introduced to customers in ways that are easier to understand. Pamphlets and other customer publications are MUN provides services to support customers and their families important tools for communications with our customers. who require health care or nursing care. The 24-hour health MUFG held joint meetings with Group companies to explain care and nursing care consultation service provides health, the guidelines. We are actively using these guidelines to promedicine and nursing consultations by dedicated staff 24 vide customer publications and forms that are easy to read, hours a day, 365 days a year for MUFG CARD Platinum Amerieasy to understand, and easy to fill out. can Express Card members. The company also provides domestic and overseas medical treatment support, nursing care consultation, and other services to Gold Card members (see Note). Note: The services provided vary according to the type of card. 51 ■ Product Responsibility MUFG CSR Report 2011 Services for Corporate Customers themes of new energy and smart power grids. tal policies of corporate customers and employee incentives, while also contributing to a better workplaces for clients by providing systems that enhance employee welfare. ● Hosting the Large-Scale Business Conferences MUFG ● Stockholder Response Support Services for Our Customers MUTB Business Link Shobai Hanjo and Shanghai Business Meeting Utilizing our wealth of experience in provision of shareholder ● Risk Management Seminar MUTB The MUFG Group hosts a large business conference called services, MUTB responds to the diverse investor strategy needs Business Link Shobai Hanjo, which brings together resources of companies for which we provide trust services. This includes MUTB held a risk management seminar for corporate customto meet the diverse needs of participating customers. Approxiproviding tools and comprehensive support for shareholder ers in Tokyo in June 2011, attended by about 120 companies. mately 4,700 business meetings among participants seeking relations (SR) strategies, which are designed to build relationThe seminar featured a lecture about business continuity planProduct Responsibility new business partners took place at the recent conference held ships of trust with shareholders. ning for disasters, effective means of post-disaster recovery, in February 2011 in Makuhari, near Tokyo. ● SR NAVI and future real estate strategies to prepare for disaster risk. It In September 2010, MUFG co-hosted the Shanghai Business SR NAVI, a system arising from the needs of individual sharewas followed by an information-exchange event. MUTB plans Meeting together with the Bank of China as an opportunity holders, converts information from a stockholder register into to continue holding seminars for the timely suppor t of for Japanese firms seeking to expand sales in Asian markets to a database that can be accessed online. It also allows for data customer businesses. meet companies from China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. About analysis from a variety of angles, making it possible to analyze 600 representatives from around 250 companies participated the composition of shareholders in terms of time series, share ● Private Finance Initiatives (PFI) MUL in the event, which was held at the Shanghai World Financial holding periods, and many other criteria. Center. ● Shareholder Surveys MUL has been actively engaged in Private Finance Initiatives We have initiated a service to provide comprehensive support (PFI) since 1999, and has served as the consortium lead comfor investor relations strategies targeting individual investors. pany on many projects. PFIs are designed to provide the dual This involves shareholder surveys and analysis of the results, benefits of higher quality service and lower project cost, by which allows for tracking the attributes of individual investors. utilizing financing and know-how from the private sector for ● General Shareholders Meeting Visualization Support the construction, maintenance and operation of public buildServices ings and facilities. MUL has participated in a total of 44 PFI With the growing awareness of shareholder rights, the numprojects so far, and has served as the lead company for 15 of bers of individual shareholders who want to attend general these projects (as of March 31, 2011). shareholders meetings, speak, and exercise their voting rights are increasing. The Visualization Support Service assists with ● e-Leasing Direct MUL the preparation of easily understood contents for business Business Link Shobai Hanjo reports and other items required for reporting and explanae-Leasing Direct, offered as a unique service by MUL, allows tions at general shareholders meetings employing graphs, customers to handle their leasing contract procedures online tables, photographs, other visual images and professional (e.g., estimates, contracts, contract information inquiries, lease ● CSR-related Businesses Plans Presentation Conference MUTB narration. We support our customers' aspirations to improve asset management, and termination). Besides boosting the MUTB has been holding the CSR-related Businesses Plans shareholder understanding and boost their corporate images. efficiency of administrative work, e-Leasing Direct enhances Presentation Conference since 2009 as one means of supportinternal control by maintaining a record of the person and time ing the growth of enterprises engaged in CSR-related busifor each transaction. ● Trust Type Employee Incentive Plan ESOP Trust MUTB nesses, with consideration of IPO support for corporate customers in CSR-related fields. At this conference, presenters Since 2009, MUTB has been offering Employee Stock Ownerexplain their business plans to venture capital firms, major tradship Plans (ESOP) Trusts, which apply an employee stock owning companies, securities companies and other participants, ership framework. Starting in 2011, we began offering Stock and may find new investors and business partners. Customers Grant ESOP Trusts, which give employees gratis shares in their will be selected to present at the FY 2011 conference on the own companies. These are both products that boost the capi52 ■ Product Responsibility MUFG CSR Report 2011 Boosting Customer Satisfaction All Group companies carry out customer satisfaction surveys to further boost customer satisfaction and enhance their financial services. ● Customer Satisfaction Surveys MUFG ● Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (corporate customers) BTMU We are working to incorporate customer responses into our product development and services, so BTMU conducts corporate customer satisfaction surveys, mostly targeting small and medium-sized that customers can enjoy a high level of satisfaction with our branches and services. enterprises, once per year. The bank is implementing a customer and employee satisfaction proProduct Responsibility gram at its commercial banking offices, sharing customer opinions obtained by branch bankers ● Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (individual customers) BTMU from surveys and customer interviews with all employees, discussing improvements, and working In a survey conducted in September 2010, nearly 70% of respondents indicated they were satisto boost customer satisfaction. fied or somewhat satisfied overall with BTMU. Corporate Customer Survey Evaluation of BTMU Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied No response Individual Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied 0 20 40 60 80 100 ％ Respondents Individual customers selected Dissatisfied No response Development of new sales, suppliers, at random and business partners 13.0 24.3 42.9 12.9 6.3 0.6 0 20 40 60 80 100 Distribution Risk reduction for interest rates, foreign method Mail ％ exchanges and other financial risks 12.5 27.3 43.7 9.5 5.5 1.4 No. distributed Approx. 12,000 35.2 31.7 27.1 3.4 Improved efficiency of 17.1 29.0 44.6 4.5 3.8 1.1 domestic settlements No. of responses 4,038 2.0 0.5 Preparation and strengthening of 13.5 21.9 52.3 5.5 5.9 0.9 financial strategies Cost reductions 8.7 16.2 61.4 8.4 6.5 0.3 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (BTMU) Business succession strategies 14.6 27.1 48.8 4.0 4.3 1.2 (%) 90 Preparation and strengthening 15.1 25.7 48.3 5.2 4.2 1.4 of overseas strategies High M&A, takeover defense measures, Credibility as 7.9 14.2 61.5 7.9 7.6 0.8 80 and other advice a financial institution Acquisition, sale 11.6 19.2 54.2 6.0 8.3 0.7 and effective use of land Sound management 70 Asset management matching Transactions using the Internet Employee appearance Employee attitude toward customers risk profiles 9.2 18.9 55.1 6.8 9.2 0.8 and cell phones Skill and accuracy in clerical procedures Creation of new businesses, 8.2 13.4 60.5 10.0 7.6 0.3 Satisfaction with BTMU 60 new products and new technologies Aesthetics and cleanliness at the branches Drafting business strategies Employee Ease of understanding Diligent attitude toward and preparing business plans 11.4 20.1 53.7 8.0 6.2 0.6 approachability employee explanations compliance 50 Employee understanding of Improved efficiency of foreign trade Employee product knowledge and global settlements 11.0 19.6 57.5 5.2 5.5 1.2 customers (and their needs) ATM hours Secure transactions, including for Aesthetics and cleanliness of cash cards, etc. 40 ATM locations Debt management 5.7 11.5 68.9 6.6 7.0 0.4 Branch locations Waiting time at ATMs Employee ability to offer ATM locations Reduction of financial risk 3.8 7.7 73.6 5.5 9.3 0.0 suggestions to weather and earthquakes 30 Social contribution efforts Environmental response 4.6 7.7 73.2 4.1 9.8 0.5 20 BCP preparation support 3.4 5.7 73.1 8.6 9.1 0.0 Waiting time at branches IFRS response 8.2 9.3 73.1 3.1 8.3 0.0 10 Branch hours Revision of pension systems 10.4 7.5 69.8 3.3 8.5 0.5 Low 0 Strengthening of systems 5.7 9.4 70.3 3.6 9.4 1.8 toward stock market listing Low Importance in bank selection High Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline (Conducted June 2011) (Conducted Sept. 2010) Respondents: Corporate customers selected at random Distribution method: Mail No. distributed: 21,500 companies No. of responses: Approx. 5,249 companies 53 ■ Product Responsibility MUFG CSR Report 2011 ● Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation MUTB ● Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities MUMSS In a survey conducted in September 2010, nearly 70% of respondents indicated they were A survey by MUMSS in September 2010 showed a 0.3 point improvement in customer satisfaction satisfied or somewhat satisfied overall with MUTB. Among reasons customers emphasize for overall, which had been on a declining trend. Scores improved for reliability, employee underselecting a trust bank, MUTB received high scores for employee attitude towards customers, standing of customers (and their needs), and approachability of employees, while scores declined prompt response, ease of understanding employee explanations, and employees' product knowlfor items such as accuracy in clerical procedures, ease of connecting by telephone, and adequacy edge. We recognize the need for greater efforts on items which received low ratings, and will conof information on specific company shares. MUMSS will continue working sincerely at improvetinue striving to make further improvements. ments toward becoming a high-customer-satisfaction company which customers can patronize year after year. Product Responsibility Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied Respondents Individual customers selected Dissatisfied No response Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied at random 0 20 40 60 80 100 Distribution Respondents Individual customers selected at random Dissatisfied No response method Mail ％ in five categories of managed assets No. distributed Approx. 11,000 24.9 43.6 24.6 5.3 Distribution 0 20 40 60 80 100 method Mail ％ 17.4 30.3 39.4 7.9 1.1 0.4 No. of responses 4,114 No. distributed Approx. 10,000 3.4 1.6 No. of responses 2,436 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUTB) Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUMSS) (%) 90 Employee attitude toward customers (%) High Sound management Credibility as a financial 90 80 Aesthetics and cleanliness at the branches institution High Prompt response to customer Skill and accuracy in clerical consultations procedures 80 70 Ease of understanding Employee product knowledge employee explanations Branch locations 70 Employee understanding of customers 60 Satisfaction with MUTB (and their needs) 60 Satisfaction with MUMSS Employee ability to offer suggestions Skill and accuracy in clerical 50 Employee product knowledge procedures Waiting time at branches Employee attitude toward 50 customers Employee approachability 40 Ease of understanding Provision of information on products Preferential services Employee appearance employee explanations services and campaigns Branch locations Range of savings products and services 40 Employee reliability 30 Range of promotional goods Employee ability to offer suggestions Range of investment trust products Employee understanding of customers and services Range of (Japanese government and foreign) (and their needs) 30 bonds and services 20 Level of other fees Range of investment trusts and services Clarity of product and service pamphlets Adequacy of information on economic Website content Strengthening security and and market conditions 20 other transaction safety 10 Ease of using Internet trading Level of fees Range of seminars and lectures Preferential services for clients with high account balances Low 10 or a long trading history Abundant information on 0 Ease of using telephone succession and life planning Abundant asset management information trading Low Importance in trust bank selection High Low 0 Low Importance in securities company selection High (Conducted Sept. 2010) (Conducted Sept. 2010) 54 ■ Product Responsibility MUFG CSR Report 2011 ● Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS MUN In a customer satisfaction survey conducted in October 2010, over 60% of customers responded that they are satisfied or somewhat satisfied overall (up 1.8 percentage points year-on-year). MUN received high scores in ease of use, corporate image, call center response and other categories. On the other hand, the company received low ratings for such items as annual fee and point program. MUN is actively advancing activities to improve the quality of products, services and customer response, reflecting the opinions received from customers through diverse channels. Product Responsibility Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied Brand (non-affiliated) credit card users Dissatisfied No response Subjects of MUFG CARD, DC, UFJ Card and NICOS Distribution 0 20 40 60 80 0.4 100 method Mail ％ No. distributed Approx. 4,300 16.3 45.3 30.6 5.5 1.9 No. of responses 1,600 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUN) (%) 90 High 80 Ease of use Invoices sent by mail inside Japan 70 Feel no hesitation to display card for payment Good call center response Large credit limit for shopping 60 Good corporate image Satisfaction with MUN IC cards and other security functions Ease of use outside Japan 50 Compensation for illicit card Ease of using website use and damages 40 Range of travel and shopping insurance Range of payment options 30 Low annual fee Discounts and privileges at specified stores Low interest rates and fees for Range of point program 20 installment payments and revolving payments Ease of cash withdrawals Convenience of electronic money 10 Low 0 Low Importance in credit card company selection High (Conducted Oct. 2010) 55 ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance MUFG CSR Report 2011 Initiatives of Group Companies: Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance MUL is actively advancing the ESCO business, environmental financing, the carbon offset business and other environment-related services to meet the diverse environmental needs of corporate customers. Energy Conservation Services, Environmental ment with customers who want to reduce CO 2 emissions by ● Carbon Offset Businesses Services using green power. MUL offers services to support the use of carbon offsets. Our Carbon Natural Leases (leases bundled with carbon emis● ESCO Services sion credits) offset the CO2 that will be emitted in connection Initiatives of Group Companies: An energy service company (ESCO) provides the dual benefits of with the lease. Customers can, in effect, be engaged in environreduced environmental impacts and costs, by offering a service mental activities without having to do the cumbersome paperpackage that could include energy audits, planning, renovawork or accounting. Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance tions, verification of results, and other services, with the aim of For customers who would like to do business without carrying conserving energy in buildings, factories, hotels, hospitals and carbon emission credits, we also offer our Offset Partner other facilities that are large consumers of energy. Service (a trust service for carbon offsets). This service supMUL has been committed to providing ESCO services since they ports customers' environmental initiatives in a variety of scewere first offered in Japan, and has achieved top-class perfornarios, such as development of products that come with carbon mance and been recognized in Japan for its involvement in a emission credits, provision of carbon offsets for exhibition total of 382 ESCO projects to date (as of March 31, 2011). events, manufacturing plants, and so on. Authorized Tradable Green Tradable Green Certificates Certificates issuer logo Design of Offset Partner Service ● Green Leases and Tradable Green Certification Services Carbon emission Procure carbon ● Financial Services for Environmental Businesses Carbon emission Retirement account A green lease is a leasing service that covers a portion of the (1) credits Contract electricity consumed by leased equipment, by using green We provide total support for achieving business plans by offeremission credits (2) Customers electricity generated using natural energy sources that have a ing finance services to customers engaged in recycling, waste (4) Notify amount of emission credits used MUL credit supplier (Japanese government) low environmental impact, such as wind or solar power. CusRetire carbon treatment, clean energy, and so on. Besides providing corporate (6) (5) tomers can easily use green power by applying Tradable Green financing, we also offer diverse financial services that match Issue offset certificate emission credits Certificates to their lease contracts, thereby certifying the enviprojects and operations, such as by using project financing Use of emission credits Carbon emission (3) credits ronmental value of the renewable energy used. methods that rely on profitability and stability. We respond to a (1) A contract is signed between customer and MUL. In July 2010, MUL was authorized as an issuer of Tradable wide range of needs, from purchases of new business sites to (2) On behalf of customer, MUL procures and manages carbon emission credits. (3) Customer uses carbon emission credits. Green Certificates, and launched a Tradable Green Certification plant construction and more. (4) Customer notifies MUL of the amount of carbon emission credits used. (5) MUL carries out procedures to transfer carbon emission credits to government redemption account. service, by which MUL purchases from a customer the environ(6) MUL issues an offset certificate to the customer certifying that the carbon emission credits have been registered in the government redemption account. mental value of the renewable energy generated from the use of photovoltaic equipment leased to the customer. MUL is using these acquired Tradable Green Certificates for green leases, which connect customers who want to invest in the environ56 ■ Union Bank MUFG CSR Report 2011 Initiatives of Group Companies: Union Bank Union Bank continues its long-term commitment to sustainable activities in social, economic, and environmental areas. Sustainability is a priority in our business operations, and an important part of our corporate culture. Community-reinvestment loans and activities in 2010 totaled ● Community Based Financing tion, to implement a pen recycling program. In 2010, employees US$4.67 billion, including $10 million in charitable donations to Our Community-Based Financing program offers small business recycled thousands of pens and donated the recycling incentive nonprofit organizations. borrowers who do not qualify for financing with the bank the offerings by TerraCycle to charitable organizations. Our Supplier Diversity Office proactively seeks to increase the opportunity to work with a nonprofit partner of the bank to Initiatives of Group Companies: Union Bank amount of bank-wide business with vendors owned by ethnireceive the financial and technical assistance necessary to ● Charitable Giving and Volunteer Activities by Employees cally diverse individuals, service-disabled military veterans, and strengthen their businesses and qualify for bank financing. Union Bank's commitment to charitable giving dates back to 1953 with women. In 2010, we increased our supplier diversity expendithe establishment of a $19,000 Community Benefit Fund. Since then, ture to $136 million, up from $111 million in 2009. ● First Student-Run Branch the bank's focus on philanthropy has significantly and steadily grown. In In March 2010, we opened our first student-run branch on the McLane 2010, the Union Bank charitable contributions program, administered ● Housing for People with Low Incomes High School campus in Fresno, California. An onsite Union Bank manthrough the Union Bank Foundation, totaled $10 million. Many areas across the United States continue to experience a ager oversees operations and coaches the student bankers, who also Union Bank and its employees responded together to the devastating significant affordability crisis in the home rental market. To provide earn academic credit for their work. The highly competitive program earthquake and tsunami in Japan in March of 2011. A coordinated assistance in this area, in 2010, Union Bank provided over $373 offers student bankers the opportunity to gain hands-on experience in response by the Union Bank Foundation and Union Bank employees, million in financing to support the development or permanent finance while developing leadership and management skills. combined with matching funds from the bank, added to donations from financing of over 5,700 affordable housing units. The transactions clients, yielded a more than $589,000 for the relief efforts in Japan. varied in scope from larger construction projects financed by the ● Environment In 2010, Union Bank employees volunteered more than 19,000 hours to Community Development Finance division to consortia transactions Union Bank made the commitment in 2009 to reduce its greena number of worthy causes. Some chose to teach financial education that the bank finances in partnership with other financial instituhouse gas emissions by nine percent by 2013. The “Powered By and join efforts to build affordable housing, while others chose to tions aimed at smaller projects that provide affordable housing. You” employee energy efficiency program was rolled out to the mentor students or raise funds through community-related activities. majority of Union Bank's branch offices in May 2010 and Employees also leveraged their professional expertise in the areas of ● Community Reinvestment resulted in a reduction of emissions by more than 650 metric legal, marketing, and information technologies, for example, to provide To help promote economic development in our communities, tons by year end. We achieved these impressive results simply by pro-bono work. Financial education is a primary focus of the bank's Union Bank provides flexible terms and rates to lowand asking employees to turn off lights when they leave a room and volunteer efforts, for which our employees provided more than 5,000 moderate-income (LMI) and underserved communities. In 2010, shut down nonessential equipment at the end of the work day. hours of volunteer time. In 2010, Union Bank developed a Financial our Business Diversity Lending program made nearly 3,900 new Employees also made an impact on our paper reduction efforts Literacy Campaign to coincide with the nationally-recognized Financial loans, renewal transactions, and cash reserve lines totaling $213 bank-wide. By utilizing duplex printing in many of the key busiLiteracy Month in April. million. Our Economic Opportunity Mortgage (EOM), which ness centers, improving the employee website and toolkits, and We have found that Union Bank employees constantly impress and helps LMI borrowers purchase a new home or refinance an existencouraging employees to reduce paper use, we successful surpass all expectations when it comes to giving back to our communiing home, funded 761 loans. The bank also extended an addireduced paper use bank-wide by three percent in 2010. ties and those in need, and we are looking forward to another productional 1,074 loans to LMI borrowers, up from 952 loans in 2009. We partnered with TerraCycle, a nonprofit recycling organizative and proud year in 2011. 57 ■ Assurance MUFG CSR Report 2011 Third Party Comment Some people have expressed the view that CSR But one question is, Are the cumulative efforts and outcomes of the attempts to Message from the CEO. activities of Japanese financial institutions to date communicate really getting through to stakeholders? And if they are getting One heading in the FY 2010 report was Initiatives to Facilitate Finance. This was are somewhat behind those of manufacturing, through, how do stakeholders see these efforts? about MUFG Group's response to help small and medium-sized enterprises deal with retail and distribution industries. One reason for this The MUFG Group's dialogue with experts is another means to see how its messages worsening deflation after the Lehman Shock. The response to disaster and the is the special characteristics of the products got through. But for a large organization like MUFG, is it really possible to get the facilitation of finance are both responses to the question of what the financial indusinvolved. Financial products are unlike tangible final full picture of its CSR message just by listening to the opinions of a few experts? The try can do to respond to temporary disruptions in society. The response to crises is consumer goods such as automobiles, electrical Group has many types of stakeholders. For shareholders it can respond to CSR-related inherently the role of the national government. But if we consider the declining effecproducts and food. Rather, they are the economic inquiries, which is a part of investor relations, while to reach a large number of tiveness of government in the face of ballooning fiscal deficits, the question of the Prof. Yoshihiro Fujii means of obtaining these kinds of consumer goods. customers it can use the interactive functions of the Internet. If the Group can be extent to which financial institutions can play a role in supporting the economy and Assurance Graduate School of Global Environmental Studies, Because of that difference, for customers they are perceived as a financial institution that is able to communicate the wishes of its society by providing funds reflects an important societal demand. Sophia University more intangible than consumer goods. Another customers, it can expect benefits for its core businesses as well. In the responses to the recent disaster, some attention went to issues facing individuaspect—similar to the difference with consumer goods—is the special characteristics The Group has faced a number of operations-related scandals in the past. Each time, I als and companies who were already carrying debt in two loans, such as business of the financial industry itself. The essence of the finance industry is providing loans, have expressed some rather demanding expectations in my commentary. Fortunately, loans and home mortgages. The Japanese Bankers Association, for which BTMU's investment and financing activities for society. Rather than the financial industry itself in 2010 no major compliance-related issues arose. This report tells us that in the chairman is currently serving as its chairman, formulated Guidelines for Reorganizing creating value, it is the companies and businesses on the receiving end of loans, meantime, from routine compliance-awareness surveys, officers and employees are Personal Finances, with the aim of reducing the existing debt of private debtors investment and financing that are activated by the financial support, and only then is saying that systems are being put in place and that there is a shared awareness about through public-private collaboration. This kind of activity could be viewed positively as value created that surpasses the scale of the original loans, investment and financing. creating an open workplace and good communication. a CSR activity by the financial industry. Thus, to evaluate the corporate social responsibility of each individual financial instituThese are very interesting findings. Openness and good communication really mean But goodwill alone will not ensure balance between what society demands of the tion, it is difficult to grasp the big picture unless we actually look at the recipients of not just the situation in the business units within the Group, but also this attitude financial industry, and the profits that companies expect as private corporations. What the financial activities from those financial institutions. Both of these characteristics pervading throughout the entire Group. Actively putting these officers' and employis really needed here to move beyond guidelines and respond to the need for the define the destiny of the financial industry. MUFG, as the largest comprehensive ees' perceptions and responses into action in organizational reforms and operations supply of additional funds in disaster-affected areas? It is the wisdom and innovation financial group in Japan, like others has tackled CSR under these kinds of constraints. will boost the strength of the Group, and will also enhance the confidence placed in that springs from a high level of financial strength—the wisdom and innovation that To deal with the first factor, the key is not only to differentiate the products, but also to the MUFG Group companies by shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders. This can also cover non-routine risk, and ensure future business returns. boost the credibility of the financial institution itself. Such efforts are clearly evident on indeed is the key to link CSR to their management philosophy. To date, MUFG has implemented a variety of disaster related activities, such as provithe CSR pages of the Group website. The website articulates the relationship between It is unfortunate that the explanation of this survey took up only a few lines on the sion of donations, establishment of a scholarship fund, and offering preferential the Management Philosophy and CSR saying that the Group companies use finance to pages about compliance, even in the full edition of the CSR report. I believe that the interest loans for affected areas. Each of these involves specialized wisdom, but if a actively address key issues facing society, and explains to each type of stakeholders Group can help build greater trust by conveying to other stakeholders these voices of person looks at things from the perspective of the expectations of society toward the social and environmental contributions made through their core business activities. its own people within the Group when they articulate how they feel about the organiJapan's largest comprehensive financial group and the Group's inherent financial The provision of information in response to the second factor is actually like the zation. power, one might conclude that the Group could still do much more. theme song of CSR, with the highlights version of the CSR report, complemented After all, what society expects of MUFG is to make the most of its financial strengths The link between management philosophy and CSR is the key to responding to by the full version report, as well as an e-book format and video version. Clearly, I can that are part of its core line of business. The biggest CSR topic for many corporations societal demands while at the same time securing profit as private corporations. Such praise these efforts to communicate about the Group's activities. They are in no way this year is probably going to be the response to the Great East Japan Earthquake. commitment and action may well be the shortcut to earn the respect and reputation inferior to the websites of manufacturers and others. MUFG also covers its response to this disaster in the first pages of the report after the the MUFG Group seeks. 58 ■ GRI Content Index MUFG CSR Report 2011 GRI Content Index MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 The table below indicates the pages in this report that correspond Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. to items indicated in the 3.1 edition of the Sustainability Report2.9 Significant changes during the report4 Annual 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the 26, 29, 34 ing Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), ing period regarding size, structure, or Report, bases of calculations, including assumptions which were used as a reference in the preparation of this report. ownership including: 2 and techniques underlying estimations • The location of, or changes in operaapplied to the compilation of the Indicators MUFG2011 MUFG2011 Item Indicator tions, including facility openings, and other information in the report. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. closings, and expansions; and 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re26 1. Strategy and Analysis •Changes in the share capital structure statements of information provided in 1.1 Statement from the most senior 2 4 and other capital formation, mainteearlier reports, and the reasons for such decision-maker of the organization (e.g., nance, and alteration operations (for re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) private sector organizations). change of base years/periods, nature of about the relevance of sustainability to 2.10 Awards re cei ve d in the re p o r ting 13 23, 37 business, measurement methods). the organization and its strategy. period. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 1 GRI Content Index 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 3, 7-22 5-9 3. Report Parameters periods in the scope, boundary, or meaopportunities. Report Profile surement methods applied in the report. 2. Organizational Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar 1 1 GRI Content Index 2.1 Name of the organization. 1, 4 1, 2 year) for information provided. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 59-63 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 5, 9-18 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if Standard Disclosures in the report. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, 4 2 any). Assurance including main divisions, operating compa3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 58 nies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Back cover 1 seeking external assurance for the report. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Back cover the report or its contents. If not included in the assurance report 2.5 Number of countries where the organi5 2 Report Scope and Boundary accompanying the sustainability report, zation operates, and names of countries 3.5 Process for defining report content, 1 explain the scope and basis of any external with either major operations or that are including: assurance provided. Also explain the specifically relevant to the sustainability • Determining materiality; relationship between the reporting organiissues covered in the report. • Prioritizing topics within the report; zation and the assurance provider(s). 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4 1 and 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 2.7 Markets served (including geographic 5 2 • Identifying stakeholders the organiGovernance breakdown, sectors served, and types zation expects to use the report. 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, in10 of customers/beneficiaries). 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., coun1 cluding committees under the highest gover2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, Annual tries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased nance body responsible for specific tasks, such including: Report, facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). as setting strategy or organizational oversight. • Number of employees; 20 See GRI Boundary Protocol for further 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the high10 • Number of operations; guidance. est governance body is also an execu• Net sales (for private sector organi3.7 State any specific limitations on the 1, 26 tive officer (and, if so, their function zations) or net revenues (for public scope or boundary of the report. within the organization's management sector organizations); 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 1 and the reasons for this arrangement). • Total capitalization broken down in subsidiaries, leased facilities, 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary 10 terms of debt and equity (for private out sourced operations, and other board structure, state the number and sector organizations); and entities that can significantly affect gender of members of the highest • Quantit y of produc ts or ser vices comparability from period to period governance body that are independent provided. and/or between organizations. and/or non-executive members. 59 ■ GRI Content Index MUFG CSR Report 2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and em10 4.12 Externally developed economic, envi11, 14, 25 7, 18, 25 EC2 Financial implications and other risks 7-14 6-9 ployees to provide recommendations ronmental, and social charters, princore and opportunities for the organizaor direction to the highest governance ciples, or other initiatives to which the tion's activities due to climate change. body. organization subscribes or endorses. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined Annual 4.5 Linkage between compensation for 10 4.13 Memberships in associations (such 11, 14, 25 7, 18, 25 core benefit plan obligations. Report members of the highest governance as industr y associations) and /or EC4 Significant financial assistance received body, senior managers, and executives national/international advocacy orgacore from government. (including departure arrangements), nizations in which the organization: Market Presence and the organization's performance • Has positions in governance bodies; EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level (including social and environmental • Participates in projects or commitadd wage by gender compared to local performance). tees; minimum wage at significant locations 4.6 Processes in place for the highest 10 • Provides substantive funding beyond of operation. GRI Content Index governance body to ensure conflicts of routine membership dues; or EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of interest are avoided. • Views membership as strategic. core spending on locally-based suppliers at 4.7 Process for determining the composi10 Stakeholder Engagement significant locations of operation. tion, qualifications, and exper tise 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by 20 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proporof the members of the highest the organization. core tion of senior management hired from governance body and its committees, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 20 the local community at locations of including any consideration of gender stakeholders with whom to engage. significant operation. and other indicators of diversity. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engage15-16, 20, 21-22 Indirect Economic Impacts 4.8 Internally developed statements of 3, 7-8 5, 6-8, 13, ment, including frequency of engage23-24 EC8 Development and impact of infrastruc12-16 9,42-48 mission or values, codes of conduct, 15-17, 23, m ent by t y p e and by s t ake h o ld er core ture investments and services provided and principles relevant to economic, 24, 25, 35, group. primarily for public benefit through environmental, and social performance 42, 49 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have 15-16, 20, 21-22 comm ercial, in kind, or pro b ono and the status of their implementation. been raised through stakeholder en23-24 engagement. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance 8 1, 8, 18 gagement, and how the organization EC9 Understanding and describing body for overseeing the organization's has responded to those key topics and add significant indirect economic impacts, identification and management of concerns, including through its reportincluding the extent of impacts. economic, environmental, and social ing. Environmental Performance Indicators performance, including relevant risks 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Management Approach 7-8, 9-16 25 and opportunities, and adherence or Economic Performance Indicators Materials compliance with internationally agreed Management Approach 7-8 23 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 26 s t andards, co d e s of co nduc t , and Economic Performance core principles. EC1 D ire c t e co n o mic valu e g en erate d Annual EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 26 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest 8 7, 18 core and distributed, including revenues, Report, core recycled input materials. governance body's own performance, operating costs, employee compensa48 Energy particularly with respect to economic, tion, donations and other community EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 26 environmental, and social performance. investments, retained earnings, and core energy source. Commitments to External Initiatives payment s to capital providers and EN4 Indirect energy consumption by 26 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 14, 25 7, 8, 18, governments. core primary source. precautionary approach or principle is 25 addressed by the organization. 60 ■ GRI Content Index MUFG CSR Report 2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. EN5 Energy saved due to conser vation 26, 27 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Transport add and efficiency improvements. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 9, 26 EN29 Significant environmental impac t s 26, 28, 29 EN6 I n i t i a t i v e s t o p r o v i d e e n e r g y 9-14 26-34, 56, core gas emissions by weight. add of transporting products and other add efficient or renewable energy 57 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas 26 goods and materials used for the orgabased produc t s and ser vices, and core emissions by weight. nization's operations, and transporting reductions in energy requirements EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 27-28 members of the workforce. as a result of these initiatives. add emissions and reductions achieved. Overall EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 34 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting EN30 Total environmental protection expen9, 29 add consumption and reductions add substances by weight. add ditures and investments by type. achieved. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Social Performance Indicators Water core emissions by type and weight. Labor Practices & Decent Work EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 26 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and 26 Management Approach 7-8, 21-22 35 GRI Content Index core core destination. Employment EN9 Water sources significantly affected EN22 Total weight of waste by t ype and LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 35 add by withdrawal of water. core disposal method. core employment contract, and region. EN10 P e r c e n t a g e a n d t o t a l v o l u m e o f EN23 Total number and volume of signifiLA2 T o t a l n u m b e r a n d r a t e o f n e w 35 add water recycled and reused. core cant spills. core employee hires and employee turnover Biodiversity EN24 Weight of transpor ted, impor ted, by age group, gender, and region. EN11 Lo c ation and size of land ow ned, 30 add exported, or treated waste deemed LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employ21-22 36-40 core leased, managed in, or adjacent to, hazardous under the terms of the add ees that are not provided to temporary protec ted areas and areas of high Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and or part-time employees, by significant biodiversity value outside protected VIII, and percentage of transported locations of operation. areas. waste shipped internationally. LA15 Return to work and retention rates EN12 Description of significant impac t s 30 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and core after parental leave, by gender. core of activities, products, and services add biodiversity value of water bodies and Labor/Management Relations on biodiver sit y in protec ted areas related habitats significantly affected LA4 Percentage of employees covered by and areas of high biodiversity value b y t h e r e p o r t i n g o r g a n i z a t i o n' s core collective bargaining agreements. outside protected areas. discharges of water and runoff. LA5 Minimum notice period (s) regarding EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 30 Product and Services core o p e r a t i o n a l c h a n g e s , i n c l u d i n g add EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental 9-14 9, 31-33, whether it is specified in collective EN14 St r a t e g i e s , c u r r e n t a c t i o n s , a n d 17, 30 core impacts of products and services, and 56, 57 agreements. add future plans for managing impacts extent of impact mitigation. Occupational Health and Safety on biodiversity. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their LA6 Percentage of total workforce repreEN15 N um b e r of I U CN R e d L is t s p e ci e s core packaging materials that are reclaimed add sented in formal joint managementadd and national conser vation list spe by category. worker health and safety committees cies with habitats in areas affected Compliance that help monitor and advise on occuby operations, by level of extinction EN28 Monetar y value of significant fines No violation No violation pational health and safety programs. risk. core and total number of non-monetary LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, sanc tions for noncompliance with core lost days, and absenteeism, and environmental laws and regulations. number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. 61 ■ GRI Content Index MUFG CSR Report 2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. LA8 Education, training, counseling, 38 HR3 Total hours of employee training on 41 Society core prevention, and risk-control programs core policies and procedures concerning Management Approach 7-8, 15-16 42 in place to assist workforce members, a s p e c t s of human r ight s t hat are Local Community their families, or community members relevant to operations, including the SO1 Percentage of operations with impleregarding serious diseases. percentage of employees trained. core mented local community engagement, LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Non-discrimination impact assessments, and development add formal agreements with trade unions. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimiprograms. Training and Education core nation and corrective actions taken. SO9 Operations with significant potential LA10 Average hours of training per year per Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining add or actual negative impacts on local core employee by gender, and by employee HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identicommunities. category. core fied in which the right to exercise freedom SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures LA11 Programs for skills management and 39, 40 of association and collective bargaining core i m p l e m e n t e d i n o p e r a t i o n s w i t h GRI Content Index add lifelong learning that suppor t the may be violated or at significant risk, and significant potential or actual negative continued employability of employees actions taken to support these rights. impacts on local communities. and assist them in managing career Child Labor Corruption endings. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identiSO2 Percentage and total number of busiLA12 Percentage of employees receiving 39 core fied as having significant risk for incidents of core ness units analyzed for risks related to core regular performance and career develchild labor, and measures taken to contribcorruption. opment reviews, by gender. ute to the effective abolition of child labor. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 12 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Forced and Compulsory Labor core organization's anti-corruption policies LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 9 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers idenand procedures. core breakdown of employees per employee core tified as having significant risk for inciSO4 Actions taken in response to incidents categor y according to gender, age dents of forced or compulsory labor, and core of corruption. group, minority group membership, measures to contribute to the elimination Public Policy and other indicators of diversity. of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SO5 Public policy positions and participa3, 11, 12 8, 19, 32, Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Security Practices core tion in public policy development and 33 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained 41 lobbying. core o f w o m e n t o m e n b y e m p l o y e e add in the organization's policies or proceSO6 Total value of financial and in-kind concategory, by significant locations of dures concerning aspects of human add tributions to political parties, politicians, operation. rights that are relevant to operations. and related institutions by country. Human Rights Indigenous Rights Anti-Competitive Behavior Management Approach 7-8 41 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations SO7 To t a l n u m b e r o f l e g a l a c t i o n s f o r Investment and Procurement Practices add involving rights of indigenous people add anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and HR1 Percentage and total number of signifiand actions taken. monopoly practices and their outcomes. core cant investment agreements and conAssessment Compliance tracts that include clauses incorporating HR10 Percentage and total number of operaSO8 Monetar y value of significant fines human rights concerns, or that have core tions that have been subject to human add and total number of non-monetary undergone human rights screening. rights reviews and/or impact assessments. sanctions for noncompliance with laws HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, 24 Remediation and regulations. core contractors and other business HR11 Number of grievances related to human Product Responsibility partners that have undergone human core rights filed, addressed and resolved Management Approach 7-8, 19-20 15-17, 49 rights screening, and actions taken. through formal grievance mechanisms. Customer Health and Safety 62 ■ GRI Content Index MUFG CSR Report 2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 MUFG2011 Item Indicator Item Indicator Item Indicator Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety 19-20 14, 49 ■ Financial Services Sector Supplement (2008) Active Ownership core impac t s of produc t s and ser vices are Product and Service Impact FS10 Percentage and number of companies assessed for improvement, and percentage (Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure on Management Approach) core held in the institution's portfolio with of signi f i c ant pro du c t s and s e r v i ce s FS1 Policies with specific environmental 7-8 6-8, 15-17, which the reporting organization has categories subject to such procedures. core and social component s applied to 19 interacted on environmental or social PR2 Total number of incident s of non business lines. issues. add compliance with regulations and volunFS2 Procedures for assessing and screening 7, 15-17, FS11 Percentage of assets subject to tary codes concerning health and safety core environmental and social risks in busi19 core positive and negative environmental or impacts of products and services during ness lines. social screening. their life cycle, by type of outcomes. FS3 P ro ce s s e s fo r m o ni to r ing cli e nt s' 13 19 FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environProduct and Service Labeling core implementation of and compliance core mental or social issues for shares over PR3 Type of product and service information 49-55 with environmental and social requirewhich the reporting organization holds GRI Content Index core required by procedures, and percentage m ent s includ e d in agre em ent s o r the right to vote shares or advises on of significant products and services subtransactions. voting. ject to such information requirements. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff compe7-8 Society (Performance Indicators) PR4 To t a l n u m b e r o f i n c i d e n t s o f core tency to implement the environmental Community add non-compliance with regulations and and social policies and procedures as FS13 Access points in low-populated or 50 voluntary codes concerning product applied to business lines. core economically disadvantaged areas by and service information and labeling, FS5 Interactions with clients /i nv e s te e s / 9-14 25-34 type. by type of outcomes. core business partners regarding environFS14 Initiatives to improve access to finan3 47, 50-51, PR5 Practices related to customer satisfac9, 51-55 mental and social risks and opportunicore cial services for disadvantaged people. 57 add tion, including results of surveys meaties. Product Responsibility (Management Approach) suring customer satisfaction. Product and Service Impact (Performance Indicators) FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of 19-20 12-13 Marketing Communications Product Portfolio core financial products and services. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, 49, 51 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for busiAnnual Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) core standards, and voluntary codes related core ness lines by specific region, size (e.g. Report Product and Service Labeling to marketing communications, including micro/SME/large) and by sector. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy 13 42-44, 57 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. FS7 Monetar y value of products and core by type of beneficiary. PR7 To t a l n u m b e r o f i n c i d e n t s o f n o n core services designed to deliver a specific add compliance with regulations and voluntary social benefit for each business line codes concerning marketing communicabroken down by purpose. tions, including advertising, promotion, FS8 Monetary value of products and serand sponsorship by type of outcomes. core vices designed to deliver a specific enCustomer Privacy vironmental benefit for each business PR8 Total number of substantiated comline broken down by purpose. add plaints regarding breaches of customer Audit privacy and losses of customer data. FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to 10, 11 Compliance core assess implementation of environmenPR9 Monetary value of significant fines for tal and social policies and risk assesscore noncompliance with laws and regulament procedures. tions concerning the provision and use of products and services. 63 ■ Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects MUFG CSR Report 2011 Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects Our engagements are shown together with the corresponding seven core subjects of ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility). MUFG2011 MUFG2011 Core Subjects (6.2-6.8) Issues Core Subjects (6.2-6.8) Issues Highlights Ed. Full Ed. Highlights Ed. Full Ed. 6.2 Organizational governance 1. Organizational governance 7-8 6 -19 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 1. Due diligence information and fair contractual 2. Human rights risk situations practices 3. Avoidance of complicity 2. Protecting consumers' health and 6.3 Human rights 4. Resolving grievances safety Note: Linked to the UN Global 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups 15-17, 41 3. Sustainable consumption 14、15-17, 6.7 Consumer issues 19-20 Compact Principles 16 6. Civil and political rights 4. Consumer service, support, and 49-55 7. Economic, social and cultural rights complaint and dispute resolution Comparative Table with ISO 26000 Core Subjects 8. Fundamental principles and rights at 5. Consumer data protection and work privacy 1. Employment and employment 6. Access to essential services relationships 7. Education and awareness 2. Conditions of work and social 1. Community involvement 6.4 Labour practices protection 2. Education and culture Note: Linked to the UN Global 21-22 3540 3. Social dialogue 3. Employment creation and skills Compact Principles 36 4. Health and safety at work development 6.8 Community involvement and 15-16 4248 5. Human development and training in 4. Technology development and access development the workplace 5. Wealth and income creation 1. Prevention of pollution 6. Health 2. Sustainable resource use 7. Social investment 6.5 The environment 3. Climate change mitigation and Note: Linked to the UN Global adaptation 9-14 25-34 Compact Principles 7-9 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 1. Anti-corruption 2. Responsible political involvement 6.6 Fair operating practices 3. Fair competition Note: Linked to the UN Global 12 , 13 , 2 4 4. Promoting social responsibility in the Compact Principles 3-10 value chain 5. Respect for property rights 64
