The Right To dream Annual Review 2011 Sri Lanka WORLD VISION Sri Lanka WORLD VISION LANKA World Vision is a Christian, relief, development and advocacy organization working with children, families and communities to overcome poverty and injustice. World Vision is dedicated to working with the world’s most vulnerable people regardless of their religion, caste, gender or ethnicity. World Vision has been in Sri Lanka since 1977 and has invested over USD 350 million (LKR 40 billion) in relief and development projects in 20 districts across the country. The Right to Dream In life, it is often the most innocent and vulnerable who suffer the most. All across Sri Lanka we bring new hope and caring support to thousands of young, disadvantaged lives, wherever they are, whoever they might be. At World Vision we are passionate about children and committed to bringing fullness of life even to those in the most remote regions. Every day for over thirty five years, that is what our team at World Vision has been doing. Because each of them has dreams of their own. And our goal is to restore their right to dream. Our vision for every child, life in all its fullness; Our prayer for every heart, the will to make it so... Contents Message from the Chairman of the Board 4 Board of Directors 5 Message from the National Director 6 Programme Locations 8 Towards Accountability and Transparency 9 Our Work 10 Organization Structure and Governance 13 Making Dreams Real 14 Sector Review 24 Education 26 Economic Development 28 Water and Sanitation 30 Health and Nutrition 32 Special Initiatives 34 Sustainability Report 42 Financial Review 54 Independent Auditor’s Report 56 Statement of Financial Activities 58 Balance Sheet 59 Corporate Information 74 Key Statistics 75 Executive Summary Sinhala 76 Executive Summary Tamil 77 4 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Message from the Chairman of the Board For over three decades World Vision Sri Lanka has been passionate in reaching out to those underprivileged, especially children and giving them a new lease of life. This year also witnessed We are able to look back at 2011 with pride having made significant strides in several milestones fulfilling our mandate and thank God for his continued sustenance in making our including the closure of two work possible. programmes after a 15-year This year we focused our attention on seeking associates who share our passion journey. These communities to serve the less fortunate. I am pleased to record the positive response that has enabled World Vision to forge new partnerships and collaborations. have been developed and transformed and can look This year also witnessed several milestones including the closure of two programmes after a 15-year journey. These communities have been developed forward to a future with and transformed and can look forward to a future with better opportunities and better opportunities and prospects. As they no longer require our presence we were able to expand our reach to other vulnerable communities elsewhere in the country. prospects As a responsible NGO it is our duty to maintain both transparency and accountability. In 2011 we remained firm in providing a more holistic view of our work through the use of sustainability reporting. Sharing our best practices will enhance our value among all stakeholders. I thank my colleagues on the Board whose shared passion to serve those less fortunate continues with zeal. Their time and efforts are given selflessly and they remain steadfast in chartering our next decade. During the last year the board was able to participate in several field visits to observe first hand the positive results of our endeavours. On such visits I continue to be amazed at the impacts we have made on people’s lives and the transformation of the communities. Our staff is our strength and asset. I thank our National Director Suresh Bartlett and his committed staff for their hard work and dedication. It is their tireless efforts and dedication that motivates and inspires World Vision onwards. It is with this perseverance and commitment that we will continue to help make a difference in the lives of the children and less fortunate. Ravindra Algama Board Chair World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 5 Board of Directors Ravindra Algama Sunil Wijesinghe Ravindra Algama is an AttorneySunil Wijesinghe is an engineer by at-Law and has an independent profession and is currently the Deputy practice in Colombo. He is also the Chairman of the Bartleet Group of co-founder of the Environmental companies and is the Managing Director Foundation limited. He has served on of BC computers & other information the Board of World Vision Lanka since technology companies within the group. 1996 and has been the Board Chair He has served on the board of World since 2006. Vision Lanka since 1996. He also serves as director on the Board of Vision Fund Lanka since 2004. Marina Tharmaratnam Dr.Mrs. Sylvanthi Ariadurai Marina Tharmaratnam was the Chief Dr. Mrs. Sylvanthi Ariadurai is a Medical Executive Officer/ Director of Union Doctor employed at Lady Ridgeway’s Assurance an Insurance Company Hospital for Children in Colombo. Dr from 2003 to 2009. She is a Chartered Ariadurai is a Bachelor of Medicine and Accountant and a member of the Certified Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) and an MD Management Accountants (Sri Lanka). (Anaesthesiology). She has served on the She has been a member of the World board of World Vision Lanka since 2003. Vision Lanka Board from 2003 and has also served on the Board of VFL from 2004 Ravindra Fernando Rt Rev Dhiloraj Canagasabey Ravindra Fernando holds a MBA from the Rt Rev Dhiloraj Canagasabey is the University of Colombo and is a Fellow of Bishop of the Colombo Diocese of the the Chartered Institute of Marketing (UK). Church of Ceylon. He was previously the He is the United Nations Global Compact Archdeacon of Nuwara Eliya. He has Focal point for Sri Lanka and a member been a member of the World Vision Lanka of the UNGC Asian Network. He is a guest Board from 2007. lecturer at INSEAD (France) and member of several corporate Boards. He has been a member of the World Vision Lanka Board from 2000. Suzette de Alwis Roshan Perera Suzette de Alwis is the co-founder of Roshan Perera is a Senior Economist at MA’S Tropical Food Processing (Pvt) Ltd, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. She holds suppliers of spices condiments and Phd in Economics from the University of sophisticated processed food market for Melbourne, Australia. She is also Passed local and global markets. She has served Finalist of the Chartered Institute of on the Board of World Vision Lanka since Management Accountants (CIMA). 2007. She joined the Board of World Vision Lanka in 2010. Kevin Jenkins Trihadi Saptoadi President – World Vision International Regional Leader – South Asia and Pacific (Ex-officio Member) (Ex-officio Member) Suresh Bartlett National Director – World Vision Lanka (Ex-officio Member) 6 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Message from the National Director The year 2011 was another significant year for WVL which saw unprecedented growth of our programmes marked by some noteworthy achievements in new Among the many new approaches to our work. programmes we initiated was one to improve the Our main focus during the year was on the forging of new linkages and partnerships with both the public and the private sector and the humanitarian mental health and wellcommunity in a bid to broaden our reach and harness the synergies being of communities in offered by other like minded organizations. This enabled us to reach out to the northern province of a greater number of communities and should bring about real impact and transformation in the shortest possible time. We also firmly believe that the Sri Lanka as they recovered rebuilding of the country is the responsibility of all its citizens and everyone has from three decades of war. a part to play in the process. During the year we marked the closure of two of our Area Development Programmes in Mahakumbukkadawala and Galenbindunuwewa after the end of 15 years of partnerships with these communities. In both ADPs we left behind fully empowered communities who now have ownership of their future development and sustainability. The changes we had made in these two ADPs was especially heartening. Most families now have access to clean drinking water, children are now back in school and enjoying better health and nutrition. Children also have a space for their talents and voice and families have better housing and sustainable livelihoods. Even as we transitioned from two ADPs we were able to commence three new ones in the most remote and impoverished areas in Lunugala, Meegahakiula and Rideemaliyadda. Among the many new programmes we initiated was one to improve the mental health and well-being of communities in the northern province of Sri Lanka as they recovered from three decades of war. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 7 The country continued to be affected by natural disasters and during the year we provided emergency relief to the East and North Central districts which A key new initiative that were both affected by unprecedented rainfall and flooding. we have undertaken this year is our commitment A key new initiative that we have undertaken this year is our commitment to sustainability reporting. Sustainability reporting has traditionally been used to sustainability reporting. by international private sector organisations to voluntarily communicate Sustainability reporting has information on economic, environmental and social impacts relevant to the traditionally been used sustainability of their business operations. It is perhaps even more important for not-for-profit organisations such as World Vision whose entire business model by international private is sustainable development, to do so. Furthering this goal, WVL has signed sector organisations to onto the UN Global Compact principles and we will use the Global Reporting Initiatives framework to benchmark our reports. voluntarily communicate information on economic, Our sincere gratitude is due to all our donors, sponsors, local and international environmental and social partners, Government Ministries, local authorities and other stakeholders as well as the communities we serve for all their support and encouragement. impacts relevant to the sustainability of their A special tribute must be paid to our staff whose dedication and commitment business operations. was a key factor in the success of our programmes. Their untiring efforts in often challenging circumstances should not be underestimated. Our Board Chair and the Board members took time to visit our programmes regularly and also participated in other events with us and this was an immense motivation to our staff and the communities we serve. Their close engagement with us throughout the year and their support, encouragement and advice is deeply appreciated. Suresh Bartlett National Director 8 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Programme Locations World Vision’s Presence In Sri Lanka Chankanai Jaffna Area Development Programmes (ADP) Chavakachcheri Area Rehabilitation Programmes Street Children’s Project Kilinochchi Kilinochchi Humanitarian & Emergency Affairs Projects Completed ADPs Mullaitivu Mannar Mannar Vavuniya Vavuniya Kebethigollewa Trincomalee Horowpothana Wanathawilluwa Anuradhapura Kalpitiya Eachchilampattu Vaharai Galenbidunuwewa Nawagaththegama Polonnaruwa Giribawa Mundalama Mahakubukkadawela Koralai Pattu Ehetuwewa Batticaloa Puttalam Kiran Eravur Pattu Matale Vellaveli Kurunegala Vaharai Batticaloa Willgamuwa Kotevehera Paddiplai Wennappuwa Rideemaliyadda Naavithanvelly Kandy Padiyathalawa Rideegama Kandy Negombo Ganga Ihala Korale Ampara Gampaha Kegalle Walapane Badulla Bibile Wattala Nuwara Eliya Mattakuliya Pathna Lunugala Nuwara Eliya Dehiwela Colombo Monaragala Bogawanthalawa Ambagamuwa Pottuvil Meegahakiula Kalutara Ratnapura Sevanagala Thanamalvila Neluwa Lunugamvehera Galle Weeraketiya Hambantota Matara World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 9 Towards Accountability and Transparency In compiling this Review World Vision Lanka has made an intentional effort to move towards greater accountability and transparency. Strong accountability mechanisms are crucial Strong accountability mechanisms are crucial for our organisational sustainability. Without the trust of our stakeholders we cannot fulfill our Mission. for our organisational By holding ourselves “accountable”, we demonstrate that we are worthy of this sustainability. Without the trust. trust of our stakeholders World Vision Lanka is accountable to: we cannot fulfill our Mission. By holding ourselves • The children and communities we serve – without accountability to our primary stakeholders our efforts to alleviate poverty and address injustice are “accountable”, we less likely to be realised and our legitimacy and credibility to act and speak out demonstrate that we are on such issues will be undermined. worthy of this trust. • Our donors and partners – without accountability to the individuals donors and partner organisations who support our work and also those we seek to engage (i.e. the government, public and private sector partners), our reputation and opportunity for continued support may be reduced. • Our partners and peers – without accountability to the World Vision partner offices and NGO peers we work with our capacity to contribute to global poverty alleviation would be limited. • Our people – without accountability to our staff and volunteers, our operational capacity and integrity may be eroded. • Our regulators – without accountability to those who help to ensure that we do our work properly and who shape our legal operating environment our credibility would not be strengthened. The provision of information on our activities, our performance and our operations in this Annual Review is one of the ways in which we seek to satisfy our accountability obligations. We intend to build on this initiative by addressing issues of accountability in all our future reviews. Reporting period: This Annual Review covers our activities and performance for the period 1 October 2010 to 30 September 2011, in alignment with the World Vision International’s financial year. The information included in the report has been determined through consultation with World Vision Lanka staff and reviewed by the Senior Management. The report has been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organisations issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and informed by the Global Reporting Initiative’s reporting guidelines and NGO Sector Supplement. 10 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Our work Our Work: restoring the right to dream Children are always at A distinctive feature of World Vision’s work is its long-term approach towards the heart of our work and sustainable development. our response and focus World Vision selects the most under-developed and poorest regions in the is especially aligned country and establishes its Area Development Programmes (ADPs) at these to the wellbeing and locations. empowerment of children, The ADPs have a life span of approximately 15 years and are initiated in clearly their families and their defined geographical clusters of rural or urban communities, with populations communities. ranging from 10,000 to 100,000 people. ADPs serve the communities by equipping them to envision, plan, implement, monitor and evaluate the programmes in an interdependent relationship with local governments and other stakeholders. World Vision provides technical support, funding and expertise for these programmes. Most ADPs have a balance of activities in four key focus sectors education, economic development, health and nutrition, and water and sanitation. Cross-cutting themes of gender, environment, disability, HIV/AIDS, child protection, conflict sensitivity etc are intentionally interwoven into all our programmes to enhance their effectiveness and add value to our work in the focus sectors. The grassroots community programming compels ADP teams to build stronger coalitions with community-based organizations, civil society, government, and non-government development organizations. Children are always at the heart of our work and our response and focus is especially aligned to the wellbeing and empowerment of children, their families and their communities. We focus on children because they are the best indicator of a community’s social health. When children are fed, sheltered, schooled, protected, valued, and loved, a community thrives. The development programmes can sometimes be interrupted and face set backs due to both natural and man-made disasters. Therefore, ADPs also integrate processes such as disaster mitigation and disaster risk reduction that enhance stability and help build more peaceful and resilient communities. World Vision’s 41 development programmes operate in over 1000 villages in 20 Districts spread across Sri Lanka. Disaster can instantly destroy livelihoods, negatively impact health and wellbeing, and drastically decrease access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation facilities. In these conditions the threat of disease, hunger, and displacement is great. Sri Lanka is prone to flooding, drought, landslides and tsunamis. World Vision has been responding to emergencies in Sri Lanka through the support of livelihoods, ensuring safe drinking water and proper sanitation facilities, assisting those displaced, preventing hunger and the threat of disease. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 11 We believe it is crucial to provide special protection for children during emergencies as they are often prone to neglect and abuse. Our projects World Vision responds to focus on child protection, health and nutrition, water and sanitation, livelihood communities affected by recovery, and community based disaster management. disasters both within and World Vision responds to communities affected by disasters both within and outside its programme outside its programme areas. Working in coordination with the government areas. Working in and other organizations, the Humanitarian Emergency Affairs team covers a variety of activities from relief responses that meet the urgent and basic needs coordination with the of affected populations to long term responses that would ensure lives returned government and other to normalcy. organizations, World Vision World Vision uses persuasion, dialogue and reason to advocate for changes covers a variety of activities that will positively impact people’s quality of life and addresses the root causes from instant relief responses of poverty. Often these actions involve changing the hearts and minds of that meet with the urgent people from the policy makers to members of the community. and basic needs of the World Vision’s Advocacy interventions are usually achieved through coalitions affected population to long and networks within the humanitarian sector to lobby for a range of issues from term responses that would the need for humanitarian access, to child rights and child protection, IDPs and their rights and humanitarian protection issues. ensure lives returned to normalcy. World Vision plays a key role in all of these interventions within the country and strives to ensure a better future for the children of Sri Lanka. 12 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Cross Cutting Themes Interwoven throughout World Vision’s work are central themes that are an integral part to every project: respect for the environment, protection of children Interwoven throughout and their rights, gender equality, HIV AIDS, dignity for the differently-abled and World Vision’s work are peace building and conflict sensitivity. central themes that are Gender an integral part to every All World Vision Lanka’s programmes include women as key partners and project: respect for the recipients of assistance. Women who have equal opportunity and access to environment, protection of resources and education can earn more, become positive role models for girls and boys and offer solutions to community problems. children and their rights, gender equality, HIV AIDS, Disability dignity for the differentlyWorld Vision programmes are designed to support the needs of the differentlyabled and peace building abled, providing them access to education and economic recovery programmes that are tailored to their special needs. New infrastructure such as and conflict sensitivity. schools, homes and community halls are also constructed with access for the disabled. Peacebuilding The strategic focus of Peacebuilding and Conflict Resolution consists of capacity building programmes for children, youth and adults while ensuring conflict sensitivity in all our programming. Conflict sensitivity of the projects and programmes was ensured through the conflict sensitivity/ context assessments done using Local Capacities for Peace/ Do No Harm and Integrating Peace building and Development tools. Environment In all its activities World Vision is careful to minimise any negative impact on the environment and to safeguard nature for future communities. Whenever necessary WV conducts an environmental impact assessment at the commencement of any project. Most of the rural communities we work with are farmer communities who have been used to chena or slash-and-burn cultivation – a method of cultivation where an area of forest is cut and cleared and burnt just before the onset of rains. It has caused severe damage to the environment, especially to ground water level. Through the projects such as Integrated Resource Management, Sustainable Agriculture and Home gardening which involve the environment, World Vision has replaced these environmentally harmful methods and focuses strongly on protection and restoration of environment. Communities are introduced to rainwater harvesting, water and soil conservation methods, use of natural fertilisers Child Protection As a child focused organization World Vision accords top priority to Child Protection in all of its programmes, ensuring the wellbeing of children. Child protection activities typically focus on building community capacity to respond to such needs. Networking and partnering with government institutions and other social service organizations is also intentionally included in this process. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 13 Organization Structure and Governance World Vision Lanka is part of the World Vision International Partnership which is made up of over 90 offices worldwide, most of which are governed by local World Vision Lanka is boards or advisory councils. By signing the World Vision International Covenant also a distinct legal of Partnership, each partner agrees to abide by common policies and entity with its own Board standards. of Directors whose role World Vision Lanka applies the policies and standards of the World Vision is to provide overall International Partnership in accordance with the local context. direction for ensuring While it is a member of the World Vision International Partnership, World Vision standards of ministry Lanka is also a distinct legal entity with its own Board of Directors whose role is and management of to provide overall direction for ensuring standards of ministry and management of World Vision Lanka as well as its participation in Partnership processes. The World Vision Lanka as Board is also involved is the strategic planning and approval of the overall well as its participation country strategy. in Partnership processes. The internal accountability of offices within the Partnership is managed through The Board is also involved a range audit, review and quality assurance processes at the country and is the strategic planning programme levels, to ensure alignment and compliance with World Vision and approval of the principles and policies. overall country strategy. At the Partnership level, four major internal reviews are scheduled for each office. These are generally carried out by World Vision staff once every three years: • Peer Reviews Peer Reviews assess the governance of local offices and the effectiveness and alignment of local Boards and Advisory Councils. The reviews include both a self-assessment by the office and an independent assessment by a small team from across World Vision. • Programme Capability Reviews These reviews ensure that sufficient programming capabilities exist to enable the achievement of strategic objectives, and that the proper relationship between implementing offices and fundraising offices has been established. The reviews include both a self-assessment by the office and an independent assessment by a small team from across World Vision. • Operational and Finance Audits These are carried out by World Vision’s internal audit team. Operational audits are basic compliance reviews focused on areas around sponsorship funding. Finance audits focus on adherence to policy/procedure. During the last two years all of the above reviews have taken place at World Vision Lanka and acceptable or satisfactory ratings have been received for each of them. 14 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Making Dreams Real Restoring dreams The people living in Bringing healing and hope to vulnerable communities northern Sri Lanka have experienced prolonged Having spent the last two years or so rebuilding after the 26-year war, the country was once again faced with similar challenges when unprecedented conflict, displacement and rains wreaked havoc in North Central and Eastern Sri Lanka leaving a trail of extreme poverty. As families despair and destruction. begin resettling in their There was widespread destruction of infrastructure and livelihoods and many villages and re-establishing families lost all their possessions house, furniture, cattle and crops. their livelihoods, mental health and well-being were World Vision assisted over 10,000 families in the affected regions with cooked meals, emergency relief items and dry rations. World Vision also supported identified as an urgent and medical teams with transport to the affected areas and also in the bowsering important need. of water to the affected communities. Infrastructural damage was widespread with most major roads damaged and submerged and power supply cut off. More than 500 irrigation tanks and anicuts have been damaged and nearly 400,000 acres of paddy cultivation and several thousands of acres of other crops destroyed. An estimated 75,000 wells were contaminated leaving more than 50,000 families with no access to safe water for drinking and cooking. Farmers were distraught after seeing their entire cultivations destroyed; communities who have spent years struggling to emerge from poverty suddenly found themselves having to start all over again. Regretfully, many people believe that once the rains cease and the flood waters recede everything is back to normal. They forget that the rebuilding process for the affected communities is a slow, painful and arduous journey. The people living in northern Sri Lanka have experienced prolonged conflict, displacement and extreme poverty. As families begin resettling in their villages and re-establishing their livelihoods, mental health and well-being were identified as an urgent and important need. By addressing peoples’ well-being there is opportunity to potentially shield individuals from psychiatric illness, encourage speedier emotional and social recovery as well as support families and communities to look towards a positive and peaceful future. Responding to the mental health needs and wellbeing of communities is essential for meaningful recovery from conflict and displacement. With this in mind World Vision together with the Ministry of Health and AusAid launched the ‘Reconciliation through integration of Mental Health in Northern Districts’ (REMIND) to support returning communities. Children and youth have particular individual needs to feel connected to others. However, children often struggle to verbalize such needs and require targeted activities that support their needs for belonging and community engagement. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 15 To reduce the stigma people with mental health face, World Vision used street drama as a medium to deliver a series of educational skits on the impact The Early Recovery of stigma and how to effectively care for others, including those with mental Assistance programme illnesses. These dramas were performed in all districts of the North where communities have returned to start life anew. focuses on securing the basic needs of the Upon return, communities have to readjust to a new environment or to an returnee family through existing environment transformed by war and conflict which could be a stressful time for communities eager to rebuild their lives towards a level of three main initiatives normalcy once again. mainly to assist the families to have access WVL continued to conduct Area Rehabilitation Programmes (ARPs) which are specifically designed for communities that have been adversely affected to skills and assets to by conflict and disaster and focus mainly on rebuilding livelihoods, water recommence their resources, health and education. livelihoods, access to The targeted rehabilitation programme, is focused on the most vulnerable shelter and meet the groups within these regions including old and new IDPs that return to these water and sanitation locations. The programmes are based on rebuilding community livelihoods, needs of the returnee basic infrastructure and restoring the dignity and well being of children and their families. families. World Vision has assisted over 15,000 returnee families across four war affected districts in the North through its livelihoods programme. The Early Recovery Assistance programme focuses on securing the basic needs of the returnee family through three main initiatives mainly to assist the families to have access to skills and assets to recommence their livelihoods, access to shelter and meet the water and sanitation needs of the returnee families. Each family received a livelihood package valued at LKR 35,000 (USD 307) which was distributed according to the livelihood needs of each household. Livelihoods packaging and distribution was determined through a collaborative process with the beneficiaries of the target community and varied according to their individual requirements. Over the last two years World Vision has been working in all districts in the North where resettlements are taking place and supporting the returning communities through livelihood asset recovery programmes. World Vision has initiated Cash for Work programmes to enable communities to earn an income for themselves whilst also contributing to the infrastructure development of the area. World Vision also provided agricultural tools, fishing boats and gear, cattle, poultry and goats for rearing to the communities. To-date we have provided over 15,000 families with a means of livelihood enabling them to start rebuilding their lives once again. 16 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Making Dreams Real Making Dreams Real: Niroma’s Dream “I always wanted to be a Dressed in a white coat and with a stethoscope around her neck Niroma doctor when I grew up, but stands near a hospital bed in the Anuradhapura Base Hospital, listening, I knew it was difficult for consoling and giving hope to a mother who is distressed about her little daughter’s condition. my parents to support all three of us (she and her “Don’t worry, she will get well soon,” she assures in her caring voice as she two sisters) to get through explains the condition. school,” says Niroma, “But “Sometimes patients or their loved ones won’t fully understand the condition my parents always said even if we explain, but it is a must that we take time to listen and give hope,” that education is the only she says, “It is difficult if you know that they have no chance of recovering but you can still take time to give them strength for that day.” way to get out of poverty. So I wanted to study hard.” Niroma is in her final year in Medical College and is now at the Anuradhapura Base Hospital practicing and gaining experience to be a doctor. She has assisted in the operating theatre, in different wards and cared for a number of patients. “One of my unforgettable experiences was when a young boy was brought to the hospital after an accident. He was unconscious and although the doctors gave him shock treatment for 40 minutes they were unsuccessful. If the patient doesn’t respond within 40 minutes, he is declared dead. We (medical students) began to take turns and give him shock treatment again. After an hour he came back to life,” she says, “I realised how much responsibility I have in my hands for another person’s life.” World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 17 Coming from Thammannagama a rural village in Galenbindunuwewa, it was not an easy journey for Niroma to be where she is now. “My first stethoscope is a gift from World Vision,” “I always wanted to be a doctor when I grew up, but I knew it was difficult for my parents to support all three of us (she and her two sisters) to get through smiles the medical school,” says Niroma, “But my parents always said that education is the only student. Although she way to get out of poverty. So I wanted to study hard.” hasn’t decided on “Many children didn’t complete school in my village. Sometimes it was the field she wants because parents didn’t know the value of education and some had no choice to specialize in, she because of poverty,” she says, “But with World Vision coming to our village wants to serve the rural things changed. I remember I was in Grade four at that time.” communities. “I come “The sponsorship programme supported every child to be in school providing from a rural village and them with the necessary school stationery every year. It was a big relief to my I can understand their parents too. We received study assistance classes and we even had an English class and a computer class. That is the only place where I learnt English and hardships better,” she computer and it helped me a lot.” says. Seeing Niroma’s persistence and hard work, World Vision offered her a scholarship for her higher education and followed it up with a scholarship for her university education too. “My first stethoscope is a gift from World Vision,” smiles the medical student. Although she hasn’t decided on the field she wants to specialize in, she wants to serve the rural communities. “I come from a rural village and I can understand their hardships better,” she says. 18 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Making Dreams Real Teaching and serving the community: Chamila’s Dream Chamila’s dream was to be Chamila’s dream was to be a teacher when she grew up. But she knew it was a teacher when she grew next to impossible. The village school she attended not only had minimum up. But she knew it was next facilities, it hardly had any teachers to teach them. Apart from becoming a to impossible. The village teacher one day, it was already difficult enough to become even an average student. school she attended not only had minimum facilities “Our school was situated far away from the main road and there were no facilities for the teachers to travel or quarters for them to stay,” says Chamila. it hardly had any teachers “The teachers came late to school and left early. Every teacher who was given to teach them. an appointment at our school tried to get a transfer to a school in the town almost as soon as they arrived. The children in my village who couldn’t afford to go to a school in town had no access to proper education. Lack of teachers was the biggest setback to education here.” Seeing their plight, World Vision launched a special programme with the education department to recruit volunteer teachers for the school. Young people who had completed their schooling and had a desire to teach were interviewed and provided teacher training. Chamila was among the first batch of aspiring teachers who were selected to follow the teacher training course and after faring extremely well at the initial course, she was duly appointed as a trainee teacher in a school in her own village. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 19 From there onwards Chamila’s whole life took on added meaning and she was able to realize one of her cherished dreams – teaching and serving her own “I cannot describe in community. words the joy and the satisfaction I have in “This is my 12th year of service in the school in my village since then,” smiles Chamila. seeing these children from my village, learning “I cannot describe in words the joy and the satisfaction I have in seeing these and growing and getting children from my village, learning and growing and getting through school with bigger dreams.” through school with bigger dreams. I am “I am honoured to be a teacher for the children of my own community. I want to thank World Vision for showing me the path to walk with love and care for honoured to be a teacher the poor children in my village.” for the children of my own community. I want Chamila has now completed the teacher’s training programme and is in the process of completing an external degree from the University. to thank World Vision for showing me the path to When World Vision first came to Mahakumbukkadawela, the school dropout walk with love and care rate was very high. One of the main reasons for it was the lack of teachers. The Volunteer Teacher Scheme proved a success in filling the gaps of teacher for the poor children in my scarcity since most of the recruits were from the village itself. The school drop village.” out rate is now virtually zero. 20 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Making Dreams Real No more stress for the seamstress: Mallika’s dream Five years ago, life for Mallika gently taps a small white cross that dangles from a bulging spindle Mallika a married mother of white cotton, and sits down at her sewing machine. It is her custom she of two daughters was explains, to give thanks for all her blessings before she starts her work. It is this conventional work, for an unconventional purpose, which has changed her life. vastly different. Living at Mallika Commester is the jovial and dignified owner of a small business that her sister’s small home, provides beautiful clothing for the deceased as they are laid to rest. with limited income from Five years ago, life for Mallika a married mother of two daughters was vastly her sick husband, her different. Living at her sister’s small home, with limited income from her sick marriage under pressure husband, her marriage under pressure and possessing little self-motivation, and possessing little selfMallika knew that her life had to change. motivation, Mallika knew World Vision, active in her community, a busy fishing town called Negombo, that her life had to change. offered workshops on entrepreneurship, business management and life skills, and Mallika decided to attend. It inspired her to take a chance on a new path. Ceremoniously, she dyed her hair to feel younger and armed with some training and raw courage, obtained her motorbike license and took out a loan for Rs 25,000 (USD190) from World Vision to buy a sewing machine. Her mother had been a seamstress and it was a skill she thought she could develop. She quickly found that she had a knack for producing quality suits and saris for funeral parlour needs and set about expanding her business. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 21 Mallika recounts the early days: “It was challenging to start off; I had to take my goods around on my bike to try and sell them. I made lots of mistakes but World Vision, active in her tried to improve the quality of my clothes. I went to the World Vision trainings community, a busy fishing on small business and marketing and learnt how to attract bigger clients and town called Negombo, started to offer free samples – such as pillowcases for the coffins.” offered workshops Through her hard work and steady increase in clients and orders, Mallika was on entrepreneurship, able to pay off her loan within a year, and move into a house fit for her young family and burgeoning business. A devout Catholic, Mallika found a home business management replete with bursting mango trees and a separate workshop, opposite her regal and life skills, and Mallika white church. Mallika’s husband is now her business partner, a key ingredient decided to attend. It in the success of the venture. In Mallika’s words, “It is a blessing. Peace has returned to my home.” inspired her to take a chance on a new path. With the better sewing machines she now uses, her team can produce quality garments, which are sent to the capital Colombo, to major parlours. Her work-room is home to swathes of fabric and piles of the completed funeral garments. Smart black suits with brass buttons for males and beautiful white lace saris embedded with small diamantes for female clients. “We make 25 suits a day,” Mallika shares with the brightest of smiles, “And most of our clients don’t complain,” she teases –“though maybe they do in Heaven!” The business now employs women from the community – especially women who are widowed or sick so that they may have a chance at a meaningful livelihood. Mallika also mentors and encourages other women starting their own businesses. “I want for nothing and have everything to be grateful for,” Mallika concludes. 22 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Making Dreams Real Silence gives way to song: Pathum’s dream “During that time World The afternoon silence is suddenly broken by a song from a distance. “That’s Vision came into our him,” says Susila her face lighting up with a proud smile, “He always sings the area and took Pathum moment he turns into our alley while returning from school.” into sponsorship. I was Pathum (11) is hearing impaired by birth and Susila didn’t know her son’s very glad. World Vision condition until a month before his first birthday. supported us to get his “I suddenly began to notice that he didn’t respond when I called. I clapped other hearing aid and and made a lot of noise but he wouldn’t turn. I was in shock and didn’t want to replaced both after five believe he couldn’t hear,” says Susila. years. They even help us “We took him to the doctor and he said that Pathum seemed hearing impaired with the repairs.” but I didn’t want to hear it so I consulted another doctor and another doctor but they all confirmed the same.” Susila’s world began to crumble. “I couldn’t imagine what his future was going to be like. Will he ever speak? Will he have friends? Will he play? I had so many questions,” she says. With Pathum’s condition, life completely changed for Susila. For the first time, she left their locality and travelled long distances carrying him to doctors and to a special school that taught her how to communicate with him. Her husband left the country looking for work to support Pathum’s medical needs. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 23 “The doctor said that a hearing aid might help Pathum, and with a lot of difficulty we afforded one for his right ear. It seemed to help. During that time Today Pathum converses World Vision came into our area and took Pathum into sponsorship. I was very freely with everyone. He glad. World Vision supported us to get his other hearing aid and replaced both after five years. They even help us with the repairs.” hears well and his speech has greatly improved Today Pathum converses freely with everyone. He hears well and his speech from noises into words. has greatly improved from noises into words. “His father is thrilled because now he is able to understand him when he speaks on the phone,” says Susila. “His father is thrilled because now he is able Pathum enters through the door with a smile and starts pouring out to his to understand him when mother all that happened in school that day. He pulls out his books and shows her what he learnt and how he got full marks for Math and how the girl who he speaks on the phone,” competes with him for the first place in class got four marks less. says Susila. His teacher says he is able to study in a regular school now, but Pathum wants to stay in his special school with his friends and follows the curriculum of the regular school. “My favourite subject is Math and I love cycling and listening to music during my free time,” smiles Pathum. He is also a side drummer for the school band. Pathum gets on his bike after lunch and gets ready to cycle. “Careful when you go to the main road, there are vehicles,” calls out his mother. “Don’t worry…,” he shouts over his shoulder with a smile, “I can hear when they horn.” Education 26 Economic Development 28 Water & Sanitation 30 Health and Nutrition 32 Sector Review 26 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 In many poverty stricken communities in Sri Lanka, education remains a privilege and children are easily pulled out of school and into the labour force. This year we are pleased to see many school-dropouts back in school; children continuing to be in school with new supplies of school equipment and slow learning students benefitted by study assistance classes. In all our ADP‘s we have not only focused on ensuring education for every child, but also assisted the government in improving the education system by supporting teacher training and providing infrastructure facilities. Education “This is the first time in this primary school’s history that a student has passed the exam,” says Ranjith Kumara the principal, “Even the other four students who were in Grade 5 obtained marks very close to the pass mark this time. That is a record in itself!” World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 27 Sachini: A ray of hope in a tiny school Since passing the scholarship exam for Grade 5 students, Sachini (10) is a celebrity in her school and village. A picture of her smiling proudly after her excellent performance in the exam hangs in the principal’s office, inspiring other students to emulate her efforts. “My favourite subject is English,” says Sachini who excels in all her subjects. Yakawewa Primary School in Kebithigollewa has only 26 students through Grade 1 5. Only the poorest of the poor children those who had just one uniform, a few books, came barefoot to school and walked for miles for lack of bus fare studied there. Situated in a village that once bordered the war-zone, it was a struggle to keep the Primary School functioning. Many times it had to be closed during the war and was even on the verge of being shut-down completely. “This is the first time in the school’s history that a student has passed the exam,” says Ranjith Kumara the principal, “Even the other four students who sat for the Grade 5 exam obtained marks very close to the pass mark this time. That is a record in itself!” Key Interventions World Vision provided study assistance material especially for these Grade 5 • Providing basic facilities for students who were sitting for the exam. Together with a dedicated teacher, the playschools, preschools, primary and students saw a steady improvement in their studies. secondary schools “These children never went for tuition classes as they could never afford it,” says • Conducting awareness programmes the Principal, “With the study assistance they could really come up and I wanted to on Early Childhood Care and prove to the parents that they don’t need to send their children to tuition classes to Development (ECCD) for community make them smart.” leaders, government officers, young couples, adolescent girls, parents and teachers World Vision’s sponsorship has provided Sachini and other children in her school with sufficient school books and other educational material that would help them • Capacity building training for continue school. teachers, mentors, parents association and management Sachini wants to be a doctor when she grows up and look after old people and committee formation and small children. “My daughter is always alert and asks things she doesn’t know. She is strengthening of Preschool also very creative, neat in all her work and loves to read,” says her mother Niluka. management societies (PSMS) The little girl also won the second place in an open competition (age 6 to 18) on • Supporting educational department general knowledge conducted by the Child Societies on World Children’s Day with to have extra curricular activities the participation of 360 children. and award scholarships for the best performing and needy students Meanwhile Sachini’s little school is looking forward to more victories to come. • Partnering with the educational Principal Ranjith plans to create a wall full of pictures of children who strive to do department to conduct model their best in studies and help every student maximise their education. examination • Providing support to train teaches to impart knowledge in special subjects (English, Maths, Science, IT) • Conducting programmes to strengthen the relationship between parents and teachers 28 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Although there is a gradual drop in the unemployment rate in Sri Lanka, a large percentage of the employed population does not have a stable income. In all its programme areas World Vision assists families to develop a sustainable income method and find access to markets through a variety of activities such as home gardening, agriculture, animal husbandry and cottage industry. The activities also focus on giving them new knowledge and skills and introducing them to new economic activities apart from the traditional ones. Economic Development “I was so happy the first time I held the chicks with my own hands. I can’t express it in words,” she smiles, “Piumi’s first reaction was that we won’t have to go to the cultivation fields anymore and she was thrilled.” World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 29 Poultry farming: a boon to young mother Its feeding time in the hen house and little Piumi (6) and her mother Chamila (29) are surrounded by the hens calling out in their hen language for their feeders to be filled. Soon the tip-tip sound fills the air as brown, white, grey, orange hens peck off grains from the yellow and white feeders. “That’s my favourite one,” says Piumi pointing to a grey and white hen. Since receiving the chicks from World Vision her life has become busier and both mother and daughter enjoy spending time with the hens. “It is such a relaxation for me to watch them and to take care of them and I don’t realize the time passing when I’m in the hen house,” smiles Chamila who used to work in cultivation fields as a low-paid labourer to earn a living. The little money she earned was hardly enough to provide even for the meals for her and her little daughter. “I couldn’t even buy milk for Piumi not even a biscuit when she asked. I felt so helpless and often times I cried. There were also days when I didn’t have money to buy medicine for Piumi even for a cold,” says Chamila tears still filling Key Interventions her eyes. AGRICULTURE There were so many things this mother dreamt of giving her little daughter. • Home gardening One of them was a good education but with no one else at home to look after • Integrated farming and sustainable Piumi, the little girl had to quit her preschool and tag along with her mother to agriculture the cultivation fields. • Cash crop cultivation • Rain water harvesting, Live fencing “She stayed in the hot sun the whole day with me and played with her rag doll while I worked,” says Chamila, “There was nothing else I could do.” • Integrated pest management, Lowchemical fertilizer Chamila was very excited when World Vision selected her for livelihood training. • Access to Markets / Educating farmers on marketing produce She received training in poultry farming and received 100 chicks to start with. ANIMAL HUSBANDRY “I was so happy the first time I held the chicks with my own hands. I can’t • Dairy, goat, poultry farming express it in words,” she smiles, “Piumi’s first reaction was that we won’t have to • Para veterinary services go to the cultivation fields anymore and she was thrilled.” FISHERIES “In a month’s time, the hens would start to lay eggs and I would be able to sell • Inland fisheries, Construction of fishing them and get a sufficient income for my family. Also, Piumi will get to eat an ponds egg everyday. She loves to eat omelets,” says Chamila. • Provision of crab boxes, fishing nets, fishing vessels, fibre glass lagoon Chamila and Piumi no longer travel to the cultivation fields. With her mother canoe, boats and engines, small and staying at home, Piumi has started schooling. “She loves to write letters and is big vallam doing well in school. I no longer fear about her future. I am hopeful that the • Awareness programmes on lagoon chicks would help me provide for her needs and for her schooling all the way conservation and mangroves plantation up.” • Providing technical inputs and fish fingerling for inland fishermen VOCATIONAL TRAINING • Technical training for different livelihoods • Training sessions in agriculture, inland fishing, dairy farming and minor crop cultivation LIVELIHOOD DEVELOPMENT • Renovation of infrastructure for economic activities • Cash for Work / Food for Work • Supply of tools and equipment to support livelihoods MICRO-FINANCE • Provision of micro finance assistance 30 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Water is the most essential of basic needs. Despite being surrounded by water and with many water sources within the country, throughout Sri Lanka many vulnerable populations have no access to clean water and basic sanitation facilities. While supporting the Government’s efforts towards achieving its millennium goals, World Vision’s water and sanitation activities aim to assist rural communities to gain access to clean and safe water supplies, sanitation and hygiene. Water and Sanitation “We spent so much time in fetching water that we had no time for our children or for any economic activities,” says Ranmenika. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 31 Water comes home… Swarna watches her little son play in the water. He cups his tiny hands to the garden tap and splashes the water on to himself as it fills and overflows his palms. “He is a very lucky boy,” smiles Swarna, “when we were children, we never had the chance to enjoy water like this. There was no water.” Families in Dangaswewa village suffered for generations without water. Located in Mahakumbukkadawela, one of the driest areas of Sri Lanka, the water level in this rural village is very low. The community travelled 2-3 km daily to fetch water for their basic needs and travelled further during drier seasons, even then the water they used was not safe. Mothers mastered water management by reusing the same water for several chores; fathers travelled 2 kms to wash after a day’s work; and children sacrificed play time to fetch water as soon as they learnt to walk and were strong enough to carry a little pot. That was the life of every family in Dangaswewa. Each of them has many stories of hardships because of the lack of water. Key Interventions “We spent so much time fetching water that we had no time for our children or INFRASTRUCTURE for any economic activity,” says Ranmenika. • Provision of water supplies and The village school had no water either. Each grade was assigned on different sanitation facilities days to fetch water in the afternoon from a tube well a little distance from the • Renovating and extending irrigation school. Each child got just one glass of water to drink and the toilets were canals and tanks cleaned only once a day. • Building / Cleaning wells When World Vision offered to help solve their water problem, the whole • Construction of clean drinking water community of Dangaswewa came together in support. Men and women of projects, common bathing places the village, all laboured in the scorching sun, clearing the ground, digging and storm water drainage systems canals to lay the pipes from the tank to their homes and watched the water • Ensuring water quality meets sphere project become a reality before their very eyes. standards Today, their lives are changed for the better and all their stories of hardships • Solid and liquid waste management, remain distant memories. maintenance of WATSAN systems • Conducting hygiene promotion “The first time we got water, I remember how many times we opened the initiatives taps to check and asked the neighbours if they have got water yet,” smiles Ranmenika. • Use of alternative energy for water projects “No words can tell how thankful we are for this water project. It has saved us a lot of time and we have extra time for our children and they have more time to MICRO ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT study and play,” says Swarna. • Green Kitchen Gardens For the villages of Dangaswewa, there is no longer walking lengthy distances • Training to establish Small Enterprises searching for water, instead water has come home to them. • Sanitation shops through micro finance facilities PARTNERSHIPS AND CAPACITY BUILDING • National, District and Divisional Steering Committees established • Assistance in formulation of Village and Development Plans • Projects implemented by local authorities through conditional grants • CBOs formed and partnered with local authorities and water user groups • Local authorities trained in good governance practices 32 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Sri Lanka has done well in the overall health indicators but there are still wide disparities in the health and nutritional conditions of children living in challenged areas. The Mother and child remain priority in all our activities which support the Government’s efforts to achieve its Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). A range of programmes are implemented across all ADPs and other project areas to fight malnutrition and uplift the nutritional status of children – especially those below the age of 5. Health and Nutrition “Before this clinic started, we had to travel either to Vakarai (25 km away) or to Valachchenai (30 km away) to get medicine,” says Radhimalar, “Ten kilometres we travel on foot to catch the bus from the main road.” World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 33 Mobile Clinic brings Healthcare closer to home Radhimalar (24) awaits her turn to see the doctor with her son Selvaharan (6) and her little daughter Vadana (9 months) who is sick with a cold and fever. Ever since the World Vision Medical Officer of Health partnered mobile clinic began to visit their village, Radhimalar and others in her community no longer have to travel far. They don’t even have to pay for the doctor or for the medicine. “Before this clinic started, we had to travel either to Vakarai (25 kms away) or to Valachchenai (30 kms away) to get medicine,” says Radhimalar. This did not include the “Ten kilometres we travel on foot to catch the bus from the main road.” “I’ve had many difficult experiences carrying my children to the hospital when they fall sick. Sometimes their sickness has worsened by the time I reach the clinic and sometimes I was faintish and needed medication myself after travelling,” she says, “There were also times I missed the bus and the numbers (appointments) were over by the time I reached and had to come back home with my sick child and go the next morning once again.” Key Interventions At times after she paid for the travel and the doctor she had insufficient money to buy the prescribed medicines. AWARENESS “The doctor is very kind and takes time to talk to us and advises us too,” says • Awareness programmes on Health & Radhimalar. Nutrition and sanitation and hygiene practices The medical officers not only focus on cure, but also on prevention, providing • Capacity Building programmes the villagers with awareness on health and hygiene practices. The community for Public Health staff, Pre School has begun to shed most of their false myths on certain sicknesses. teachers, Community leaders and volunteers The clinic visits Radhimalar’s village every two weeks. The team, provided by • Public Health Awareness Campaigns the Medical Office of Health in Vakarai, includes a doctor, a pharmacist, a (Dengue, Diarrhoea, Malaria etc) Public Health Inspector (PHI) and at times a midwife. World Vision provides the • Rehabilitation programmes for medicines and the transport. The clinic visits three to four locations every week malnourished children (PD Hearth) serving over 25,000 people in the Vakarai and Echchalampattu areas. • Advocacy on health and nutrition issues “This clinic is saving lives as it helps us reach the most rural and inaccessible areas,” says Dr. Dissanayake, the Medical Officer for Health for Vakarai and the SCREENING travelling doctor for the clinic, “the medicines provided by World Vision are of very high quality.” • Field Medical screenings/clinics/ health camps for children • Emergency Medical Assistance for children • De-worming and Micro Nutrient supplementation programmes (iron) FEEDING • Pre School Mid-Day meal programme • Special food supplementary package for pregnant mothers • Provision of dry rations for needy families INFRASTRUCTURE/ FACILITIES • Reconstruction of MOH clinics and specialized treatment facilities in hospitals • Installation/supply of clean drinking water facilities, wells and toilets • Equipment for clinics, health centers/ mobile health clinics • Mobile medical units/dental/TB and other units • Motor bikes/cycles for Public Health Officers. Special Initiatives 36 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 RIWASH – connecting communities Effecting Change in local Governance I have lived on Gartmore The Rural Integrated Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (RIWASH) Project a joint estate all my life. In programme of AusAid and World Vision Lanka. The programme will run through the past we could not 2010-13 and will directly provide water supply and sanitation facilities to over 23,000 persons including 7,500 school children spread over a number of communicate directly with estates, schools and rural villages in the Nuwara Eliya District – one the most the estate’s management. impoverished districts in the country. Now we sign documents One of the aims of the programme was the building of the capacities of with them. And we are able the community, local government and other stakeholders so that once to meet them. Previously we empowered, the communities would actively engage in making decisions concerning them, and enlightened institutions would promote such had to convey our issues participation. to the Thalaivar who in turn communicated with the The achievements of RIWASH in numbers alone are remarkable as the project has already established and improved water and sanitation facilities in poor, management. disadvantaged plantation communities across 3 DS divisions in Nuwara Eliya district. But the project needed something more to ensure its successes were sustainable. This is where the project’s innovative design and participatory implementation strategy has achieved groundbreaking results upending nearly a century old system in which the plantation community had been treated as second class citizens. Nobody is better placed to describe the changed circumstances than 63 year old M.Arumugam from Gartmore Bevys estate in Nuwara Eliya DS division. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 37 “I have lived on Gartmore estate all my life. In the past we could not communicate directly with the estate’s management. Now we sign documents To change these deeply with them. And we are able to meet them. Previously we had to convey our rooted systemic flaws and issues to the Thalaivar who in turn communicated with the management. discriminatory practices, Thalaivar got one hour each month to talk to the Superintendent,” RIWASH has empowered Since Thalaivar is a political appointee, even concerns regarding basic living estate communities by conditions often used to be politicized to the extent that reporting of such concerns depended less on the urgency of the problem and more on political establishing community affiliations of community members. based organizations (CBOs) that could take The chances of finding solutions would be slim if community members were found to be supporters of a political party different to that of Thalaivar’s. up the community’s Between political rivalry and disregard by some estate management to problems with the estate improve the lot of their labourers, problems of the estate families continued management and other unsolved.Over the years, this scenario dominated communications between community members, the Thalaivar and the management. service providers. “Sometimes Thalaivars would collude with the management and our problems did not get resolved,” Arumugam said. To change these deeply rooted systemic flaws and discriminatory practices, RIWASH has empowered estate communities by establishing community based organizations (CBOs) that could take up the community’s problems with the estate management and other service providers. A series of leadership training and awareness raising programs, including human rights have not only increased their rights awareness but also prepared them to hold all service providers and decision makers accountable to their services. Community members are increasingly finding their own voices as advocates for better services and improved living standards as a result of inclusive partnerships forged between themselves and service providers. 38 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 REMIND – beyond brokenness Bringing vital healing to the vulnerable As families resettle in their The ‘Reconciliation Through Mental Health in the Northern Districts’ (REMIND) villages and begin to project was launched in October 2010 by World Vision in partnership with rebuild their lives, often their AusAid, the Ministry of Health (MOH), and the College of Psychiatrists and has since helped to improve the mental health and well-being of communities in most urgent and important the northern province of Sri Lanka. need is mental health and well-being. People living in northern Sri Lanka had experienced prolonged conflict, displacement and extreme poverty. As families resettle in their villages and begin to rebuild their lives, often their most urgent and important need is mental health and well-being. By addressing peoples well-being there is opportunity to potentially shield individuals from psychiatric illness, encourage speedier emotional and social recovery as well as support families and communities to look towards a positive and peaceful future. Through the REMIND project the local health sector has opportunities to better engage in post-conflict programs, which will ultimately contribute to more sustainable peace-building efforts. Awareness programs are in progress and include ways people can support each other; such as using innovative methods of communication, empathy, comforting others and problem-solving. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 39 Special training was given to key community contacts, e.g. local shop-owners, community leaders, teachers, and other people whom communities have A key aspect of the common and frequent interaction with. Here they were also introduced to the project was the Information, Education, Communications (IEC) materials. recruitment and training One of the key support groups for community members in times of crisis are of 40 Community Support their spiritual leaders. Therefore awareness programmes for spiritual leaders Officers (CSO). across the four major faiths have taken place in the Northern Province to enable them to better support their communities as well as know how and A special focus of the CSO where to refer people who require more clinical support. training was Psychological First Aid (PFA), mental A key aspect of the project was the recruitment and training of 40 Community Support Officers (CSO). A special focus of the CSO training was Psychological illness and psychological First Aid (PFA), mental illness and psychological disorders and soft skills in disorders and soft skills in effective counseling. effective counseling. The CSO will function as part of the staff of the Provincial Ministry of Health and will assist to identify people in the community who require specialized support from the Mental Health Units of the District Hospital. The CSO also provides a range of other services such as monitoring medication, linking people with other service providers through the provision of clinical and psychosocial referrals (from psychiatric support at the hospital to disability support for clients with physical disabilities), raising community awareness of mental health issues common in Northern Province and one-onone psychosocial support for clients. Ten Community Support Centers are being constructed across the five districts of the Northern Province to improve the accessibility of mental health and psychosocial support services to community members. These centers are meant to act as a community hub from where the CSOs for each district will be based. The Centers will offer related information (IEC materials and other resources), accessible to families and the interested public. They further provide private consultation areas where community members can speak with CSOs. 40 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Permaculture – new hope for communities Dignity and new life for Sothinathan “I grew up with my Life for Sothinathan was full of challenges. Afflicted by polio from childhood, he grandmother since I was grew up depending on others to take care of him. three years old and then “All my life, I depended on other people to take care of me,” says Sothinathan, some of my relations took “I grew up with my grandmother since I was three years old and then some of me in. But I knew they didn’t my relations took me in. But I knew they didn’t want to keep me for a long time. They passed me from one house to another. I was a burden to them.” want to keep me for a long time. They passed me from Although he felt rejected by everyone, Sothinathan found a home for his heart one house to another. I was in Thevida from the first time he saw her at their kovil festival. She gave him hope and he wanted to do everything possible to take care of her. a burden to them.” “I tried many ways to earn a living,” he says, “I plucked coconuts and got paid around Rs 80.00 for five coconut trees I climb, but my legs soon hurt. I did manual labour work whenever I could find the opportunity and even cut grass in the fields.” But after their baby was born, Sothinathan knew he had to do much more to provide for his little family. But there was no one willing to employ him or give him regular work. “The only thing left to do was go to the town and beg. I knew people may give me money out of sympathy. I didn’t want to be a begger, but that was the best option I had,” he says. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 41 He hitched a ride by tractor and traveled 30 km from his home to the Batticaloa town to beg. Some days he collected around Rs. 1,000.00 (10 USD) “If I go to the town and bought food for his wife and milk for his baby, sufficient for two days. But again, it will not be quite often his collection was not enough to support their day-to-day needs. to beg, but to sell the Begging was the best and the only thing that could support his family; or so he excess produce from thought. His relations and neighbours did not see anything wrong with it and my garden,” smiles the people whom he met on the road, those who put coins in his hands didn’t question or doubt or complain. Sothnathan, “And it gives me relief to know that While his life settled down to the rhythm of his new living, he came to my little son would never see a change in his neighbourhood. Many families had begun to grow home-gardens. This interested Sothinathan. He learnt about World Vision’s be called a ‘beggar’s Permaculture project that had commenced in his village for the farmer son’. That is the most communities and wanted to be a part of the Project. His enthusiasm was important thing for me.” enough. “World Vision staff were very positive towards me and encouraged me,” says Sothinathan, “the farmers in my neighbourhood, all came to help me build the fence and prepare the ground. I was overjoyed by the support I received. World Vision provided the basic awareness, technical knowledge and the necessary equipment and material to start my home-garden. They also built a well for me so that I would have easy access to water for my garden.” Sothinathan’s garden which started with just two vegetables has now ten varieties of fruits and vegetables growing in it. “It definitely is more challenging and takes more effort than begging,” smiles the new farmer, “But the feeling of satisfaction that you have worked hard to provide for your family and that you can provide for their meals from what you yourself have grown, cannot be described.” “My garden was completely washed away during the last floods. I was very discouraged and wanted to quit and go back to begging, but World Vision stood by me and helped me to restart. The vegetables get sold in the village very quickly and I am confident that I can take care of my family.” “If I go to the town again, it will not be to beg, but to sell the excess produce from my garden,” smiles Sothnathan, “And it gives me relief to know that my little son would never be called a ‘beggar’s son’. That is the most important thing for me.” Sustainability Reporting “ Our work is based on the principle of sustainable development. As described, sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet ” their own needs. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 43 Our Commitment to Sustainability World Vision Lanka has included in this annual review a special section on We believe it is sustainability reporting to improve our accountability and transparency to our stakeholders about the work that we do in all our programmes across the important to make clear country. our commitment to sustainability because We believe it is important to make clear our commitment to sustainability sustainability and poverty because sustainability and poverty alleviation are inexorably linked. alleviation are inexorably linked. Our work is based on the principle of sustainable development. As described, sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. We seek to meet the needs of the present through development and relief programmes that address requirements such as clean water, education, agriculture, preparation for natural disasters and health. All of our work on alleviating poverty contributes to progress on achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We focus on children and their communities to ensure that future generations can meet their own needs. Our programs are designed to assist transformation to restore and enable life with dignity, justice, peace, and hope through empowering children to be agents of change; fostering mutually beneficial relationships; interdependent and empowered communities; and systems and structures that contribute to the elimination of poverty. “We focus on children and their communities to ensure that future generations can meet their own needs. Our programs are designed to assist transformation to restore and enable life with dignity, justice, peace, and hope through empowering children to be agents of change” We aim to meet challenges to sustainability, including food insecurity, climate change, the decreasing availability of resources such as water and energy, weak governance, economic insecurity and the displacement of people. Our programmes are designed to support changes that are economically, environmentally and socially sustainable. 44 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Sustainability Report GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE NGO SECTOR SUPPLEMENT COMPLIANCE TABLE 2011 This table has been prepared using the G3 reporting framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the NGO Sector Supplement: globalreporting.org. One of the objectives of the GRI reporting framework is to allow users to compare performance across different organisations. The table aims to provide a reference to the Standard Disclosures which users of the reporting framework will be familiar with. We have assessed our GRI application level as C (self declared). World Vision Lanka’s 2011 Annual Review is available at: http://www.worldvision.lk Strategy and Profile Disclosures Reference (page references to WVL Annual Review 2011 unless otherwise specified) Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Pages 4, 6-7 organization. (Chairman and ND’s Reports) Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Page 74 Corporate Information 2.2 Primary activities (e.g., advocacy, research, service provision, Pages 10-12 (Our work What we do) capacity building, humanitarian assistance, etc.). Indicate how these activities relate to the organization’s mission and primary strategic goals (e.g., on poverty reduction, environment, human rights, etc.). 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including national Pages 8, 13, 56-73 (Programme locations, offices, sections, branches, field offices, main divisions, operating Organisational Structure and Governance, companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Auditors report) 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Page 74 (Corporate Information) 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. World Vision Lanka operates within Sri Lanka. Note however that World Vision Lanka is a member of the World Vision International Partnership which operates in over 90 countries around the world. For more information see the World Vision International Accountability Report available at wvi.org 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 74 (Corporate Information) 2.7 Target audience and affected stakeholders. Page 9 (Our accountability and transparency) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Pages 70-71, 75 (Financial activities, balance Sheet, Key Statistics) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, None structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. None World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 45 Strategy and Profile Disclosures Reference (page references to WVL Annual Review 2011 unless otherwise specified) Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 1 October 2010 to 30 September 2011 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 30 September 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Dion Schoorman Group Director – Public Engagement World Vision Lanka Email: dion_schoorman@worldvision.org Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. Page 9 (process for report compilation, reporting period) 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, All information in the table relates to World leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol Vision Lanka, and not to any other World Vision for further guidance. entity which is a member of the World Vision International Partnership 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the None report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Not applicable outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information None provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the None scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the This table report. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Page 13 (Organisational Structure and under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, Governance) such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body Page 5 is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). The Chair of the Board is a non-executive director Describe the division of responsibility between the highest governance body and the management and/or executives. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the All Board members are non-executive directors number of members of board and/or non-executive members highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 46 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Sustainability Report Strategy and Profile Disclosures Reference (page references to WVL Annual Review 2011 unless otherwise specified) Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Page 9 (Our accountability and transparency) GRI Performance Indicators Indicator 1: NGO1 Involvement of affected stakeholder groups in the See Page 47 design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes Indicator 2: NGO2 Mechanisms for feedback and complaints in See Page 48 relation to programmes and policies and for determining actions to take in response to breaches of policies. Indicator 3: NGO3 Systems for programme monitoring, evaluation See page 49 and learning, resulting changes to programs and how they are communicated. Indicator 4: NGO4 Measures to integrate gender and diversity into See page 50 programme design, implementation, and the monitoring evaluation and learning cycle. Indicator 5: NGO5 Processes to formulate, communicate implement See Page 51 and change advocacy positions and public awareness campaigns. Indicator 6: NGO8 Sources of funding by category Pages 63-64,73-74 Indicator 7: NGO9 Mechanisms for workforce feedback & See Page 52 complaints, and their resolution Indicator 8: SO2 Percentage and total number of programmes/ During the year the Internal Audit Unit conducted business units analyzed for risks related corruptions. 20 audits in the programme areas. An external FCMG audit was also conducted. Indicator 9: EN16 and EN18 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas See Page 53 emissions by weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Indicator 10: LA1 Total workforce, including volunteers by type, See Page 75 (Key Statistics) contract and region. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 47 Involvement of affected stakeholder Groups Indicator 1: NGO1 Involvement of affected stakeholder Groups in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and Community Participation programmes is practiced as a foundational principle Community Participation is practiced as a foundational principle in our in our LEAP standards Learning through Evaluation with Accountability and Planning (LEAP) standards and explicitly includes participation of all partners. Partners/ and explicitly includes stakeholders include but are not limited to children and families, local participation of all partners. communities and their organizations, and relevant government officials. Partners/ stakeholders Further design, monitoring and evaluation activities are considered as an include but are not limited opportunity to build capacity among programme partners. Programming staff to children and families, respect the confidentiality of personal information disclosed by respondents. They obtain informed consent from respondents for the purposes to which their local communities and data will be used. Programming staff communicate evaluation findings in ways their organizations, and that clearly respect our partners’ dignity and security. relevant government In an emergency response, World Vision endeavours to ensure that people officials. affected by disasters are active participants throughout the disaster management process. Special attention must be paid to children and other vulnerable groups. 48 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Mechanisms for feedback and complaints Indicator 2: NGO2 Mechanisms for feedback and complaints in relation to programmes and policies and for determining actions to take in response to Our approach to breaches of policies. community development work is articulated in our Our primary accountability is to the children and communities we serve. Development Programming Key principles that promote accountability to children and communities include transparency, openness, informed consent (providing children and Approach. It emphasises communities with the information they need to make informed decisions), the importance of working appropriate mechanisms for reporting concerns, and accountability for results with and engaging local (allowing communities to contribute to defining and measuring success). partners. Integrated programming is put into action through a suggested eight-step approach that programme staff can follow in collaboration with communities and local stakeholders. It leads staff and communities through a participatory, empowering process to research, design, manage and end a shared programme. In an emergency response, people affected by disasters are always active participants throughout the disaster management process. Special attention is accorded to children and other vulnerable groups. WVL’s Advocacy Unit intentionally uses Community Based Performance Monitoring (CBPM) and Citizen Voice and Action (CVA) approaches in engaging with all external stakeholders especially the service providers. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 49 Systems for programme monitoring and evaluation Indicator 3: NGO3 Systems for programme monitoring, evaluation and learning, resulting changes to programmes and how they are communicated. WVL has also recently introduced its new project Monitoring and evaluation systems are primarily based on Learning through monitoring system, LPMS, Evaluation with Accountability and Planning (LEAP) standards of semi annual and annual monitoring of indicators. General programme and project review (Lanka Programme is done by the staff and also with the children and community on some Monitoring System) to occasions. This leads to reflections, lessons learning and adapting to changes closely monitor programme required for the improvement of the project performance, effectiveness, management and sustainability. budget, activities and indicators, which will be In instances where projects are partnered with other stakeholders, quarterly implemented in the entire or semi-annual reviews also take place among the programme staff and the respective stakeholders to collectively engage in learning and evaluation. programme in near future. Furthermore regular monitoring is conducted through monthly reporting and monthly management meetings within the programme team as part of programme management. Occasionally, monitoring and evaluation tools such as Most Significant Change (MSC), best stories, documentaries are also utilised. World Vision has also recently introduced its new project monitoring system, LPMS, (Lanka Programme Monitoring System) to closely monitor programme budget, activities and indicators, which will be implemented in the entire programme in near future. The communication of results and impacts is generally made through monthly management report, annual and semi-annual reports. The dissemination of some significant results also takes place through a range of World Vision publications such as the annual report, quarterly newsletters, brochures, factsheets and our dedicated website. Some of these are also featured in external media and in Sponsors and Donor owned websites and other publications. 50 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Measures to integrate gender Indicator 4: NGO4 Measures to integrate gender and diversity into programme design, implementation, and the monitoring evaluation and learning cycle. Addressing gender as a cross-cutting issue requires Gender is one of six cross-cutting programme themes identified in the LEAP that women’s views, Guidelines and prioritised as important to all World Vision programmes. These interests and needs shape guidelines state that: the development agenda ‘Sustainable development practice and impact cannot be achieved without as much as men’s, and explicit recognition that every policy, programme and project affects women that programme strategies and men differently. Addressing gender as a cross-cutting issue requires that women’s views, interests and needs shape the development agenda as much support progress towards as men’s, and that programme strategies support progress towards more more equal relations equal relations between women and men, girls and boys.’ between women and men, WVL integrates Gender as a cross cutting theme in the programme girls and boys.’ management cycle. Through this process women’s active participation is ensured during the Assessment, Design, Implementation, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reflection processes. The inclusion of women in the programmes occurs in both the long term development process and in Humanitarian Emergencies. Additionally, depending on the contexts and issues that Women and Girls face, special projects too are designed to mitigate/address these issues. During the Preliminary assessment processes, separate discussions with Women and Girl Children are conducted to assess the context to identify issues faced by Women and Girls. After these discussions, during the designing process our teams have made it mandatory that Women and Girls actively participate in the participatory designing process. The team ensures that the Voice of Women and Girls are heard and included in the designing process. During the implementation, special emphasis is given to encourage women leadership in the programmes by promoting Self Help Groups, Community Based Organizations where women become members and get elected as office bearers and decision makers, where women and girls get priority in Sectoral programmes (Water and Sanitation. Economic Development and Education). Through Gender Self Assessment processes/audits the organizations assesses itself on the extent of integration of gender issues. The Advocacy Unit conducts special programmes on Gender, Womens Rights, Convention for the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) etc in our projects. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 51 Advocacy Approaches Indicator 5: NGO5 Processes to formulate, communicate implement and change advocacy positions and public awareness campaigns. Advocacy must be issueoriented and specific World Vision’s advocacy work around the globe is guided by the following rather than expressing principles set out in the World Vision International Advocacy Policy: blanket endorsement • World Vision must act judiciously and responsibly when engaged in or condemnation of a advocacy. particular government or political group. • To fail to speak or act on behalf of the poor in certain situations will be failure to enact Core Values and will be inconsistent with World Vision’s Christian development stance. • There are conditions in which neutral ground does not exist; silence or absence of action can in fact promote one outcome against another. • Advocacy should flow from listening to and consultation with the poor who are most directly affected. • Advocacy positions must be shaped by our Core Values and must be consistent with our mission. • Advocacy must promote perspective and solution as opposed merely to formulating a description of a problem or statement of fact. • Advocacy must be issue-oriented and specific rather than expressing blanket endorsement or condemnation of a particular government or political group. • When there is no formal policy position, advocacy will only be undertaken when there is an urgent situation or crisis where human life or wellbeing is at stake. When advocacy occurs where there is no formal policy, appropriate policy discussions and decisions should follow. • Advocacy positions will be based on the widest possible consultation, especially with those colleagues present in the situation. • Advocacy will have careful regard for its risk to life and its impact on ministry in all countries where World Vision has a presence. • World Vision Lanka’s advocacy work is driven through the intentional engagement of relevant inter-agency advocacy coalitions and forums in the humanitarian sector and through trusted networking with external stakeholders. 52 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Mechanisms for workforce Feedback Indicator 7: NGO9 Mechanisms for workforce feedback & complaints, and World Vision Lanka their resolution encourages a culture World Vision Lanka encourages a culture of performance, accountability and of performance, adherence to values and to this end has in place several mechanisms to accountability and facilitate workforce feedback and complaints including a standard grievance adherence to values and policy. to this end has in place Staff are also encouraged to use the feedback forum which is available several mechanisms through its internal newsletter and there is also a special mailbox to which any to facilitate workforce feedback or grievances could be sent. feedback and complaints Additionally, the Integrity and Protection Hotline (Whistleblower) is available to including a standard all staff for direct feedback of any grievances. grievance policy. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 53 Direct and indirect emissions Energy use in 2011 Indicator 9: EN16 and EN18 Total direct emissions and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. As the natural environment is critical for sustaining life – providing air, water, food and shelter – good stewardship plays an important part in ensuring the sustained well-being of children, families and communities. World Vision recognises the impacts that human activities can have on the natural environment and our planet’s climate, including our own activities as an organisation (air travel, energy and resource use, transportation, supply chain choices, etc). Purchased electricity Paper use In house energy use Air travel In October 2010, World Vision Lanka resolved to seek ways to improve its Vehicle fuel use (option 1) environmental performance and to reduce the organisation’s contribution to climate change and environmental degradation. As an initial step the organisation decided to measure the carbon footprint of its operations in four selected areas air travel, fuel use of vehicle fleet, electricity usage and paper use which were identified as the most significant environmental impacts of our programme activities. CO2 Emission in 2011 The organization set estimates of consumption for the four areas and the 1,200 results in the first year have been very encouraging. Despite the all round 1,000 growth in our operations – including manpower and programme areas we have succeeded in meeting our targets in two of the key areas electricity 800 consumption and fuel use 600 The electricity consumption has been due mainly to better management 400 of office facilities and the optimum use of air-conditioning and lighting. The reduction of the fuel use has been due to the pooling of vehicles by 200 departments. 0 In the future the organization will also explore the possibility of purchasing Estimate carbon offsets where emissions cannot be sufficiently avoided or reduced to FY11 meet our yearly targets. Carbon Foot Print EST FY11 Purchased electricity 450 347.41 In house energy use 7.50 28.56 Vehicle fuel use 500 441.21 Paper use 25.0 34.67 Air travel 70.0 100.96 Total CO2 emission (In Co2 Tones) 1,052.50 994.80 Financial Review Independent Auditors’ Report 56 Statement of Financial Activities 58 Balance Sheet 59 Statement of changes in accumulated fund 60 Cash flow statement 61 Notes to the financial statements 62 56 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Independent Auditors’ Report To the Members of World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited Report on the financial statements 1 We have audited the accompanying financial statements of World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited which comprise the balance sheet as at 30 September 2011, and the related statements of financial activities, changes in accumulated fund and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes as set out on pages 58 to 72. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements 2 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-forProfit Organisations issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion 3 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. We therefore believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 57 Independent auditor’s report continued on page 2 To the Members of World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited Opinion 4 In our opinion, so far as appears from our examination, World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited maintained proper accounting records for the year ended 30 September 2011, and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Organisation’s state of affairs as at 30 September 2011 and of the results of its activities, changes in accumulated fund and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-forProfit Organisations issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 5 These financial statements also comply with the requirements of Section 151 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS COLOMBO 58 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Statement of Financial Activities (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Notes Year ended 30 September 2011 2010 Incoming resources 3 2,769,613,913 2,104,676,881 Project expenditure 4 Direct staff costs (340,362,628) (328,178,823) Other direct costs (2,065,285,338) (1,398,699,642) Indirect costs (97,540,887) (58,664,441) Total project costs (2,503,188,853) (1,785,542,906) Net surplus on projects 266,425,060 319,133,975 Other revenue earned 5 34,865,522 16,855,464 Administrative expenses (259,361,859) (284,072,267) Net surplus on operating activities 6 41,928,723 51,917,172 Income tax expenses 8 Nil Nil Net surplus after tax 41,928,723 51,917,172 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 59 Balance Sheet (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Notes Year ended 30 September 2011 2010 ASSETS Non current assets Property, plant and equipment 9 264,300 264,300 Investments 10 89,999,979 110,570,864 90,264,279 110,835,164 Current assets Receivables 11 16,412,507 54,250,900 Deferred Expenses 97,377,574 33,972,149 Deposits and prepayments 12 19,542,797 20,023,329 Cash and cash equivalents 13 250,174,790 161,887,792 383,507,668 270,134,170 473,771,947 380,969,334 FUNDING AND LIABILITIES Accumulated fund Unrestricted funds 97,222,585 89,564,471 Restricted funds 87,686,903 60,593,639 184,909,488 150,158,110 Non-current liabilities Defined benefit obligations 16 125,727,853 107,696,401 125,727,853 107,696,401 Current liabilities Payables 14 60,301,919 65,664,526 Borrowings 15 102,832,687 57,450,297 163,134,606 123,114,823 473,771,947 380,969,334 I certify that these financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007. ........................................... Finance Director The World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements. The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 6th March 2012. ....................................... ............................................. Directors Directors The notes on pages 62 to 72 form an integral part of these financial statements 60 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Statement of changes in accumulated fund (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Restricted Unrestricted Note funds funds Total Balance as at 1 October 2008 28,375,343 (202,553,135) (174,177,792) Surplus for the year 30,144,177 253,390,460 283,534,637 Currency translation difference Nil (8,609,980) (8,609,980) Balance at 30 September 2009 58,519,520 42,227,345 100,746,865 Balance at 1 October 2009 58,519,520 42,227,345 100,746,865 Surplus for the year 2,074,119 49,843,053 51,917,172 Currency translation difference Nil (2,505,927) (2,505,927 Balance at 30 September 2010 60,593,639 89,564,471 150,158,110 Balance at 1 October 2010 60,593,639 89,564,471 150,158,110 Surplus for the year 27,093,264 14,835,460 41,928,724 Currency translation difference Nil (7,177,346) (7,177,346) Balance at 30 September 2011 87,686,903 97,222,585 184,909,487 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 61 Cash flow statement (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Notes Year ended 30 September 2011 2010 Cash flows from operating activities Cash used in operations 17 (7,420,287) (34,339,079) Gratuity paid 16 (5,111,513) (9,035,882) Net cash used in operating activities (12,531,800) (43,374,961) Cash flow from investing activities Sale of assets 18,571,817 522,797 Interest received 16,293,705 16,332,667 Withdrawal of / (invested in) interest bearing instruments. 10 20,570,885 (15,563,870) Net cash from / (used in) investing activities 55,436,407 1,291,594 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalent 42,904,607 (42,083,367) Moment in cash and cash equivalent Beginning of the year 104,437,496 146,520,863 Decrease 42,904,607 (42,083,367) End of the year 13 147,342,102 104,437,496 62 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Notes to the financial statements 1 General information 2.1 Basis of preparation 1.1 World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited (World Vision The balance sheet, statement of financial activities, Lanka) was incorporated under section 21 of the statement of changes in accumulated fund and the Companies Act No.17 of 1982 and re-registered under cash flows together with the accounting policies and Companies Act No 07 of 2007 as a company limited notes to the financial statements comply with the by guarantee. Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organisations issued by the Institute of The registered office of the Association is located at Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. 1119/2/1, Maradana Road, Colombo 08. The object of the World Vision Lanka is to help destitute, needy and The financial statements have been prepared on a orphan children including families and communities historical basis. without discrimination of nationality, caste or creed and to under take relief of those afflicated by natural 2.2 Foreign currency transactions calamities and during emergencies and to help the 2.2.1 Functional currency and presentation currency. poor and needy to achive self reliance. The functional currency of the organisation is Sri Lanka The activity of World Vision Lanka focused on seven Rupees. main sectors namly; economic development, education, emergency response, health, infrastructure, As per the instruction of the World Vision International, protection including child protection, shelter, water the World Vision Lanka keeps its books and records and sanitation. in United States Dollars and the financial statements are primarily prepared and presented in United 1.2 World Vision Lanka is domiciled in Sri Lanka and is States Dollars (US$) which is different to its functional the local representation of World Vision International. currency of Sri Lanka Rupees (LKR). The principal place of activity of the organisation is located at 1119/2/1, Maradana Road, Colombo 8. 2.2 Foreign currency transactions However, for the local regulatory reporting purposes, Except for certain activities that will conclude on the those financial statements prepared and presented in realisation of their relevant activities in accordance United States Dollar (US$) are translated in to Sri Lanka with the relevant terms of reference, the financial Rupees (LKR) and it is translated as follows; statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. 2.2.2 Translation of financial statements presented in United States Dollars in to Sri Lankan Rupees. 1.3 The notes to the financial statement on pages 7 to 17 an integral part of the financial statements. (a) All the assets and liabilities are converted in to LKR at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 1.4 The notes to the financial statements are in Sri Lanka rupees unless otherwise indicated. (b) Statement of financial activities presented in US$ 2 Summary of significant accounting policies converted in to LKR at the average exchange rate for the year. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out (c) The resulting gains and losses are dealt in the below: accumulated fund. These polices have been consistently applied in all 2.3 Property, plant and equipment the years of financial statement presentation, unless Property, plant and equipment purchased with the otherwise stated. exception of land and building are not reflected in the balance sheet and are charged directly to the World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 63 statement of Financial Activities as per the World Vision b. Restricted Funds (Contd) International Policies. Where approved grant expenditure exceeds the income received and there is certainty that the 2.4 Receivables balance will be received such amount is recognised Receivables are carried at anticipated realisable through “Receivables” in the balance sheet. value. An estimate is made for doubtful receivables The activities for which these restricted funds may based on a review of all outstanding amounts at the and are being used are identified in the notes to the year end. Irrecoverable balances are written-off during financial statements. the year in which they are identified. 2.7 Defined contribution plans 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents All employees of the Organisation are members of the For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ Trust Fund, cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits to which the Organisation contributes 15% and 3% held at call with banks, term deposits and treasury respectively of such employees’ basic or consolidated bill repurchases agreements, net of bank overdrafts. wage or salary. In the balance sheet, bank overdrafts are included in borrowings in current liabilities. 2.8 Defined benefit obligations 2.6 Funds Terminal benefits are provided for all employees of the Organisation at the rate of one half of the basic a. Unrestricted Funds or consolidated wage or salary, cost of living and all Unrestricted funds are those that are available for other allowances applicable for the last month of the use by World Vision Lanka at the discretion of the financial year for each year of completed service. The Board, in furtherance of the general objectives of provision is funded fully by fixed deposits with bank. the Organisation and which are not designated for specific purpose. 2.9 Income recognition Surplus funds are transferred from restricted funds a. Incoming Resources to unrestricted funds in terms of the relevant Donor Income realised from restricted funds is recognised in Agreements or with the subsequent approval of the the statement of financial activities only when there Donor. is certainty that all of the conditions for receipt of the funds have been complied with and the relevant Contributions received from the general public are expenditure that is expected to compensate has recognised in the statement of financial activities on a been incurred and charged to the statement of cash basis. financial activities. Unutilised funds are carried forward as such in the balance sheet. b. Restricted Funds Where grants are received for use in an identified Gifts and donations received in kind are recognised project or activity, such funds are held in a restricted at valuation at the time that they are distributed to fund account and transferred to the statement of beneficiaries, or if received for resale with proceeds financial activities to match with expenses incurred in being used for the purposes of the Project at the point respect of that identified project. Unutilised funds are of such sale. held in their respective Fund accounts and included under accumulated fund in the balance sheet until All other income is recognised when the Project is such time as they are required. legally entitled to the use of such funds and the amount can be quantified. This would include Funds collected through a fund raising activity for any income receivable through fund raising activities and specific or defined purpose are also included under donations. this category. 64 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Notes to the financial statements Grants are recognised in the financial statements at 2.12 Information their fair value. When the grant relates to an expense The accounting policies have been consistently it is recognised as income over the period necessary applied, unless otherwise stated, and are consistent to match it with the costs, which it is intended to with those used in previous years. compensate for on a systematic basis. Grants related to assets are generally deferred in the balance sheet and credited to the statement of financial activities over the useful life of the asset. b. Revenue Interest earned is recognised on an accrual basis. Net gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and other non current assets, including investments, are recognised in the statement of financial activities after deducting from the proceeds on disposal, the carrying value of the item disposed of and any related selling expenses. Other income is recognised on an accrual basis. 2.10 Expenditure recognition Expenses in carrying out the Projects and other activities of World Vision Lanka are recognised in the statement of financial activities during the period in which they are incurred. Other expenses incurred in administering and running the Organisation and in restoring and maintaining the property, plant and equipment to perform at expected levels are accounted for on an accrual basis and charged to the statement of financial activities. 2.11 Deferred income / expenses Where funds earmarked for projects are not fully utilised at the date of the balance sheet, such amounts are carried forward as deferred income. Where expenses of projects exceed earmarked funds received and it is certain that donors will reimburse these expenses, such amounts at balance sheet date are carried forward as deferred expenses. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 65 3 Incoming resources 2011 2010 Restricted Direct funding and other 210,424,008 227,542,726 Unrestricted Received from World Vision International 2,305,132,014 1,823,073,579 Receipt from support office 254,057,891 54,060,576 2,769,613,913 2,104,676,881 4 Project expenditure 2011 2010 Ambagamuwa ADP 64,327,864 48,477,050 Bambarakelle Water Project 11,050,654 Nil Bibile ADP 53,189,406 26,949,209 Blanket Supplement Feed-HEA Nil 6,021,876 Bogawanthalawa ADP 16,796,575 5,015,356 Capacity Build Program 332,957 Capacity Building For WVL-HEA Nil 16,522,359 Capacity Building Prog-DME Nil 2,137,154 Conflict Mitigation Project 5,880,735 8,572,803 CSA Consortium Project Nil 472,837 Early Childhood Care For Development Nil 3,991,394 Early Recovery/Livelihood HEA Nil 14,914,380 East & West Peace Project 10,671,420 Nil East Area Rehabilitation Program 7,145,670 13,401,619 East ARP-Vaharai and Eachchilampattu 6,071,981 Nil East Flood Response CIDA HEA 19,046,659 Nil Easter ADP Response Program Nil 31,235,712 Eastern ADP 55,685,201 49,606,122 Ehetuwewa ADP 23,415,743 14,110,228 Emergency Relief Respond HEA Nil 147,789 Emergency Response for IDPs Nil 70,209,377 Eravur Pattu ADP 60,191,266 47,531,330 Family Help Project For N & E Nil 4,034,283 Carry forward to page 66 333,473,175 363,683,835 66 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Notes to the financial statements 4 Project expenditure (Contd) 2011 2010 Brought forward to page 66 333,473,175 363,683,835 Flood Disaster Response HEA 32,241,431 Nil Flood Disaster Response/Recovery 11,526,459 2,301,397 Food Security Program 25,528,151 16,118,390 Galenbidunuwewa ADP 24,887,677 28,202,831 Ganga Ihala Korale ADP 9,840,504 4,865,921 Gift Catalogue Support for Flood affected areas 6,770,944 Nil Giribawa ADP 87,656,856 63,888,812 Hap Deployment In Sri Lanka Nil 282,511 HIV / AIDS Awareness Project Nil 1,362,994 Horowpathana ADP 91,089,809 49,101,024 IDP Response Program 10,888,529 122,502 IDP Assistance-Hygiene Kits HEA Nil 61,838,491 Integrated Food Security & Women 5,788,665 6,545,750 Jaffna ARP WVA 14,521,159 8,408,721 Jaffna ARP WVC HEA 9,813,566 Nil Kalpitiya ADP 35,028,686 26,507,171 Kalpitiya Water Project Nil 29,112,704 Kebethigollewa ADP 11,072,989 14,705,096 Kilinochchi Development Program Nil 5,068,595 Kiran ADP 43,337,980 35,922,620 Koralaipattu ADP 7,882,310 3,943,689 ivelihood recovery and creation project 43,231,831 Nil Livelihood Assistance For Return 29,135,043 6,843,083 Lunugamvehera ADP 54,653,219 42,132,921 Mahakumbukkadawala ADP 20,518,145 33,532,186 Mainstreaming Conflict Project Nil 2,621,413 Mangrove ADP 47,113,649 52,366,390 Mannar ADP 52,730,003 35,626,944 Mundalama ADP 8,691,942 418,897 N/Eliya Drink Water Project Nil 3,561,949 Navagaththegama ADP 34,557,260 15,444,290 Navithanvalley ADP 35,684,346 30,698,160 Navithanvely Peace Project 5,923,107 5,656,518 Neluwa ADP 36,802,946 22,637,573 North and East area WVA HEA 36,641,730 10,171,993 North Area Rehabilitation Programme 30,618,539 35,255,610 North Area Gift Catalog-HEA Nil 264,477 North ARP WV Korea-HEA 3rd Year 13,859,637 Nil North IDP Response Nil 86,435,085 North Returns Livelihood Respond Nil 19,221,177 North Returns Livelihood Respond GC Nil 4,388,082 North Returns Project HEA Nil 7,679,025 Northern Province Livelihood Project 15,824,997 3,654,899 Northern SL Human Relief Project 16,129,192 17,119,907 Northern SL IDP Recover (OFDA) 245,658,407 1,198,639 Northern Sri Lanka Humanitarian HEA Nil 12,947,289 Nutrition Initiative for Transformation 7,871,151 9,664,795 Nuwara Eliya ADP 56,418,552 33,263,855 One Laptop Per Child Project OLPC 7,603,855 797,526 Carry forward to page 67 1,561,016,443 1,215,585,734 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 67 4 Project expenditure (Contd) 2011 2010 Brought forward to page 67 1,561,016,443 1,215,585,734 Other Projects 122,461,596 36,109,388 Paddipalai ADP 69,446,510 56,632,704 Padiyathalawa ADP 60,503,729 45,493,282 Participatory Nutrition Improvement Project 14,753,170 Nil Pathana ADP 8,586,927 1,733,081 Perma Culture Program Australia 32,494,409 25,755,478 Perma Culture Project-Canada Nil 246,945 Pothuvil ADP 58,495,415 48,828,634 Prevention Of Child Abuse 8,157,900 Nil Prevention Of Child Right Violation 8,609,093 8,685,082 Promotion And Sensitization Nil 2,493,982 Reconstruction of Education Centres 7,369,145 Nil Relief Assistance to flood affected families 38,605,896 Nil REMIND project 30,152,147 Nil Rideegama ADP 15,106,122 2,156,260 Rideemaliyadda ADP 11,499,425 3,106,962 Sevanagala ADP 28,582,926 31,834,616 SL / PHL FY 08 Children & Peace Building Nil 3,506,098 Sri Lanka Riwash 2 100,690,389 4,763,772 Sri Lanka Tsunami Response Nil 15,742,859 Sri Lanka USDA Grant Nil 39,805,012 Street Children Kandy 16,484,519 14,593,071 Study On Innovative Practices Nil 217,392 Thanamalwila ADP 56,340,538 49,032,757 Vital Assistance For Return IDPs 27,358,293 19,039,678 Vulnerable Girl Child Nil 127,185 Wanathawilluwa ADP 50,451,920 42,570,043 Wattala ADP 5,678,486 Nil Weeraketiya ADP 30,315,346 36,197,066 Wennapuwa ADP 67,464,608 28,294,574 Wilgamuwa ADP 65,354,636 45,253,192 WVL Child Protection Program Nil 4,727,425 WVL Disaster Mgt. Project-NEPRF 7,209,268 3,010,636 2,503,188,853 1,785,542,906 68 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Notes to the financial statements 5 Other revenue earned 2011 2010 Interest income 16,293,705 16,332,667 Sale of assets 18,571,817 522,797 34,865,522 16,855,464 6 Operating activities The following items have been charged in arriving at net surplus. 2011 2010 Directors’ remuneration Nil Nil Project expenses (Including staff cost) 2,503,188,853 1,785,542,895 Employee benefits (Note 7) 721,183,216 652,681,806 Publicity 152,756 1,713,942 Audit fee and related expenses 1,104,924 1,098,056 7 Staff cost 2011 2010 Salaries and benefits 638,613,802 531,651,637 Defined contribution plan 59,230,833 99,304,953 Defined benefit obligation (Note 16) 23,338,581 21,725,330 721,183,216 652,681,920 8 Tax Effective 1 April 2006, the Organisation is liable to income tax at the rate of 30% on 3% of grants received as per Section 102 (1) of Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 unless the Organisation applies for remission of income tax from the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. As explained in Note 18 to the financial statements no income tax is provided on donations, pending application for remission. The Organisation is liable to income tax on interest and other income at the rate of 10%. The Organisation’s other sources of income constitute interest income on which income tax has been deducted at source by the financial institutions in which deposits have been made. 9 Property, plant and equipment 2011 2010 Land Makubukkadawala/ Kotawehera ADP 264,300 264,300 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 69 10 Investments Investments mainly consist of fixed deposits. The fixed deposits are with Standard Chartered Bank, National Development Bank, DFCC Bank and HSBC. 2011 2010 Investments 89,999,979 110,570,864 The above deposit is held for the purpose of payment of staff gratuity 11 Receivables 2011 2010 Advances 2,975,493 2,642,069 Interest receivable 861,076 Nil Receivable from AUSAID Nil 561,346 Other receivables 12,575,938 51,047,485 16,412,507 54,250,900 12 Deposits and Prepayments 2011 2010 Deposits 6,196,026 7,357,459 Prepayment 13,346,771 12,665,870 19,542,797 20,023,329 13 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 Cash in hand 721,562 500,740 Short term bank deposits 89,326,513 44,721,248 Cash at bank 160,126,715 116,665,804 250,174,790 161,887,792 For the purpose of the cash flow statement, the period end cash and cash equivalent comprise the following: 2011 2010 Bank overdraft (Note 15) (102,832,687) (57,450,297) Cash and bank balance 250,174,790 161,887,792 147,342,103 104,437,496 70 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Notes to the financial statements 14 Payables 2011 2010 Accrued expenses 37,266,842 21,093,092 Retention (See (a) below) 9,199,611 5,705,138 WHT payable Nil 976,063 Revolving loan payable 2,604,963 5,409,056 Amount due to Related party-Vision Fund Lanka Nil 1,012,837 Other payables 8,660,428 28,593,849 Accrued pension and severance pay (WV-LTRT) 2,570,075 2,874,491 60,301,919 65,664,526 (a) Retention represents 10% on contract value in respect of all the constructions completed and held for a period of 6 months subsequent to completion 15 Borrowings 2011 2010 Bank overdraft (Note 13) 102,832,687 57,450,297 Bank overdraft are unsecured. 16 Defined benefit obligations 2011 2010 Balance at the beginning of the year 107,696,401 95,006,953 Provision for the year 23,142,965 21,725,330 Payment made during the year (5,111,513) (9,035,882) Balance as at the end of the year 125,727,853 107,696,401 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 71 17 Cash generated used in operations 2011 2010 Cash Flow From operating activities Surplus of income over expenditure before taxation 41,928,723 51,917,172 Adjustments for: Gratuity provision (Note 16) 23,142,965 21,725,330 Deferred expense (63,405,425) (9,531,407) Exchange difference on revaluation (7,177,346) (2,505,927) Sale of assets (18,571,817) (522,797) Interest income (Note 5) (16,293,705) (16,332,667) Operating deficit before working capital changes (40,376,605) 44,749,704 Changes in working capital (Increase) /decrease in receivables 37,838,393 (13,511,051) (Increase) / decrease in prepayments and deposits 480,532 (37,991) (decrease) / Increase in payables (5,362,607) (65,539,741) Cash used in operating activities (7,420,287) (34,339,079) 18 Contingent liabilities The Company had applied for remission of income tax from the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue under Section 102(3) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 (subsequently amended by Amendment Act, No. 10 of 2007) on the grounds that it is solely engaged in: a) rehabilitation and the provision of infrastructure facilities and livelihood support to displaced persons in any area identified by the Government for such purposes; and b) other activities approved by the Minister as being humanitarian in nature, taking into consideration the nature and gravity of any disaster and the magnitude of relief consequently required to be provided. No provision has been made in respect of income tax on 3% of the grants received at the rate of 30% as stipulated by Section 102 (1) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006. In the event the Company fails to obtain the remission from the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue it will be liable to tax on the grant income at the stipulated rates. 19 Commitments Capital commitments There were no material capital commitments outstanding at the balance sheet date. Financial commitments There were no material financial commitments outstanding at the balance sheet date. 72 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Notes to the financial statements 20 Directors interest and related party transactions The directors during the financial year were ; Mr Samuel Sureshkumar Bartlett Mr Sunil C Wijesinghe Ms Marina A Tharmaratnam Mr Xavier Kumar Fernando Mr Akurugoda Gamage Sagara Priyadarsha The directors are also directors of the Vision Fund Lanka. The balances arising from transactions with Vision Fund Lanka are as follows; (a) Purchase of services Nature of transactions Amount paid (received) 2011 2010 Fund transfer 26,938,134 8,992,135 Other administration expenses Nil 5,166,406 Capital allocation (25,944,463) (11,456,701) The directors were not directly or indirectly involved in any contracts with the Company during the year ended 30 September 2011. (b) Outstanding balances from transactions with related parties. Amount due to Vision Fund Lanka Balance as at 30 September Nil 1,012,164 21 Post balance sheet events No events have occurred since the balance sheet date which would require adjustments to, or disclosure in, the financial statements. World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 73 Financial Highlights How the Funds were Expenditure used in 2011 Programmewis How the How the Funds Funds were were Expenditure Expenditure used in used 2011 in 2011 9.4% Programmewise Programmewise 20112011 9.4% 9.4% 12.86%12.86% 28.07% 28.07%28.07% 90.6% 90.6% 90.6% 59.07%59.07% Programme Expenditure Area Dev ProgrammeProgramme Expenditure Expenditure Area Development Area Development Programme Programme Administration Expenditure Humanita Administration Administration Expenditure Expenditure Humanitarian Humanitarian Emergency Emergency Assistance Assistance Special Projects Special Pr Special Projects Total Income Total Income (2009 (2009 2011)2011) Total Income (2009 2011) 3,000,000,000 3,000,000,000 3,000,000,000 2,500,000,000 2,500,000,000 13.5% 2,500,000,000 13.5% 2,000,000,000 2,000,000,000 13.5% 2,000,000,000 1,500,000,000 1,500,000,000 1,500,000,000 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 86.5% 86.5% 1,000,000,000 86.5% 500,000,000500,000,000 500,000,000 0 0 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 0 2009 2010 2011 74 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Corporate Information Name of the Company: World Vision Lanka (Gte) Limited Legal Form: 1. Incorporated as a Company limited by guarantee under the Companies Act No: 07 of 2007Registration No: GA 16. 2. Registered as a Voluntary Social Services/Non Governmental Organization under Voluntary Social Services Organizations Act No: 31 of 1980Registration No: FL 46901. Registered Address 1119/2/1, Maradana Road, Colombo 8 Contact Details Tel: 94 (11) 269 1233 Fax: 94 (11) 269 7577 Web: www.worldvision.lk Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers 100, Braybrooke Place, Colombo 2. Company Secretary Corporate Management Services (Pte) Ltd 6th floor, Vision House, Galle Road, Colombo 4 Bankers: Standard Chartered Bank People’s Bank Seylan Bank Nations Trust Bank Funding Partners: World Vision Australia World Vision Canada World Vision Finland World Vision Germany World Vision Hong Kong World Vision Japan World Vision Korea World Vision Singapore World Vision Taiwan World Vision UK World Vision USA Australian Agency for International Development (AusAid) Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) Department for International Development (DFID) Office of United States Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) United States Agency for International Development (USAID) World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 75 Key Statistics Locations Districts: GN Divisions: Villages: 20 584 1,120 Beneficiaries Children: Families: individuals: 240,000 150,000 605,000 Staff profile Permanent: contract: indirect staff: 263 238 852 Male staff: Female staff: 377 124 76 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Executive Summary Sinhala úOdhl iïmSvkh ck fldÜGdi iu. jir 2011 jir jr®,aâ úIka ,xld wdh;khg ;j;a úfYaI jr®Ihla úh' ta jifr®° wfma 15 l yjq,aldr;ajfha jevigykaj, fmr fkdjQ úrE jr®Okhla olakg ,eìKs' tys° wfma ldr®hhkaj, kj t<Uqï ;=< jeo.;a ch.%yK iksgqyka fl˙◊' wjidkfhka miq jir ;=< wfma m%Odk wjOdkh fhduq jQfha rdcH iy fm!oa.,sl fowxYfha iïnkaO;d uyl=Uqlalvj, iy iy yjq,ald¯;aj l%ufhka ia:ßr f,i jeäoshqKq ls¯ugh' ta wfkla iudk woyia we;s .f,kaì∫Kqjej hk wfma ixúOdk u.ska fhdackd lrk ,o iyl%shdjka fj; wfma <Ûdùï iy iúu;als¯ï mqΩ,a ls¯fï wjYH;djh ksidh' l,dmh ixjr®Ok jevigyka rg h<s f.dvke.Su rfÜ ishÆ mqrjeishkaf.a j.lSula nj iy ta l%shdj,sfha° iEu fofla ksudj wms jir ;=< fokdgu bgq ls¯ug ldr®hhla we;s nj wms oeä f,i úYajdi lruq' iksgqyka lf<uq' rdcH iy fm!oa.,sl fowxYfha fukau udkj iqn idOkSh ck fldÜGdi w;r yjq,ald¯;aj iy iqn idOk lsysmhla ilialr .ekSug wmg yelsúh' fuu.ska ck fldÜGdi úYd, ixLHdjla fj; <Ûd jkakg;a ienE n,mEula we;s ls¯ug;a yels fláu ld,hla ;=< mrsjr®;khla we;s ls¯ug;a wmg Yla;sh ,eìK' ck fldÜGdi iu. jir 15 l yjq,ald˙;ajfha wjidkfhka miq uyl=Uqlalvj, iy .f,kaì∫Kqjej hk wfma l,dmSh ixjr®Ok jevigyka fofla ksudj wms jir ;=< iksgqyka lf<uq' fuu l,dmSh ixjr®Ok jevigyka foflau wms mQr®K f,i n,.ekajQ ck fldÜGdi wms b;s˙ lf<uq' tu ck fldÜGdij, wkd.; ixjr®Okfha iy ;sridr fmdaIKfha ysñld˙;ajh wo we;af;a Tjqkaguh' fuu l,dmSh ixjr®Ok jevigyka fol ;=< wm is≥l< fjkialï úfYaIfhka is;a.kakd iqΩh' fndfyda mjq,aj,g wo msrsis≥ mdkSh c,h ,nd .ekSfï yelshdj we;' <fuda wo h<s;a mdi,a h;s' Tjqyq wo jvd fyd| fi!LH iïmkak njla iy fmdaIKhla N=la;s ú¢;s' ;ukaf.a olaI;djhka i|yd <uhskag wo wjldYhla iy y~la we;' mjq,aj,g jvd fyd| ksjdi iy „úldjla we;' fuu l,dmSh ixjr®Ok jevigyka foflka wm bj;a jqj o w;sYh ≥Ialr iy ≥mam;a m%foaY folla jk ó.ylsjq, iy ˙°ud,shoao hk m%foaYj, wÆ;a jevigyka folla wdrïN lrkakg wmg yelshdj ,eìK' wm úiska uq, mqrd we;s fndfyda kj jevigyka w;r tlla jkafka oYl ;=kl hqoaOfhka w;añ° isák Y%S ,xldfõ W;=re m<df;a ck fldÜGdij, iqn idOkh iy udkisl fi!LH jr®Okh ls¯fï jevigykah' iajdNdúl wdmodjkag rg os.gu f.d≥re úh' jir ;=< wêl jr®Idfjka iy c, .e,Sïj,ska fmr fkdjQ úrE ;rï mSvdjg m;ajQ kef.kysr iy W;=re ueo m<d;aj,g wms yosis iykdOdr iemhSuq' wm wdrïN lr we;s tla m%Odk kj uQ,drïNhla jkafka ;sridr jdr®;dlrKhh' wka;r® cd;sl fm!oa.,sl wxYh idïm%odhsl jYfhka ;sridr jdr®;dlrKh m%fhdackhg f.k we;' ta ck fldÜGdij, ffoksl lghq;=j, fufyhqïj,g wod<j wdr®:ßl mdrirsl iy iud„h n,mEï ms<sn| iafõÉPd f;dr;=re ikaksfúokh i|=ydh' ;kslru ;u ldr®h mkakrh ;sridr ixjr®Okh lr .;a ,dN fkd,nk ixúOdkhla jk jr®,aâ úIka jeks ixúOdkhlg ta wdldrhg lghq;= ls¯u we;eïúg jvd jeo.;a jkq we;' jr®,aâ úIka ,xld tlai;a cd;Skaf.a úYaj .súiqfï m%;sm;a;sj,g w;aika ;nd we;' wfma jdr®;dj, m%ñ;sh ilia lr .ekSu i|yd úYaj jdr®;dlrK uq, ms¯ïj, rduqj wm úiska fhdod .kq we;' World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 77 Executive Summary Tamil epiwNtw;Wr; RUf;fk; ,t;tUlj;jpy; 2011 Nty;l; tp\d; yq;fhTf;F ,d;DnkhU Kf;fpaj;JtkhdJk;> k`hFk;Gf;flty> Kd;ndhUNghJkpy;yhj tifapy; Gjpa mZFKiwfs; %yk; epfo;r;rpj; fye;gpe;JDtt gpuhe;jpa jpl;lq;fspy; Fwpg;gplj;jf;f milTfisf; fz;l Mz;lhfTk; jpfo;fpd;wJ. mgptpUj;jpj; jpl;lq;fs;> vk;Kila jpl;lgug;G tphpthf;fYf;fhfTk;> vk;Nghy; xj;j epWtdq;fspd; rKjhaq;fSldhd 15 tUl xUq;fpaf;fj;ij Nkk;gLj;JKfkhfTk;> murhq;f kw;Wk; gpuj;jpNaf epWtdq;fSld; ,izg;Gfis Vw;gLj;JtJ> ,t;tUlj;jpy; vkJ gpujhd $l;Lwtpd; gpd; KbTf;Ff; ftdf;Fwpahf ,Ue;jJ. nfhz;Ltug;gl;ld. ehl;il kPsf; fl;bnaOg;Gjy; vy;yh gpui[fspdJk; nghWg;G kl;Lky;yhky;> rfyUk; ,e;j nray;Kiwahf;fj;jpy; gq;F tfpf;f Ntz;Lk;. ehk; gy $l;LhpikfisAk; $l;Lr;rq;fq;fisAk> murhq;f kw;Wk; gpuj;jpNaf JiwfSlDk; kdpjNea epWtdq;fSlDk; cUthf;fpAs;Nshk;. Kbe;jsT FWfpa fhyj;jpw;Fs; gy r%fq;fisr; nrd;wilaTk;> cz;ikahd nray;tpisT> jd;ikkhw;wj;ijAk; mila ,J fhuzkha; ,Ue;jJ. ,t;tUlj;jpy; k`hFk;Gf;flty> fye;gpe;JDtt gpuhe;jpa mgptpUj;jpj; jpl;lq;fs;> rKjhaq;fSldhd 15 tUl $l;Lwtpd; gpd; KbTf;Ff; nfhz;Ltug;gl;ld. ,t;tpU jpl;lq;fspYk; tYg;gLj;jg;gl;l> jq;fs; vjpHfhy mgptpUj;jpapdJk;> Ngz;jifikapdJk; chpikAldhd kf;fs; cs;shh;fs;. ,t;tpU jpl;lq;fs; %ykhf ehk; Vw;gLj;jpa khw;wq;fs; ngUt+f;fj;ij mspj;Js;sd. mNefk; FLk;gq;fs; jw;NghJ Rj;jkhd FbePH trjpiag; ngw;wpUf;fpd;wdH. gps;isfs; ghlrhiy nry;tJk; rpwe;j Rfhjhuk;> Nghrhf;ifg; ngw;wpUg;gJk; fhzf;$bajhapUf;fpwJ. jq;fs; Fuy;fs; Nfl;fg;glTk;> jpwikfs; ntspg;glTk; gps;isfSf;fhd ntspaplk; cz;L. FLk;gq;fs; rpwe;j tho;tplq;fisAk; epiyahd tho;thjhuq;fisAk; nfhz;Ls;sd. ,uz;L jpl;lq;fspd; Kbtpy; ehk; ntspNawpdhYk;> ,uz;L Gjpa jpl;lq;fs; kpfTk; gpd;jq;fpaJk; tWik epiwe;j gpuNjrq;fSkhd kPf`fpAy kw;Wk; hpjPkhypaj;jtpy; Muk;gpf;fg;gl;Ls;sd. ehk; Kd;ndLj;j gy Gjpa nraw;wpl;lq;fspy; tl khfhzj;jyp; %d;W jrhg;j Aj;j epiyapypUe;J kPz;bUf;Fk; kf;fSf;fhd kdey Rfhjhu Nkk;ghL kw;Wk; ey;tho;T jpl;lk; xd;whFk;. ,yq;if njhlHe;Jk; ,aw;if mdHj;jq;fshy; ghjpf;fg;gl;Ls;sJ. ,jw;F Kd; rk;gtpf;fhj kiotPo;r;rpahYk; nts;sg; ngUf;fhYk; ghjpf;fg;gl;l fpof;F> tlkj;jpa khfhz kf;fSf;fhd mtru epthuz cjtpfis ehk; toq;fpNdhk;. ,t;tUlk; ehk; Kd;ndLj;j xU Kf;fpa Kaw;rp Ngz;jifik njhlHgpyhd mwpf;if jahhpg;ghFk;. ,it ghuk;ghpakhf rhtNjr gpuj;jpNaf Jiw epWtdq;fs; jd;dhh;t Kiwapy;> jq;fs; tpahghu eltbf;iffSf;Fg; nghUj;jkhd nghUshjhu> #oy;> r%f nray; tpisTfs; gw;wp ntspapLk; mwpf;iffshFk;. ,ijtpl Nty;l; tp\d; Nghd;w yhgkPl;lhj> Ngz;jifik rhh; mgptpUj;jpia KO njhopy;khjphpahff; nfhz;l njhz;lH epWtdq;fs;> ,k;khjphpahd mwpf;iffisj; jahhpg;gJ Kf;fpakhFk;. Nty;l; tp\d; yq;fh ehLfspd; cyfshtpa fl;Lf;Nfhg;G nfhs;iffspy; ifr;rhj;jpl;Ls;sJ. ehk;cyfshtpa mwpf;if Kd; Kaw;rp fl;likg;igg; gad;gLj;jp vkJ mwpf;iffis kl;lf;Fwpg;gLj;JNthk;. 78 World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 Our Core Values We are Christian We are Responsive We are Partners We are Stewards We Value People We are Committed to the Poor World Vision Sri Lanka Annual Review 2011 79 Countries Where World Vision Works w w w . w o r l d v i s i o n . o r g . l k
