BOC Kenya Limited Head Office Kitui Road, Industrial Area P.O. Box 18010, 00500 NAIROBI Telephone:6944000, 531380 Fax No: 6944001, 553382 E-mail: bocinfo@boc.co.ke 20th April, 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT: April 2012 Company Status on Implementation of the UN Ten Principles BOC Kenya is committed to support the UN initiatives within the company’s strategies, guidelines, policies, practices and behaviours which lay the basic fundamental management standards in all its operations and activities. The maxim “I am taking the lead” puts the responsibility on the individual as well as teams to ensure the overall behaviour is in line with the company vision, values and principles. The Group’s fundamental principles are safety, integrity, sustainability and respect. The company is also committed to the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship, continuous improvement for sustainable change and growth and being part of the solution to the global challenges. The company makes a declaration in support of the UN Global initiatives in its Annual Report. The highlight of the company’s strategies and actions in regard to the implementation of the ten core principles is as indicated below: Principles of the UN Global BOC Status on implementation of the Ten UN Compact Principles A) Human rights Group Vision, Values and Principles 1)Support & respect the ▪ Support transparency, trust and accountability protection of internationally through visible leadership, information sharing, proclaimed human rights empowering people, LeadSafe reports, non 2)Ensure non complicit in human discrimination and risk management. rights abuses ▪The leadership does not tolerate and strictly prohibits retaliation against anyone who reports issues or concerns in good faith. The Report is treated with strict confidentiality. BOC Kenya Ltd is a Member of The Linde Group Directors:J .Kibe (Chairman), M. B. Msiska** (Managing ), W. Coetzee*, A C Juma, N Kiuna, F. Kotzee*, F. Graham, T. Baasden* (Alt), S. Fareed*(Alt) *South African ** Malawian B) Labour standards Conditions of employment 3) Uphold the freedom of ▪The company is compliant with the Kenya labour association and effective laws in regard to all terms and conditions of recognition of the right to employment including non engagement of child collective bargaining, labour, forced and compulsory labour. 4) Effective abolition of child ▪The company recognizes The Chemical & Allied labour workers union and negotiates freely. A collective 5) Elimination of all forms of bargaining agreement is in place. forced and compulsory labour ▪ The company is a member of the Federation of 6) Elimination of discrimination in Kenya Employers and keeps abreast of new respect of employment and developments in labour relations and adheres to any occupation changes in law. ▪The company upholds a non discriminatory policy in employment and occupation and adopts the principle of justice and fairness in all operations and practices. C)The Environment Safety, Health, Environment & Quality ( SHEQ) Management 7) Support a precautionary ▪Uphold The Linde Group standards. Our policy states approach to environmental “ we shall not harm people or the environment” and challenges our culture of “ safety is 100% of our behavior 100% 8) undertake initiatives to of the time” promote greater environmental ▪ We promote safe behavior through such initiatives responsibility as “near-miss reporting, SHEQ Roadmap and 9) Encourage the development “LeadSafe “observations and visible leadership at and diffusion of environmentally executive and functional team level. friendly technologies. ▪ Everyone is involved in and measured on their contribution to the SHEQ program. ▪ To reinforce safe behavior, a set of Seven Golden Rules were developed and implemented ▪ Integrated SHEQ policy that addresses environmental issues in addition to occupational health and safety issues. ▪ Maintained ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004 and OHSAS 18001:2007 accreditation ▪ SHEQ Road Map ultimate goal is to attain world – class behavioral standards. ▪Managers and employees work together to integrate environmental thinking into all business activities and adopt best environmental practice in order to bring positive benefits to the business, community and other stakeholders. ▪The SHEQ Road Map involves: Resource efficiency, Environmental risk management, awareness and communication. D) Anti-Corruption Ethics & compliance 10) Work against corruption in all ▪Code of Ethics Policy and training to all employees to -2its forms, including extortions create awareness. and bribery ▪ Ethics and integrity posters list different methods how to contact the integrity line to make a report regarding any fraud or other violations of our Code of Ethics ▪Availability of Integrity Line-24hrs, 7 days ▪Non retaliation Policy in place ▪Gift & entertainment Policy cascaded to all employees. -3-
