Responsible Jewellery Council – 2012 Communications on Progress Report Company Name Responsible Jewellery Council Date 30 March 2012 Unit (if applicable) Address First Floor, Dudley House Membership date 15 January 2009 34-38 Southampton Street London WC2E 7HF Country United Kingdom Number of employees 8 Contact name Mila Bonini Contact Position Communications Manager Sector Corporate Social Responsibility in the gold, diamond and platinum metals jewellery supply chain Contact telephone no. Tel +39 02 48002801 Mobile +39 334 5488723 Brief description of nature of business The Responsible Jewellery Council is an international not-for-profit standards setting organisation. The Council was founded in 2005 by 14 organisations and has been growing rapidly since then to more than 370 companies and Trade Associations today, representing the whole supply chain, from mine to retail. RJC Members are committed to promoting responsible ethical, human rights, social and environmental practices in a transparent and accountable manner throughout the industry. Their commitment aims to reinforce consumer and stakeholder confidence in diamond, gold and platinum metals jewellery products. The core objective of the RJC is to strengthen and protect the reputation and the integrity of the jewellery industry. In order to do so, the Council has developed the RJC Member Certification system which applies to all Members’ businesses that contribute to the diamond, gold and platinum metals jewellery supply chain. All Commercial Members of the RJC are required to be audited by accredited, third party auditors to verify their conformance with the RJC’s Code of Practices and become certified under the RJC Member Certification system within two years from joining. At March 2012, there are more than 150 RJC Certified Members with facilities in 40 countries around the world. From 2010 to 2011, the RJC worked with its Members and other stakeholders, including NGOs, to develop a voluntary Standard for Chain-of-Custody (CoC) Certification for businesses interested in responsible, conflict-free sourcing and assurance in the jewellery supply chain. The RJC launched its Chain-of-Custody Certification applicable to gold and platinum group metals (platinum, palladium and rhodium) in early March 2012. Further consultation is underway on the applicability to the diamond sector. RJC Member Certification remains compulsory for RJC Members while RJC Chain of Custody Certification is voluntary for RJC Members. RJC Member Certification focuses on how the company runs itself, while the RJC CoC Certification is about the provenance of jewellery materials. Both certifications can be combined to assure sound business practices. In 2011 RJC joined the ISEAL Alliance as an Associate Member and plans to become a Full Member in 2012. The Responsible Jewellery Council and a full list of its Members can be found on the web at www.responsiblejewellery.com Statement of support The RJC was officially registered as Participant to the United Nations Global Compact on January 15th, 2009. The RJC strongly supports the Global Compact initiative and has embedded its ten principles in the Code of Practices of the RJC Certification System. Through the RJC’s engagement with the jewellery supply chain, and its stakeholders, we promote the Global Compact as part of our commitment to improve business practices in the areas of human rights, labour and social responsibility, environment and anti-corruption. In May 2012, RJC will be publishing its first annual Progress Report which provides more information on RJC’s activities and achievements and be available to our stakeholders via the RJC website. We look forward to continued participation in the Global Compact and progress on our shared goals as the RJC continues to work towards its mission in 2012 and beyond. Signature Position Michael L. Rae Chief Executive Officer Responsible Jewellery Council Responsible Jewellery Council – 2012 Communications on Progress Report Commitments, Systems and Actions 2011 Commitments The primary vehicle for RJC’s support of the Global Compact is the RJC’s standards, with which RJC Members must comply. The following table highlights the influence of the Global Compact principles in the RJC’s Code of Practices. Furthermore, the RJC Code of Practices addresses additional consumer confidence issues such as accurate product disclosure; employee health and safety, working hours and remuneration; and community development. In 2012, the RJC will commence its first review of the Code of Practices, working with a multi-stakeholder Standards Committee and seeking input through a series of open public comment periods. Global Compact Principle RJC Code of Practices – Related Provisions Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection COP 2.1 Human Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights; and COP 2.4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining COP 2.5 Discrimination COP 2.8 Working Hours COP 2.9 Remuneration COP 2.11 Community Engagement and Development COP 2.13 Indigenous Peoples Also: RJC Chain-of-Custody Standard (voluntary) 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights COP 1.3 Kimberley Process abuses. COP 2.2 Child labour COP 2.3 Forced labour COP 2.7 Discipline and Grievance Procedures COP 2.12 Use of Security Personnel COP 4.3 Business Partners COP 2.14 Artisanal and Small-scale Mining Also: RJC Chain-of-Custody Standard (voluntary) Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association COP 2.4 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory COP 2.3 Forced Labour labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and COP 2.2 Child Labour and Young Persons 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of COP 2.5 Discrimination employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach COP 3.1 Environmental Protection to environmental challenges; COP 3.2 Hazardous Substances COP 4.4 Impact Assessment 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater COP 3.3 Wastes and Emissions environmental responsibility; and COP 3.5 Biodiversity COP 4.5 Mine Closure Planning 9. encourage the development and diffusion of COP 3.4 Use of Energy and Natural Resources environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its COP 1.1 Bribery and Facilitation Payments forms, including extortion and bribery. COP 1.2 Money Laundering and Finance of Terrorism COP 1.6 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Also: RJC Chain-of-Custody Standard (voluntary) The RJC’s Code of Practices and related guidance and assessment questions are available at http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/certification/#core Systems The above standards are applicable to RJC Members right across the diamond and gold jewellery supply chain. The RJC’s certification system requires independent, third party verification of conformance with these standards. In 2012, the RJC Code of Practices will be reviewed and platinum metals be added to the scope of the Member certification system. The RJC is accrediting auditors with appropriate competence and experience to verify Members’ conformance with the above commitments. Auditors will carry out desktop reviews and site visits to Members’ facilities, and submit a certification recommendation to the RJC based on the Members’ level of conformance. Responsible Jewellery Council – 2012 Communications on Progress Report Actions In 2011, the following actions have been carried out or are underway to implement the above commitments and systems established by the RJC: • RJC Certified Members: of the 109 Members due to be certified by December 31st, 2011, 75% were successfully certified and the remaining 25% were granted extensions pursuant to RJC’s strict criteria. All Members are on track to receive certification within the extension periods. All RJC Certified Members with their Certification Information are listed on the RJC website and available at: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/members/certified-members/ • RJC Accredited Auditors: Eight auditing companies, most with extensive international scope, have been accredited by RJC. More than 230 (up from 88 in 2010) individual auditors have completed training and they are present in all the RJC Members’ major markets. They are available at: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/auditors/accredited-auditors/ • Training for RJC Members: Webinar training to Members and Auditors on RJC Certification was launched in October 2009. Modules for different parts of the supply chain highlight key risk areas around human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption areas, and provide examples of how to improve practices within Members’ businesses. In 2011, RJC’s Members and Auditors have willingly participated in the webinar training offered and they have been fulsome in their praise of the training delivery and content. At December, 2011, 48% of RJC Members have one or more employees who have attended or more training modules since the launch of the RJC webinar training in October 2009. Approximately 130 sessions have been delivered to 659 participants. Auditor training is compulsory, and 81 modules with 632 participants have been delivered since the launch of the auditor training. (Note – training participants can attend multiple sessions.) • Monitoring and Evaluation: A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Program was established in 2011 to assess the impact of RJC Certification. The M&E Program Plan was developed to meet the requirements of the ISEAL Impacts Code, 2010 and is regularly updated. The objectives of RJC’s M&E program are to: Improve the RJC Certification system and its effectiveness in achieving its stated social, environmental and economic objectives; Build capacity by learning from experience, not only for the RJC as an institution, but also for Members, Auditors and stakeholders; Inform strategy regarding policy decisions; Provide accountability to Members, consumers, civil society and towards those who are affected by, and those who are meant to benefit from, the activities of standards systems; Earn credibility through willingness to be open about the results (good or bad) of the RJC Certification system; and enhance societal learning by feeding results into the standards landscape to understand the cumulative impacts of voluntary standards systems. • Monthly reporting: A Monthly Indicators Report (MIR) is published which draws on internal data logging and reporting procedures. The MIR is intended to publicly report each month on selected quantitative indicators for the RJC’s Supporting Strategies: Growth in RJC Membership, Estimated Annual Sales of Commercial Members; Increase in RJC Certifications; Accredited Auditors; Training participation; Complaints Mechanism processes. Click here for the latest Monthly Indicators Report. • Chain-of-Custody Certification: In 2010-2011, the RJC consulted with stakeholders on the development of Chainof-Custody Certification as a voluntary, complementary element to the RJC Member Certification process. The RJC has successfully concluded the task of developing a Chain of Custody Standard for Gold and platinum group metals. Implementation of this standard by Members is expected in the second quarter of 2012. RJC’s Members and important stakeholders have warmly endorsed this work as being robust and critical to consumer confidence and the reputation of the gold and platinum jewellery industry. More information can be found at: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/chain-of-custody-certification/ • Growth in Membership: RJC’s membership has doubled during 2011 to now total in excess of 370 companies and trade associations. This very encouraging rise in membership numbers shows the growth in commitment to responsible business practices across the jewellery supply chain. • 2012/2013 Workplan: During 2012: – The RJC expects to finalise the CoC Standard for diamonds once the sub-committee has completed its consultations and made its recommendations to the RJC Standards Committee. – RJC will formally add platinum metals to the scope of the Certification system, as part of the planned system review. From 2013: – RJC will develop a Standards Supplement to the Code of Practices that will be applicable to diamond grading, assaying and appraising. – RJC will review the possible addition of other jewellery materials to the scope for RJC Certification. This may include coloured gemstones, pearls, and silver. Responsible Jewellery Council – 2012 Communications on Progress Report How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? The Communication on Progress will be published on the RJC website: www.responsiblejewellery.com Stakeholders will be notified of its publication by the RJC Newsletter: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/news-media-2012/ For more information on RJC’s activities: The 2012 RJC Progress Report will be available on the RJC website from May 2012. Responsible Jewellery Council – 2012 Communications on Progress Report
