ffitr*Honda United Nations Global Compact w, Communication on Progress 2010-Ll H.E. Bon Ki-moon, Dote:08h September, Fl I Secretory Genercl, United Notions, New York. NY lm17 USA Deqr Mr. Secretqry-Genqol, I om plecsed to confim thot Atlos Hondo Limited supporls the ten principles of the Globol Compoct wiih respecf lo humqn r(7hts, lcbour, environment ond onticom rption. With lhis communicotion, we express our inlenl lo qdvonce those principles wifhin our sphere of influence. We clre committed to moking the Globot Compoct ond its principles port of the strqtegy, culture cnd doy-to.doy operotions of our cornpony, ond to engoging in colloborqtive projects which odvonce the brooder development goerls of the United Nqlions, porticulorty the Millennium Developmenf Gools. Atlos Hondo Limiled will moke o cleor stotemenl of this commitment to ourstokeholders ond the generolpublic; We recognize thol o key requirement for porticipotion in the Globol Compoci is the onnuol submission of o Communicotion on Progress (COP) thot describes our compony's efforls to implement the len principfes. We support public qccountobility ond ironsporency, ond therefore commit to report on progress within one yeor of joining the Globol Compcct. cnd onnuolly thereqfter occording lo lhe Globol Compoct COP poliq/. As fhis wos o new orecr for us snd lhe orgonizolion wos not geored towqrds it, we regret thot we hove logged behind in the reporting requirements. We ore commi*ted towords the gools cnd princides of Globol Compoct cnd trndertoke to meet lhe reporling requiremenls in fulure. Sincerely your, Soguib H. Chief Atlas Honda Limited Karachi Plant: F-36, Estate Avenue, S.I.T.E., Karachi UAN: I I 1-1 I 1-245, Ph: (92-21) 2575561-5 Fax: (92-21) 256375E Sheikhupura Plant: 26127 Km. LHR-SKP Road, Sheikhupura. Ph'. (92-42) 7222222, (92-563) 406501-8 Fax: (92-563) 406009 Lahore Office: I-McLeod Road, Lahore-54000. Phz (9242) 7225015-17 ,7233515-17 Fax'. (92-42) 7233518 Multan Office: Azmat Wasti Road, Multan. Ph: (92-61) 571989,540054 Fax: (92-61) 541690 Rawalpindi Oflice: 140-8, Satellite Town, Chandni Chowk, Rawalpindi. Ph: (92-51) 4418115,4417262-3 Fax: (92-51) M55328 G2' d(AU^HooOu Global comoact Communication on Proqress 20i0-1i W Princiole 1 To suooort and rcsoect the orotection of Intemationallv oroclaimed Human Riohts MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ACTIONS PERFORMANCE We ensure that our employees are provided with a safe SaFty Saft Working Conditions working environment. Personal Protective equipments are provided as per job requirements We implement the Japanese 5s concept. These five elements mainly focus on improving cleanliness and working condition. Top management conducts 5s inspection of the plant & workplaces against the set standards at regular intervals Periodic checkups of fire extinguishers, fire alarms and smoke detecbrs etc Employees are insured while travelling either locally or intemationally We conduct Safety, 5s and environment training & Safety related activities like fire fighting drills and awareness trainings Safety committee is in operations for making the company's environment safe wherein frequency of accidents and safety issues are noted. Emp loyee Personal Safety First Aid boxes are provided in all shops/departments for first aid treatment in case of injury. Safety wears like safety glasses, safety shoes, gloves and breathing masks are provided to employees as per requirement. Training on pesonal safety delivered from time to time at all levels Trainings & Drills on Fire Fighling & Fire Hydrant conducted periodically. We ensure safety for our customers by introducing a new CustomerGarc concept of Safety and Trafftc Education Mobile Van in Pakistan. Awareness programs are conducted in collaboration with Provincial Police Department to educate the customers about safety riding. Road Safety campaigns Awareness programs and traininglrorkshops are conducted to teach the riders how to drive safely. Training on road safety conducted in collaboration with Punjab Police including awareness on Good Rider Attitude. Responsibilities of Rider, Driving License , etc W &4*** Healthy Environment for Our company has green areas that we maintain to a high Health level of excellence, Our efforb have been recognized by Employees different Horticuftural Associations. Clean and filtered water is provided to all employees for drinking A recreation room is available to make the employees involved in healthy activities. A separate facilities are provided for female employees. Our Company meets and exceeds the requirements laid Health & Education down in the factories Act, wtrich includes Hygiene, Environment, Vaccination etc We have common canteen for all employees where hygienic food at subsidized rates is served. Under the Social Security Ordinance and Educational CESS we make contributions to the institutions for educational assistance to the children of workers. Life insurance is provided to all employees Hospitalization insurance is provided to employees. We are an equal opportunity employer and recruit Industrial Relations & Fairand Equal employees regardless of sex, cast and religion. We consider Employees Opportunities every employee member of 'AHL Family and provide equal develop ment opportu nities. We have a stong blend of Honda global philosophy with the tradition of Pakbtan. We promote uniformity in every function from same uniform appearance to every technical knowledge we provide to our employees. Female employees are working in different functions like Marketing, Production Planning, Supply Chain, Material management, Finance, Human Resource, Administration & services. To enhance team work, AHL organizes Family Day every Healthy entertainment Year which gives the opportunity to all employees to come activities for empbyees together and meet each other with the intention to promote healthy entertainment activities and to promote AHL Family culture. Every year company arrange picnic for employees to enjoy and to involve in entertainment activities which eventually increase teamwok and coordination among all employees. $ &d*t* . Alamayar circle convenilon is arranged every year. Sports activities are also arranged for all employees. Sports competitions are also arranged for females We provide taining related to the employees core responsibilities and skills. We send our employees for Training & Devebpment outsourced tainings for polishing their skills for further development We abo send our employees to world renowned business schoob like Harvard, INSEAD, LUMS & lBA. Enhancement of education with Master and Diploma Courses and continuously delivering in-house trainings to our employees aswell. Alamayar circle convention is held every year to appreciate Apprcchtion fior achbvements the best improvement done in any area. Winners are sent to domestic and foreign tours. Best Aftendance Allowance of cash amount is given to nonmanagement employees having full atendance at the end of year Long service awards are given to employees for service of 15, 20,25,30,35,40 years in terms of gold medal as per their service tenure. Outstanding employees are recognized in published Nerus Flash Quarterly. Counseling and development opportunities. We have working examples of employees rising from junior to senior key executives positions. Preventing forclbb Displacements according b prescdbed Labor Law. There is dbphcementof indivirluab no reported case of forcible displacement till now Employee policybr Our company follows the Woftmen C ompensation Act in disabled persons mattes related to disability. Alternate jobs are assigned to employees who suffer dbabilities. w M*ro* Principle 2: OurVbion & mbsion aspire the company to be Ethics nffiEffiffiffillo expects its employees to Maintaining a high level of integrity in all business relationships, both inside and outside t-hecompany. enhance the standard by quality: Fostering tre highest standards of conduct and competence amongst those for whom they are responsible. Ensuring transparency in business transactions, and rejecting any business practice which might deemed tc be improper. Promoting fair business practices and ensuring compliance with regulatory and legal requirements Code of Ethir:s AHL has developed Code of Ethics for every employee to follow. Statement of Ethics is signed by each emplo;ree. Compliance with Company AcV Labor Law. We believe in open environment and respectfor all. Every year the Code of Ethics is reviewed for any updation. Exbrnal Public Technical devebgnent of Technical Training & workshops are conducted for dealers. deabrs & vendors vendors, suppliers & service dealers. In-house trainings are conducted fcr seMce dealers, parts dealers and motorcycle dealers. Wokshops ate conducted periodically for technology enhancement of dealers & vendors. Vendor & dealer conference are also conduc.ted periodically. Different awards are given to winners. W M*r** To uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Principle 3: right to Gollective Bargaining MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ACTIONS PERFORMANCE lndustrbl Relatbn and Freedom of Assoclatkrn . The company complies with the applicable laws. Employees Employees are free to join any trade Union of their choice. Workers arc abb to form a trade union ottleir . AHL has two regbtered trade Unions including one CBA. choiwithout bar of intimilation Uslng collective bagaining brddressing CBA along wi$r their members coordinate with he working conditftrns and management for improving peaceful woking environment terms of emplclment and other issues. and rehtions The Union has the right to negoliate for its demands related to wofting conditions as per the Industrial Relations Act On the expiry of the last agreement on 31.07.2010 by CBA Unirn CharbrSigning & managemen! a neur agreement is signed with effective from 01.08.20'10 Frcedom of uninn to protectempbyee intercsts without Union activities are governed by the Standing Ordinance 1968 and lR Act. management recrimination The company complies tully with the law for all cases pertaining to disciplinary action and termination of employees, including any members of the union. \ --t\ 'rqAt'a ='Cs'l uF/,r r,ffi^'^t^ p'tAilasH0nda >^gz Principle 4: To eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labor. MANAGEMENTSYSTEMS ACTIONS PERFORMANCE Employment Conbacb stabs brms and conditions of servbe, Emprovees ;[ffi;THffi: , ;ill] ,]trnt contracb don't viorate anv human rishrs or penalties associabd with departure or cessatbn of work. Employee & employer can terminate the contract within the notice period Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback from the employee. Recod for chec.kiqg . All workers in the company are above minimum wage as lorrestwagerabagainst specified by the govemment and are paid competitively regulated anpunt according to market conditions. Third party audit of supplcrslcont*osl . Employer is responsible for encouraging and enwring all vendors and contractors to fulfill their legal requirements. \rendor liabor conditions Business partrers Vendorftiupplbr sehction . suppliers are selected after they confirm the legitimacy of their labor practices and no forced labor. Vendor, Supplbrand Business Parbership oontracl Contracts arc o All contracts of our vendor, suppliers and business partners execubd *ath ffiil; have this provision that they are not using any form of forced after trey conftrm that labor' they are not using any form of forced labor in the supplychain -.irr.d . /-r\ G'^tL t/, I .*fs!'r (,ffi^,t \=/.1 \.# r'lAflasHonda Principle 5: To effectively abolish child labor. MANAGEMENTSYSTEMS ACTIONS PERFORilANCE Followiqg ChlH l-abour All our employees are in the category of adult persons in Employees laurs accordance with he Factories Act and no under-age employee is hired. To prevent under-age hiring, at the time of their induction, the ages of all employees are confirmed through their Matriculation Ceftificate or National ldentity Card. Third party audltof Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor l-abour conditftrns Directorate which covers health and safety, working hours and environment and other requirements of the Labor Lars. All contactors are liable to fulflll their social security and human rights requirements as prescdbed by different laws, including prohibition of under-age workers. Supplbrslcontracbrs, vendors and other business partrers' preCompant's employees visiting suppliers and vendors are Exbmal Publb qualificatbn rcqu irements encouraged to observe and report non+ompliance with any laws to the Compant's management. regadiqg human rights and child Iabor Principle 6: To eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation. Employees Equal Opportunities fior . AHL endeavors to be an Equal Opporhnity Employer. lff)men and minorities Females and minorities are given equal opportrnities. Carcer Plan: Discdmination in stafi . Hiring and promotions are done on merit & professional pronrctirns performance and qualifi cation. Malrbnane of the Code r of Ethics Code of Ethics document is signed by all employees. HRaims toanalSra possbh vblationsofthe Code and dirccts $e In the periodically management meetings, serious violations metserious crees io are highlighted. senbr managenrentfor *tbn Apprentieshipllnbmsh ip AHL has etablished technicaltraining institutes for faining Exbrnal Public lTechnial Education employees in the trade of motorcycle repair in various Programs places, In-house trainings are arranges for internships and apprenticeship programs. W M*r** Principle 7: Gompanies should support a precautionary approach to environmental chalkrnges. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ACTIONS PERFORMANCE follow Environrnental . Environment Management AHL Pollcy Reduce & prevent the generation of waste and pollution in our production system r Establish management program to promote energy conservation and reduce waste Comply with requirements of environmental legislation and local regulations as a responsible corporate citizen Promote relevant environmental protection knowledge and training through education. sa6ty And Traf6c . AHL has introduced a unique conc€pt of safety & traffic education Mobile Van in Pakistan. r Training on Road Safety conducted in collaboration with Educatbn Punjab Police including awareness on Safety Riding Attitude, Responsibilities of Good rider Energy Saving r AHL has reduced the use of energy and resources making shift towardszero emission based on green factory . Energy saving unit installation . HVAC, lights and fans optimum utilizations Waste Reduction . Exhaustive reduction in waste and loss at both planb by improving in recovery of thinner for cleaning purpose. . lmprovement in coating eficiency for VOC reduction . Installed a water recycling unit on the tuel tank welding line enabling to recycle 132 gallonVminute . Treatment plant discharged water re-used for gardening Exbmal Publb Protecteconomic r AHL has always confibuted in the betterment of the underprivileged people in many ways. Livelihood of o ln the Flood relief efforts AHL along with Atlas Group of ommunitie companies, contributed 20 million to Federal & Provincial governments and Pakistan Army. e Contribution in kind by way of food, medicine, cash disbursements and shelter etc. given to affected people costing Rs. 30 million, . The Company donated two community water filtration plants at SKP v*rich will provide the locals with clean water. W M*t* Companbs should undertake initiatives to promofte greabr environrnental Principle 8: espomibility. MANAGEMENTSYSTEffi; ACT|oilS PESOffiANCE Envipnrnenta|Responsibitr.tyffi .CodeofEtricsbs[nedbya|lemp|oyeesforcomp|ianceof f qrvnonmenlat --. mpacl. environmentar poncyAunigtheirdmiloymenttenure. -Topromob environ,rnantal cae, ilrclwe undertandfrp of environrmental isss and disserninabgood practile. Introduc$rg, oertrying and continmsy 'ron lSo i1rCI01Ceflified' rn^4 ilpt-ft;ttttt*nta ^^#^j milqlsrent sys&rns Trainlna prmrarrs , . HSE. mmmittee b formed and rrtoking br promoting safe rrtorking environment and conduct perbdic meetings. saretv & Environ ment) are *'1ftffi':fl'33t::i::'i g:*h' EnargyGonsaration rertuctkxr il;;; it' F for basic lighting, all lights are tumed of during lunch lre#-ar;itrr_hour pt # V* Principle 9: Hon& Gonrpanbs shouffi encourage the derrclopment and difrrsion of environrnentally MA'{ACEMEiIT SYSTEre ACT$lls PERFONilAHCE hnpbmentatftn of Maximize use of environmental ftiendly parts for motorcycle Environmentally-Frturrdly ElMronrpnttiendly manufactrdng Tchnology T€ehoology Japanese tecfrnobgy has been adopted. Honda manufacfured 4 stroke smoke fiee motorcycles Ervimnmentftisxfly All products are environment fiiendly certified under the Producteefificaffon environmental hrrvs of the country Intoduction of Euro ll compliance engines Recenty launched Euro ll CD-100 and Euo ll CG 125 Deluxe r All products of Honda are tuel efficient Supportrrcn&sbr . We assist our vendos in obtalning Technical Assisbnce Agreements with foreign manufrcfures, organize study envirmmentfiiond|y tours and plant visits abrod, anange technicd drautings, techtrobgy transtrs assbt in improving thdr manufacfudng processes. W M*r** Business should work against comrption in all its forms, including extortion Principle 10: and bribery. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS ACTIONS PERFORMANCE Every employee at the time of joining signs the Statement Code of Ethbs of of Ethics of Business Practices' and this commitment is Employees Employees rens /ed every year. . All employee are forbidden to accept gifts or borrow money from a Distributor, Dealer, Vendor, supplier or a Customer.. Confidentiality, honesty and accuracy of information in the course of business is required by all employees of the Company. Directors, CEO, CFO, Company Secretary and their spouse and minor children have not made transactions in the Company's share during the year other than disclosed in the pattern of shareholdin g Corporate Crovemance Statement of Ethics and Business Practices followed. Adopt internationally acceptable accounting standards. All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company. Comply with regulations of Security and Exchange Commission of Pakistan AHL adopts a policy that Complete disclosure in annual report. Quality of financial is grounded on reporting recogn2ed by Institute of Cost & Management tra nsparcncy, crcd itability Accountants (ICMA) and other national and international and trust regarding fte professional organizations as the Company's annual repod disclosure of material awarded lnstitute of Chartered Accountants of Pakistan information to investors (ICAP) and South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA) and exbrnal publics. Awards. Plant Operations data displayed transparently in production and other areas for visual information and management control. Quarterly Board of Directors Meetings. Plant Tour by shareholders & other stake holders.
