Chairman´s Report to Stakeholders 2012 Table of contents page 1. Chairman´s Report to Stakeholders 2012 page 2. Table of contents page 3. Chairman´s Statement for continued support page 4. Chairman´s Statement for continued support (2) page 5. Chairman´s Statement for continued support (3) page 6. Human Rights Aspects page 7. Labour Standards page 8. Environmental Aspects page 9. Anti-Corruptional Aspects page 10. FAI – a Global Employer page 11. FAI´s service – Revenues 2011 by Division page 12. FAI´s Ambulance Division page 13. Performance Specifications page 14. Patient Transport in Distances (2011) page 15. FAI´s Public Services page 16. FAI´s Revenue 2008 – 2012 by Type of Service (graphic) page 17. FAI´s Stakeholders 2 Chairman´s Statement for continued support Finally operating out of our new Facilities at Nuremberg International Airport Looking back to the last year, we are deeply grateful to all our clientele, business partners and our employees for all their advise and assistance. Having had this support of every one of us we were able to do grand strides towards future which means setting new, huge milestones. After having opened on April, 2011 our new Hangar 6 and Office-Building at Nuremberg International Airport we now look back to the first year of operation. Our new surrounding in a pleasant, comfortable and high-class atmosphere endeavors us to an effective working which is always honored by our clientele. We are proud having accomplished with our implementation of renewable energy technology with a 100 kwp roof top solar power plant, the securing of our daily operations and ensuring of a carbon-neutral ground operation. We could not only preserve jobs, but even increase our staff about almost 20 % up to 112 employees being a recognized entrepreneur on local employment market as well as in Aviation internal structure. 3 Chairman´s Statement for continued support (2) Retrospect of FAI‘s Cherity Project of Clinic „Médina Chérif“ in Kolda, Senegal 20,000 residents living in 60 villages round Médina Chérif in Senegal sigh with relief since 2010 if they are in need of medical Aid. Since then we are supporting together with the locally supervision by the Austrian Relief-Organization Hope ´87. The Clinic was increased emphasising first medical care for pregnant women and according to our internal report for the first quarter of 2012, 1014 curative treatments took place. For many years we put ourselves out for social projects but this was one of our most important ones so far. 4 Chairman´s Statement for continued support (3) Over the intervening years we attend to Global Compact´s Initiative, there is continouos advancement which affects notably and sustainable our business. We recognize and demonstrate our committment to the 10 principles as we pursue imploringly the concepts since we joined the Global Compact in year 2005. Siegfried Axtmann Chairman 5 Human Rights Aspects To respect the dignity of each human being Principle 1 and to create the rule of law and within the company, Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed which can develop their human rights are not only human rights and basic ethical precepts, but also conditions for sustained political stability and economic and social development in the world. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. This principle is very important for us. As globalization gains that task more and more practical relevance, it becomes clear that the protection of fundamental freedom, respect the rule of procedure, the political and social equality are the basis of state stability in the interest of multinational corporations and therefore in our interest. 6 Labour Standards For our colleagues we Principle 3 want the best so we put Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition much emphasise on light of the right to collective bargaining. suffused workplaces and lounges to recreate, what has been successfully Principle 4 implemented in our new Green Hangar recently. The elemination of all forms of forced and Compulsory labour. For the prosperity of our personnel we provide work clothes for all weather-situations, to prevent Principle 5 diseases we offer vaccinations for everybody voluntarily The effective abolition of child labour. and free of charge. Pregnant women have the posibiltiy to recreate in their own relax zone with all privacy. Principle 6 To offer a maximum contribution to a balanced The elimination of discrimination in respect nutrition we work together with a local partner who of employment and occupation. offers a considerable choice of hot meals, most of them base on biological food. 7 Environmental Aspects Exclusively on all our desks monitors LED background Principle 7 illumination conserves energy up to 37.2 kilowatt Businesses should support a precautionary hours and additional reduces CO₂ emission of about approach to environmental challenges. 23.6 kg. The implementation of virtual servers enables an Principle 8 exploitation of existing resources at a minimum Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. application of hardware. We are always mindful in being delivered with Principle 9 packaging material consisting of a minimum of 80 % Encourage the development and diffusion corrugated paper what results in another reduce of of environmentally friendly technologies. CO₂ emission consequently. All emails wear the writing “Help protect the environment. Print less.” and our staff is directed to work in a paperless office. 8 Anti-Corruptional Aspects Corruption is inherently wrong. It is a misuse of Principle 10 power and position and has a disproportionate Businesses should work against all forms impact on the poor and disadvantaged. of corruption, including extortion and We fight against corruption in all its forms bribery. One of the important thing for us to do. One of our major goals is to fight against all forms of corruption. Based on our experience for many years, it always has been our endeavour to meet high ethical standards as we are not willing to take any risks – neither legal nor reputational. 9 FAI – a Global Employer FAI rent-a-jet is operating globally for more than 20 years, employing now more than 150 people from almost 30 different countries. AUSTRIA BELGIUM CAMEROON CHINA CROATIA CZECH REP. DENMARK FINLAND FRANCE GERMANY GHANA GREECE HUNGARY ICELAND ITALY IVORY COAST KENYA NETHERLANDS ROMANIA RUSSIA SENEGAL SERBIA SLOVENIA SOUTH AFRICA SWEDEN SWITZERLAND TURKEY UKRAINE UGANDA UNITED KINGDOM USA VIETNAM 10 FAI´s service – Revenues 2011 by Division One Company Powerful Divisions 40 % Air Ambulance worldwide 10 % Aircraft Maintenance and related services 20 % Public Service 30% Executive Jet Charter and Aircraft Management In the year of 2011 FAI´s consolidated revenues were exceeding EUR 50 m which reflects an increase of above 20 % versus 2010. For the fiscal year 2012 FAI estimates consolidated revenues of EUR 55 m, what again would reflect an increase of around 10 % versus 2011. 11 FAI´s Ambulance Division FAI has been intensively focusing on the Ambulance Market since 2001 and meanwhile is generating 45 % of its revenues with Ambulance Missions. With its own in house Medical Department and 35 Flying Doctors“ and 25 Flight Nurses“, FAI has been awarded 2007 the first time with EURAMI´s (European Aero-Medical Institute) Certificate Critical Care“, which is the highest certification EURAMI is issuing to Air Ambulance Operators. Recertification-Audit was passed in June 2010. 12 Performance Specifications Special Equipment for medical Flexible operation for transportation time-critical missions (e. g. wing(e. g. IABP, PECLA, to-wing missions) Incubator and so on) State-of-the-art equipment for intensive-caremedicine Counselling and support in aviation medicine Organization of Worldwide service – Bed-to-bed service ground ambulances even in war risk and helicopterworldwide areas transportation 13 Patient Transport in Distances (2011) S M L XL XXL S Short Range (up to 700 NM = 1440 km M Medium Range (up to 1200 NM = 2160 km) L Long Range (up to 1700 NM = 2880 km) XL Extra Long Range (up to 3000 NM = 5400 km) XXL Ultra Long Range (more than 3000 NM > 5400 km) 14 FAI´s Public Services • Support of UN Peace Keeping Missions since 2004 • Up to five UN-Missions on the African Continent same time • One additional Ambulance Jet in service after earthquake in Haiti, based on call in Dominican Republic • Spectrum of duties: – Medevac – Safety Evactuations – Liaison Missions / VIP-Transport – Staff and Equipment Transport – Casevac 15 FAI´s Revenue 2008 – 2012 by Type of Service (graphic) Mio € 25 20 15 10 5 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012* F/W Ambulance F/W Non-Ambulance incl. A/C-Mgmt. F/W Public Services Others * Forecast 16 FAI´s Stakeholders as per January 1, 2012 In December 2008 the Axtmann-Family sold a 49,9 % stake in FAI to MIG Aviation Holdings Ltd., Nicosia, Cyprus, a 100 % subsidiary of MIG Marfin Investment Group S. A., Athens, Greece, which is the biggest Greek Investment Group and one of the largest of Eastern Europe. MIG numbers in excess of 50,000 employees and associates and has a presence spanning over 40 countries. MIG is headquartered in Greece and listed on the Athens Exchange. 58 % of its share capital is held directly or indirectly by Greek strategic, institutional and retail investors and 24 % is held by international institutional investors. In June 2010, MIG rised its interest to 51 %, after exercising a call-option. 17
