Alkaram Textile Mills (Pvt.) Ltd. UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 P 1/11 Brief description of nature of business Vertical Unit – Home Textiles & Fashion Garments PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions realized Commitment: Pakistan is a signatory of ILO convention. So, therefore Alkaram follows all of these requirements which are applicable on and relevant to the organization. Actions System: International requirements for human rights are addressed in our national laws and Alkaram abides all laws, rules and regulation etc. Activities: While hiring, during employment and at the time of leaving organization all legal facilities are provided to the workers and their rights are taken care. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Our Organizational image in “Labour Directorate” is increased due to transparency and submitting legal contribution on time. P 2/11 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions realized Commitment: In business, we treat each employee with dignity and respect and will not use corporal punishment, threats of violence or any other forms of physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or abuse. We take disciplinary actions as per law and “Code of Conduct”. System: Actions Any kind of harassment and abuse such as physical, sexual, verbal etc. or other forms of intimidation are prohibited in the factory. Workers are allowed to speak or meet their head of department. If they have any grievance with their line manager or they may contact with “GM HR & SD”, if the grievance is against their head of department. Activities: Workers may submit their grievances directly to their head of department or “GM HR & SD”. Management redressed their complaints after conducting an impartial inquiry. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Workers keep us in esteem due honour and respect that they receive during employment. P 3/11 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions realized Commitment: We recognize and respect the rights of workers to exercise lawful rights of free association, including joining or not joining any association. We also respect the legal right of workers to bargain collectively. System: Actions We allow free association by workers under the rules and they have complete freedom to choose their representative as per their desire. Where the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining is restricted under law, the management facilitates and does not hinder the development of parallel means for independent and free association and bargaining. Activities: Registered Unions and they conduct meetings regularly. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Workers are well aware or their rights. P 4/11 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions realized Commitment: Our organization supports and implements international labour standards and our organization does not use involuntary or forced labour, whether indentured, bonded, prison or otherwise during the manufacturing process or transportation of goods. System: We have taken following steps: Actions 1. No worker is required to submit the original documents. 2. No worker is required to submit any cash or security deposit. 3. Workers are free to leave their employment after giving reasonable notice. 4. Workers are allowed to leave the factory after completing their working hours. 5. 8 working hours are ensured in organization. 6. Worker can leave the factory after completing the working hours and in case of emergency worker is allowed to leave factory on short leave. 7. 7th day rest is given to them. 8. No any one is entitled for employment if he/she is already working some where else. Activities: We have implemented a “Time-in and Time-out” recording system that help track the working hours of workers and through which violation etc. are mentioned and controlled. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Although we use contractor workforce but use pay their wage directly to them, not Outcomes through their contractor. Our wage department prepared their wages which are audited through our internal auditors. At least minimum wage is assured P 5/11 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Actions realized Commitment: We do not employee the below age workers/ child as defined by law of land. System: We do not provide employment to child even a child is prohibited to enter into the factory even as a guest. Actions The gate office is strictly instructed not to allow child to enter in the factory even as a guest. Notice board to this effect is prominently displayed at the gate. Our contractors are also bound, not to hire any child. Activities: Our HR department is strictly advised to get assurance of the age of worker through legal documents such as National Identity Card (NIC), educational documents, birth certificate etc. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes A culture has been developed to secure children and not to take work from child labour. P 6/11 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions realized Commitment: We do not discriminate in hiring and employment including salary, benefits, advancement, increment, promotion, discipline, termination on the basis of race, religion, age, nationality, social or ethnic or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender, political opinion or disability. System: Actions There is no discrimination is practiced in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, ethnic, religion, age disability, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation and everyone get equal opportunity. Also there is no quota recruitment system. Even the factory does not practice the pregnancy testing prior employment Activities: Alkaram provides equal opportunity to the workers. The fare and transparent HR practices are in applications which are used for hiring or promotion the worker. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Our turnover of workforce has stabled and is trying to decrease the one. P 7/11 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions realized Commitment: We are fully committed to cater the environmental challenges. Actions System: We save natural resources such as water, natural gas, woods, lands etc. we put efforts to reuse to them or get them recycled for reusing waste material, exhausted heat is utilized also chemicals are kept in secondary containment to avoid soil contamination. Activities: We use exhaust air to produce electricity and exhaust heat is reused in various processes. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes By our environment saving efforts, we have saved a sufficient quantity of natural resources and as a result cost is reduced. P 8/11 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions realized Commitment: It is our primary responsibility to endeavour many precautionary steps to protect environment while manufacturing goods. System: Actions We comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. In addition, to preserve, protect and restore the natural environmental through reduce, reuse and recycle disposal of waste and energy conversation. We use “Wind Mill”, (Effluent Treatment Plant) to protect the environment from waste water. Activities: We have certified to ISO-14001:2004 and have implemented system for protection environment. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes We have reducing energy consumption leading to an overall cost reduction. We are environmentally friendly organization and certified to ISO-14001:2004 We achieve the “Environmental Excellence Award”. P 9/11 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions realized Commitment: We strive to prevent the environment. System: Actions We use environment friendly raw material while producing goods such as Oeko TAX certification. As well as where possible we use more efficient plants and machineries that give same amount of production with less energy requirement or give more production with same energy requirement. Activities: We dispose our waste water after some treatments. While treating waste water, the hazardous content is collected and we bring effluent waste under limits of NEQS.. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes We have an onsite effluent waste water treatment plant which enables us to contribute is saving environment. P 10/11 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions realized Commitment: It is forbidden in our organization and we take every action to stop it. System: Actions We follow the related laws of land. We ensure that our management at any level do not involve in such activities related to with corruption. During hiring no one is involved in such activities and stick action is taken if any one does it. Activities: Workers are hired on merit basis. They are promoted through a transparent appraisal system. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Positive working attitude toward individual performance is being observed. Positive reply from employee’s job satisfaction. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? P 11/11
