Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Ernst & Young Ukraine Table of contents Opening address 3 of the Managing 34 Environment Partner in Ukraine 4 About Ernst & Young 40 Community 7 Our commitment to corporate 51 Report parameters. Contact information responsibility Appendix 1 9 Workplace 52 G3 GRI disclosures and performance indicators, Global Compact principles table Appendix 2 25 Marketplace 55 List of abbreviations used in the Report Opening address of the Managing Partner in Ukraine Dear Readers, I’m pleased to present Ernst & Young’s third Ernst & Young has been operating in Ukraine for Corporate Responsibility Report in Ukraine, over 20 years. Our day-to-day activity confirms covering the period from July 2010 to June the Company’s commitment to the basic princi2011. It highlights the Company’s financial ples of business ethics that are outlined in the performance and achievements in the field of UN Global Compact and cover human rights, corporate responsibility in four major areas: working conditions, attitudes toward the enviWorkplace, Marketplace, Community and ronment and fighting corruption. Our strategy Environment. focuses on fostering long-term and sustainable values for the Company and community. In preparing the Report, we followed the GRI In addition, we constantly monitor events (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 sustainability Alexei Kredisov, in CSR and tailor our activities accordingly. guideline. Our performance has been analyzed Managing Partner over time in view of the external environment At a time when the economic situation is factors that affect Ernst & Young’s operation changing rapidly and the crisis of confidence is and in view of the feedback to our previous becoming more acute, we are absolutely conreports. vinced of the need to unite efforts to improve the quality of life in our country. Ernst & Young Over the years during which we have been is thus comprehensively facilitating the exreporting, you can observe qualitative changes change of best experience for the sake of that are the result of the Company’s systematic rooting principles of responsible behavior approach to corporate responsibility. Many of in the community. our social projects have transformed, becoming deeper and wider, and we have introduced We will continue to develop corporate responsinew initiatives, specifically in the areas of HR bility projects and report on our achievements management, environmental impact reduction, on an annual basis. The feedback that we hope volunteering and charity. to receive from each reader of this report will be a driving force in our decision making, so we look forward to have your opinion. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 3 About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in Our networking events around the world – 25% assurance, tax, transaction and advisory seminars, conferences, roundtables – provide services. clients with regular forums to discuss current and emerging issues relating to the business environment. Ernst & Young today is an international organization with offices in 700 cities in 140 We invest in leading-edge thought leadership countries. Our FY 2011 revenues were USD to interpret business trends, which delivers 22.9 billion. Our 152,000 people are united valuable insights to our clients. by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We engage with regulatory authorities in all 75% our markets, to contribute to the developWe make a difference by helping our people, ment of an effective and balanced regulatory Ernst & Young our clients and our wider communities framework. Our ongoing communication with achieve potential. governmental bodies around the world Other companies enables us to help clients to respond quickly Ernst & Young refers to the global organizaand effectively to new regulations and tion of member firms of Ernst & Young Global interpretations, promptly addressing any Our considerable resources to serve global Limited, each of which is a separate legal issues that come to light. businesses are clearly recognized by the entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK market, and in the last several years we audit company limited by guarantee, does not 25% of the companies listed on the Standard provide services for clients. In 2011, for the fourteenth & Poor’s Global 1200 (publicly disclosed consecutive year, Ernst & Young has Our global industry centers draw upon teams auditors as of November 2010). been recognized as a Most Admired of professionals from across the global Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE). organization with deep technical and industry experience. They help clients by anticipating trends, identifying their implications and developing points of view on relevant industry issues. 4 Corporate responsibility report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young in Ukraine enterprises. In September 2006, we were the first among the Big Four to open an advisory. Ernst & Young is a private limited liability company. The main executive officer Ernst & Young was among the first internaoffice in Donetsk. In the period covered in Ernst & Young Ukraine is the Country tional professional services firms to estabby this Report, Ernst & Young in Ukraine Managing Partner, alias the Chair of lish its practice in Ukraine in 1991. Ernst & employed 488 professionals, 34 of them in Partners Board. Partners Board is a group Young provides high quality services to a Donetsk. Ernst & Young in Ukraine provides of partners working in Ukrainian offices, number of world famous multinational services in the area of Assurance, Advisory, including Service Line Heads. corporations and influential Ukrainian Transaction support and Tax & Legal Some 2011 achievements that we’re proud of • Asked “Would you recommend Ernst & Young to others?” •C lient servicing employees participated in more than 90 training courses, 94.7% of our clients responded “Yes.” devoting about 11,000 training hours to their professional development. • We sponsored and supported more than 15 conferences and •1 2.5 tons of paper were given over for recycling — that’s 84% of the business events and conducted 10 roundtables and seminars paper purchased during the year. for clients and the general public. •P lastic utensil purchases for office kitchens have been cut back by 90%. • Company employees took part in 14 events dedicated to •7 ,000 students and schoolchildren took part in 14 educational programs popularizing corporate responsibility practices. developed or supported by the Company. • 77% of employee mothers believe that the Program for working •9 students-orphans got financial support from the Company. mothers support launched in the company provides a better •2 7 children with cancer got regular or one-off financial support work-life balance. from Company employees. • 15 training sessions and 15 individual sessions took place •3 5% of employees took part in corporate volunteering program. aimed at developing coaching skills and holding meaningful conversations with counselees. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 5 Ernst & Young Ukraine organisational structure Partners Board Country Managing Partner Corporate Responsibility Committee Service Lines Heads, Client Service Core Business Services Marketing & Transaction Finance Business In-house Legal Assurance Advisory Tax & Law Development Advisory Human Information General Resources Technologies Administration Performance Corporate Transaction Audit Improvement Tax Support Fraud Investigation IT Risk & Corporate Legal & Dispute Assurance Finance 2011 Services Financial Human Valuation 2010 Accounting Risk Capital & Business Advisory Modeling Services 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 Million of hrynias Climate Change Academy Real Estate and Sustainability of Business Advisory Services Total net revenue of the Company in 2011 was UAH 372 million that is 13% more than the revenue for the prior period. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Our commitment to corporate responsibility We continue to embed the principles of potential fully. Corporate volunteering The targets and areas of activity for responsible business within the Company and remains the trigger to our major corporate Corporate Responsibility Committee in 2011 promote them beyond. We share our best responsibility programs and we are proud to remained unchanged while the number of knowledge and skills with the community witness increased number of employees projects increased. helping our stakeholders to realise their involved. Corporate responsibility governance • Partners Board CR Committee Head • Employees • Business partners CR • Community Orphans Educational Oncology Green development group group group group group • Beneficiaries “Among the achievements of Corporate Responsibility Committee in 2011 I would mention more awareness and support of social initiatives on the part of the employees, strengthening of partnerships with public and expert organizations, reinforcement of Ernst & Young leadership in CSR area in Ukraine, as well as acknowledgment of our achievements on the part of the colleagues from other offices of Ernst & Young”. Natalia Telenkova, Head of Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 7 Committee 2011 Service Line within Ernst & Young Area of major involvement within CR committee Natalia Telenkova Core Business Services Head of the committee, coordination of work, all groups Alexei Kredisov Managing Partner Coordination of work, CR development group Climate Change and Sustainability CR development group Victor Kovalenko Services Natalia Krivtsova Core Business Services, HR Educational group Ielizaveta Maksymets Core Business Services, HR Educational group Olga Danchenkova Core Business Services, Marketing CR communications Yulia Byba Core Business Services, In-house Legal Green group, Orphans group Kateryna Gorbunova IT Risks Advisory Services Orphans group, Educational projects for orphans Mykola Yerin Assurance Corporate volunteerism projects Kateryna Kayda Core Business Services, HR, Donetsk Orphans group, Oncology group Natalia Vyshnevetskaya Core Business Services, Donetsk CR development group 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Workplace This section of the Report highlights Employee turnover at Ernst & Young in Ukraine statistical information on Ernst & Young’s personnel in Ukraine for the 2011 Gender % Age % Region % financial year. age 20-29 25% Kyiv 29% Male 28% Ernst & Young’s personnel in Ukraine Female 19% age 30-49 16% Donetsk 22% by employment terms age over 50 1% Type of agreement / Number contract of employees* Average employee turnover increased from Ernst & Young’s people Permanent agreements 443 91% 14% in 2010 to 23% in 2011, which we in Ukraine by age Fixed term agreements ** 4 0% associate with the labor market revival in Outsourced personnel 9 2% the post-crisis period. Employee turnover 2% is calculated as the ratio of employees who Contractors *** 32 7% left the Company during the year to the 31% 67% total headcount as at the reporting year’s * data as at 30 June 2011 end. ** Collective agreement specifying the expiry date 2011 The share of the Company’s employees *** Employees under contract are persons who prowho are middle-aged (30-50 years old) is vide services but who are not entitled to paid vacation, sick leave or medical and life insurance. gradually increasing and now constitutes 31% versus 29% in 2010. Most of our employees (67%) are younger than 99% Ernst & Young employees work 30 years old given our recruitment of full-time. 20–30 y.o. recent graduates and students as compared 30–50 y.o. with experienced professionals. Young Over 50 people traditionally dominate in audit services, where frequent business trips are a major work condition. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 9 Ernst & Young’s people in Ukraine by gender, 2010 and 2011 financial years 62% of our employees are women. Our corporate culture and working 80% conditions provide career opportunities for both men and women. When considering 70% compensation or promotion issues, 60% there is no gender differentiation. Female employees mainly work as staff and take 50% middle management positions, while men 40% dominate in top management positions. 30% 20% 10% 0% 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Partners Senior Managers Seniors and Directors and Managers and Staff Female Male 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Our corporate culture and countries of the world in which our Company is represented. In our worldwide • strategic partnership with the leading higher education establishments and practice, we strive to align employees’ youth organizations; implementation of Our corporate culture is based on mutual professional goals with client needs. educational projects aimed at developing respect, openness, initiative and teamwork the leadership qualities of today’s youth principles. In joint work, we create prosDiversity strategy. Diversity strategy and at building bridges between academic pects for colleague and client development implementation, which provides for education and real business practices; and make contributions to the community awareness and tolerance on the part of all active use of the most popular social in which we live and work. employees for differences in thinking, networks as modern tools of communicamentality, culture, management style, tion with youth and promotion of the Talented and energetic employees are the leadership approach, age, experience and Company’s projects and initiatives; best guarantee of our Company’s attractivegender, is one of the Company’s major ness as an employer in the labor market. • promotion of professional and career priorities. Our employees help us fulfill our obligations development programs for the Company’s to our clients. We do our best to attract Ernst & Young’s corporate culture is based personnel that provide for a comprehenhigh-class professionals, arouse their on maintaining a balanced, interrelated sive combination of coaching, work interest and facilitate an environment in team, which contributes to the implementexperience and professional training; ing of the diversity strategy and to eliciting improving quality of counseling system; which they can demonstrate their skills. the potential of all Company employees. promotion of global mobility programs We help employees in their professional and It helps in maintaining a high quality of allowing our employees to gain work personal development, offering training services provision on the part of our experience not only in Ukrainian offices, programs and a counseling system for the employees and creates competitive but also abroad; whole period a person works at the Comadvantages so that we can hold leading • ensuring equal and comfortable working pany. Our employees perform interesting positions in the market. conditions for employees; introduction of work that requires whole-hearted engagea number of new solutions for maintaining ment, continuous development and Employer’s brand. Ernst & Young pays work-life balance, so that Ernst & Young’s self-improvement and that enables them to considerable attention to the development employees are inspired by their work at grow professionally and set new goals. of the Company’s brand as an employer, the Company; to attract and retain the best professionals As a global organization, we support and increase employee engagement. • further improvement of our communicaemployees who wish to work in various In 2011, the following measures were tions strategy; implementation of new fields and areas of activity in different cities taken in this area: ways to communicate with personnel. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 11 Regular surveys represent an internal 52% of personnel in Ukraine participated in the survey. The questions were grouped into communication tool that allows estimating 10 categories: the level of employee satisfaction and engagement and that helps in developing postive positive Category an action plan so that we can improve answers %, 2011 answers %, 2009 certain aspects of our work. Living our values 78% 79% Divesity and inclusiveness 77% 78% Global People Survey Corporate responsibility 77% 73% Every two years Ernst & Young holds a Team work 77% 76% thorough survey based on 74 indicators. Survey results for 2011 were compared with Quality in everything we do 76% 74% those for 2009, which allowed us to evaluate Startegy and leadership 73% 76% the effectiveness of the measures introduced on the basis of the results of the previous Engagement index 71% 74% survey. Managers effectivenss 70% 73% The following statements got the most Employees development 65% 68% positive responses: Recognition and reward 65% 66% •8 7% of our employees believe that they are trusted to make the decisions required to The percentage of positive responses for the “meaningful conversations regarding their do their job effectively; company doing a good job communicating career development at EY” and “possible •8 6% are proud to work for Ernst & Young; its involvement in programs that support career options within EY” remain the lowest •8 8% of employees say that a working environment has grown: 82% versus 70% in (48% and 49% respectively). environment that is inclusive and values 2009. The percentage of employees who diversity is important to their choice of a understand the measures used to evaluate The survey results served as a basis place to work. their performance also increased: for assessing the efficiency of work with 68% versus 62% in 2009. employees and setting priorities for coming years. The most attention will go to employee Fewer positive responses were received to development, mentoring and coaching, questions on the possibility to build the skills as well as to alleviating stress associated people need to be successful in future roles: with an irregular working schedule. 67% versus 74% in 2009. The scores for 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Best Employer survey CBS service quality by Hewitt evaluation survey In summer of 2011, we received the results In 2011, we introduced quality evaluation of of the Best Employers 2011 survey, the Company’s Core Business Services (CBS). organized by Hewitt, in which 43% of We conducted two surveys in February and employees and 81% of top management June in which more than 150 employees at Ernst & Young participated. The highest participated. The employees indicated in their scores were in the following areas: responses their level of satisfaction with CBS satisfaction with completed work (89% of performance and were able to make comresponses were positive), working conditions ments to explain their responses. (72%) and education and professional development (71%). The lowest scores were In general, the assessment was positive and in the categories “work-life balance” (35%) confirmed that CBS work met the Company’s and “compensation level” (42%). As part of high standards. Certain observations were this survey, employees’ answers were communicated to the heads of the respective compared with those of the leaders so that departments and discussed with employees the “opinion gap” could be kept track of. That individually. The survey results were taken score was 10%, which indicates that there into consideration in the annual process of was a high amount of alignment between CBS employee performance evaluation. employees’ and leaders’ responses. The results were reviewed by the HR Department, the Partners Board and the People Board and were taken into account when developing the action plan for the year, as described further. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 13 People Board In 2011, the People Board implemented the Examples of the PAC decisions in 2011: following initiatives: approval and impleThe People Board was established in • a correspondence exchange channel mentation of strategy developments for 2010 for the purpose of developing and between Kyiv and Donetsk offices the Company’s brand as an employer; improving HR strategy, discussing current was established; conducting employee surveys to get people issues and providing suggestions feedback on various aspects of Company’s • employee awareness of staff mobility for solving them. life and improvement in working conditions; programs was improved; communicating the survey results to • the procedure for informing employees The People Board consists of partners employees and developing a respective about travel expense reimbursement and senior managers from different action plan; measures to improve quality was changed; departments of the Company and works of counseling system; a working mothers • a clear schedule for the insurance closely with the HR Department and with support program and other initiatives to company doctor’s visit to the office Managing Partner and Service Line maintain an effective work-life balance of was established and medical expense leaders. employees; communication of salary survey reimbursement mechanism was agreed; results for all employees of the Company; • employees are to be offered modems new bonus plan implementation. People Board 2011 so that they can connect to the Internet while on business trips; People Advisory Council (PAC) Olesya Melnyk, • employee suggestions to improve The People Advisory Council is an internal office ecology were implemented: Assurance “trade union” consisting of representatives the amount of plastic utensils was Rostyslav Grygorenko, of all Company departments and levels. reduced and additional options for Transaction Support In 2011, three meetings took place, during saving paper were proposed. Olga Gorbanovskaya, which office comfort, improving internal Human Capital procedures and policies, organizing addiAnzhela Nikolayenko, tional training programs and new solutions Advisory Services for technical issues were discussed. The PAC allows each employee to make suggestions Marina Zakharina, for improving workplace well-being and Human Resources often becomes a driver of important decisions. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Staff Day Employee of the Year award The tradition of annual staff meetings with In recognition of our employees’ achievethe Company’s management at Ukraine and ments, the Employee of the Year award was the CIS level was established in November introduced in early 2011. The following 2010. Presentations by 10 representatives employee qualities were assessed: goal from each business unit acquainted orientation, attitude to work (being positive employees with the Company’s market in difficult circumstances), solving unusually strategy, priorities for the coming year complex issues, doing good job in counseling/ and HR initiatives. training other employees of the Company, etc. All employees can participate in the competition, from junior specialists to partners. The winners were announced and awarded special prizes on the Company Day, the celebration of the new fiscal year, in July 2011. They were: • Oleksandr Bilyi, Ganna Vorotyntseva, Iryna Baranenko — Assurance; • Igor Chufarov, Bogdan Malnev — Tax & Law; The meeting also provided for direct communication between employees and • Stanislav Kartavykh, Olga Zhovtuha, top management. During the SMS session, Vladyslav Ostapenko — Transaction Ernst & Young employees put questions Advisory; to the management in the following areas: • Oleksandra Chernykova — Advisory; Ukrainian practice development perspec• Olga Kosenko — In-house Legal. tives, counseling, career opportunities, mobility programs, medical insurance services, etc. Employees got straightforward answers to urgent questions and the management got ideas for improvements in various areas. The meeting format fosters effective dialogue in our team, so the Staff Day will take place annually. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 15 Learning Company as a whole. The training plan ensures the provision to each employee of Coaching — this is a format characterized by effective team communication and development the knowledge and skills necessary to during performance of everyday tasks. achieving the excellence in the profession. The Ernst & Young and You approach The Company’s approach to employees More details are provided in the “Profesconsiders this communication format training is to elicit their potential through sional education and certification” section to be an integral part of Ernst & Young’s the Ernst & Young and You (EYU) profesof this Report. culture; developing employee-counselors’ sional and career development framework. coaching skills is a part of the training The framework combines learning, Experience – our employees get the most program. experience and coaching and allows useful experience during the process of for each employee to manage his or work. Acquiring practical skills is an integral her own career. part of our employee professional development system. Within each Service Line, EYU framework components professionals select tasks so as to provide high quality services to clients and ensure Learning – all employees have access to that each employee has the ideal conditions high quality education via a special structo grow professionally, improve leadership tured training plan that addresses the skills and master relationship skills. specifics of a particular department and the Partner Career ladder Senior Manager (3–5 years) Manager (3–5 years) Senior (3–5 years) Advanced Staff (1–3 years) Staff (1–2 years) Internship (up to 1 year) 16 Counseling counselors and heads of departments Mobility programs collegially discuss performance assessment Сounselors play a significant role in employee and make recommendations for the career Mobility programs are programs involving development. Counseling is a purposeful progress of each employee. To ensure that short-term or long-term transfer to work in dialogue between a counselor and a councounseling work efficiently, the Company other Company offices. This format allows selee that has formal and informal parts and pays significant attention to training the employees to gain professional experience is intended to help the counselee to realize counselors themselves. In 2011, 15 training in a new environment and to acquire skills his/her potential within the Company. 100% sessions and 15 individual sessions took pertaining to cope with interesting and of Ernst & Young employees in Ukraine, from place, aimed at developing coaching skills unusual tasks. Moreover, the experience junior specialists to partners, are assigned and building meaningful conversations with broadens the mind, develops communicacounselors from their first day of work at the counselees about their professional and tion skills, familiarizes participants with new Company. Counselors are employees who are career growth opportunities. cultures and mentalities and develops two or three career stairs above their tolerance and a sense of the diversity counselees. principle. To join the mobility program, Mentoring employees must meet certain criteria: they Within the Performance Management and In addition to a counselor, each employee must have sufficient work experience at the Development Process (PMDP), at the has a mentor from among the partners, Company in their native country, high beginning of the year each counselor helps providing for additional personal and performance assessments for previous his/her counselee to define goals and professional support at Ernst & Young in years, sufficient language skills, etc. develop a personal and professional developUkraine. Mentoring includes provision of ment plan, and then regularly assesses guidance and advice about career. Through his/her achievements and adjusts actions, mentoring, partners can share experience if necessary. At the end of each year the and skills with their mentorees to help them so-called round tables are held at which all fully achieve their goals. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 17 Professional education and certification The success of Ernst & Young and the success of our clients depend on our Time devoted to training at Ernst & Young in Ukraine, 2010 and 2011 financial years employees, so we pay special attention to their professional development. 45 Each employee has the opportunity to 40 participate in special training events during 35 the whole period of his or her work at the 30 Company: from the first “Welcome to Ernst 25 & Young” training session to training 20 programs for new partners. 2010 15 The Company provides financial support to 10 2011 employees in their professional education 5 and certification programs. 0 In 2011, our client servicing employees Partners Senior Managers Seniors and Staff participated in more than 90 training and Directors and Managers courses, devoting about 11,000 training hours to their professional development. Professional certification at Ernst & Young in Ukraine, 2011 financial year Because of the revival of business activity Ernst & Young Ernst & Young and the increase in the number of projects, Certification Programs 2011 employees, employees, students of a the amount of time devoted to training and сertificate holders certification program certification decreased, averaging 86 hours ACCA 42 190 for client servicing employees (as compared CPA 7 with 114 hours in 2010). Ukrainian National Auditor and NBU certificates 17 6 CIMA, CFA 3 1 PMP 1 1 CISA, CISSP, CISM 9 CIA 2 1 Valuation certificates 16 9 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Compensation Remuneration comparison by grade, December 2010 and benefits 13% The Company’s priority is to ensure comErnst & Young Pay Market (Median) petitiveness of the compensation level on BIG4 Kyiv Pay Market (Median) 16% the labor market as well as link between 15% employees performance and payment. Every year we participate in a salary market 18% survey (in 2010 2011 the survey was 40% conducted by Hay Group) and communicate 33% its major results to our employees. 24% 26% 3% 23% In 2011, we increased the variable component of employee compensation through Intern Staff Advanced Advanced Senior Senior Manager Manager Manager Senior the introduction of new bonus plans. The Staff 1 Staff 2 1-2 3 1 2 3 Manager plans were developed for virtually all categories of employees in both the key service lines and CBS. The bonus plans, which are completely transparent and clear, Company employee compensation packages • 100% compensation for five days of sick were announced at the beginning of the above statutory norms include: leave during the year regardless of the year, so everyone could predict his/her length of service and amount of salary; • free medical insurance for each employee bonus provided that certain performance and one immediate family member; • paid two days wedding leave for a groom/ indicators are achieved. At the end of the bride; • life and accident insurance; 2011 fiscal year employees received letters • paid three working days of paternity leave with detailed calculations of their bonus and • annual vacation — 25 working days; for new fathers upon child birth. words of gratitude from the management. • additional payment for the first 12 weeks According to employee feedback, they of maternity leave; highly appreciated that the bonuses could be predicted in advance. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 19 Working mothers support • 100% compensation for five days of leave a year due to the illness of a child, “The Company has program regardless of length of service and salary given me the chance Ernst & Young’s corporate culture provides (in addition to the days that are compento work according to a for equal career opportunities for both men sated for all employees); flexible schedule and and women. More than a half of our staff • extension of medical insurance program remotely, which gives in Ukraine are women, most of them options for children of employees, me unlimited opportucombining career and motherhood. specifically, increase in the number of For female employees with children, nities: I’m continuing clinics that provide services under the the balance between family and work to realize myself professionally and to insurance program, extension of the list of is particularly vital. build a career while caring for my child. services provided by clinics, etc.; I experience the joy of motherhood, Upon the results of the survey conducted • gifts from the Company to employees because I’m with my child during the at the end of the 2010 financial year, the when their children are born; first months of her life, and at the comprehensive “Working mothers support • agreement with the Pechersk District program” was developed. It currently same time I’m studying for and taking Department for Education on admitting includes the following components: my exams for my professional certificachildren of our employees to one of the tion. Working in this way, I can ensure • mother’s hour: the possibility for a woman kindergartens located next to the office; a ‘family base’ and be near my with children under 14 to use one hour a • organization of sports and entertainment husband, who has been seconded to day (five hours per week) at her own events for children of employees. discretion; since the program started in work in another city. In addition, this October 2010, the Company’s employees There is a certain percentage of mothers arrangement allows me to remain have used more than 1,200 hours; who do not always have the chance to use financially independent and maintain certain benefits the Company offers due to myself as a self-confident woman. • flexible working hours for employeetheir workload. However, June 2011 survey I sincerely appreciate the Company’s mothers; showed that 77% of employee-mothers efforts in helping me work this way”. • additional payment for the first 12 weeks believed that the Program provides a better of maternity leave; the gross income of a work-life balance. Most mothers specified female employee (payments from the Anna Krylova, that they appreciate the introduction of the Social Insurance Fund and additional Program, as it shows Company manageAudit Manager payments from the Company) is not less ment’s concern with their problems. than 80% of basic salary; 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Corporate entertainment We want our people to have balanced, well-rounded lives and a number of measures to improve the work-life balance have been introduced. Five working weeks of vacation are typically split up by employees so that they have two or three full vacations per year. Project and vacation schedules are maintained in every department and carefully monitored: employees who are not engaged in ongoing projects and training are encouraged to take a rest. Almost all employees, then, have the opportunity to fully use up their vacation days during the course of a financial year. The Company takes measures to help solve certain of the life issues of its employees, including provision of quality medical care, corporate discounts for fitness facilities and the opportunity to place children in a kindergarten near the office. The corporate entertainment and sports events described in the next section of the Report are aimed at improving the emotional and physical health of employees. One of the informal rules of the Company is “An employee who works hard deserves a good rest.” And the chance to prove that comes around quite often. All employees celebrate the new year twice a year: in December (the calendar year) and in July (the financial year). Company management tries to make these celebrations unforgettable, varied programs that are full of surprises. The winter party shone with all the colors of the 1960s, guests wearing “retro” suits and music in the “bit” style inspiring even those who had previously restricted themselves to the festive meal and sophisticated small talk to take to the dance floor. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 21 The summer program included video shoots, boating, bowling, During the year, outing events took place in each department, drums, creative master-classes and a lot more fun. combining training and entertainment. Theater parties also took place. In May, Ernst & Young management attended the Koleso Theater new performance “Push-up 1-3.” Spectators got an unforgettable impressions from this surprising stage play about the quirks of office life. 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Special respect and support for the Company sportsmen. Entertainment initiatives for employees’ children We continue the tradition of participating in the football and basketball tournaments organized by the European Business Association and the American Chamber of Commerce. In 2011, we started a new tradition of corporate tournaments: during the In 2011, the Company continued its tradition of celebrating the summer corporate event, the first basketball competition between New Year and Christmas for its employees’ children. Two holiday the employees of the Kyiv and Donetsk offices took place, which programs were prepared that included quizzes, creative workshops, resulted in a win for the Donetsk office. But the Kyiv office got a contests and, of course, presents. One great opportunity for chance at revenge: in a few months a football match was organized experiencing the joy of Christmas was the participation of children in Kyiv, one that the host team won. in the drawing contest, which attracted not only young artists, but also adult employees who acted as judges. On the eve of the Easter holidays children of employees attended master-classes on making decorations at the office. The children’s success made their parents happy and the adults got to talk about more than work matters. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 23 Workplace – goals for 2012 Given the previous year’s results, the Company has determined the following areas of work for 2012 financial year: • promoting professional and career development program “Ernst & Young and You” which provides for a comprehensive combination of learning, work experience and coaching; • increasing confidence in counseling by fostering greater understanding on the part of counselors of the importance of their role; • strengthening the role of coaching as one of the most important staff development tools; • promoting global mobility programs that allow our employees to gain work experience not only in Ukrainian offices, but also abroad; • implementing programs aimed at strengthening the physical “We are the champions” are team competitions for the children of and emotional health of our employees and enabling them employees of various Kyiv companies. Participants caught the team to maintain an effective work-life balance; spirit and tested their sporting abilities. The competitions are accompanied by gymnastics, karate, acrobatics and other • ensuring competitive compensation and incentive bonus performances. The competitions, which take place once a month, programs; are a true holiday for children, who get medals, prizes, time with • further improving the Company’s internal and external friends and an opportunity to compete. The Ernst & Young kids’ communication strategy. team did not miss a single event since January 2011, when this event began. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Marketplace Our clients In July 2011 the CRM (Client Relationship Management) global system was officially Our ongoing communication with governmental bodies around the world enables us launched at all the offices of the Company. to help clients to respond quickly and We perform a wide range of professional The system facilitates centralization and effectively to new regulations and interpretaservices for our clients and we are particucoordination of client-related work and tions, promptly addressing any issues that larly proud that we provide assurance and project team cooperation. come to light. advisory services for many of the leading local and international companies. Among Our unwavering commitment to quality and We measure our clients’ satisfaction through them are Ukrzaliznytsja (Ukrainian Railways), risk management is supported by a variety of our Assessment of Service Quality (ASQ) Interpipe, Starlight Media, Industrial Union policies, procedures and tools, including a and seek to continuously improve our service of Donbass, State Export-Import Bank global ethics hotline, a client acceptance and delivery based on the feedback we receive. of Ukraine, Ferrexpo-Poltava Mining, continuance policy, annual surveys among Survey requests are sent to clients with Roshen and Arcelor Mittal. clients, global independent teams for quality certain criteria (top revenue generators) on review, a hierarchy of responsible partners, an annual basis at the end of the financial annual training on independence policy and year. If any negative feedack is received it is Our commitment anti-bribery and insider trading policies for further followed up on by an appointed to quality and risk 100% of client-facing personnel. This means our clients can be confident of high-quality independent partner. The results for FY 11 are as follows: management work. • 32 questionnaires sent; Our networking events around the world – • 18 questionnaires received; We continually invest in methodologies, seminars, conferences, roundtables – provide training and technology to promote the • 1 face-to-face interview conducted. clients with regular forums to discuss current delivery of seamless, consistent, high-quality and emerging issues relating to the business client service worldwide. Our cross-border environment. management structure allows us to align our people and activities better to meet clients’ We engage with regulatory authorities in all demands for a consistent quality of service our markets, to contribute to the developworldwide while respecting the legal and ment of an effective and balanced regulatory regulatory requirements in each country. framework. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 25 ASQ 2011 results Global Brand Survey Results operated as part of the Tax & Legal 2011 department. This has helped us capitalize on our legal offerings, bringing benefits Average satisfaction rate (max. – 5) A survey was conducted by an independent to our clients, further boosting our Tax outside agency at the request of Ernst and and Legal Services and strengthening 4.7 Young in 54 countries and 4400 interviews 5 Ernst & Young’s market leadership position 4.5 were conducted among senior executives, as a leading multidisciplinary professional with 190 companies in Russia, Kazakhstan services provider in Ukraine. 4 and Ukraine surveyed. Ernst & Young 3.5 sponsored the survey, but this information 3 was not disclosed to respondents before the 2.5 “We are committed to interview. We perform such surveys every 2 developing a multidistwo years, as it gives us an objective under1.5 ciplinary consulting standing of the competitive environment and 1 practice to provide helps us to identify areas of relative weak0.5 ness or opportunity for service delivery. comprehensive and 0 seamlessly integrated Ukraine Key findings for Ukraine for 2011: legal and tax advice • Ernst & Young is the brand leader and support for clients, as it is clear in Ukraine among Big4 professional that many real life practical issues Would you recommend Ernst & Young services firms. require analysis from these two perto others — Yes spectives. We have a fully-fledged legal • Ernst & Young has a clear lead in 94.7 favorability and reputation for audit. practice with a stand-alone legal offer100% ing, one that, however, can create even 90% •E  rnst & Young leads for key brand attrimore benefits and synergies for our butes: highest quality service, people with 80% clients when combined with the experdiverse perspectives, industry understand70% tise of our tax colleagues from the tax ing, globally integrated services. 60% practice. Our more than 20 years in 50% Ukraine have proven the advantages 40% Strengthening our of such a ‘one-stop shop’ approach”. 30% 20% legal practice Albert Sych, 10% Senior Manager, Law Practice Leader Ernst & Young has also strengthened its 0% legal practice by forming a separate legal in Ukraine Ukraine services function; previously this function 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Awards for Ernst & Young Ukraine  rnst & Young has been named the Best Audit, Tax, and E  rnst & Young Ukraine has been recognized at an Equal E Consulting Services Firm for the year 2010, according Opportunities competition jointly organized by the EUto the Best of Kyiv survey, which is carried out by the funded project “Women and children’s rights in Ukraine,” English-language newspaper Kyiv Post. The idea of the the Ministry for Family, Youth and Sports and the Ministry project is to honor the best businesses, entertainment of Social Policy. We were ranked first among companies establishments and services. Ernst & Young has won this employing 101 to 1000 employees that provide for genaward for the third year in a row. 41% of votes were in der equality at work. Furthermore, we were recognized as favor of Ernst & Young this year. Overall, the Kyiv Post the best family friendly company. Equal career opportusettled on 21 award categories for businesses and nities, the absence of gender differentiation in pay or proorganizations. Our congratulations to Jorge Intriago, Tax fessional education, compliance with labor legislation, the Partner, who was among the finalists in two categories: number of women in leading positions, the attitude to feBusiness Person of the Year and Spirit of Kyiv. male employees with children and other issues were taken into account when making the decision.  rnst & Young was recognized among the top 10 leading E Ernst & Young has been recognized as that company businesses in Ukraine according to the Transparency among Big4 that has the highest awareness rating among Index. The research was conducted by the Center for CSR students and graduates in Ukraine according to the StuDevelopment in Ukraine and the major criteria for assessdent Employer 2010 Research project conducted in Octoment were: ber-November 2010. The research was carried out by rab— if the company issues a social report; ota.ua and involved more than 4000 university students — level of transparency, i.e. readiness to disclose and graduates from Kyiv, Donetsk, Lviv, Dniepropetrovsk, internal information; Kharkiv and Odesa. The participants were asked to make — the quality of the corporate website and its their choice of an employer from a list of 52 companies. user-friendliness. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 27 Public events and intellectual We also see our strategic role in supporting leadersip and developing innovation in business. Ernst & Young served as a strategic partner To continue supporting and developing the to the Innovative Breakthrough Project business community, Ernst & Young actively http://www.ukrinnovation.com (for the organizes workshops on various business second year in a row), allowing innovative issues. In financial year 2011 we sponsored start-ups in Ukraine to develop and share and supported more than 15 conferences their state-of the-art technologies with the and business events and conducted public. Throughout the project (September 10 roundtables and seminars for clients and – December, 2010) there took place five general public. The aim was to discuss all-Ukrainian roundtables in Kyiv, Lviv, current and emerging business issues and Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv and Kherson with share views and knowledge in those areas. the participation of investors, government The themes covered during this period were representatives, leading experts in venture Tax Code adoption, people management, investment, analysts and others. In the banking sector issues, technology security, semi-final the 79 authors of the best real estate and others. This year we targeted projects participated in a three-day training supporting strategic events that are of course “Fundamentals of high-tech busiimportance to the Ukraine investment and nesses.” Finally, 19 remarkable projects, business climate: which were highly appreciated by experts, • Adam Smith Ukrainian Investment appeared at the top of the heap. In the final Summit; stage finalists from all over Ukraine pitched their projects to potential investors during • Adam Smith Agribusiness Forum; the road-show. • Energy Policy of Ukraine: Unconventional Gas Focus (Ministry of Energy and Fuel of Ukraine); «Our economic future is connected with • Raiffeisen Private Wealth Forum, and our intellectual potential. The mission of others. this project is to identify this potential and bring it to bear on the country’s economic performance”. Alexei Kredisov, Managing Partner 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine We are committed to serving not only our This year Ernst & Young has joined the clients, but also the community in which we Reform Club of Ukraine, which aims at “We have reviewed operate. This is underlined by our involvepromoting the reform spirit and proposing the tax systems in ment in the Domestic and Foreign Investors best regulatory and governance practices eight jurisdictions Advisory Council under the auspices of the to the state bodies of Ukraine. This public with different socioPresident of Ukraine. Karl Johansson, organization unites Ukrainian business economic indicators. Ernst & Young CIS Managing Partner, is a leaders interested in improving the investThese included participant in the body. The aim of the ment climate and business environment developing economies Council is to define the main directions of and implementing the necessary as well as jurisdictions with efficient state policy, to improve the investment economic and social reforms. The Club’s and time-tested tax systems. The scope climate in Ukraine, to attract and use effimain tool is the ongoing constructive dialogue between business and governof our survey covered various aspects ciently domestic and foreign investment for ment. The Reform Club acts as a partner of tax legislation, including taxation the economic development of Ukraine and accelerate Ukraine’s integration into the and opponent to the state in developing of small and medium enterprises, European and world economies. The body strategies for economic and social developanti-avoidance rules and procedure functions in the form of working groups that ment and in the creation of regulatory for obtaining VAT refund as well as develop improvements with an annual plenary and institutional framework reforms numerous other topics that were session taking place as the top reporting on (tax, customs and pension reform, etc). widely discussed in Ukraine. The survey progress event. The first plenary meeting of helped us to identify world trends in The new Tax Code debates are influencing the Council took place on 23 June 2011, and the tax area and point out priorities for the work of each and every business in the next one is planned for 7 June 2012. reforming the Ukrainian tax system in Ukraine. Vladimir Kotenko, a member of the Advisory Council at the Ministry of Finance, a way that will contribute to the social Ernst & Young experts are actively involved in various business debates of the European has played an important role in facilitating and economic development of the Business Association (EBA). Alexei Kredisov, dialog between business and government country”. Country Managing Partner, is Vice-President on improvements to the new tax system. of the EBA, Jorge Intriago, TAX Partner, and Ernst & Young has taken lead in proposing Vladimir Kotenko, Tom Cradock-Watson, Assurance Partner, amendments to the Tax Code aimed at Partner, Head of Tax & Law are Advisors to the EBA Board, Marina improvement of the tax system. Zakharina, Head of HR, is a member of the EBA HR Committee Board, and Vladimir Kotenko, Partner, Head of Tax & Law, is the chair of the EBA Tax Committee. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 29 On the move to IFRS Developing corporate •E  rnst & Young supported a project of the Ukrainian Association for Management As the convergence of accounting and responsibility in Ukraine Development and Business Education for auditing standards around the world the academicians of Ukraine – future We continue to promote corporate instructors of the new corporate social continues, having access to key accounting responsibility as a model philosophy for responsibility course. and auditing guidance is critical for business. Companies that pay reasonable companies. With the recently adopted •E  rnst & Young presented its corporate attention to environmental and social issues Law on Transition to IFRS, the topic has responsibility practices during the first CSR achieve a number of advantages and are become even more vital. To assist with Marketplace in Ukraine, organized by the helping Ukraine to become a better country the challenges of converting to IFRS, CSR Development Center. to live in. Ernst & Young provides publications of interest, useful tools and IFRS resources, • In 2011 we continued our work in the •E  rnst & Young has sponsored a nationwide as well as up-to-date information on IFRS Advisory Council under the Regulatory competition of CSR Business Cases on the web portal www.ey.com/ua/en/ifrs. Policy and Entrepreneurship Committee of for three years in a row. The competition the Verkhovna Rada. The National Concept has become a unique yearly event that for the Development of Social applauds best practices in social Responsibility in Businesses of Ukraine was responsibility presented by Ukrainian developed and proposed for public companies. The publication that is issued discussion. after each competition represents an excellent selection of practices that can be used by companies as best practices and adopted by academicians for teaching students. •V  ictor Kovalenko, Climate Change and Sustainability Services Manager, spoke at the Vth international conference “Social responsibility: on the way to sustainable development” organized by Expert Ukraine magazine, on the topic “Effective presentation of information in nonfinancial reporting”. •V  ictor Kovalenko gave a presentation on •E  rnst & Young supported the conference Business response to climate change: “Corporate Social Responsibility of is there an area for Cleantech? during the Business: Best Practices, Initiatives, ECOSMART forum in April 2011. Development,” which took place in October 2011 at the Kyiv National •D  uring the discussion “Do investors need Economic University, under the auspices CSR?” which was conducted by the Center of the Association of Independent for CSR Development in May 2011, Victor Directors of Ukraine. Victor Kovalenko Kovalenko delivered a speech devoted to was a co-moderator for the section sustainable investment funds and other “CSR Practices, Instruments and instruments for attracting capital to Initiatives within Companies” and made socially responsible companies. a presentation on “CSR as an Instrument • In July 2011, Victor Kovalenko and for Attracting Investment.” Natalia Telenkova, Head of Corporate • In March, the CSR Ukraine Community, Responsibility Committee of Ernst & Young, Lviv Business School and Ernst & Young made a presentation on “Corporate conducted a training session on nonresponsibility for Ernst & Young” for •D  uring a B2B meeting organized by financial reporting. Victor Kovalenko was business representatives in Donetsk at the the UN Global Compact under the title one of the trainers. Also, in June 2011, “CSR and the Company’s Strategy” ”Non-financial Reporting and its Audit: he made a presentation on implementing meeting, organized by the European All the Rage or a Business Necessity?” the GRI International Standard for nonBusiness Association. The spokespersons (15 September, Kyiv Mohyla Business financial reporting preparation at the answered questions raised by the School), Victor Kovalenko and Polina “Non-financial reporting: how to tell a attendees about initiatives for employees, Shaganenko (CSR Manager of the story” seminar held by the Center for volunteer programs and the objectives and Metinvest) discussed the example of CSR Development. specifics of preparing non-financial report. Metinvest in the context of the advantages •A  t the joint meeting of the PR and CSR and difficulties of preparing •N  atalia Telenkova spoke during the Committees of the European Business a social report and shared Ukraine’s quite “Corporate volunteering as a component Association in Kyiv in May 2011, unique experience when it comes to of corporate development strategy” Ernst & Young made a presentation on auditing such reports. session at the “Corporate Volunteering: the benefits of non-financial reporting 3D” conference, discussing volunteer preparation. programs implemented within the Company; she answered questions about fostering initiatives and incentives that stimulate volunteering. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 31 Ernst & Young the contest are middle and large businesses and the winners in each participating counAt the beginning of June 2011, more than 50 national finalists of the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur try are announced by a national jury consistEntrepreneur of the Year competition from ing of independent experts who are well140 cities gathered in Monaco for the 11th of the Year program — known members of the business community. annual World Entrepreneur of the Year www.eoy-ua.com In 2011 EOY celebrated its 25th anniversary. Award. Sergiy Grygorovych was among them, representing Ukraine and competing with the Over the years, the Entrepreneur of the Year world’s best entrepreneurs. Olivia Lum of Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year® program has expanded to more than 140 Hyflux (Singapore) was named Ernst & Young (EOY) is the world’s most prestigious busicities in more than 50 countries, with awards World Entrepreneur of the Year 2011 and ness award for entrepreneurs. As the first presented annually to over 900 of the world’s was the first woman to win the award. and only truly global award of its kind, EOY most successful and innovative entreprehonors those who are building and leading neurs. Ukraine joined the program in 2006 The program is held in Ukraine on successful, growing and dynamic businessand since then has seen four outstanding a bi-annual basis and is planned for launch es, recognizing them through national and Ukrainian entrepreneurs honored. in autumn 2012. global awards programs. The participants in Winners of EOY in Ukraine: • M  ikhail Levchenko, Millenium Capital (2006) • N  ikolay Lagun, Delta Bank (2007) • B  oris Lozhkin, United Media Holding (2008) • S  ergiy Grygorovych, GSC Game World (2010). дат 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Ernst & Young Alumni Club Marketplace — Targets for 2012: • concentrate on strategic partnerships with market development initiatives, i.e. Adam Smith events, Global Management Challenge, Innovative Breakthrough Project; • active participation in the legislation development initiatives including transition to IFRS, Tax Code; • more engagement and presence in social media networks; At Ernst & Young we’re committed to Oleg Svetleuschyi, Partner, President building lifelong relationships with our of Ernst & Young Alumni Club, says: • invest in further CR development people and have always prided ourselves on There is some invisible bond that connects in Ukraine through participation the quality of our professionals – around the all Ernst & Young people. Experience in expert organizations, significant world and here in Ukraine. We consider our at Ernst & Young helps establish and develop programs and events. alumni to be very important to our continued a hard-working and success-oriented success. Many of them become clients or attitude. To help people benefit more simply remain friends of the firm. We value from their past experience we’ve launched the knowledge and strength they brought to the Alumni Club . the firm as employees and we appreciate the loyalty they continue to show as alumni. The Alumni Club launched its activities in Ukraine in 2007 and since then helds annual events where former Ernst & Young employees can meet with their friends. Now the Club boasts more than 300 members. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 33 Environment Ernst & Young is constantly concerned about the environmental aspects Green Group initiatives of its activities. Plant a Tree – Invest in the Future dedicated to planting trees and shrubs in With the advice and guidance of our Dorogozhychi Park, in Kyiv. Together, Kyiv On 16 October, a team from Ernst & Young, business representatives, students and Climate Change and Sustainability joined by family members, took part in the community members planted about Services (CCaSS) we help our clients environmental campaign “Plant a Tree In250 trees (linden, acacia, sea buckthorn, to be environmentally sustainable. vest in the Future” organized by the Global fruit trees) and 500 shrubs. Compact in Ukraine. The event was Our eco-management is aimed at minimizing resource consumption during the Company’s operation. One of the activities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, the “Green Group,” is to monitor the environmental performance of the Company, initiate positive changes wherever possible, foster educational activities aimed at the Company’s employees and support external environmental programs intended to enhance environmental awareness and practical actions to improve the ecological condition of the country. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine EcoCup ecological film festival the regions of Ukraine. According to the project website, the volunteers collected “The effect of such initiatives isn’t so EcoCup is Ukraine’s first international 710,02 cubic meters of РЕТ bottles, much in the kilos of garbage collected ecological film festival with a number of fun 637,56 cubic meters of glass and 3,308,06 but in creating a new vision for eco-events that took place from 24 May cubic meters of other garbage. environmental cleanliness and feeling through 5 June 2011 all around Ukraine. engaged. It’s extremely important for EcoCup’s goal is to discuss ecological The volunteers from Ernst & Young (Kyiv) problems in interesting ways, whether via kids to participate in such events. A kid took part in the cleaning campaign at the documentaries or fictional films. recreation area of Hydropark in Kyiv. who cleans the street at least once will Garbage collection took about three hours, rethink his or her behavior, and in many Ernst & Young was a sponsor and a partner and then the project participants had a cases won’t allow himself or herself to to the festival, as a part of which ecologypicnic. neglect the environment oriented films were shown in Kharkiv, in the future”. Donetsk, Sevastopol, Odesa, Uzhgorod and Kyiv. In each city there were eco-project Natalia Telenkova, presentations, master classes, eco-goods Head of CR Committee fairs and other specific events. Almost 1,500 individuals visited the festival’s events all over the country. The festival stimulated dialogue about environmental protection in society, acquainting spectators with current ecological problems and possible ways of solving them. Let’s make Ukraine clean On 16 April 2011, the all-Ukrainian campaign on garbage collection in the parks of Ukraine under the logo “Let’s make Ukraine clean!” took place. As a whole, the initiative involved over 20,000 caring people in all Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 35 Green Rush “Earning money, a lot of businesses do For the second year in a row, Ernst & Young not mind the environmental aspects. has supported the Green Rush eco-project, They also forget about the need initiated by AIESEC, the international youth to contribute at least a bit of time, organization. The project’s mission effort and money to protecting this is to develop young people’s ecological environment. Owing to such projects awareness so that they practice responsible as the Green Rush and Ernst & Young’s behavior. competition, there are chances remind In 2011, the project covered more than society of how important it is to support 450 students and 600 pupils of Kyiv ecology and personal health”. educational establishments. Foreign studentsecologists arranged animation classes and Olena Breyeva, shared international experience on how to the winner of the eco-poster cope with environmental pollution and how to competition among students treat waste with Ukrainian youth. Within the framework of Green Rush an eco-fair took place at which visitors exchanged waste paper and waste cloth for eco-bags. «Eco-Business Myth or Reality?» tion. For its contribution to the development Earth Hour conference was organised with the participaof social and environmental awareness tion of entrepreneurs, representatives among the young people, Ernst & Young was For several years in a row, the CR Committee of socially responsible companies, NGOs, awarded a commemorative diploma. has been encouraging employees to particienvironmental organizations and students. pate in the “Earth Hour” global initiative, and The conference was intended to acquaint the Ernst & Young makes every effort to decrease more and more people have been doing so. public with the practices and ideas behind its impact on the environment and encourage Here are some comments from 2011 building an ecological and socially responsible eco-friendly behavior in the office. That’s why Earth Hour participants: business in Ukraine. the Company announced a competition for the best eco-poster among Green Rush proj• “This  event is important primarily because Yuliya Byba, Head of the Green Group, ect participants. The main task was to stimuit makes us think…. As we know, a long described the Ernst & Young initiatives: late office employees to avoid using plastic journey starts with a little step,” says Artem «green policies» to govern the procurement utensils. The most convincing works were Bilous, Assurance Staff. of products for the Company’s needs and placed in the Ernst & Young offices. measures for energy and resource conserva36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine • “ We spent an Earth Hour for live communication within the family by candlelight. Environment — tasks for 2012: It was a unique atmosphere to rest and to discuss the things that really matter. In our • include an in-office eco-behavior module in the training program for the crazy world people usually have no time to newcomers; talk like that,” says Andriy Lysyuk, Senior, • sign the Code of Conduct with the Company’s counterparties; Advisory. • monitor innovations in the “green office” area and implementing the decisions • “ Earth Hour is our excuse for doing wrong in the Company’s offices; things to the Earth. It’s a pity but it’s true, and we can’t stop doing all these destructive • organize regular events for employees to increase their awareness of possibilities things. But we can at least try to change for the efficient use of resources; ourselves and our attitude towards the • further minimize the use of eco-unfriendly stuff; environment. At least once we can separate • support eco-education projects in Ukraine. trash, plant a tree or turn off the light for an hour, and we’ll see how easy it is,” says Kateryna Kayda, Administrator, CBS. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 37 Our principles, results and goals in procurement and consumption of materials Item Our approach and results, 2011 financial year Suppliers We are guided by ecological criteria in selecting the suppliers with whom we work. In 2011, we developed the Code of Conduct which requires compliance with high legal, ethical, environmental and labor standards on the part of us and of our contractors. The Code will be available for contractors to sign starting in 2012. Office The procurement policy includes a list of eco-marked suppliers. equipment Power In 2011 financial year power consumption increased by 3% Power consumption by Ernst & Young in Ukraine, as compared to the previous period. To decrease electricity 2009-2011 financial years, kWh per months. consumption in the office we took the following measures: • All personal computers and office equipment go into power64000 saving mode after several minutes of not being used. • Computers purchased within the reporting period consume 54000 25% less power than those purchased within the previous 44000 period due to LED backlit technology. • We use energy-saving lamps. 34000 • Special relay switches to automatically regulate lights are 24000 installed in some areas of the office. 2009 2010 2011 Utilization options: All daylight lamps are delivered to a specialized company for further utilization. 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Item Our approach and results, 2011 financial year Paper We use paper with eco-marking FSC (Forest Stewardship Paper use by Ernst & Young in Ukraine, Council). 2008-2011 financial years, packs per month The use of paper increased by 14% as compared with the 500 previous period because of business recovery. 400 To decrease paper use in the office we take the following 300 measures: 200 • An instruction is placed near each printer about the economical use of paper: two-sided printing, text 100 verification before printing, use of the booklet layout; 0 • Electronic information exchange options are used 2008 2009 2010 2011 instead of printouts, where appropriate. Amount of paper delivered for recycling, R ► ecycling options: 2010-2011 financial years, kg All confidential paper waste is recycled by a contractor. Starting from 2011, additional containers for 15 000 non-confidential paper waste, mainly newspapers 10 000 and magazines, have been installed. 12.5 tons of paper were delivered for recycling. 5000 0 2010 2011 Business The number of business trips has increased. trips At the same time, the Company continues to popularize modern means of communication, such a teleconferences and videoconferences, instead of trips. To this end: • in 2011, the Company purchased additional video communication hardware and software for its partners; • all new personal computers have web cameras; • videoconference equipment was installed in the Donetsk office. Canteen In 2011, we reduced significantly the amount of our plastic utensils purchases, and starting from April 2011 cut back on plastic by 90%. We fully met demand by using glass and ceramic utensils, metal cutlery, wooden stir sticks for coffee instead of disposable plastic ones, etc. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 39 Community Educational projects Educational projects 2011 For the 20 years of its presence in Ukraine, sponsoring fees, UAH 578 708 Ernst & Young has been paying attention to Ernst & Youg people value, UAH 550 000 education initiatives for students and young Kyiv Ernst & Youg people hours 112 people. Within the last year, we implementstudents involved 5000 ed or supported a number of such projects. sponsoring fees, UAH 11 600 Step into the Future. Ernst & Youg people value, UAH 96 000 Donetsk First year results Ernst & Youg people hours 50 students involved 2000 Step into the Future is a comprehensive career program for final-years (or fourthfees general, UAH 1,236 308 Ukraine and fifthyear) students initiated by students involved 7000 Ernst & Young in October 2010. It includes: •E rnst & Young University – workshops for universities, selected by a special contest,  e are grateful to the Company W students at the Company’s office. The goal participated in the workshops. employees who served as Ernst & Young of the project is to give students a chance University teachers: to talk directly to Ernst & Young employees During the year, 11 workshops were —O leksandr Berchiy, Kateryna Rabtsun, of different levels about the key tendencies held, with 17 Company employees Volodymyr Zabrodskiy, Ganna in the profession development and possible as speakers. Kurylenko, Olga Makara, Oleksandr paths for career growth. Depending Dermanets, Ganna Vorotyntseva, About 120 students participated in on preferences and qualifications, in Nataliia Deryzemlia and Svitlana Ernst & Young University; of them, 2010/2011 academic year students chose Suponina from Assurance; 9 successfully passed tests and gained one of the following modules: Audit, Tax employment with the Company. or IT Audit. Students from various Kyiv 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine — Tetyana Mykolenko, Iryna Kalyta, • Open Door Days — HR specialists talk Galyna Khomenko, Oksana Lapii and about career opportunities for graduates Over 400 students from Dina Bokatova from Tax & Law; and about Ernst & Young’s structure and the following Kyiv and Donetsk — Kateryna Gorbunova, Dmytro corporate culture. Attendees are given universities participated in the Lazuchenkov and Oksana Gontar a presentation on how to take the first Step into the Future project: from ITRA. steps towards a successful career with Ernst & Young. The presentation is • Vadym Hetman Kyiv National • Coffee with Partner — meetings supported by individual examples and Economic University with Company executives where the valuable advice from the Company’s • Kyiv National University of Trade secrets of a successful career and employees. and Economics skills that are assessed during tests and • Lectures for Donetsk students — • National University of Kyiv-Mohyla interviews at Ernst & Young are discussed. lectures by the Company’s experts Academy In 2010/2011, students had informal at the leading Donetsk universities. • National Technical University of conversations with three partners — Head of Transaction Advisory Services, • Essay Contest — on occasion of the 20th Ukraine Kyiv Polytechnic Institute Assurance Partner and Head anniversary of Ernst & Young in Ukraine, • Taras Shevchenko National of Human Capital. an Essay Contest was held for students. University of Kyiv In their writings, the authors addressed • Donetsk National University We are grateful to Aaron Johnson, the prospects for the audit and advisory Olesya Melnyk and Olga Gorbanovskaya • Donetsk National Technical services market in Ukraine and career University for their contribution to young people’s opportunities at Ernst & Young, and gave development! • Donetsk National University recommendations to Ernst & Young on of Economics and Trade after how to become the best employer for M. Tugan-Baranovsky students. 9 winners got a chance to do an internship at the Company. Other finalists • Donetsk National University of received special prizes from the Company Management and additional points for entrance tests. • Donetsk Institute of Artificial Intelligence Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 41 Ernst & Young is strengthening • Career Forum. The project is one of the Ernst & Young and the CFA most popular and useful events for its strategic partnership with Donetsk students. It combines a vacancy Ukraine student competition AIESEC in Ukraine fair, training sessions, workshops and In 2010, Ernst & Young supported the first meetings with well-known business student competition in investment report AIESEC is an international youth organizarepresentatives. Ernst & Young participreparation, in which participated student tion that unites active young people in more pates in the Forum twice a year. This year, teams from seven universities from Kyiv, than 100 countries who grow professionally Company employees held workshops on Lviv, Ternopil and Donetsk. The competition through joint projects and initiatives and try project management and interviewing. was organized by CFA Ukraine. In 2011, to change the world for the better. AIESEC about 130 students participated in the has been functioning in Ukraine since 1994 • HR-Evolution. Under this project, Human competition, in which they had to study and includes more than 800 students from Capital experts provide materials for the the Astarta-Kyiv agri-industrial holding. 50 universities. education of future HR specialists on the Ernst & Young experts served as the following topics: corporate culture, For the second year in a row, Ernst & Young appraisers for the teams’ reports and compensation and benefits, and employer is a strategic partner to AIESEC in Ukraine. advised the students on the reports’ brand building. Alexei Kredisov, Managing Partner, and composition. Vadym Barakin, Manager of the Marina Zakharina, Head of HR, have joined  e are grateful to the Ernst & Young W Valuation and Business Modeling Department, the Advisory Council of AIESEC, which aims specialists who prepared and held educaErnst & Young, judged the finals. to help develop AIESEC’s strategy and tion workshops as part of these initiatives: The aggregate rating that the teams analyze AIESEC’s achievements during — Rostyslav Grygorenko, received for their writings and report the year. Transaction Support; presentations indicated that the best teams In 2011, Ernst & Young specialists particiwere from Taras Schevchenko National — Olga Gorbanovskaya, Tamila pated in such educational initiatives as the University of Kyiv, Vadym Hetman Kyiv Teleganenko, Human Capital; Talents Fair, the Career Forum, Leadership National Economic University and Ivan Development Seminars, HR-Evolution, — Olga Anufriieva, Tax & Law; Franko National University of Lviv, which Green Rush and World without Borders. — Oksana Gontar, ITRA; took first, second and third places, respectively. The winner represented Ukraine at • Talents Fair. In March 2011, Ernst & Young — Natalia Vyshnevetska, Administration. the regional competition, which took place participated in an annual career conferon 3 March 2011 in Madrid, Spain. ence for 150 fourthand fifth-year students who are about to look for jobs. During the workshops and presentations, Ernst & Young experts talked about Tax and IT Advisory consultant profession to the students from various Ukrainian universities. 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Raising new can also extend their practical language skills, because the studies are organized in a corporate strategy for the company’s successful development and maximum stock entrepreneurs English. The topics are rich and diverse: value increase. Severe competition and a cultural tolerance, communication, elostruggle for consumers help the students and leaders quence, time management, goal setting feel what it’s like to run a real business and and achievement, leadership, team work, get the managerial experience necessary for Ernst & Young believes that entrepreneurfinance management, global problems and their future careers. ship is an important driver for positive ways of solving them. To help the pupils changes. By developing leadership among choose their future occupation, professionIn autumn 2011, 2,000 students from 235 youth, we lay the foundation for the future oriented conferences are held for senior universities of Ukraine participated in the success of the country. By involving youth pupils with the participation of experts in championship. in social initiatives, we increase the level of various areas. In 2011, about 500 pupils social responsibility of future entrepreneurs.  ut of 1,300 registered teams, the best O from 12 Kyiv schools widened their LDS (Leadership Development Seminar). was the team from the Taras Schevchenko perception of the world together with Ernst & Young supports LDS, a leadership National University of Kyiv. World without Borders. and proficiency development seminar held by AIESEC. In 2011, this was a three-day Ernst & Young traditionally Ernst & Young and Students workshop, in which 150 students from 15 supports the strategic in Free Enterprise (SIFE) Ukrainian cities and towns participated. management championship Students in Free Enterprise is an international Leadership Day. Our Company joined the organization that unites students, teachers education program as part of Leadership for students and business representatives in 40 countries. Day, held this year in Donetsk. During the Since 2008, Ernst & Young has been Working as a team led by a coach, SIFE day we provided to AIESEC leaders useful supporting the Global Management Chalstudents use knowledge obtained at universiinformation on coaching and counseling. lenge (GMC Junior) in Ukraine. Currently, ties to teach others the principles of the we are a strategic partner to this initiative, market economy, entrepreneurship, financial World without Borders. Ernst & Young which is intended for third-, fourthand expertise, environmental protection and supports the educational project World fifth-year students of Ukrainian universities. business ethics. without Borders, initiated by AIESEC. The Each team establishes an Executive Board of project aims at developing leadership a large virtual manufacturer with a budget among senior pupils from Kyiv schools. of 200 million EUR and analyzes its financial Studies take the form of training sessions, condition, production capacities and discussions, role playing games and master position in the market in order to implement classes by foreign students. Participants Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 43 SIFE Vinnytsia National Technical The project Chudo-Med (Miraculous and to use them in making new products University team’s projects: Honey) aimed at establishing a honeycraft to be sold through a women clothing association of local beekeepers on the store. The project let people practice their As part of the project Kvity Zhyttya basis of the cooperative society, entitling hobbies and earn a stable income. (Flowers of Life), the students organized the beekeepers to use the society’s gathering and preparation of medical As part of the Malyatko (Baby) project, equipment and the fields leased by the herbs by citizens and their further sale to innovative power-saving technologies local enterprise. As a result of the project’s a private enterprise. Unemployed citizens were proposed and implemented. That implementation, people were engaged in in the Vinnytsia, Khmelnytsky and Ivanoallowed for saving a lot of money and their favorite occupations in a new profitFrankivsk Regions and in the Crimea were opening a kindergarten in the village of generating format, and consumers got a engaged. The project helped country Maidan, Vinnytsia Region, with the help of certified eco-friendly product. people achieve financial stability and a limited amount of public finances. consumers to improve their health, since The project Ludyna (Human Being) As a result of the project, 37 kids were more eco-friendly products were in the helped the handicapped to obtain precious able to attend a pre-school facility in their market. knowledge of up-to-date knitting trends village and 10 people have got jobs.  ince 2010, Alexei Kredisov, Managing S participated in the event. The valuable W  e are grateful to the Ernst & Young Partner of Ernst & Young, has been a advice helped the Vinnytsia National specialists who participated in preparing co-chairman of the Business Advisory Technical University team to win the the SIFE teams for the final competition: Council of SIFE Ukraine. Owing to the national competition in June 2011 and thus — Tom Cradock-Watson, Assurance; Business Advisory Council activities, SIFE the right to represent Ukraine in the SIFE Ukraine development strategy for 2010Global Cup finals held in Kuala Lumpur, — Natalia Telenkova, CR Committee; 2011 was reconsidered. The initiative Malaysia. Before the departure, the team —R  ouslan Tchebanenko, Marianna involved more business representatives, held a final rehearsal for Ernst & Young Yakubenko, Yuriy Shibanov, Olga key players in various Ukrainian industries, specialists, which helped the students to Shibanova and Dmytro Kistechko, contributing to the program development. better prepare themselves for the world Transaction Advisory Services; In April 2011, participants from various competition and to calm down. Although our — Ielyzaveta Maksymets, HR. teams got an opportunity to attend a team was not in the semi-finals, it took a 3rd Successful Presentation master class held place prize in its sub-group. by Ernst & Young employees. 30 students 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Development programs in 2007. More than 400 kids from various Ukrainian orphanages have already particimake-up. This year, the program included over 100 boys and girls from orphanages in for children deprived pated in the project. The project involves the Kyiv, Chernigiv and Cherkasy Regions. outdoor programs, which, in addition to recErnst & Young prepared presents for the of parental care reation, include intensive development camp participants: leaders who showed modules prepared by professional teachers their worth in the nominations defined by Children in orphanages are often noticed as and business coaches. During the periods the Company received special prizes, so that suffering from low-motivation and evincing between the outdoor modules the foundathey would remember their success. mediocre levels of academic achievements. tion holds professional workshops for the Such kids miss their chances at decent oldest participants. In August 2010, Ernst & Leadership Breakthrough educations and well-rounded lives. Young supported yet another stage of Way The educational projects that Ernst & Young The Leadership Breakthrough program aims to Success, this time in a summer camp supports help kids reveal their abilities so at developing teenagers’ leadership culture format. The camp’s curriculum included that they succeed as adults. and teamwork skills. The program is initiated psychological training aimed at overcoming communication barriers, computer literacy by the Edinstvennaya charity foundation for Way to Success training, artistic molding activities, hairthose senior orphan pupils who have showed Way to Success is a long-term project initiatdressing training and master classes in phothemselves during previous foundation proed by the Edinstvennaya charity foundation tography, journalism, cinematography and grams or who were selected through testing. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 45 The program was launched in January 2011. events and achievements of this stage of the intended for the social adaptation and finanIts annual cycle consists of four stages, each program. The participants’ tutors, teachers cial support of students from vulnerable sowith its own practical assignment and homeand friends noticed the astonishingly positive cial groups. The program is primarily aimed at work to do at the orphanage. The results afchanges in their behavior and world perceppreparing orphan students to live indepenter the first stage were astonishing: the inspition, as did the participants themselves. dent lives. For the fourth year in a row, Ernst ration teenagers got during the winter Ernst & Young supported the project right & Young sponsored several students in the meeting helped each of them to successfully from its first steps by providing finance and program and participated in the scholars’ regimplement social, entertainment, educational preparing master classes on conflict and time ular meetings. In 2011, the Company supand sports projects in their cities and towns, management as well as budgeting fundamenported 8 students in achieving higher or secwith the involvement of both peers and tals. 55 teenagers from various orphanages ondary professional education, with 1 student adults teachers, businessmen and even participated in the program, more than getting individual support from a Company celebrities. Among the achievements of the 1,000 children in orphanages were involved employee. second stage were the fan clubs that teenagin the projects developed by teens-leaders. We are grateful to the Company volunteers ers established. These clubs – a French club, a breakdance club, a freestyle wrestling club Scholar who prepared and held workshops for teenagers: Svitlana Sologub, Kateryna and a journalism club – functioned for the duThis program, which has been functioning Gorbunova and Mykola Yerin. ration of the module. The participants also issince 1998, is implemented by the Pryyateli sued their own newspaper, which covered the Ditey (Help the Children) charity fund, and is 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Scholarship programs — Ernst & Young makes the dreams come true incentives for the best Orphans often have trouble succeeding in By awarding the best for their academic school. Their inspiration to make academic progress, we motivate others to succeed. progress can be lacking, and excellent pupils are not always popular among their Incentive Scholarship Fund peers. In order to improve the situation, for KMA Ernst & Young has been implementing the Since 2008, the Ernst & Young’s Incentive Best Pupil program for three years now at Scholarship Fund has been working at the three orphanages. The program aims at National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy stimulating the kids’ interest in their studies. to present an annual award to the institution’s The Best Pupil contest is announced at the best teachers and students, as well as to beginning of the school year and aims at ratfinance research and innovation projects. ing the most successful pupil based on the We contribute to the University’s endowment, school year’s results. The winners are tradithus helping guarantee the realization of its tionally given the chance of having one of statutory objectives, self-government and their dreams come true, and thus choose the independence. Especially inspired teachers prize themselves: some dream of a new moand students who post excellent results are bile phone, while others wish to spend a day awarded by Ernst & Young in the forms of at an entertainment center. monthly scholarships. Winners of 2010-2011 school year: Scholars for 2010-2011 school year. Ivaniv: Valeriya Tomashevska and Iryna Popova received mobile phones; • Larysa Ivanivna Krasnikova, Ph.D. in Economics, Professor of the Finance Boyarka: Viktoriya Zhuravska received a bag Department, Faculty of Economic Science; and a make-up set; Denys Petrychenko • Kateryna Gryshchenko, 3rd year student received an external data storage device; of the Law Faculty. Snizhne: Kseniya Bekher received a doll, Karyna Svirina a camera and Khrystyna Bekher a mobile phone. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 47 Education programs Benefits for participants Benefits for the Company Benefits for society • Extending knowledge in selected subjects • More efficient staff selection process • Valuable contribution to building up the • In-depth understanding of the Company’s • Employer brand popularization educational system for modern youth specialization; more opportunities for • Opportunity to impact the education and • Building up awareness of responsible good decision-making in terms of upbringing of potential employees or society members among modern youth employment business partners • Helping society solve problems associated • Opportunity for practical experience • Responsibility principles promotion with orphans’ upbringing and social and for obtaining first-hand information among the youth adaptation about the Company • Skills development and new professional • New skills development, social self-fulfillment opportunities for network expansion employees via involvement in education • Opportunity to impact programs societal development • Strengthening the reputation of the Company as a responsible member of the society 48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Charity played a New Year performance for the guests. The spring visit corresponds with the dinner, during which the kids talked with their guests and helped themselves to tea We are continuing our charity activities in school year’s end. By tradition, the kids and and sweets. The Boyarka kids also gave the the selected directions by supporting three their guests cooked kasha over a fire. Ernst & Ernst & Young group a nice surprise, orphanages and children suffering from Young female volunteers and the orphanage presenting Company employees with oncological problems. girls shared women’s secrets while preparing hand-made gifts. But the most important salads, and yet another guest, a master from present for the guests will always be the Orphanage in Ivaniv, the art club ArtIa, held a collage master class, achievements of the kids in their sports and Vinnytsia Region where the kids made mosaics using colorful arts competitions. Kids from this orphanage magazine pictures. The orphanage was were selected to participate in the LeaderThis year, the kids from the orphanage met presented with a spacious wooden “altanka” ship Breakthrough program, with four their friends from Ernst & Young three times. (garden house), which was situated in the participants successfully passing through The team of volunteers brought them New yard, and in good weather the kids can hold four modules of the program. At the end of Year presents. The popular Ukrainian singer their classes there or just get together with the school year, the Boyarka orphans Rosava also visited the orphanage with our friends in the evenings. During the summer enjoyed two master classes, in origami and team, singing and dancing with the kids in a visit, the Ernst & Young volunteers were joined photography, and the orphanage was ring and playing old folk games with them. by a professional photographer from Infano presented with a photography club equipped The kids, in turn, showed their talents and Association, which resulted in the “Smile with with two digital cameras, a PC, a photo Your Heart” photo exhibition and 20 amazing printer and all the required accessories. and heartfelt kids’ portraits were displayed in the office. On the occasion of 1 September, Orphanage in Snizhne, the Company also prepared presents for the pupils – each orphan received a new pair of Donetsk Region shoes. In addition, a pet’s corner was created The Snizhne orphans made this year in the orphanage, becoming home to three memorable with a diversity of programs and amazing budgies. contests, which they organized in concert with the Ernst & Young team. Summer 2010: Orphanage in Boyarka, Kyiv Region The headliner of the Ernst & Young New Year performance at the Boyarka orphanage was Zynoviy, the winner of the “Ukraina Maye Talant” (“Ukraine Has Got Talent”) TV-show. Disguised as Did Moroz, he entertained the kids with contests and quizzes. The party finished with a holiday Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 49 Ernst & Young team came and played at sometimes buy “medications for the soul,” partially compensate for the time they pirates with the kids: to find the treasure, the such as toys, books, arts stuff and computers spent in volunteering. kids had to be savvy. The party finished with – all the things that help kids to get through a traditional shashlyk picnic and various their difficult months-long treatment. The contests. During the New Year celebration, Company has also initiated assistance to the Charity donations 2011 Ernst & Young volunteers prepared master Bone Marrow Transplant Department at the Orphanages and projects for classes and contests, and themselves got a Okhmatdyt hospital – for more than a year orphans, UAH 66,739 surprise on arrival: the kids had prepared a we’ve been buying and delivering rapidly concert, regaling the guests with dancing and Help to children with cancer and consumed materials like disposable syringes, singing. Once again the Company volunteers projects in healthcare, UAH 266,025 gloves, infusion pumps, catheters and understood that they had befriended some detergents as soon as we get a telephone Charity, other, UAH 43,000 very gifted children. And here comes request from the hospital. This might not be Totally charity donations, UAH 375,764 summer again... This time, a tissue painting the sort of thing auditors always do, but we master class was organized where each have no time to think about that – if they’re to participant could produce a T-shirt up to his live, the kids need our immediate help today. or her taste. On the occasion of 1 September, Society— Tasks for 2012 Knowledge Day, Ernst & Young team preCorporate volunteering sented the kids with school stationery and • focusing on the programs that proved organized a brain-ring game. The intellectual People are our Company’s most precious their efficiency in the previous periods; battle was a grand one, with the kids and resource. Their time and knowledge are the things the Company can offer to society. • maintaining relations with the existing adults struggling over every single point. partners, looking for new ones; New skills, realization of social potential, Helping children with cancer life experience, spiritual growth and the • increasing number of employees respect of colleagues – these are the things engaged in social projects; An oncology center can resemble a war zone: there’s a day-and-night struggling for life, the Company’s volunteers receive by • seeking new forms of the volunteers’ medical resources need regular replenishparticipating in the CSR projects: participation in social projects; ment and donated blood is used to save lives. • Market development initiatives • extending coverage of educational The Company is continuing its Salary • Education projects projects in terms of geography and Deduction Program, which allows for providnumber of participants; • Ecological initiatives ing medication to a number of kids (27 last • Charity programs • ensuring easier access to educational year) undergoing treatment in Kyiv and projects for students in the regions; Donetsk. The aid is direct, going either to the During 2011, about 35% of employees kids’ parents getting funneled through • improving communication tools; received the Company’s acknowledgment volunteers who work in almost all ukrainian for their participation in various CSR • supporting new socially-oriented hospitals. We buy medication, pay for initiatives. The most proactive people projects. diagnostics, help raise funds for surgeries and received additional vacation days to 50 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine Report parameters This is the third Corporate Responsibility The Lead Committee has been The structure of the report corresponds to Report prepared for the Ernst & Young established to: Ernst & Young’s overall approach to practice in Ukraine. corporate responsibility and presents • define the format of the report and the information in four chapters: Workplace, It covers the activities of the two offices report preparation schedule; Marketplace, Environment and Community. located in Kyiv and Donetsk during financial • agree on the approach to the scope of the The Report describes the Company’s year 2011, i.e. the period from 1 July 2010 report with regard to GRI criteria; performance in the economic, social and to 30 June 2011. • evaluate the results of the feedback survey environmental areas whenever the effect The prior report was issued in May 2011 for the Report 2010; may be considered as significant. It is and covered the period from 1 July 2009 • ensure the accuracy, completeness and prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global to 30 June 2010. reliability of the information collected. Reporting Initiative) G3 sustainability guideline. Representatives of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Human The Report was reviewed by the Company’s Resources, the Procurement Team and specialists in the area of non-financial Marketing/PR have joined the Lead reporting and sustainable development. Committee. Our intention is to continue reporting on corporate responsibility on a yearly basis. Contact information Your feedback on the Report is important for us. We look forward to receiving your comments and will be ready to answer your questions at the following address: Natalia.Telenkova@ua.ey.com. Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 51 GRI G3 disclosures and performance indicators, UNGC principles table GRI disclosures Short description Page, UNGC and indicators comments principle 1.1 Statement on corporate responsibility strategy from the chief executive 3 I–X 2.1 Name of the organisation 4 2.2 Primary brands, services 5 2.3 Operational structure 6 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 2.7 Markets served 5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 6,7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, There were no significant or ownership changes apart from partners number changed from 16 to 14 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 27 3.1 Report period 3, 51 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 51 3.3 Reporting cycle 51 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 51 3.5 Process for defining report content 51 3.6 Boundary of the report 51 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report No limitations 3.8 Basis for reporting on other entities that can significantly affect comparability No other entities from period to period 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine GRI disclosures Short description Page, comments UNGC and indicators principle 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier The approach to reports community investment data changed (p. 40, 50): expenses for educational projects for orphans in 2011 are included into “Educational projects” chapter, in 2010 they were disclosed as charitable expenses 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or No significant changes measurement methods 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standards disclosures 52 54 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 6-8 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 5 4.3 The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or No independent or non-executive members non-executive members of governance body 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction 12 15 to the highest governance body I, II, III 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 3, 7, 11, 25, 34, 40, VI X relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance 43, 45, 4.13 Membership in associations and (inter)national advocacy organizations 29 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation List is presented on page 10 of 2010 Report (www.ey.com/About-us/ Corporate-Responsibility) 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Basis for identification of stakeholders is presented on page 10 of 2010 Report (www.ey.com/ About-us/CorporateResponsibility) EC1 Economic performance 6 EC5 Relevant comparison of wages 19 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 40, 50 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement EN1 Materials used 39 EN 4 Energy used 38 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of services 34 39 VII, VIII, IX Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 53 GRI disclosures Short description Page, comments UNGC and indicators principle EN27 Percentage of materials collected for recycling 5, 38, 39 VII, VIII, IX LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 9 LA2 TTotal number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 9 V LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 100% of employees І VІ or part-time employees recieve annual performace review and suggestions about possible career development LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 10 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 10 reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according 25 I, II, VI to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 28 30 VI SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and 25, 26 X procedures SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 28 30 GRI application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self declared √ Third party checked Optional GRI checked 54 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine List of abbreviations used in the Report ACCA Association of Chartered Certified Accountants FSC Forest Stewardship Council ASQ Assessment Service Quality FY Fiscal year B2B Business to Business GMC Global Management Challenge CBS Core Business Services GRI Global Reporting Initiative CCaSS Climate Change and Sustainability Services HR Human Resources CFA Chartered Financial Analyst IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards CIA Certified Internal Auditor IT Informational Technologies CIMA Chartered Institute of Management Accountants KMA Kyiv Mohyla Academy CIS Commonwealth of Independent States LDS Leadership Development Seminar CISA Certified Information Systems Auditor LED Light-emitting diode CISM Certified Information Security Manager NGO Non-governmental Organisation CISSP Certified Information Systems Security Professional PAC People Advisory Council CPA Certified Public Accountant PC Personal computer CR Corporate Responsibility PET Polyethylene terephthalate CRM Client Relationship Management PMP Project Management Professional CSR Corporate Social Responsibility SIFE Students in Free Enterprise EBA European Business Association TAS Transaction Advisory Support EOY Entrepreneur of the Year UN United Nations EYU Ernst & Young and You UNGC United Nations Global Compact Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. Ernst & Young Ukraine 55 Ernst & Young Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About Ernst & Young Ernst & Young is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. Worldwide, our 152,000 people are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by helping our people, our clients and our wider communities achieve their potential. Ernst & Young expands its services and resources in accordance with clients’ needs throughout the CIS. 4000 professionals work at 18 offices in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Novosibirsk, Ekaterinburg, Kazan, Krasnodar, Togliatti, Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Almaty, Astana, Atyrau, Baku, Kyiv, Donetsk, Tashkent, Tbilisi, Yerevan, and Minsk. Ernst & Young established its practice in Ukraine in 1991. Ernst & Young Ukraine now employs more than 500 professionals providing a full range of services to a number of multinational corporations and Ukrainian enterprises. For more information, please visit www.ey.com/ua. Ernst & Young refers to the global organization of member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. © 2012 Ernst & Young LLC All Rights Reserved.
