Case study : Head Office Jun 2012 – Progress on UN Global Compact Adrian Penfold, Head of Planning and Corporate Responsibility, confirms our ongoing support for the UN Global Compact. We mark the second anniversary of our signing of the United Nations Global Compact with our latest communication on progress. 8,000 The Compact is an initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations with ten universally With more than 8,000 participants accepted principles governing human rights, labour, the environment and anti­corruption. spread across 130 countries, British Land remains the only UK Real Estate By doing so, business can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways Investment Trust to have signed up. that benefit economies and societies everywhere. When Chief Executive of British Land, Chris Grigg, added our signature to the Compact, he expressed our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Managing our environmental, Just over two years later, our Head of Planning and Corporate Responsibility, Adrian Penfold, confirms that economic and social impacts is we continue to support these principles through our corporate responsibility programme. central to the way we do business Our UN Global Compact Index 2012 signposts where information on our progress against the UN Global and to delivering value for our Compact principles can be found, including in our 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report. Performance shareholders. highlights include 27% less landlord­influenced energy use than our 2009 baseline, reducing carbon Adrian Penfold, Head of Planning and emissions by 24,500 tonnes and saving occupiers £3.3 million over the last three years. Corporate Responsibility The Index also outlines our planned future actions, such as revising our training and induction programmes, and developing a showcase sustainable building. Our participation in the UN Global Compact is part of the broader array of benchmarks we use to measure and guide performance, and to support our market­leading initiatives on the sustainability issues that matter most to us and key stakeholders. We are listed on both the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the FTSE4Good Index. We were also recognised as a leading UK REIT on several key sustainability indices including Management Today’s Most Admired Companies in Britain for community and environmental responsibility 2011, and the CDP FTSE 350 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 2011. Ten universally accepted principles: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, 5. The effective abolition of child labour, and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and © British Land 2012 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. For our UN Global Compact Index 2012, visit our Full Data Report © British Land 2012
