KASESE UNITED HUMANIST ASSOCIATION Opp. Kasese Humanist Primary School P.O.Box 58 Kasese, Uganda Tel: +256 785 195561 Email: info.kuha@gmail.com Website: www.kaseseunitedhumanist.webs.com SUBJECT: COP REPORT ON ACTIVITIES OF KASESE UNITED HUMANIST ASSOCIATION (KUHA) IN REGARD TO PROMOTING THE 10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES On behalf of Kasese United Humanist Association i am happpy to pass on this information in regard to our activities aimed at promoting the UN Global Compact Principles. Since the time we were assigned to be a participant we have tried our level best to ensure we post the UN Global Compact Principles on our two websites and can be seen here http://www.kaseseunitedhumanist.webs.com and http://www.kasesehumanistschool.webs.com This display of these principles has been on our websites for close to 8 months and we continue having them there. Our websites are visited by quite a numbe of people in hundreds and we believe many people are reading them or else copying them for their consumption. As our organization runs a school project under the names Kasese Humanist Primary School, we have tried to print out these principles and hanged them in all class rooms, Staff Room and drill lessons have been given to both the Teachers and the Students in regard to these principles one by one. Our children are trained in a such away that they have to ask many questions and we as Adminstrators of the school plus the support of the Teachers, we have been instrumental in dessiminating out these principles to the children. Some copies of the principles have been piled in both the office of the School Head Teacher and that of our Organizational Office and have been availed to any visitor to take home and teach others about the same. On December 4th. 2011, at the school we held the First Anniversary /Parents Day of Kasese Humanist Primary School and more than 150 Parents and influential Political Heads and Representatives of the Ministry of Education were invited and the UN Global Compact Principles were read to the gathering. We have managed to move and distribute copies of the principles to sister schools so that they get to know about the UN Global Compact. Schools visted were Syakwira Model Primary School in Munkunyu Sub county, Kanyampara, Karambi Secondary School, Bwera Secondary School, Bright Academy secondary School and Railway Primary School all in Kasese District. We are however requesting the UN Global Compact, Uganda Chapter to keep us posted on all latest developments as there seems to be improper flow of information and strategic plans in regard to the Global Compact Activities. This year Kasese United Humanist Association is looking at a way of procuring a Public Address System such that it is in position to organize open talk debates on the principles one by one in any part within Kasese Municipality and beyond. We are also interested in reaching out to the locals through use of the Local FM Radio Stations by airing out programs on these principles but the main challenge we have is meeting of the charges on these radios as we are still a small and growing organization. We are also going to engage in briquette making where bio fuels in form of briquettes are going to be made locally here in Kasese with aid of Briquette Machines which the organization bought from Enviro Coal Uganda. 2 Machines were purchased and we are piloting whether the project is going to work. We are looking at this as a solution to reduce on the tension of exploiting the wood for charcoal. This is my brief report on what we are doing in regard to the UN Global Compact Principles awareness to our people. Written out by : Bwambale Robert Founder/Executive Director Kasese United Humanist Association (KUHA) Part of the Teaching Staff at Kasese Humanist Primary School Some of the Students at Kasese Humanist Primary School, a school founded by KUHA
