The Report of Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Declaration of Global Impact 2009 Publication Date 2011 1 Publication Prepared By Canan KIZILALTUN (Turkish Version) Yusuf Biliç KEVİNÇ (English Version Edit) Bursa Nilüfer Municipality Plan and Project Department R&D and Foreingn Relation Office Communication Bursa Nilüfer Municipality Karaman Mh. Kültür Cd. No:2 Nilpark AVM Kat 2-3 16130 Nilüfer/Bursa www.nilufer.bel.tr http://kss.nilufer.bel.tr kss@nilufer.bel.tr 2 CONTENTS 1 ABOUT THE REPORT 4 2 ABOUT THE GLOBAL COMPACT 5 3 GLOBAL COMPACT DECLARATION OF SUPPORT 6 4 MAYOR’S MESSAGE 7 5 NİLÜFER COUNTY AND NİLÜFER MUNICIPALITY 8 6 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH AND APPLICATIONS 12 6A HUMAN RIGHTS IN NİLÜFER 13 6B OCCUPATIONAL LIFE IN NİLÜFER 16 6C HEALTHY AND ENVIRONMENT FRİENDLY NİLÜFER 20 6D CIVIL DEFENSE IN NİLÜFER 29 6E HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL HERITAGE İN NİLÜFER 30 6F SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT İN NİLÜFER 31 6G CULTURAL ACTIVITIES IN NİLÜFER 37 6H SPORTS IN NİLÜFER 40 3 1. ABOUT THE REPORT Its Aim and Period Included This report has been prepared in order to present the performance of the Corporate Social Responsibility signed by Nilüfer Municipality in 18 December 2006 within the Global Compact to its partners. The determination of the scope of the report has based on 2008 and 2009 calendar years. Our Reporting Principles The details of the activities given in this report are being published within the Annual Activity Reports according to legal obligations and shared to public following the approval of the Municipal Council. Accelerating her challenges on redefining the Corporate Social Responsibility approach in 2007 through self-evaluation and EFQM European Quality Awards application process, Nilüfer Municipality has chosen to make C Type reporting which also includes Global Reporting Initiative indicators (GRI-G3) within the proper topics in this second Corporate Social Responsibility Report while pursuing the Communication On Progress Principals of the United Nations Global Compact. Its Scope 2008-2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Bursa Municipality of Nilüfer includes all necessary elements of Global Compact Communicaton on Progress and the report comprehends all service units of the municipality. The declaration of the Administration expressing the continuity of the support to Global Compact  The statement about the measures taken for practising the Global Compact principles  The survey about current or estimated conclusions/outputs  This report has been printed limitedly in order to minimize the environmental impact, but can be accessed by all partners over our website. 4 2. ABOUT THE GLOBAL COMPACT In the World Economic Forum held in 31 January 1999, United Nations (UN) Secretary General Kofi Annan asked the leaders of the business world to support the Global Compact which is an international initiative. This initiative aims that the companies, public institutions, United Nations organizations, vocational and non-governmental organizations come together and challenge through common vision, objectives and values. Global Impact tries to popularize the responsible citizen notion in order that the agencies and the institutions support to eliminate the negative effects of globalization by benefiting the power of collective movement. Thus, by cooperating with the private sector and the other social partners, it aims “to provide a sustainable and comprehensive global economy” which is its main vision. Global Compact is totally a volunteer movement which has two main objectives: • Mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world • Catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals The UN Global Compact is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and to provide a space for innovation. Global Compact is a “network”. In its center there lies the “Global Compact” office and six UN organizations: Office on Human Rights Commission, UN Environmental Programme, International Labor Organization, UN Development Programme, UN Industrial Development Organization, UN Office on Drugs and Crimes. GLOBAL COMPACTS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employmentand occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 5 3. GLOBAL COMPACT DECLARATION OF SUPPORT Number : C-02-108 Date : 18th December 2006 Subject : Supporting Global Compact Kofi Annan Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Nilufer Municipality supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment both to our employees, partners and citizens. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. Please find attached some general information regarding our company as well as the contact person responsible for contacts with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Mr. Mustafa BOZBEY Mayor of Nilufer Municipality 6 4. MAYOR’S MESSAGE 22 years passed since Nilüfer has been constituted as a provincial municipality in 1987. All services, activities and projects of us to be a model and leader local administration in Turkey, are launched for the sake of “creating a sustainable city”. In our modern and innovative administrative mentality; we have adopted a model based on “integrated urban development” and shaped with the common efforts of our employees, partners and citizens. Because; we believe that the thing that makes a place “a city”, the thing that turns a concrete heap full of houses and streets into a place having a “spirit” and “identity” is the “collective culture” of the city. And we also believe that the essential basis of sustainable development are the local authorities that are democratic, showing respect to human rights, transparent, participative and giving account before the public. Nilüfer Municipality, reflects the vision of “known internationally, being the model and leader administrative institution of Turkey” to her Corporate Social Responsibility mentality by her administrative perfection and serving standarts developing continuously. By the first Corporate Social Responsibility Report, we aim to “expose our awareness” and to “create awareness” in our society. Our goal is to sustain our leadership in local authorities and added value by advancing the participative, corporate and ethic administrative mentality and standarts. The awareness to human rights, environment and labor standarts that we declared our support by signing the Global Compact, will continue to be the basis of our administrative mentality. We will develop our efforts that we started in order to reflect this awareness to all our related partners towards our corporate principles of “transparency” and “accountability”, and spread them to our society and its corporations in the future. Foremost our employees, i feel gratitude to our city council, partners, vendors and to our citizens -who are decisive about our performancewho supported us in our success. I greet everyone who put effort on this mission. Mustafa Bozbey Mayor 7 5. NİLÜFER COUNTY AND NİLÜFER MUNICIPALITY Type of Municipality Metropolitan Municipality Central District Establishment Date 1987 Center Population (1990) 36.897 Center Population (2000) 136.311 Center Population (2008) 212.194 Center Population (2009) 269.371 Municipal Borders Acreage 23.324 ha. Total Adjacent Area 27.432 ha. Neighbourhoods Ahmet Yesevi, Alaaddinbey, Altınşehir, Ataevler, Balat, Barış, Beşevler, Cumhuriyet, Çamlıca, Demirci, Ertuğrul, Esentepe, Fethiye, Gümüştepe, Işıktepe, İhsaniye, Karaman, Konak, Kültür, Minareliçavuş, Odunluk, Özlüce, Üçevler, Ürünlü, Yüzüncüyıl, Akçalar Kurtuluş, Akçalar Zafer, Çalıi Gölyazı Bayır, Gölyazı Merkez, Görükle Sakarya, Görükle Dumlupınar, Görükle Kurtuluş, Görükle Zafer, Görükle İrfaniye, Görükle Gökçe, Görükle Büyükbalıklı, Hasanağa, Hasanağa Kızılcıklı, Kayapa Çamlık, Kayapa İstiklal, Kayapa Zafer. Villages in Adjacent Area Atlas, Badırga, Dağyenice, Doğanköy, İnegazi, Kadriye, Üçpınar, Yaylacık, Yolçatı, Konaklı, Ayvaköy, Başköy, Çatalağıl, Çalı, Fadıllı, Güngören, Karacaoba, Korubaşı, Kuruçeşme, Maksempınar, Tahtalı, Unçukuru Memberships Union of Municipalities of Marmara Region, Union of Municipalities of Bursa, Union of International Protection of Intellectual and Industrial Property Rights, Union of Historical Towns of Turkey, Turkish Healthy Cities Association, Turkish Quality Association (Kalder), European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM), European Cycle Route Network (Eurovelo) Cities for Climate Protection Union, European Healthy Cities Network Sister Cities Hungary / (Balatonfüred), Bulgaria/ Ardino (Eğridere), Ukraine/ Nikolayev, Romania / Braila, TurkeyMuğla / Dalyan, Azerbaijan -Baku / Nizami, Japan – Tokai, Cuba Havana / Cerro, Sweden / Umea – 8 Awards and Certificates 2000 Progressive Journalists Association Bursa Branch “Award for Contribution to Culture and Art” 2002 TS EN ISO 9001:2000 Quality System Management Certificate Atatürk Culture, Language and History High Institution Special Award 2003 Kalder Competence in Perfection Cetificate in National Quality Award 2004 EFQM Europen Local and Regional Public Administrations Jury’s Special Award Karaman Governorship “Turkish Language Award” 2005 TÜSİAD and Turkish Infirmatics Foundation “National Electronic Turkey (e-TR)” Award City and Mayor Journal “City Awards” “Mayor of the Year Award” 2006 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Certificate Kalder National Quality Award Success Award Cultural Heritage and Historical Urban Fabric Protection and Sustenance Project “Promotion Award” Anatolian Local Authorities Journal “Local Administrator of the Year Award” in “Environment and Health” Category 2007 TS EN ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificate 2008 EFQM European Quality Awards Finalist Certificate Personal Secretary Journal “Local Authority Award” T.C. MBBB “Environment and Infrastructure Projects Award” 2009 Bursa Young Enterprenurs and Governance Association “Mayor of the Year’ 2009 Bursa Rotary Clubs Honour at Service Award 9 Mission • To perform reliable municipal services relevant to modern life standards to Nilüfer citizens • To contribute to sustainable development of Bursa • To share experience and knowledge as a model for the excellence of local administrations in Turkey. Vision (2014) “To be a model and leader local government in Turkey and internationally well-known with service standards and in organisational excellence” Values • To produce preferential and human oriented services • To deliver better services with the logic of continuous improvement and contact more people with less resources • To think environment-friendly in all process and try to give minimum adverse effect to environment • To be sensitive about gender equality in our services, taking into consideration that people have different needs and expectations • To operate in the awareness of our social responsibility that arise from being an institution which exists for serving the public Quality Policy In accordance with the human oriented management perception, we undertake to • Provide sustainable and reliable services in quality, to meet the current and future requirements/expectations of stakeholders • Increase the quality of life and awareness of living in a city • Establish approaches for the stakeholders to participate in management • Ensure the continuous improvement of effectiveness and efficiency of service processes with reviewing in accordance to Business Excellence Model. • Increase the perception of stakeholders. 10 Occupational Health and Safety Policy In order to establish occupational health and safety culture,we undertake to • Protect the health and ensure safety of our employees, suppliers, guests in priority • Reduce work accidents by allocating recources with monitoring and determination of risky situations • Conform with the law and legal arrangement related to occupational health and safety • Organize the necessary trainings to increase the awareness of our employees about occupational health and safety • Ensure continuous improvement on occupational health and safety with participation of people. Environmental Policy Being aware of the fact that the environment is the common asset of all living creatures, we undertake • Implement policies and strategies for sustainable development • Establish an environmental management system and with continuous improvement, increase life quality • Develop approaches for preventing and reducing environmental pollution • Provide the efficient use of natural resources and energy • Ensure our society live in a healthy environment • Reduce wastes in source and provide recycling • Create a social awareness about environmental protection, solution of environmental problems and prevention of pollution. Social Responsibility Policy In order to guarantee “conformance” and “sustainability” of activities and services; we undertake society; development and keeping active the governance beyond the legal necessities both inside and outside. Transportation Policy We undertake to give human-oriented transportation services including women, pedestrians, riders and disadvantaged groups (children, aged, disabled people). 11 Equality Policy In accordance with integrating gender equality into local goverment concept we undertake to make partnership with our stakeholders and determine strategies for increasing the participation of women in decision making processes and make daily conditions of women better. Policy For Handicapped With the aim of increasing living standards for handicapped citizens, including the freedom to make their own choices, and independence, we undertake to: • Respect for their human dignity and individual autonomy • Non-discrimination • Enable full and active participation in society • Equal opportunity • Accessibility • Gender equality • Ensure respect for the rights of handicapped children maintaining their own identity and capability of development. Nilüfer Municipality determines her main policies and priorities in accordance with being a public institution which serves whole partners. In determination of the priorities the opinions and demands of the partners are being regarded. For determining the priorities on the basis of quarters and planning the requirements, a table of quarter information is being established by using the statistical database, survey results and records of the applications of the citizens. This table is being used in determining the strategical plan and the budget. In order to make Nilüfer a city of health, education, science, sports, culture and art and thus raising the life quality, our projects are being prioritized regarding the requirements of the quarters. 12 6. OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH AND APPLICATIONS 6A.Human Rights in Nilüfer Nilüfer Municipality; In accordance with our urban governance commitment, “through the fact that the essential base of a sustainable development is local administrations which are democratic, respectful to human rights, transparent, participant and accountable, creating a solidarist and organized society within the framework of accountability by providing participation in decision making and implementation processes”. Our approach, includes the principles of Global Compact related to Human Rights. According to these principles Nilüfer Municipality, Principle 1 Shows respect and gives support to protect the global rights (of all partners )in her domains. Principle 2 Ensures that her own institutions don’t get involved in human rights violations. Principle 3 Shows respect to the reputability, privacy and personal benefits of the individuals. Principle 4 Shows respect to the differences of the individuals such as race, origin, religion, gender, social class, nationality, age physical handicaps. Principle 5 Provides equal opportunities to whole workers about personal development and career. Principle 6 Shows respect to the union rights of her workers. Human Rights Boxes “Human Rights Boxes” are placed in Ataevler Communication Unit, in Service Desk in City Hall, in Property Tax Desk in İhsaniye and in Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 office, in order to help citizens to deliver their complaints about human rights. Boxes are being opened once a week and the requests are delivered to Nilüfer District Governorship. Equality Unit The objectives of Equality Unit established in our Municipality are, “For implementing the gender mainstreaming approach to local management approach, determining policies and strategies aimed at increasing the participation of women decision making processes and amending the daily life conditions of women, and also providing the cooperation and coordination with all partners”. A survey has been arranged in order to measure the awareness level of the municipal employees about the gender mainstreaming and planning her activities through that direction and training topics have been determined through the results. It carried out the 13 application and preparation term activities of the TUSEQUAL project with the R&D and EU Relations Office. On 06 January 2010, a presentation about “Gender Mainstreaming and Local Politics” had been given to Nilüfer Mayor Mustafa BOZBEY, Council Members and Nilüfer Municipality employees by Turkey Coordianator of Europe Women Lobby, İlknur ÜSTÜN. In the activitiy which had been organized in Konak Culture House, the story of Equality Unit had been told that was established under the framework of Nilüfer Municipality. Knowledge Acquisition Office Proper to equality, impartiality and clarity principles, which are the requirements of democratic and transparent administration, the Office serves to the Right of Knowledge Acquisition according to Knowledge Acquisition Law Number 4982. Knowledge Acquisition Applications 2008 2009 Total Application 214 56 Responded positively and access to documents provided 193 56 Responded partially positively and partially refused and access to documents provided Total refused applications 21 Access to documents provided after removing the secret or confident information Applications transferred to other corporations/institutions Legal objections against refused applications Ethical Commission Nilüfer Municipality Ethical Commission was established and start its actions in March 2009 on grounds of the “Regulation about the Ethical Behaviour Principles and Application Methods and Essentials of Public Officials”. Ethical Commission holds stated meetings once in every 3 months and holds extraordinary meetings in case of emergency. The stated meetings also held in 2009. In the 29th Article of the Regulation about the Ethical Behaviour Principles and Application Methods and Essentials of Public Officials, the formation and duties of the Ethical Commission are defined as follows. 14 “In agencies and institutions, an Ethical Commission of at least 3 in-house members should be established by the top director of the agency or the instituution, in order to pose and develop the ethical culture, to conduct and consult the employees about the problems of ethical behaviour principals and to evaluate the ethical implementations. The tenure of the members of the Ethical Commission and other issues should be determined by the top director of the agency or the institution. The personal backgrounds and the contact information of the members of the Ethical Commission should be delivered to the Board in three months. Ethical Commission works in cooperation with the Board.” Activities of Committee of Inspection In our country, by the legal regulations for fighting corruption, precautions are taken through social awareness raising. As an extension of this, Committee of Inspection Directorship has been established in our Municipality. The directorship which is affiliated directly to Mayor, is responsible for periodic auditing of other directorships, preparing detailed reports about the auditing results, showing determined faults and performing legal actions about the personnel causing these faults, consulting Mayor in demanded issues, and making examinations and inspections about the issues inherited by Mayor. Action Files 2008 2009 Disciplinary Proceeding 1 Inspection Report 1 2 Number of Inspected Directorships 10 17 Bidding and Merchandising Services According to current State Bidding Law No: 2886, buying, selling, hiring and carriage works done by “İ” ruler monetary limits and according to Public Tender Act No: 4734 product purchase, building and service works merchandising operation are being made. Direct supply bidding are being made. Bidding can be made by announcements on web sites or newspapers, by website of Public Procurement Agency. Postbidding contracts are made. Movable operation forms are arranged. All movable goods are being recorded and monitored. Donations are being made. Brokerage operations are being made in bidding performed by Bursa Discharging Exploitation Branch Management and in bidding sales performed by Court Bailiffs. 15 Internal Control and Pre-Financial Control Our Municipality has launched the “Internal Control and Pre-Financial Control” system on the basis of determining the principles, works, operations and processes related to prosecution of internal control and pre-financial control operations. Through the related legislation, activities given below are being done. Internal Control Activities, include the financial and other controls including organization, method, process and internal control determined by the management for; proper to goals, objectives, determined policies of corporation and proper to legislation, prosecution of activities efficiently, aconomically and productively, protection of properties and resources, keeping the acoount records right and accurate, producing the financial and administral knowledge on time and reliable. Pre-Financial Control, include the controls about using the resources efficiently, economically and productively; coherence of budget, usable subsidy amount, expenditure programme, financing programme to central government budget law and other financial legislation. 6B. Occupational Life in Nilüfer Municipality Operations within Human Resources And Training Directorship are done depending to; Law of Civil Servants No:657, Law of Municipalities No: 5393, Law of State Retirement Fund No: 5434, Law of Labor No: 4857, Law of Social Insurance, Law of Unions, 5510 Law of Social Insurances and General Health Insurance, Law of Strike and Lockout, Circulars, Legislation, Legislative Decrees, Collective Labor Agreement and Civil Servants Union Agreement. Human Resources Evaluation Board Following the 2009 local elections, working boards have been established within the Municipality and thus a different governance comprehension has been revealed in terms of transparent governance concept. The board which consists of Human Resources Manager, Plan and Project Manager, Representatives of the Labor and Civil Servant Unions congregates regularly and evaluates the following agenda.  Personnel recruiting  Personnel disemployment  Personnel translocation  Career planning  Performance evaluation  Proposal System and rewarding  Personnel lodging demands  Performance evaluation  In house personnsel activities etc. 16 First Comes Human and Satisfaction of Workers Our policy and strategy related to Human Resources Management, is being defined in Strategic Plan and revised annually in Administrative Revision Meeting. In this context, the strategy of “being the best municipality to work for” defined in 2002, has been revised in 2004 and under the main strategic objective of “excellence of management quality”, has began being examined more detailed as “trust” and “satisfaction” objectives. Thus, moving from the point of “First Comes Human”, intended to the absence of qualified personnel employment because of the political and legal changes in public institutions, the satisfaction of our workers that we accept as service partners, has bring forward. Results of Workers Satisfaction Survey are given as % in table below. Indicators (%) 2007 2008 2009 General Satisfaction 76 79 71 Satisfaction, participation, Commitment 79 80 72 Priding and using the potential 86 92 86 Leadership and management 76 83 75 Determining goal, management of perfection and performance 52 60 52 Training and career development 72 76 67 Communication 84 85 84 Working conditions 72 75 65 Union Rights In our municipality, collective contract is being made and implemented with workers and civil servants union systematically. Collective contract is being implemented to workers since 1987 and to civil servants since 2006. Nilüfer Municipality is the first in Bursa center municipalities to make a collective contract and made significant rehabilitation in payments. Same ratio rehabilitation has been made to temporary office workers payments and the principle of “equal payment for equal work” has been adopted.. By the year 2009, whole workers (including the permanent workers who were temporary according to Law Number 5620) and %97 of civil servants are union members. 17 Personnel Situation 2008 2009 Civil Servant 174 233 Staffed Workers 170 238 Temporary Union Member Workers Temporary Office Workers Contracted Personnel 2 22 By Vendors 168 196 TOTAL 514 689 Equal Opportunities and Equality Unit In our municipality when employing or promoting, equality of opportunities is essential. In our employment policy, no discrimination like gender, ethnic, origin, social statue, being disabled etc is allowed, educational opportunities are given to everyone. In vertical, horizontal or intra-group assignments, our priority is to use current workers. The Equality Unit that is established within our Municipality, is performing actions “for implementing the gender mainstreaming approach to local management approach, determining policies and strategies aimed at increasing the participation of women decision making processes and amending the daily life conditions of women, and also providing the cooperation and coordination with all partners”. As an extension of this goal, as well as the strategic plans and services of our municipality, evaluation of intra-municipal implementings by gender equality perspective is the responsibility of the unit. Career Development and Performance Rating System (PRS) In our municipality the most important input for career development is PRS. Career development of our staff is being monitored by PRS since 2002. By the revised system in 2005, directorship-office and person based performance rating, 360 degrees behaviour surveys and management systems have started to be made on target performance level. By the latest revision in 2007 results of Strategic Plan Performance, Management Systems Discordance Performance, Informatic Performance, Budget Performance, Process Performance and Workers Satisfaction Surveys by 360 Degree Behaviour Rating and Citizens Satisfaction Surveys integrated and transferred to electronic environment. This operation is the very first in public sector and according to Workers Satisfaction Survey, the satisfaction of the personnel reached %87 in 2006 and 2007. 18 Personnel oriented social activities Social and cultural activities are orginized to develop our municipalities personnels’ communication also outside their workplace environment.the These activities are mentioned below.  İftar meal  Establishment anniversary meal  Participation to Cultural and Social activities  Bowling tournament  Backgammon tournament  Soccer tournament Management Systems Bursa Nilüfer Municipality is using European Foundation of Quality Management (EFQM) Excellence Model, in order to “continue the corporate management approach beyond the terms determined by elections cycles” and operating through international management systems (ISO 9000 Quality Management System, ISO 14000 Environmental Management System and ISO 18000 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been integrated into Quality and Environment Management Systems and thus all exercises have been planned in common through an integrated comprehension. The studies made in 2009 is as follows.  Following the affiliation of the towns all risk analyses have been re-evaluated.  Periodic maintenance, calibrations and repairs of all facilities and equipment have been done.  For the doctors of vendor companies Nova and Karacan Cleaning , a room provided in Health Center and the employees have been informed about the consultation days. The content of the OHS notice board has been updated.  An investigation about the dangerous items for environment, people and employees in the unsanitary disposal areas in Hasanağa and Akçalar towns has been made and the results has been reported. The disposal area has been abolished and covered thus the risk has been reduced. Work uniforms, shoes and personal protection materials have been delivered to the employees.  Employees of the vendor companies have been informed about the necessary work uniforms, shoes and personal protection materials.  Employees of the vendor companies who work at Veterinary and Cleaning Services Departments had pulmonary, otorhinolaryngology, and porter screenings.  Annual controls of the lightning rods and electrical installations have been made.  Occupational Health and Safety training have been given to the employees.  The whole new employees and the ones who came from the towns have received the Quality, Environment and Occupational Health and Safety training within the orientation training. 19  OHS Unit Representatives have been informed about the occupational accidents and notices, a circular about this issue have been prepared and delivered to all departments.  Employees received training about preventing respiratory tract infections.  Fire extinguishing team has been trained and made drill.  Search and rescue team received earthquake training.  Periodical consultations of 174 employees have been made.  First consultation of 54 employees have been made and working reports prepared.  Within the first step polyclinic services oriented to the workers of the corporation, 2146 polyclinic, 2707 nursery services have been given. 6C.Healthy and environment friendly Nilüfer Our Approach and Commitment Bursa Nilüfer Municipality, starting from 2005, with the awareness of creating “healthy city, healthy citizen” is exercising for World Health Organization Healthy Cities Project. After a long and detailed analysis, Nilüfer City Health Profile has been completed in 2007. With the information gathered by this profile, 2008-2013 Nilüfer City Urban Health Development Action Plan has been prepared in 2008. Our approach to sustainable environment, is defined in our Environment Policy. By our environment policy, based on the fact that the environment belongs to all creatures, we commit to;  Implementing the policies determined for sustainable development and improvement,  Establishing and amending continuously an environmental management system to increase the quality of life,  Building up methods to prevent and reduce environmental pollution,  Providing the productive use of natural resources and energy,  Guaranteeing the living of society in a healthy environment,  Providing recycling and reducing the waste at the source,  Increasing the social awareness about protecting the environment, preventing the pollution and solving the problems. Principle 7 Nilüfer Municipality supports the precautionary approaches through environmental issues. Principle 8 Nilüfer Municipality supports all actions and constitution to raise the environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Nilüfer Municipality supports the improvement and proliferation of environment friendly technologies. 20 Healthy Cities Project Office Within the Healthy City Project, in 2009, the decisions about the meetings of Nilüfer Health Platform, application to the World Health Organization Healthy Cities Network 5th Phase Membership that covers the 2009-2013 period have been taken and the application of the membership have been made. Nilüfer Health Platform has been established and 7 meetings have been held. WHO Healthy Cities Network 5th Phase Membership Nilüfer Municipality has applied for the direct membership for the WHO Healthy Cities Network in May 2009, the application has been examined by the advisors and experts of the WHO and the membership has been approved on grounds of the acceptance of having the awareness of ‘Healthy City’ in 4 November 2009. The inclusive theme of the 5th Phase is ‘Health in All Local Policies and Equality in Health’. The selected cities are expected to challenge for human focused and supportive environments, healthy living and healthy urban plannings Environment Management System Bursa Nilüfer Municipality established ISO 14000 Environment Management System in 2007 in order to decrease and follow the effects of its activities and services and to set its works in a standard system. In this system scope, by creating Table of Environment Effect Evaluation, the environment dimensions about our 48 municipality activies which effects environment was determined. These dimensions roles importantly for determining environment policy, environment purposes and targets in followingmeasuring activities and continiuous improvement projects. Targets and realizations about environment effects of our activities are taking part in the table below. 2007 2008 2009 ENVIRONMENT TARGETS TARGET REALIZATION TARGET REALIZATION TARGET REALIZATION Decrasing Recyclable ISO Wastes 14001:2000 123,18 kg/person 118 kg/ person 69,2 kg/person 67,8 kg / person 53,43 kg Management Decrasing Dangereous System Wastes Integration 1.294 kg 1.150 kg 1.440 kg 1.368 kg 10.428.61kg * Target Decrasing Consuption of Determination 175,30 166 3.683 3.500 2.359 Electricity Year kwh/person kwh/ person kwh/person kwh/person kwh/person Decrasing Consupmtion of 6,5 3,5 289 275 m3/ 225 Water m3/person m3/person m3/person ** person m3/person 21 Giving Training aimed at Decrasing Waste Packages 60.000 person 28.000 person 30.000 person 30.000 person Collecting Plantal Waste Oil 100% 100% 100% 100% Decrasing Amount of Waste Oil 3,15 ton 291,24 194,16 50 Decrasing Fuel Consumption kg/person kg/person kg/person * A deviation was occured because of being renewal year of rubbishes which complete its life. ** Due to fact that water consumtion follow is not effective in 2007, the result of 2007 and 2008 target is determined wrong. Food Inspection Desk: The desk founded in February 2002, certify and control the sanitary workplaces, 2nd and 3rd class non-sanitary firms, recreation and amusement places open to public through the related legislation; and also controlling the hairdressers, coiffeurs and beauty parlors. In 2008 the desk made 2.531 routine monitoring and complaint controls in food facilities in 2009 made 3000 routine monitoring and complaint controls in 2469 district and adjacent areas. Model Workplace Project: 5 more firms that gets convenience report in all controls made for the safe shopping of our citizens and have the awareness of overstandards quality and sanitary are being gratified by “MODEL WORKPLACE CERTIFICATE”. Within this activity as per the end of 2009, 20 firms received the “Model Workplace Certificate” where 4 of them recalled. Environment Office Activities of Analyzing and Measuring the Environmental and Natural Risks: Environment Office established in 2005, is practicing in assessment about air, water, soil, noise and electromagnetic pollution, determining the risk factors by comparing the results with European and world standards, exercising about eliminating the risks and by the measurements preparing a database and risk map. Detailed information and measurement results about the city can be found in Website of the Office (http://cevre.nilufer.bel.tr) Membership on Cities for Climate Protection Network Nilüfer Municipality which carries out reference practices about the environment, has participated to the network of “Cities for Climate Protection” that has over 1000 members around the world in order to reinforce and extend her practices in this realm. The “Cities for Climate Protection” campaign launched by Local Governments for Sustainability (ICLEI) in 1993 and executed by Regional Environmental Center (REC) Turkey Office in Turkey, supports the mayors who are strong-minded in fighting against climate change about establishing sustainable environmental policies. After participating to the network of the “Cities for Climate Protection” preparations for extending this awareness in Nilüfer and taking the inventory of the greenhouse gas has started. 22 Through the approach that encourages the citizens to use alternative sources of energy, in Nilüfer; the Municipal Council has decided that the illumination of the common use areas of the workplaces and the houses which has more than 3 flats and willing to take license, should be done by sloar energy, in sites with more than 50 flats should collect the rain water and use it for irrigation of the gardens. An environment friendly generation grows in Nilüfer In Nilüfer where multi purposed practices are being carried out in order to create an environmental awareness in the citizens, a generation which is aware of natural issues, which produce solutions and which tries to create an awareness in the society by reference implementations is growing. Within the initiatives of Nilüfer Municipality and the support of Provincial Directorate for National Education, youngsters and children of Nilüfer who carry out works that remind us our responsibility for the future about the environment, have performed the best examples of this in ‘Packing Waste Sculpture Competition’ and waste oil collecting competition. 30 performances from 18 primary schools has participated in the ‘Packing Waste Sculpture Competition’ which was organized among the Primary Schools in Nilüfer for the very first time this year and will be organized traditionally. Interesting sculptures of the children draw great attention. Afterwards all the participant performances have been exhibited in Nilüfer Municipality Service Buildings. Another competition where children showed their awareness about the environment was the waste oil collecting competition which was organized for the very first time this year. Carrying out a reference campaign for bringing in the waste domestic vegetable oil to the economy and preventing the nature from the pollution caused by these waste oil Nilüfer Municipality, first organized training about the issue in the schools in cooperation with the Provincial Directorate of National Education and then collected the waste oil in the waste oil collecting barrels placed in 52 schools in Nilüfer. The great effort of the children ended with collecting 3 tons of waste oil in a very short time. Another reference implementation of the children in Nilüfer about the environment has been carried out by the students of Special Tunçsiper schools Science and Environmental Club. The children who wanted to generate power by the flowing water in Misi Stream within the borders of Nilüfer Municipality, took technical support by Nilüfer Municipality and build a mill mechanism and generated power. Generating a power of 1680 watts which can light 50 energy saving bulbs by the rotation of the mill with 3 m diameter, the students gave an awareness message about evaluating the alternative sources against global warming. Our forestation and saving green fields activities Green Nilüfer Week and Forestry Week celebrations, hobby gardens, Atatürk City Forest, our parks and the usage of fertile soil in parks taken from construction areas, Marital Forest. 23 Parks and Gardens Activities Table 2008 2009 Care Works Total Planting Works Area (m2) 647.693 657.693 Total Public Garden Green Area (m2) 268.280 657.464 Park and Landscaping Activities Total Area (m2) 2.536 11.680 Total Public Garden (units) 7 4 Runway Distance (mt) 920 Runway (units) 3 Recreation Park (units) Play Ground (units) 7 4 Planting Activities Total Sapling (units) 6.9769 4.660 Total Bush (units) 263.777 186.321 Tree Transportation (units) 265 161 Marital Forest (units) 906 881 Pavement Sides (units) 1.775 1.099 Refuge Sapling (units) Refuge Bush (units) Park Area Sapling (units) 3.823 2.519 Park Area Bush (units) 263.777 186.321 Best gardens of the year Municipality organizes gardening trainings every summer and awards the best gardens to encourage public for environment arrangement and to develop environment culture by raising their awareness about subjects like garden maintenance in Nilüfer. Participation of this traditional competition incerases every year. In Nilüfer in the Most Beautiful Garden Competition where 15 sites, 5 private houses and 5 factories competed in 3 categories as house-site and factory gardens many beautiful gardens came up. 24 Green Nilüfer Week Annually between 23-26 September, we are organizing “Automobileless City Week” in order to increase the life and health quality of our citizens, decreasing the traffic and addiction to cars, limiting their affects on climate, raising the awareness and guiding citizens to mass transportation, providing maximum citizen to be aware of benefits of mass transportation and live in a more healthy environment. Cycle House Inaugurated Nilüfer Municipality, has carried out the “100% Cycle” project which aims to bring in a life experience by producing while consuming without giving away our daily habits. The project which is the first to in Bursa has been realized in Nilüfer Municipality hobby gardens. Within the project which was supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Life Plus Youth Programme carried out by the Coca-Cola Turkey in 2005 and Nilüfer Municipality, the sample area of the project consisting of 2 hobby houses and the greenhouse has been opened to visitors. Within the project which is being executed by Başka Association and Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 in cooperation, the 70% of the power demand of the greenhouse is being generated by solar energy. The production are of 100 square meters of the greenhouse where vegetables such as tomato, pepper, cucumber are being grown, is being heated by solar energy system in winter. Indoor market place in Nilüfer Nilüfer Municipality is working hard for establishing healthy and modern market places in town. The market places are being covered by steel construction in order to provide more functionality and a more healthy atmosphere both for the tradesmen and for the citizens. Starting this project in order to improve the conditions of the current market places, Nilüfer Municipality, gives multi function to these market places by utilizing them for sports and cultural activities and as car parking area on free days. International Eskikaraağaç Stork Festival: Lake Uluabat is taken under protection with RAMSAR Convention in 1998. Having the “Living Lake” title Uluabat is one of the most important bird layover and migration area. Lake Uluabat ecosystem is being protected by official institutions, private institutions and NGO’s with “Lake Uluabat Management Plan”. The festival contributes the protection of the lake by stork figure. In the first year of festival the number of attendants were 2.500. This number raised to 5.000 in second year, 8.000 in third year and 10.000 in fourth year. Now the festival is known countrywide. In the festival in 2008, 2 parallel workshops organized and the problems of the region have been discussed. Then 2 trips organized and the activities in villages near Lake Uluabat have been monitored. 25 5. Eskikaraağaç Leylek Festival was realized on 22-23-24 May 2009 with Turkey Wetland Congress where 135 representative of Wetland, who were determined by The Ministry of Environment and Foresty, were participated. In Turkey Wetland Congress which was organized the first time in our country, determination of fundamentals of struggle with common issues of puplic enterprise , NGO, and civil power and improving their cooperation was aimed. After this congress, a trip was organized to Kocaçay Delta and Uluabat Lake Protection Area where are necessary wetlands of Bursa, the festival was started on 23 May with torchlight procession. 15000 person were participated to this festival where Şevval Sam Concert was also realized. Gölyazı Workshop Nilüfer Municipality, who started a series of practices in Gölyazı which is the most prosperous ancient settlement in Nilüfer District, held a workshop in 14-17 October 2009 to discuss how to evaluate this potential, the problems of Gölyazı and the solutions and the future of Gölyazı. In order to take the inventory of the vicinity, before the workshop, ‘Gölyazı Archaeological Evaluation Meeting’ and ‘Gölyazı Reconstruction Plan For Protect Evaluation Meeting’ was held with the participation of expert academicians and architects from various universities. Before the workshop which was organized in cooperation with Nilüfer Municipality, Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 and Uludağ University, series of meetings with Gölyazı citizens and tradesmen were held. The students part of the workshop have discussed “What kind of a Gölyazı do we want?” with the participation of the students from the departments of architecture, urban and regional planning and interior architecture. In the workshop where the opinions of the Gölyazı citizens also shared, workshops with topics ‘Gölyazı Architecture and Urban Planning Process and The Future’, ‘History, Archaeology and Cultural Assets of Gölyazı’, ‘Agriculture-Fishery-Employment and Economic Problems in Gölyazı’, ‘Protection of Lake Uluabat and Environmental Issues’, ‘Infrastructure and Transportation Problems of Gölyazı’ and ‘Tourism and Promotion in Gölyazı’. The goal of the workshops was to draw a road map about how the main of Gölyazı which has a great potential in terms of tourism through its historical and natural features would be solved and how this potential would be evaluated. The festival of Environment Cleaning of Gölyazı In the name of surviving Ulubat Lake, whose title is “Living Lake”, on 5 June World Environment Day conferences and movie presentation about environment organized and public were informed. In The festival, in which was shown an interest by public, environment of Uluabat Lake and Gölyazı was cleaned using gloves and garbage bags. 26 Animal Welfare and Breeding Activities Our activities are, protecting health of animals in municipal borders of Nilüfer, caring, consultation, treatment, vaccination, castration of animals belonging to citizens, providing accommodation services through the demands, finding pet owners for estrays, foremost hydrophobia fighting epidemic diseases and all zoonosis that threats human health, improving and implementing modern methods for controlling the estrays, in Veterinary Works Directorship, insecticide fighting within pesets fighting. In our full-equipped Animal Hospital, in order to rehabilitate our animal friends, diagnosis, treatment and surgery operations are being done by consultants. Our Animal Hotel is a facility formed of open and heated closed airing areas, where pet owners can commend their animals. And by the sound system in all cages, the stress of being away from home is being reduced by classical music. Activities of Fighting Epidemic Diseases 2008 2009 Estrays Dogs 2043 2959 Cats 370 813 Hydrophobia Incidents Observation 38 36 Negative 38 36 Positive Fighting with Pests 2008 2009 Larval Activities 170 7.760 ULV Activities 382 74.032 Closed Area Demand Amount 225 227 Rat fighting Demand Amount 65 417 Storm drain disinfection 27.430 38.374 Green Area (ha) 1.260 721.145 27 Dunghill Disinfection 4.074 3.685 Container Disinfection 24.809 29.943 Animal Hospital Services 2008 2009 Consultation 2.038 2352 Vaccination Combination 325 465 Hydrophobia 279 286 Antiparasitic Implementation 217 272 Surgical Operation OHE 545 445 Castration 464 553 Surgery 186 183 Accommodation and Rehabilitation Services 2008 2009 Hotel/Hostel Dogs 145 151 Cats 11 7 Alley Animals Dogs 1.548 2061 Cats 323 364 Finding Owners Dogs 345 599 Cats 95 110 28 6D. CIVIL DEFENSE IN NİLÜFER Civil Defense Proficiency Activities To take precautions for minimizing the loss of life and property in natural disasters and fires, rescue activities, preparing safety plans for saving municipal workers, facilities, equipment is under responsibility of Civil Defense Proficiency. Training and Exercises 2009 Education given to students and teachers in schools in Civil 1357 Defense Week (5 days) teachers and students Earthquake exercise in Bilecik 5 personnel Search and Rescue Team Fire Extinguishing Exercise (1 day 14 Bursa) personnel Civil Defense Specialists seminar and training (7 days 1 Marmaris) personnel Commemoration Ceremony in Gemlik for the 10th Anniversary 5 of the Marmara Earthquake personnel 42 Fire Extinguishing Training and Exercise (1 day) personnel Nilüfer Search and Rescue Team (NAK) NAK Team is founded in 2006 by the members of Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 Disasters Organization Group. All members are amateur and volunteer. The new Office of NAK, donated by Kenzen Yapı Ltd.Şti. on the field assigned by our municipality has been inaugurated on 29.02.2008. NAK Team is, attending to response works of traffic accidents and fires, making meetings for volunteers in Local Agenda Meeting Room weekly on Wednesday and getting underwater search and rescue training. Natural Disaster Booklet of Nilüfer citizens Natural Disaster Booklet of Nilüfer citizens which is prepared by Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 Disaster Organization Work Group and Nilüfer Search and Rescue Team, have been printed 10.000 copies and delivered to citizens in the shopping malls. Illuminated and Safe Nilüfer Project: Aims to be ready for possible natural disasters by detection of power plants in official and private institutions, by creating illuminated 29 corridors that will carry citizens to Disaster Assembling Centers with these power plants, and also educating primary school students, and gatekeepers and stuff of those institutions. 6E. HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL HERITAGE IN NİLÜFER In Nilüfer which has many significant historical values both above and below ground, Nilüfer Municipality which works hard for prevent and maintain the cultural heritage and transfer them to the future generations, is carrying out renovations all around the town. Gölyazı Saint Panteleimon Churh Nilüfer Municipality is carrying out a work for bringing in new identities to historical buildings in Gölyazı. The Saint Panteleimon Church which is one of the most important historical ruins and estimated to be built in the second half of the 19th century, renovations have been started in April 2009. After the renovation of the building which is one of the most significant samples of the Greek architecture is completed, Nilüfer Municipality will share this historical place with citizens as a cultural center. Özlüce Cultural Center In Özlüce Church which is one of the few historical buildings that maintain in Nilüfer vicinity and also which is known as the “Hagia Sophia of Bursa” for being used both as a church and as a mosque in the past, a careful renovation has been carried out. The building which was constructed in the 19th century as Greek Orthodox Church and transformed into a mosque after the population exchange in the first years of the Republic but has not been utilized since the construction of new Özlüce mosque, has been renovated in accordance with the project that is also approved by the Cultural and Natural Heritage Preservation Board. The renovation which was carried out by the Municipality of Nilüfer, has been completed by the participation of masters who worked in the church renovations in Bulgaria. This historical building has been taken into service as a Cultural House with its new stylish appearance. The renovation that is undertaken by architect Şaziye Sezginer who set her heart on protecting the history in Bursa, has been carried out by the masters who also worked in church renovations in Bulgaria. The building primarily was purified from the post interference and add-ons and the authentic structure of the building has been revealed. The unique materials gathered during this process have been sent to İstanbul Technical University material laboratory and according to the analyze results new unique materials have been produced and used in the renovation of the building. The roof has been repaired, roof tiles have been renewed, sealing applied, the jointed parts of the wall have been reinforced by brickwork, the broken capitals have been reproduced proper to the original. Nilüfer Municipality has completed the renovation which is supported by the 30 encouragement award of the Union of Historical Towns, will take this historical building into service as a cultural house. Renovations continue in Misi In Gümüştepe Quarter, formerly known as Misi, the appearance of the vicinity is changing through the renovations and frontal renewals in order to maintain the historical texture. In the vicinity which is well known with the old houses that maintained till today with their unique architecture and therefore announced as Urban SIT area in 1989, there are practices to renovate and functionalize the 27 registered building in Misi within the ‘Misi Protection and Maintenance Project’. Completing the renovation of the 2 buildings where one of them is an old school building and put them into service as one of them as Misi Community Center, Misi Protection and Maintenance Project Office and cafe, Nilüfer Municipality is clearing the dects for completing the renovation of the 3 more buildings and putting them into service as museum, science center, bookhouse. Also one of the historical buildings has been renovated in accordance with the original structure and will be put into service as Misi nursery. Following the frontal renewals of the houses on the Alipaşa Street, Nilüfer Street and Sultan Street, Nilüfer Municipality has started the frontal renewals on the Maksem Street and Bardakçı Street. Demirci Mosque Another renovation exercise in Nilüfer is being carried out in Demirci Quarter. In the Demirci Mosque which is one of the registered buildings in the vicinity, a precise work is being carried out by Nilüfer Municipality over the hand-drawings which revealed after the coatings rubbed out. The goal is to functionalize this historical building through a cultural identity when the renovation is completed. 6F. Social Development in Nilüfer Campus of Academic Chambers: In the campus, which is a “democratic participation” project these institutions are existing; Bursa Law Society, Notary Chamber, Bursa Public Accountants and Financial Advisors Chamber, Sworn Financial Advisors Chamber, Dentists Chamber, Pharmacists Chamber, Doctors Chamber, Veterinary Surgeons Chamber, Electricity Engineers Chamber, Topographical Engineers Chamber, Construction Engineers Chamber, Chemistry Engineers Chamber, Mining Engineers Chamber, Mechanical Engineers Chamber, Architects Chamber, City Planners Chamber, Agricultural Engineers Chamber. Anatolian Arasta Nilüfer Municipality is carrying out a new project which will gather the whole prosperity of Anatolia and which will be a haunt of tourism in Bursa. 31 The goal of the Anatolian Arasta Project which will gather the fellow countrymen associations in Bursa, is to meet up the traditional architectural features, foods, clothings namely all folkloric and unique cultural items of different cities in the same campus. In the Fellow Countrymen Associations Campus which will be constructed in Balat Quarter on about 164.000 squaremeters area; buildings that carry the typical regional civil architectural features of the 81 cities and also the Caucasus, Balkans and Western Thrace will be constructed. In the campus where regional cuisine, handicrafts, musical and folkloric features will be exhibited; the socialization of the people will be provided through training workshops, amphitheatre, multi purpose cultural centers, sports and social facilities. Association offices, conference hall, library, public training center, workshops, malls, cafes, picnic areas, outdoor sport areas, pools, market place and walking tracks will be in the campus. The foundation process of the Anatolian Arasta Tourism Development Cooperative which will embody the whole associations of the cities and the federations of Balkans and Caucasus is still continuing. Within this scope the meetings where the strategical importance of the project is being told the associations and where the information about the regional motives that will be used in the designs of the management offices are being taken, are being held. The goal is to maintain the just like samples of the houses which are significant for Turkey and for that city with their history and architecture in the Project. It’s being planned that the architecture, material and the labor of the houses would be provided by the countrymen. Two good project for disabled children Rotary Clubs and Nilüfer Municipality collaborated for the disabled children which are the most ignored part of the society and the first ‘Disabled Park’ of Bursa has been taken into service. The project was prepared by Nilüfer Municipality and the park has been built on 3.588 squaremeters area in Esentepe Quarter. The center which will educate and cure the spastic disabled people who are more then 1 million in Turkey and who are mostly live without getting out of their house, will be carried out in cooperation with the Çekirge Rotary Club. Nilüfer Work Office: “Nilüfer provides employment” Nilüfer Municipality who has carried out one of the best examples of social municipalism by the employment providing training which were started in order to let off the effects of the financial crisis, has provided employment to over 1.500 people. Nilüfer Municipality is extending her challenges in this realm by collaborating with several corporations. Working for the primarily employment of Nilüfer citizens in the industrial enterprises that will be established in Nilüfer, Nilüfer Municipality is continuing to give vocational training in 32 the fields which are being determined according to the qualified manpower demand of the employers. Nilüfer Municipality has organized vocational courses in industrial systems maintenance and repairing, medical documentation and secretary, child care, bureau management and secretary and provided employment for hundreds of people. Nilüfer Municipality provided employment for 37 people to work in the environmental cleaning, forestation, garden care, renovation and protection of cultural heritage project in cooperation with Governorship of Bursa, İş-Kur Bursa Branch. Paying attention to gender equality in all her practices, Nilüfer Municipality put the second hand shop into service which is called ‘İmece’ and of which the income will be used for the education of women in cooperation with Uludağ Soroptimist Club. In the shop which was inaugurated in İhsaniye Quarter in Şahinler Site within the slogan of “For abolishing Poverty and Deficiency’, several underused second hand stuff are being repaired and sold at a very low price. Thus these stuff are being evaluated and brought into economy and citizens have the opportunity to buy cheap goods. Vocational Courses and the number of Participants FEMALE MALE TOTAL Basic PLC Training 10 10 Computer Software 9 9 Computer Maintenance, Repair, 11 1 11 Computer Class 22 22 Office Administration and Secretary 52 5 57 Chess 4 15 19 Medical Secretary 1 42 2 44 Medical Secretary 2 79 79 Child Care 21 21 Old and Sick Care 19 19 Training course for qualified staff for restroration 87 73 160 Clothing 16 16 Home Fabrics 18 18 TOTAL 380 105 485 33 The information about job applications to Nilüfer Municipality Job and Occupation Providing Office and employing state is given below in table. State of Education Job Application Employed Primary School 960 75 Highschool 950 25 Industrial Highschool 362 6 College 673 10 University 891 15 2009 TOTAL 3.836 131 Nilüfer supports crisis victims In Bursa which has been effected most by the financial crisis for being an industrial city and where thousands of people got unemployed, ‘Support for crisis victims project’ has been launched in order to ease the effects of the financial crisis. The “Mental Support Against Crisis Project” launched as a social responsibility project by Turkey Psychiatry Association, is being implemented by Nilüfer Municipality, Uludağ University Medical Faculty Department of Public Health and Bursa Chamber of Medicine in Nilüfer. The project which aims to give psychological support to unemployed crisis victims, who are under risk of being unemployed because of the financial crisis and who work under unsecured conditions through the ‘Health is the major right for life’ principle, drew great attention. Within the Mental Support Against Crisis Project, specialists gave free of charge psychological support to crisis victims in Nilüfer Municipality İhsaniye Health Affairs Directorate Building. Also in Fethiye Public Health Center, medical staff have been trained about the crisis related mental problems and approach to crisis victims. Traditional Health Fair The Health Fair which has become traditional within the Nilüfer Public Health Training and Research Activity carried out by Nilüfer Municipality in cooperation with Uludağ Üniversitesi, has organized for the seventh time this year in the newly affiliated quarters. Within the Health Fair which is being organized to raise awareness in public about the most extended health problems and the precautions and to help the early diagnosis which is vital 34 in some diseases, stands have been set in Görükle Center, Görükle Immigrant Houses and Gölyazı. At the stands; together with the consultations and examinations, training about overcoming the doctor fear, proper tooth brushing techniques have been given to children. Traditional Hasanağa Artichoke Festival 3rd Hasanağa Artichoke Festival which is the only artichoke festival around the world and which is organized by Nilüfer Municipality; gave the citizens the opportunity to have a joyful day with the concerts, competitions and dances. The festival which aims to promote the region where the best artichoke of Turkey is being grown, the best artichoke producer is being chosen and also through the most delicious artichoke meal contest, traditional cuisine is being transferred to next generations. Çalı oil wrestling 485 wrestlers participated in Çalı Oil Wrestling which is organized for the 47th time by Nilüfer Municipality this year. Within the scope of Traditional Çalı Oil Wrestling, concerts and folk dance shows also been organized. The activities continued for 2 days. Who’s The Most Hardworking? Within the “Who is the most hardworking?” campaign which was launched by Nilüfer Municipality 4 years ago for the first time and where the top scoring students in state and private schools in Nilüfer are being awarded, this year nearly 500 students have been awarded by bicycle. Traditional Circumcise Feast The Mass Circumcise Feast which have been organized for the 12th time this year by Nilüfer Municipality. In the feast where Nilüfer Municipality, Anadolu Hospital, Acıbadem Hospital, Rentıp, Özhan Market, Cha Cha Restaurant, Sedat Organization, Uzay Patisserie, Astorya Fireworks and Mavi Balon also contributed, 110 kids have been circumcised by child surgeons in operating rooms. White ribbon campaign The ‘White Ribbon’ campaign which was launched by 3 men in Canada in 1996 and which is being applied in 52 countries today in order to stop the violence and raise the awareness of men, has also been organized in Bursa with the summon ‘Real man doesn’t injure’. Traditional Çanakkale Trip: Nilüfer Municipality had organized pay free visits for young generations in order to make them learn their history correctly. On the daily trip with total 3.500 attendants, Gelibolu peninsula, Conk Bayırı, Kabatepe Museum, Martyries Monument, Troy, Çanakkale Military Muesum have been visited. The attendants expressed %100 satisfaction on evaluation surveys. 35 Disabled People Information Desk The goal of establishment is to support and consult disabled citizens. The desk is responsible for, leading the disabled people to the related departments of the municipality or to the other related agencies/institutions, getting into contact with departments /agencies / institutions on behalf of the disabled citizens and ensure that the problems are solved. When the disabled person applies to the Disabled People Information Desk about his/her problem, his/her personal info and the problem is being recorded in the related forms. Disabled People Information Desk has continued its action in 2009 as follows: Information– Briefing services continued, the direct or via phone applications about the various issues have been concluded and application forms in which the contact information of the disabled person is written down have been filled. Information and service support which is being given to Seeing Impaired Unit that is established in coordination with Uludağ University Main Library Directorate and Disabled People Information Desk has continued. There are voice operated computers which are being utilized by seeing impaired students in the mentioned unit. The seeing impaired university students can get computer information on demand. Six Points Association of the Blinds computer training course has continued in 2009 through the Disabled People Information Desk. Nilüfer Akkılıç Library Nilüfer Akkılıç Library, is at service as one of the efforts of Nilüfer Municipality dedicated to education and future, since 1 December 2007. The library that has been established in cooperation of Nilüfer Municipality, Bursa Journalists Association, Bursa Journalists Social Services and Retirement Foundation and Akkılıç family, is located at Press Culture Palace in Ataevler. The library which is based on the personal books of investigative journalist and author Yılmaz Akkılıç, is the one and only library in Nilüfer vicinity. The library which is built on 1000 squaremeters is serving in public library insight with its modern arrangement. In the Nilüfer Akkılıç Library where the books are classified through Dewey Decimal Classification, the amount of books was around 30.000 by the end of 2009. In the classification of the collection which enlarges both with purchases and with donations by the citizens, through titles, the biggest section is the literature. See. Graphic 1 Nilüfer Akkılıç Library which is consisting of Main Reading Room, Periodicals Section, Newspaper Archive, Art Library, Child Books, Video Room, Internet Section and Blind Library / Voice Library, serves approximately 180 readers per day. The biggest share of the users of the library where also book lending and reader advisory is available are the students. 36 In the library where all the services are free of charge, membership is required for utilizing some sections. The number of the members of Nilüfer Akkılıç Library where 839 more members joined in 2009 is 1400 in total. The number of lend books in one year is 4776. The library where also book communes, workshops, signature days and ‘Knowledge Literacy’ seminars for primary school students are being organized, is at service between 10.00-22.00 every day except monday. This year 2832 people attended the author conversations and signature days, 1157 students attended the school presentations and 170 people attended the workshops. See Graphic 2. The total number of library users in 2009 is 32.111 people. Nilüfer Akkılıç Library publish researches over Bursa, essays and reviews into book in order to contribute to the urban culture. In 2009, ‘Mekanın Bursa Olsun’ book which includes the essays of the late author Melih Elal and Atatürk and Bursa books of Yılmaz Akkılıç have been published by Nilüfer Akkılıç Publications. Milk Project; Everyday 1 pack (200 ml) of UHT full fat milk is being delivered to each student in the 1st classes of primary schools in Nilüfer District. The project aims to give the milk drinking habit to the children. In 2007 3.400 students, in 2008 3.374 students, in 2009 4.033 took their daily milk packs. The milk delivery project is being recurred annually. 6G. Cultural Activities in Nilüfer Winter-Spring Activities Within the scope of traditional Winter-Spring Activities organized in cooperation with Uludağ University; concerts, theater and ballet shows and selected art pieces meet with Nilüfer citizens. These activities which dynamize Fethiye Cultural Center, have became reference services not only for Nilüfer citizens but also for the whole Bursa citizens. Summer Activities Traditional summer feast of Nilüfer Municipality was carried out with a full programme this year. The summer concerts in the market places this year hosted Hüseyin Turan, Duman and Kıraç. Together with the openair concerts which are free of charge and open to public, within the scope of summer feast, in all quarters, towns and villages of Nilüfer, folk dances, movie shows and Turkish Classical Music concerts have been organized. Special days such as 1 September World Peace Day, 8 March World Women’s Day, 23 April National Independence and Children's Day, 19 May Commemoration of Ataturk Youth and Sports Day and New Year are all transformed into feasts by the various activities and concerts. 37 Our Festivals Nilüfer Municipality 3rd Hasanağa Artichoke Festival10 May 2009 Nilüfer Municipality 47th Çalı Oil Wrestling28-27 June 2009 Nilüfer Municipality Kayapa Ambler Competition Festival19-20 July 2009 Nilüfer Municipality Akçalar Ambler Competition Festival26-27 July 2009 Ensembles Nilüfer Folk Dances Ensemble Nilüfer Chamber Orchestra Nilüfer Polyphonic Orchestra Nilüfer Turkish Folk Music Orchestra Nilüfer Turkish Classical Music Chorus Nilüfer Children Chorus Our traditional activities are; Nilüfer Culture-Art Winter Events Nilüfer Culture-Art Spring Events Nilüfer Culture-Art Summer Events Traditional Ramadan Events September 1st World Peace Day Concert Workshop Activities Ballet practices Musical Training Practices Painting workshop Sculpture workshop Story Workshop Drama workshop Photography workshop Dance Workshop Rhythm workshop 38 WINTER ACTIVITIES SPRING ACTIVITIES SUMMER ACTIVITIES Number Participation Number Participation Numbe Participation CONCERT 3 4.000 r 14 108.000 THEATRE BALLET CINEMA 48 21.120 SEMINAR EXHIBITION GENERAL 18 17.550 ENTERTAINME NT 2009 TOTAL 3 4.000 80 146.670 2008 TOTAL 38 19.000 77 188.750 2007 TOTAL 6 6.000 2 2300 61 41.500 KONAK KÜLTÜREVİ UĞUR MUMCU RAMAZAN OTHER ACTIVITIES SAHNESİ ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES Number Participation Number Participation Number Participation Number Participation CONCERT 15 2.250 26 5.980 THEATRE 38 6.080 30 7.500 16 3.200 BALLET 6 1.800 CINEMA 48 2.933 SEMINAR 16 2.500 22 4.400 EXHIBITION 16 1.350 GENERAL 2 600 25 16.125 ENTERTAINMENT 2009 TOTAL 133 15.113 86 20.280 25 16.125 16 3.200 2008 TOTAL 90 12.390 43 9.970 43 18.600 5 5.700 2007 TOTAL 115 6.673 13 3.250 24 4.800 3 3.350 39 6H. Sports in Nilüfer Sports festivals Challenging for leading the children and youth to sports and arts in an environment where the drug using age gradually decreased and paying great attention to sports activities through the “Sports City Nilüfer’ vision, Nilüfer Municipality has carried out the 8th traditional sports festival between 21 April – 21 May 2009. Together with the sister cities of Nilüfer; Ardino Municipality from Bulgaria, Brilla Municipality from Romaina, folk dances, basketball, handball and petanque teams from Hungary and NCTR participated to the festival which was organized by Nilüfer Municipality Sports Club and Nilüfer Local Agenda 21, in cooperation with Nilüfer Municipality and Nilüfer Provincial Directorate of National Education. During the festival which meets up thousands of children with sports and which is unique in Turkey, together with the sports competitions, kite festival and special folk dance shows also being organized. The activities are arranged as to cover 23 April National Independence and Children's Day, 19 May Commemoration of Ataturk Youth and Sports Day. Summer Sport Schools Total 2.040 students have participated this year in Summer Schools that is organized by Nilüfer Municipality Sports Club in 3 periods. In the first period of the summer school which includes 6 branches as soccer, volleyball, handball, swimming, basketball and tennis 750 students have been trained. In the second period 740 and in the last period 550 students received sportive training. Covering long distances on the grounds of sports city vision, Nilüfer Municipality keeps open facilities which will meet different sportive demands. Nilüfer Municipality has brought in 2 facilities which will serve all-purposed to city in swimming branch. Swimming Pool and Social Facilities in Çalı has been inaugurated. The first stage of Konak Olympic Swimming Pool Facility is expected to be put into service in 29 October. The facility which is built in Çalı on 4.576 squaremeters area with 2.522 squaremeters closed area; is a complete sports facility with semi Olympic swimming pool and kids pool, conditioning center equipped with latest technology, sauna, Turkish bath, whirlpool bath and shock pool. In the facility cafeteria, restaurant, indoor and outdoor playgrounds are also available. The construction of the Olympic Swimming Pool Facility in Konak Quarter over 12.268 squaremeters is continuing. The facility will be first Olympic swimming complex of Bursa with its open air Olympic swimming pool, closed area semi Olympic swimming pool and kids pool. The closed area of 3.800 squaremeters of the facility will include; conditioning hall, aerobic hall, sauna, cafeteria, dressing rooms, medical room, doping test room, showers, toilets, rest places, meeting room and administrational sections. 40
