Corporate Social ­Responsibility Report 2011 Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S Content NORDEN in brief 2 Anti-corruption 16 A Word from the Board of Management 3 Status and future 17 Reporting 3 CSR at NORDEN 19 NORDEN’s performance 4 Annex 1: Facts and figures 21 Energy and Climate 5 Annex 2: Global Reporting Initiative 24 Maritime safety and security 10 Auditors’ reports 26 Employee conditions 13 NORDEN in brief Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S (NORDEN) operates gloNORDEN’s core fleet consists of owned vessels and vessels bally in dry cargo and product tankers with one of the most on long-term charter with purchase option. The core fleet is modern and competitive fleets in the industry. NORDEN opersupplemented by vessels chartered on a short-term basis or ates a total of 238 vessels. for individual voyages, and this mix allows NORDEN to rapidly adjust the size and costs of the fleet to changing market In addition, vessels from 3rd parties are operated in pools of conditions. Purchase and extension options on many chartered which NORDEN is either co-owner or manages. These are Novessels increase flexibility of the fleet and also contribute to rient Product Pool, NORDEN Post-Panamax Pool and NORthe value creation. DEN Handysize Pool. NORDEN has its headquarters in Denmark, and offices in SinIn Dry Cargo, NORDEN is active in all major vessel types. gapore, China, India, the USA and Brazil, a network of port NORDEN is one of the world’s largest operators in Panamax captains as well as site offices at shipyards in Korea, China, and Handymax, in addition to having growing activities in the Vietnam and Japan. NORDEN has 259 employees on shore Handysize and Post-Panamax vessel types as well as activities and 793 on board owned vessels. In addition, Norient Prodin Capesize. NORDEN Handysize Pool and NORDEN Postuct Pool has 47 employees at its offices in Denmark, Cyprus, Panamax Pool operate the Company’s owned vessels in adSinga­pore, the USA and Brazil (being established). dition to tonnage from Interorient Navigation Company Ltd. (INC). NORDEN was founded and listed in 1871 and is one of the oldest listed shipping companies in the world. Management In Tankers, NORDEN’s activities comprise Handysize, MR focus is long-term and rooted in NORDEN’s vision, mission and LR1 product tankers. NORDEN’s vessels are operated and values. The goal is for NORDEN to continuously develop commercially by the 50% owned Norient Product Pool, which for the benefit of its stakeholders and to achieve high, staalso operates vessels from INC and is one of the largest prodble earnings. The share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Copenhauct tanker pools in the world. gen A/S, and NORDEN has approximately 17,500 registered shareholders. (Numbers are stated at 31 December 2011). Group structure Values Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S Flexibility Norient Norient NORDEN NORDEN NORDEN Svalbard Cyprus Ltd. Product Pool Shipping Tankers & Tankers & Maritime Adapt and find better solutions ApS (Singapore) Bulkers Bulkers Services AS Pte. Ltd. (USA) Inc. (Brazil) Ltda. Cyprus Denmark Singapore USA Brazil Norway Reliability 50% 50% 100% 100% 100% 100% Honest, good intentions and no cheating NORDEN Tankers & Bulkers NORD EMPROS Pte. Ltd. III (India) Private Ltd. India 100% (Dormant) Singapore 50% Empathy NORDEN Rep. Office NORD SUMMIT Pte. Ltd Respect diversity in people and opinions China Singapore 50% NORD EMPROS Pte. Ltd. I ANL MARITIME Services Pte. (Dormant) Singapore 50% Ltd. Singapore 50% Ambition NORD EMPROS Pte. Ltd. II Normit Shipping S.A. Think ambition into every activity (Dormant) Singapore 50% (Dormant) Panama 51% Polar Navigation Pte. Ltd. Singapore 50% A word from the Board of Management / CSR report 2011 3 A word from the Board of Management move the agenda forward. This report will give you an overview of the goals which we have set within our different CSR focus areas and how far we have come in reaching these. We have not reached all the ambitious goals which we have set, but this does not mean that we will start setting less ambitious goals in the future. We will continue to challenge ourselves to improve our performance and raise the bar. In 2011, our focus on climate was strengthened, and emphasis was put on fuel efficiency as an essential element of our longterm business. Fuel efficiency is directly linked to our bottom line as a reduction of fuel consumption leads to lower costs Carsten Mortensen on the right and Michael Tønnes Jørgensen on the left, as well as a reduction in CO2 emissions. Fuel efficiency has the Board of Management. become a new and important parameter when we consider ordering and acquiring vessels, and therefore, both knowledge We strongly believe that a business-driven CSR strategy is the and experience in this area are essential tools. Our research way forward. By integrating CSR efforts into our everyday busiproject, ECO vessel of the future, aims at designing a vessel ness and mindset, we strengthen our business and ensure fuwith reduced fuel consumption of at least 25%, and this project ture opportunities as our stakeholders’ focus on ethical behavprovides us with experience and knowledge of different fuel efiour increases. ficiency measures. We applied this knowledge when we ordered 4 fuel efficient MR product tankers and redesigned 2 HandyThe growing tendency among our stakeholders, especially our size vessels. Combined with our strategy to own a modern fleet, customers, to focus on CSR issues is an advantage for NORDEN which is traditionally more fuel efficient, investments in fuel effias CSR has always been embedded in our values and business ciency make us better equipped to handle fuel price increases. conduct, even if we have not always called it CSR or worked systematically with it. Consequently, we are now beginning to In addition to our fuel efficiency measures, NORDEN launched do so, and we are implementing new CSR initiatives which will a number of initiatives within our other CSR focus areas to both strengthen our business and provide value for our customstrengthen our CSR efforts and our business. You can read ers and other stakeholders. In 2011, we experienced that our more about the individual initiatives in this report. CSR profile played a role in landing us the third largest cargo contract in NORDEN’s history. 2012 will be the year when NORDEN will truly make way in the field of CSR. We will finalise our CSR strategy and action Ambition is one of NORDEN’s values, which is reflected in plan with concrete initiatives, as well as formalise our Code of the way we establish goals. We believe that CSR is about raisConduct. We look forward to sharing all of our successes and ing the bar, and therefore we set ambitious goals in order to challenges with you in our next report. Reporting This report is based on the focus areas which we deem relevant for our business and are in line with the UN Global Compact’s (UNGC) principles. These focus areas are energy GRI guidelines and climate, maritime safety and security, employee conditions and anti-corruption. and sector supplement To ensure transparency and consistency in NORDEN’s CSR reporting, we have collected data and developed our report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Logistics and Transportation Sector SupUN Global NORDEN’s CSR plement. Only indicators that are relevant to our business and stakeholders have been Compact’s reporting model chosen. principles We have thus created a CSR reporting model which is tailored for NORDEN and our business and is based on recognised standards such as GRI and UNGC. More information on Materiality these standards, the indicators we report on, as well as the reporting boundary can be assessment found in Annex 2 of the report. This report also serves as NORDEN’s Communication on Progress (COP) Report 2011 to the UN Global Compact. Our report application level is C+ as the content of this report has been verified by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and Det Norske Veritas (DNV). 4 CSR report 2011 / NORDEN’s performance NORDEN’s performance The following outline gives an overview of NORDEN’s CSR focus areas and ­performance by listing some of the major targets that were set for 2011 and the results achieved. Energy and climate Goal 1: Reduction of the simple average sulphur content from 2.09 % to max. 2% in total bunkers purchased in 2011 0% 33% 100% Goal 2: Reduce CO2 emissions by 25% from 2007 to 2020 2007 38% 2020 for owned tanker vessels Goal 3: Reduce CO2 emissions by 25% from 2007 to 2020 2007 55% 2020 for owned dry cargo vessels Goal 4: Part of the Leadership Index in the CDP reporting in 2011 0% 100% Maritime safety and security Goal 1: Zero rejections per vetting inspection in 2011 0% 100% Goal 2: Pass all Port State Controls (PSC) without detentions in 2011 0% 99% Goal 3: Near-misses reporting should be above 1 per vessel per week in 2011 0% 100% Employee conditions Goal 1: Increase the retention rate for employees at sea from 2010 0% 100% Goal 2: Increase the onshore retention rate from 2010 0% 100% Anti-corruption Goal 1: Establish a gift policy in 2011 0% 100% Goal 2: Launch a whistleblowing system in 2011 0% 100% Energy and climate / CSR report 2011 5 Energy and climate Since NORDEN’s core business is transport of goods, impact on the environment is inevitable. Tightened regulations, increased fuel prices and greater political focus on the climate combined with lower freight rates affect our and other shipowners’ business. NORDEN’s focus in the area of the environment is primarily on energy and climate, and this focus was increased in 2011 owing to the rising fuel prices and our wish to reduce our environmental footprint. Energy efficiency improvements are directly linked to our botvessels and that from owned and operated vessels can partly be tom line as fuel saving initiatives enable us to reduce our fuel attributed to the following items. NORDEN has a climate action consumption and hence our costs. Moreover, these investments plan comprising fuel saving initiatives on owned vessels. We in energy efficiency make us more resilient towards increasing also have the ability to steam with lower engine load on owned fuel prices, thus strengthening our competitiveness. vessels, meaning that slow/right steaming is possible to a higher extent than on chartered vessels. In addition, as a competitive advantage, NORDEN has strategically decided to own a modern fleet, which is traditionally more The reduction of CO2 emissions from owned and operated tanker fuel efficient. vessels, exclusive of vessels on contract to 3rd parties, is 14%, whereas CO2 emissions from owned tanker vessels alone has The following sections describe the goals set and initiatives imbeen reduced by 9%. The main reason for this difference is that plemented in our efforts to become more energy efficient. Det we did not utilize the full cargo load for 5 out of 7 voyages by MR Norske Veritas (DNV) has verified all the environmental data in product tankers in the fourth quarter of 2011. the report. A detailed overview of our environmental performance and CO2 Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions emissions can be found in Table 1 in Annex 1 page 21. The Danish Shipowners’ Association has set a target to reduce relative CO2 emissions from owned vessels by 25% by 2020 Sulphur and Nitrogen oxide (SOx and NOx) compared to the 2007 level, where 15% should be a result It is important for us to focus on the reduction of emissions of of technical improvements and 10% a result of speed reducSOx as these are harmful to people and the environment. Theretions. In order to assess how close NORDEN is to reaching this fore, we aim at reducing our emissions of SOx through purchase target, we use The International Maritime Organization’s (IMO) of bunkers1 with reduced sulphur content. The goal for 2011 Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) when calculating was a simple average sulphur content of 2% for the total bunour CO2 emissions from owned and operated vessels. The EEOI kers purchased for our operated vessels. We came very close enables us to compare our yearly CO2 reduction regardless of to reaching this target but due to changes in trade patterns, we changes in fleet size, as EEOI is defined as: CO2 emitted per realised a slightly lower reduction of 2.06%. We have sailed less metric ton of cargo transported, per nautical miles sailed. in the Emission Control Areas (ECA) than planned and more in the Far East and India, where the sulphur content in the purSince 2007, NORDEN has reduced its CO2 emissions from chased bunkers is higher than in Europe and where it is difowned and operated dry cargo vessels, exclusive of vessels on ficult to purchase large quantities of bunkers with reduced sulcontract to 3rd parties, by 3%, whereas CO2 emissions from phur content. For 2012, our target is a simple average sulphur owned dry cargo vessels alone has been reduced by 14%. The content of max. 1.95% in the total bunkers purchased for our difference between the reduction of CO2 emissions from owned operated vessels. NORDEN's active core fleet at 31 December 2011 DIS flag, SRS flag, Other Avg. years of (Denmark) (Singapore) flags operation Owned vessels, Dry Cargo fleet 4 23 0 2.9 Owned vessels, Tanker fleet 12 5 0 4 Chartered vessels with purchase option, Dry Cargo fleet 0 2 38 2.7 Chartered vessels with purchase option, Tanker fleet 0 0 10 2.6 Total active core fleet 16 30 48 3.1 1) Bunker is the fuel used by vessels. 6 CSR report 2011 / Energy and climate In the coming years, the International Maritime Organization Climate action plan (IMO) will issue a number of regulations on sulphur emissions which will affect NORDEN and the rest of the shipping industry. Slide fuel valve 3.3% 2.2% 11.9% The impact of these regulations on our business will to some CASPER performance mon. 6.5% extent be offset by an inclusion of the induced costs in our curAlpha lubrication system 2.2% rent long-term cargo contracts. The below table provides an 2.3% Scrape-down analysis 37.5% Shaft torque mea­suring overview of some of the new regulations and their impact on 9.7% Electrical steam generator our business. 7.5% Advanced hull coating Hull/propeller cleaning Apart from SOx, NORDEN also focuses on reducing emissions 16.9% M/E perform check/service of Nitrogen oxide (NOx). NOx is harmful towards people, animals Green steam and plants as it causes smog and acid rain. We have identified a reduction of NOx emissions of approximately 12-14% per tonne Note: The efficiency of the initiative depends on its degree of implementation, of fuel consumed.2 i.e. how many vessels the initiative has been implemented on. Climate action plan In 2007, we established an action plan consisting of 14 fuel savHowever, further analysis showed that the estimated reduction ing initiatives on owned vessels. Each year, the initiatives were of CO2 emissions was in fact 6.2% in 2010. evaluated based on impact or whether they could profitably be combined with another initiative. As a result, the number of fuel Above you can see how large a share of the CO2 reduction each saving initiatives have now been reduced to 10, where 4 initiainitiative contributed in proportion to NORDEN’s total reduction tives have been integrated into initiative 9 “Increased service of CO2 from owned vessels (5.4%) in 2011. and check of main engine performance”. The initiative which contributed the most in reducing CO2 is proBy investing in these initiatives, we reduced our CO2 emissions peller cleaning. A description of the initiatives can be found in from owned vessels by 5.4% in 2011, and we thus met our tarTable 2 in Annex 1 on page 22. The effect is calculated based get of 3.5%. This reduction is included in the previously menon assumptions about engine size, engine type and ballast contioned EEOI data for owned vessels. ditions, and the effect of the initiatives is estimated based on guidelines from IMO and Intertanko. In last year’s report, CO2 emissions from NORDEN’s owned vessels were reported to have been reduced by 4.7% in 2010. Date Regulation Impact on NORDEN’s business January 2012 Global limitation of sulphur content to No significant business impact as we are already striving to purchase 3.5% (previously 4.5%) bunkers with less sulphur. Since October 2011, we have mainly bought bunkers with a sulphur content of less than 3.5%. August 2012 New ECA (Canada and USA): sulphur Medium business impact as the USA is an important market for content limit of 1% NORDEN. Hence our bunker costs will increase as bunkers with 1% sulphur is approximately 10% more expensive than that containing 3.5%. However, the low-sulphur bunkers might become less expensive as more ports in the new ECA will have to supply it. January 2015 All ECAs: sulphur content limit of 0.1% Huge impact and challenge as bunkers containing 0.1% sulphur does not exist in today’s market. It is uncertain whether or not there will be sufficient quantities and what the price level will be. Moreover, if sufficiency proves to be a problem, gas oil will be used instead, resulting in increases of more than 50% in bunker costs. For NORDEN and the rest of the shipping industry, this increase is likely to cause rising freight rates in all ECAs. January 2020 Global limitation of sulphur content to Even greater impact and challenge which might result in us having 0.5% (previously 3.5%) (target to be to consider alternative means of minimising sulphur emissions. Such revised in 2018 and if impossible to alternatives could be investment in new technologies such as scrubreach, postponed until 2025) bers. 2) NORDEN operates a young fleet which is Tier I compliant, as the vessels are built after 1 January 2000. Source IMO’s “Second IMO GHG Study 2009”. Energy and climate / CSR report 2011 7 NORDKAP approaching Port Alfred, Canada. Fuel efficient vessels ing energy efficient measures on vessels. This was the case We have an ongoing research project across NORDEN’s departwhen we ordered 4 MR product tankers from the Korean yard ments called ECO Vessel of the future, by which we aim to deSTX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. Ltd. to be delivered in 2013. sign a vessel with reduced fuel consumption of at least 25%. Apart from changes to the choice of main engine and propeller, we also decided to implement a MEWIS® duct that combines a The initial step consisted of examining which restrictions and duct positioned right in front of the propeller with an integrated regulations could affect our project, how we could benchmark asymmetric fin arrangement. Our conservative estimate is that it, as well as evaluating various technologies, systems, equipthe new arrangement will result in a 5% fuel saving. Same will ment and designs. be verified by model tests prior to installation. We do not merely wish to implement grand scale measures but to consider the In the project, we try to align the different technologies and see entirety of the vessel. We have therefore decided to also focus if they can work together. on low-scale saving measures such as increased insulation of accommodation and energy saving light bulbs. “We have an improved propeller design and an All in all, we will implement energy saving devices on the MR product tankers that will reduce improved bottom paint which each reduces fuel fuel consumption by 15-18% compared to 2007 consumption by approximately 4%, but whether standard designs. This corresponds to a daily cost saving of approximately USD 3,000 based on curor not the two things put together will amount to rent fuel prices.3 a reduction of 8% cannot be safely predicted,” The knowledge was also useful when designing says Steven Sandorff, ECO vessel of the future Project Manager. our 2 new Handysize dry cargo vessels, where we chose two main improvement areas: an NPT Moreover, the fuel efficiency technologies also have to be compropeller with a larger diameter and a more powerful but demercially viable. This means that we cannot just implement all rated main engine. The sea trials have been positive, showing a the identified measures when designing a vessel as the vessel reduction of approximately 12-13% compared to previous sister has to live up to certain criteria, i.e. length and depth restricvessels. Furthermore, these vessels will be fitted with our betions, to ensure that it can call a port. Therefore, the project will fore-mentioned fuel saving measures which will further reduce also map the world’s ports to assess what the optimal vessel size fuel consumption by approximately 5%. should be for our new ECO vessels. Apart from the before-mentioned vessels, we have long-term charThroughout the project, we have been and will continue to be tered 4 fuel efficient Panamax vessels for a period of 7-8 years to be in dialogue with relevant customers and shipyards to ensure the delivered in 2014, which will result in reduction of fuel consumpproject’s success. tion by approximately 15% compared to standard designs. An added benefit of our ECO vessel project is that we can use NORDEN will continue to focus on fuel efficient vessels and the experiences we have gained when deciding on implementmaintain a modern and young fleet. 3) Based on Rotterdam fuel prices, 30.December 2011. 8 CSR report 2011 / Energy and climate “The main reason for the industry to engage in slow steaming was a necessity to reduce the very high bunker costs, with reduction of CO2 emissions as an Right steaming added-value. Although the latter has proved a very In NORDEN, we have decided to use the term right steaming instead of slow steaming positive added benefit, we strongly believe that right as we believe it to be more accurate. steaming is the way forward. It is a long-term susRight steaming is simply performancetainable competitive advantage as we will practice it driven operation. If a vessel can only call a regardless of crisis or prosperous times. It is simply port Monday, it makes no sense that it arrives Saturday after having sailed at a high speed about looking at the whole picture and planning the burning large amounts of fuel. It should inmost optimal voyage,“ stead have sailed at the right speed to arrive Monday, hence minimising fuel consumpsays Lars B. Christensen, Senior Vice President and Head of Tankers. tion and CO2 emissions. Right steaming entails sailing with the optimal speed according in the system. Our performance systems also create greater to the framework set, i.e. time versus cost. Right steaming is transparency enabling us to continually render our procedures, a practice that optimises our voyages both on owned vessels systems and voyages more effective. and chartered vessels. This also means that when freight rates increase in the future, we will still continue to right steam as it Virtual arrival makes good sense in terms of business. The concept of virtual arrival is closely linked to right steaming and optimisation of voyages. In 2011, the performance system MOEPS4, developed by Norient Product Pool, which operates all NORDEN’s tanker vessels, Virtual arrival is a partnership between NORDEN, the customer was implemented in a special version on the dry cargo core and a weather routing company with the aim to reduce bunfleet. This system helps us optimise our voyages and ensures ker costs and thereby also CO2 emissions. In practice, it means that we right steam as we can monitor the speed and consumpthat if a vessel is scheduled to arrive on a specific day, but the tion of fuel. If a master sails at a higher speed than planned circumstances entail that this is not optimal, for instance due thereby burning more fuel, this is highlighted in MOEPS and to congestion in the terminal, then an agreement is made with the operator can, in cooperation with the captain, ensure that the customer and a new scheduled time and speed is planned. optimal speed is regained. We engage with the weather routing company to ensure that the The system reduces the workload for operators as all relevant speed chosen is in line with the weather forecast. In the end, documents, data and procedures are accessible and structured the gain obtained on the saved bunkers is divided between the customer and NORDEN. Sailed miles per metric tonne of fuel Our first virtual arrival voyage was conducted in 2011 at the NORDEN Dry Cargo A Start slow steaming Norient Product Pool B Launch of MOEPS (Master's Operations request of one of our customers. We find it very positive that Environmental Performance system) customers are becoming aware of the benefits of virtual arrivals. C MOEPS software system implemented on We hope that in the years to come, we will make use of virtual board Right steaming ▼ arrivals to a higher extent as we believe it is beneficial both to Miles our customers, the environment and NORDEN. 14 13 A B A C B&C Waste 12 All our waste is disposed of in accordance with the rules set forth by the IMO.5 Our 2011 target was to reduce waste from 11 owned vessels operated by NORDEN by 5% compared to 2010. 10 To help reach this target, we asked our suppliers to reduce their 9 packaging or take it back, which meant that less packaging was 8 taken on board the vessel. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The amount of waste slightly increased in 2011, and we are curNote: A plunge is visible in QI and/or Q4 each year due to sailing through ice. The degree of the plunge is linked to the harshness of the winter. The graph is for rently investigating the reason for this. To get an overview of our owned and operated vessels. waste, please consult Table 1 in Annex 1 page 21. 4) MOEPS stands for Master’s Operations Environmental Performance System. 5) Prevention of Pollution from Ships” (MARPOL) Annex V. Energy and climate / CSR report 2011 9 Garbage disposal area on board NORD NIGHTINGALE. Onshore initiatives a means to do so. Furthermore, we are in dialogue with a taxi We believe that we can reduce our onshore environmental footcompany which increasingly focuses on replacing its fleet of print even if it is relatively insignificant compared to that of our cars with electric cars. We have also joined the initiative “Eco vessels. friendly electric car” where NORDEN tests an electric car for 2 years (from June 2011). In 2011, we entered into an energy partnership with Danish energy group DONG Energy which implies that all of our electrical energy consumption will come from renewable energy. More­ over, DONG Energy will perform an “energy check” in 2012 of our headquarters to assess where energy efficiency investments could be made. The findings of this inspection will be used to focus our future onshore environmental initiatives. Our IT systems have been virtualised which saves energy, and a long-term initiative entails replacing all computers with energy saving computers and installing a system that shuts down all computers at a specific time to minimise energy waste. In the canteen, we have removed all tinfoil, reduced aluminium cans to a bare minimum and replaced still bottled water with tap water in reusable bottles. We also consider ways to minimise our environmental impact Godmother, Laura Rosholm, during the namegiving ceremony of NORD when we travel overseas and by land. Video conferences are EL, whích is similar to namegiving ceremonies for new vessels. Carbon Disclosure Project proach to climate change disclosure practices. For our 2009 Since 2008, NORDEN has reported within the framework CDP report we ranked 18 out of the 200 companies that of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on our efforts to rehad completed a CDP report, and for our 2010 CDP report, duce CO2 emissions. The CDP is an independent non-profit we ranked 17 out of 260 companies. Both times, we were organisation that assembles worldwide information on the the only shipping company in the Leadership Index, which impact of climate change on companies and their efforts to counts companies from Sweden, Finland, Norway and Denreduce CO2. mark. For the last two years, we have been part of the Leadership NORDEN will continue to engage in the CDP reporting, as we Index, which comprises the upper 10% of the Nordic listed see it as important information for our stakeholders, specificompanies which have displayed the most professional apcally investors and customers. 10 CSR report 2011 / Maritime safety and security Maritime safety and security In NORDEN, we have a strong focus on ensuring high standards of maritime safety and security via for instance increased efforts in connection with vettings. By focusing on modern and high quality vessels, we seek to become an attractive business partner for our customers. In Tankers, it is particularly important as oil majors have a norisk approach and continuously tighten their requirements regarding technical conditions, safety, quality, maintenance, systems and employee qualifications. By ensuring a high standard and optimisation of systems and processes, we can also minimise the risk of injuries and incidents that might impact our crew and the external environment. Vetting inspections In 2011, the increased focus on successful vetting inspections was maintained in order to reduce the risk of injury, grounding, wrecks, spills and other incidents that might impact the external environment. All NORDEN vessels are suitable for chartering by oil majors. Vettings are historically conducted on behalf of oil Vetting inspection on NORD STRAIT. companies who are focused on the safety and environmental operation of the tanker fleet. We had 4.76 remarks which, though higher than aimed for, was NORDEN has employed a full time senior vetting manager still below the industry average of 5.96.6 The increased number whose role it is to maintain the uniformity in our procedures and of observations was partly due to growth of the fleet and the the constructive dialogue with vessels, inspectors and customsubsequent increase in the number of crew members introers, specifically the oil companies. We believe that even with a duced to NORDEN’s systems. No vessels were rejected. larger fleet, we can maintain the quality in the vetting inspections and still reduce vetting remarks in the long term. Port State Control (PSC) A PSC is an inspection of foreign vessels in ports to verify that Our target in 2011 was a maximum of 4 remarks and zero rethe condition of the vessel and its equipment complies with the jections per inspection of owned vessels operated by NORDEN. requirements of international regulations and that the vessel is manned and operated in compliance with these rules. In 2011, our owned vessels which were operated by NORDEN had an Vetting and Port State Controls (PSC) average of 0.9 deficiencies per vessel per PSC, which means PSC deficiencies per vessel that we did not meet our target of 0.5 deficiencies per vessel Vetting remarks per vessel per PSC. The reason for this is the same as for the vetting observations. Vetting remarks per vessel PSC deficiencies per vessel 10 5 We experienced 71 Port State Controls in 2011 and only one 8 4 detention. Our dry cargo vessel NORD DORADO (IMO no. 9448035) was detained at port in Newcastle, Australia for 2 6 3 days in January 2011 due to failure of the emergency genera4 2 tor to connect to the emergency switchboard. This was the first 2 1 inspection after delivery from the yard. We repaired the emergency generator to class satisfaction. Following this incident, 0 0 we have implemented procedures throughout the fleet, with 2008 2009 2010 2011 weekly and monthly tests of the emergency generator that must 6) The Tanker Safety Forum’s benchmark is used as industry benchmark (2011). Maritime safety and security / CSR report 2011 11 be recorded in a log. We are confident that further familiarisation of the crew with these procedures will eliminate this type of incident in future. Incidents We constantly strive to ensure that our vessel operations are as safe as possible. In 2011, one incident that had a minor impact on the external environment was reported. During bunkering of NORD GOODWILL off Texas City, the bunker hose on the bunkering barge leaked and caused bunkers to be spilled. Approximately 1-2 gallons ran into the water. The US Coast Guard was satisfied with the clean-up operation initiated by the bunkering company. We experienced a 34% decrease in incidents per vessel without impact on the external environment in 2011. Near-misses NORDEN also focuses on reporting of near-misses as a safety NORD MARINER discharging salt in Kalundborg. awareness indicator. The term near-misses refers to situations, which could have led to an accident if they had developed further. The goal is to receive as many reports as possible, as they dressed and the crew members were encouraged to ask quesreflect the employees’ focus on safety. Our 2011 target was tions and provide input. to report a minimum of 1 near-miss per vessel per week, and with an average of 1.6 near-misses per vessel this target was Lost-Time Injury (LTI) met. We received 2,309 near-miss reports in 2011, while we Another indicator monitored is the Lost-Time Injury (LTI) frereceived 1,541 reports in 2010. quency rate, which provides us with an overview of the number of incidents that took place in the past year. This assessment The near-miss reports are analysed to assess which issues can help us evaluate whether our incident prevention efforts observed on board vessels are the most important to improve. are successful or should be strengthened. We measure the LTI Three key areas were identified after analysing near-miss refrequency rate in work-related incidents per 1 million working ports from 2010. These areas were safety on deck, safety in hours which result in occupational illness causing absence from the engine and Fire Fighting Appliances/Life Saving Appliances. work for more than 24 hours. The LTI frequency rate is mea­ sured as an average over the past 12 months. In 2011, our LTI On the basis of these results, it was decided to launch a comfrequency rate was 1.2, which meant that we did not reach our prehensive safety behaviour campaign. This campaign would target of 0.75. The industry standard was 1.65 for 2011.7 further strengthen our current efforts within incident prevention. The initiatives included publishing of articles on safety issues The Total Recordable Case Frequency (TRCF) indicates the in our internal magazine aimed at the crew, safety bulletins, number of incidents that have resulted in medical treatment. knowledge sharing, addressing the issue at officers’ seminars In 2011, it was 2.23 per 1 million working hours which is a and in the dialogue with our senior officers. Moreover, during substantial decrease from 5.68 in 2010. onshore staff’s visits on board the vessels, safety meetings with the entire crew were conducted where current issues were adThere were no fatalities and no grave injuries in 2011. Near-miss reporting LTI frequency rate Number of near-misses reports Lost Time Injuries per 1 million working hours Near-miss reports per vessel per week Total number of reports Near-miss reports per vessel per week 750 2.4 3 625 2.0 500 1.6 2 375 1.2 250 0.8 1 125 0.4 0 0.0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 7) The Tanker Safety Forum’s benchmark is used as industry benchmark (2011). 12 CSR report 2011 / Maritime safety and security “We constantly evaluate our measures and we are in continuous dialogue with authorities, external advisers and experts in the industry to benchmark Piracy our efforts and get new ideas for strengthening NORDEN faces the same challenges as safety for our ships and crew in high risk areas,” other shipping companies when it comes to piracy off the coast of Somalia, in the Gulf says Flemming Dahl Jensen, QA Manager. of Aden, the Red Sea, the Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean. It affects our business and is quite costly. Piracy is an increasing problem and individual Guinea9, where mainly tanker vessels are hijacked and part of countries cannot solve it alone. There is a need for international their cargoes stolen before the vessel is released. efforts under the auspices of the UN. The increasing challenges in the Gulf of Guinea has led to us Above all things, our job is to create a secure environment in updating the joint security policy between NORDEN and our which our crew feels safe. Hence we have decided to adopt joint-venture partner Interorient. Numerous precautionary basic principles for anti-piracy measures that can be summed measures have been implemented alongside the full implemenup in three small words: avoid, detect and delay pirate attacks. tation of the BMP4 on all vessels entering the Gulf of Guinea. NORDEN has implemented comprehensive anti-piracy instructions and guidelines as well as protective measures in accordActual and attempted attacks by Somali Pirates ance with the BMP48 standard. Boarded Fired upon Hijacked Attempted Boarding The increased number of pirate attacks in 2011 and the larger operational range of the pirates, due to use of previously hijacked vessels as mother ships, have led us to the decision to 120 make use of armed guards on select vessels. We assess the 100 necessity for this on a case-by-case basis. 80 In 2011, NORDEN did not experience any pirate attacks. How60 ever, we did experience two suspicious approaches in the Gulf 40 of Aden and the Red Sea, respectively. At both occasions, the 20 suspected pirates abandoned their pursuit. 0 2009 2010 2011 As before mentioned, piracy is most often seen off the coast of Somalia, in the Gulf of Aden, the Red Sea, the Arabian Sea Source: ICC International Maritime Bureau's 2011 report on Piracy and armed robbery against ships . The data covers the following areas: Somalia, the Gulf of and the Indian Ocean. However, a new tendency is appearing Aden, the Red Sea, the Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean. Boarded vessels are with pirates operating off the coast of West Africa in the Gulf of vessels that were boarded but not successfully hijacked. Economic development in Somalia It only costs DKK 2,500 to provide one person with an educaA partnership between Save the Children, the Danish Shiption, and the last evaluation in April 2011 showed that 3,579 owners’ Association, NORDEN and 4 other shipping compayoung Somalis had completed the education. The goal is for nies has been formed with the purpose of providing the So10,000 young Somalis to receive an education within the next malis with education and employment opportunities, which 3 years. can lead to increased economic development in Somalia. In addition, there is also focus on educating the teachers The education and employment project gives the young Soto enable them to contribute to a sustainable and coherent malis a possibility to complete an education as an electrieducational system, which in turn ensures relevant primary cian, building constructor, hairdresser, carpenter, secretary education for the Somali youth. or within IT. 8) BMP4: Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy off the Coast of Somalia and in Arabian Sea Area, Version 4August 2011. 9) The Gulf of Guinea covers the area off the coast of Benin, Togo and Nigeria. Employee conditions / CSR report 2011 13 Employee conditions Employees are the backbone of NORDEN and an essential ingredient in ensuring successful business operations. Therefore, it is important for us to have highly qualified and motivated employees who work together to achieve common goals. Our employees can be divided into two categories: our employWe also support cadet programmes for our Danish, Philippine ees at sea, and our employees on shore consisting of employees and Indian seamen and will continue to support these proat our headquarters in Denmark and our overseas offices. We grammes in the future. believe in treating our employees equally and providing them with the best possible working environment. NORDEN offers the employees various benefits on board to ensure a healthy working environment. We provide healthy Employees at sea nutrition and access to exercise equipment. In addition, we The world fleet has grown considerably over the last years rebelieve it is important for our seamen to be able to have regusulting in a high demand for officers, which is a challenge for lar contact with their families and friends, as they are far away the whole industry. NORDEN addresses this challenge by profrom home. This particular need is reached by providing free viding high-quality educational opportunities and maintaining a phone cards and internet connection on board our vessels. strong focus on crew welfare and a safe working environment. During officers’ seminars and in the daily communication between vessels and land, we also engage in open dialogue with In the fleet, the competency system NORDEN Officer Career our colleagues at sea to better understand their needs and Program (NOCaP) has been developed following a pretesting how we can meet them. period. The system draws up a development plan for each officer’s competences and outlines uniform criteria for each posiNORDEN’s retention rate for employees at sea remained tion, thus making it simpler to train newly employed officers and approximately 81% in 2011. In 2012, we will continue to focus to offer existing officers career development, while documenting on maintaining a high retention rate for our employees at sea the progress. by providing a safe, healthy and attractive working environment. Captain on board NORD STRAIT overlooking Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 14 CSR report 2011 / Employee conditions Cargo operation on board NORD POWER in Stigsnæs, Denmark. NORDEN aims to ensure compliance with regulations and conment in which our employees feel appreciated and heard. Our ventions concerning working hours, rest hours, rest facilities 2010 employee survey, called Cultural Performance Driver and leave to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for (CPD), showed low scores on internal communication and feedour employees at sea. For instance we focus greatly on complyback. To address this challenge, all employees attended coming with rest hour regulations where our long-term goal is to munication workshops in 2010. have 100% compliance with rest hours at sea. In 2011, we had 0.40 rest hour non-conformity per full-time equivalent, meaning In 2011, a Communication Task Force was created with the 0.40 violations per 1 crew member on board a vessel during 1 aim of establishing a set of Golden Rules of Communication for month. Other offshore employee data can be found in Tables 3 NORDEN based on the results from the internal communication to 6 in Annex 1 pages 22-23. workshops. The main result from the workshops was that challenges vary between departments and therefore, it is essential Employees on shore that each department identifies their particular challenges with We believe that a company’s most valuable asset is its employregard to three main areas: feedback, knowledge sharing and ees and therefore, we need to ensure a good working environmutual results. Successful partnership between NORDEN and they finish their scholarship, the majority of them do not have Specialisterne the ability to continue an education, as they have to pursue Specialisterne is an IT consulting company in which 75% of it at a school which does not take their strengths and weakthe employees have a diagnosis classified within the autism nesses into account. Therefore, they need a relevant educaspectrum. Specialisterne has a strong eye for detail, and the tional opportunity which focuses on their skills and enables employees’ skills are highly valued in the business community. them to obtain a job. We have entered into a partnership with Specialisterne to “We have been very pleased with the students we have emcreate a tailored educational opportunity which will enable ployed. One of our students, Daniel, whom we mentioned their students to receive a relevant education and a certifiin last year’s CSR report, has really come a long way and is cate of competencies obtained. very glad that his skills are valued in NORDEN. Along with his fellow students, he is going to benefit greatly from this There is a real need for this type of education. During the educational opportunity,” says Sture Freudenreich, Head of last year, we have hired IT interns from Specialisterne. When the IT Department. Employee conditions / CSR report 2011 15 Our next CPD survey will be conducted in 2012, and we hope to see increased scores as a result of our efforts as we believe that good internal communication is closely linked with employee work satisfaction. We also believe it is important to challenge our employees and ensure that they possess the necessary skills within their field. Therefore, competence building is essential for NORDEN, and we promote a working culture where demand for and attendance at courses are a natural part of an employee’s daily work. Our Work Environment Committee continues to find sustainable solutions to the challenges identified in last year’s workplace assessment which pertained to heating problems, solar reflections on computer screens and the noise in the open-plan office. Initiatives such as establishing a fire safety plan and running a fire drill was conducted in November 2011. Upcoming initiatives include minimising noise from cell phones and reducing the smell from the smoking room. We are still facing the same challenge as last year concerning the gender distribution in NORDEN. We are aware that, historically, shipping is primarily a male profession and therefore, when possible, we aim at creating a more balanced distribution between men and women. For instance, we have initiated a campaign to attract more female trainees. Employees in Hellerup, Denmark. Moreover, we strive to maintain a working environment which is tolerant, respectful and inclusive and in which everyone has Code of Conduct equal opportunities regardless of their religion, ethnicity, age, End of 2011, we started formalising a Code of Conduct that will etc. In 2011, no discrimination, neither at sea nor on shore was be anchored within the organisation in the first half of 2012. reported. We have started gathering existing policies on ethical business Our onshore retention rate, including all overseas offices, inconduct and assessing in which areas the policies can be imcreased from approximately 83% in 2010 to 88% in 2011, thus proved. The Code of Conduct will provide transparency as well meeting our target of improving our retention rate from 2010. as an overview of all our policies and guidelines, and will be Our goal for 2012 is 90%. Other employee data can be found in communicated to both internal stakeholders such as employTables 3 to 7 in Annex 1 pages 22-23. ees, and external stakeholders such as customers and vendors. Community engagement and conducted annual workshops on campus. All of these Japan is among NORDEN’s 10 largest dry cargo markets and initiatives broaden the knowledge of NORDEN and help us an important strategic market for NORDEN. We have entered recruit top students. into long-term new building contracts for nearly 100 vessels since the end of the 1990s. When the earthquake hit the Nanyang Technological University in Singapore: We procountry in March 2011, NORDEN quickly donated DKK 1 milvide scholarships and training to select students attending lion, which was spent on education and children in Higashi the Maritime study programme at the university. Matsushima. In addition to this amount, our employees decided to initiate an employee fundraising by which DKK 128,000 The Holy Cross of Davao College in the Philippines: We was collected and spent on toys for children in day care. have decided to pay for the third and fourth year of tuition for approximately 40 cadets. We provide these cadets with sailShanghai Maritime University in China: Since 2005, we ing experience on board our vessels during their fourth year. have sponsored scholarships for students on a yearly basis 16 CSR report 2011 / Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Corruption is a problem that has significant impact on companies as well as countries’ economic, political and social situation. Corruption creates an unfavourable business climate and limits the willingness of countries and companies to invest in a country. It also affects the populations’ trust towards their governments and can weaken a country’s democratic foundation. Moreover, the transfer of funds to a small group of individuals increases income inequality, which in turn might lead to civil discontentment. Bribery is the acceptance or offering of benefits (in kind or monetary) in order to gain business advantages to which a party would otherwise not be entitled. NORDEN has a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery. Facilitation payment is a small payment made for a service to which we have a legal right or other entitlement. Our employees are occasionally faced with these types of demands as they are customary in some parts of the world. We strive to avoid the use of facilitation payments and have a long-term goal of eliminatEmployees can receive guidance about gifts in NORDEN’s gift policy. ing them. To minimise incidents of corruption, it is important to create as Part of our guidelines is a gift and entertainment policy, which much transparency as possible in one’s business operations. was created and approved in 2011. The policy sets forth the NORDEN wishes to be a transparent company, and therefore definition of a gift compared to what can be interpreted as we have a strong focus on external and internal reporting and bribes or facilitation payments, thus creating a common undercommunication. standing. We have started mapping the challenges we face with regard to Whistleblowing corruption as we believe it is important to identify the extent of Our whistleblowing system SafeLine is another means of creathe problem. In connection with this, we are actively participatting transparency. It was launched in September 2011 and had ing in the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) – a netnot received any inquiries by the end of the year. The process work in which shipowners and shipowners’ associations share of establishing a whistleblowing system proved quite timebest practices and try to identify the challenges of the industry consuming, nevertheless we are satisfied that the system has with regard to corruption. The members of the network reprenow been launched. sent different areas of the shipping sector with head offices in Denmark, Norway, Germany, the UK, the US and Sweden. “The whistleblowing system is the natural next step You can read more about the network and for NORDEN to take, being a company that responds its short-term and long-term goals on our website.10 positively to demands and recommendations from its customers and partners of which many have launched In 2012, we will continue to focus on anticorruption and maintain our efforts within similar systems to absorb irregularities,” the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network. says Mogens Hugo, Chairman of the Board of Directors. Gift and entertainment policy One way to enhance transparency and accountability is by deThe system provides all employees, the Board of Management veloping guidelines. These will, as previously mentioned, be asand members of the Board of Directors safe access to report sembled in a Code of Conduct. any violations of law and regulations, policies and guidelines, or other serious irregularities. 10) www.ds-norden.com/profile/csr/anticorruption/ Status and future / CSR report 2011 17 Status and future 2011 was characterised by an ongoing global economic crisis, continuous low freight rates, increased piracy issues and unstable political situations in many countries. The year has given rise to numerous successes and challenges. This section sets out to outline some of them and presents a Another success has been an internal one, where NORDEN has long-term perspective of the future challenges and opportunidecided to dedicate greater focus on CSR by establishing a CSR ties we might face. Department and creating procedures to systematise our business driven CSR work. Successes 2011 We have experienced increasing interest in our CSR work as Challenges 2011 customers and other stakeholders, now more than ever, focus Piracy constitutes an increasing problem and has high econoon cooperating with companies that have a transparent busimic impact on our business. In 2011, we spent approximately ness operations model and a strong strategic CSR profile. Hence USD 7 million on anti-piracy equipment, hardship payments to CSR is starting to play a role in differentiating ourselves from our crew, risk assessment and safety monitoring, armed secuother shipowners when we negotiate contracts. For instance it rity guards as well as additional fuel due to increased speed played a part in landing us the third-largest cargo contract in and rerouting for owned vessels. With the spread of piracy, we NORDEN’s history. do not believe that these costs will decrease in the near future. Our reporting efforts were also valued as we received the In 2011, Denmark, the EU and the UN have, in some cases, Information Prize for 2011, and the award for best description passed or extended sanctions against regimes in selected counof value creation, long-term goals and operational and finantries. This has had a certain impact on NORDEN’s business. cial risks in the annual report among the 20 most traded listed Examples include the Ivory Coast where NORDEN was briefly companies (OMXC20). We also ranked number 17 out of 260 unable to perform on a large cargo contract due to EU sancNordic companies in our Carbon Disclosure Project reporting. tions, which shut down the ports. However, when sanctions were lifted in April, NORDEN could resume the transports under the contract. In Libya during the sanctions against Gadaffi’s regime, NORDEN had a number of voyages to ports controlled by the Transitional Council. The voyages were made according to UN resolutions and under NATO supervision. The future for NORDEN 2012 is the year where we will finalise our CSR strategy, which will be aligned with our business strategy, and a CSR action plan with concrete initiatives that will guide and systemise NORDEN’s CSR work. During the strategy process we will make a materiality assessment where we will define which areas are the most important to focus on. We will engage with stakeholders to make this assessment. Policies and targets within these areas will thereafter be defined. The strategy process will also give rise to procedures on how and when to engage with stakeholders. Moreover, an annual CSR workplan will be developed to systemise our business-driven approach to CSR. Future challenges and opportunities Climate change implications are embedded in The Board of Management’s business considerations and in the conduct of long-term market and risk analyses. The main consequence of climate change for the industry and NORDEN is regulations which attempt to offset the impact of climate change. The changes in weather patterns also have an impact on NORDEN’s and Michael Tønnes Jørgensen CFO receives the award for best description of value creation, long-term goals and operational and financial risks in other shipowners’ business, e.g. through changing trading patthe annual report. terns. 18 CSR report 2011 / status and future NORDKAP sailing towards Port Kamsar, Guinea. Moreover, the increased focus on renewable energy may potenundergoing a continuous positive development in terms of eftially impact our business in the long run as one of our current ficiency and price, and NORDEN is constantly monitoring the core focus areas is transporting energy based on fossil fuels. In pros and cons of the different technologies. Tanker, our business is primarily devoted to refined oil products, while in Dry Cargo coal constitutes approximately 40% of our Lastly, we have a strategy which allows us to invest in times of transported volumes. We see future global disparities where Eucrisis whilst saving up in prosperous times. This flexibility also ropean countries and eventually North America substitute fosallows us to further invest in the quality of our vessels and insil fuels with other energy sources while the emerging markets creasingly differentiate ourselves from our competitors. This will in Asia and South America increasingly demand conventional also result in an ability to service all major customers, specifienergy forms, such as coal. NORDEN has entered into a numcally those that have very rigid and high demands for quality. ber of biomass contracts for European utility companies while NORDEN’s contract portfolio for coal to Asian utilities continues to grow. We will continue to be at the forefront in order to be able to serve both markets. As before mentioned, piracy is a challenge for our Tanker and Dry Cargo business. A proposal has been put forward concerning the alteration of procedures for armed guards on vessels. Today, you need to apply to the Ministry of Justice every time you need an armed guard on your vessel, which is time and resource consuming. Moreover, it negatively affects our ability to be flexible. If the proposal is approved then we are able to remain flexible, protect our crew and save costs and time. The ratification of IMO’s ballast water11 management convention will have a significant economic impact on the whole industry as well as NORDEN. After ratification of the convention, all ballast water must be treated on board ships before being discharged into the sea to avoid that any microorganisms are introduced in the waters where they might potentially be harmful. The ballast water treatment systems are costly, however, the technology is NORD PISCES loading coal in Riga, Latvia. 11) Ballast water is used to stabilise a vessel and ensure propeller immersion when sailing without cargo from one destination to another. CSR at NORDEN / CSR report 2011 19 CSR at NORDEN Good business conduct and behaving ethically have always been part of NORDEN’s way of doing business. Our values are flexibility, reliability, empathy and ambition, and in NORDEN, CSR is embedded in these values. For instance for NORDEN, reliability means honesty, good intentions and no cheating, while empathy means respect for diversity in people and opinions. NORDEN’s CSR efforts are thus closely linked to our values. Business-driven approach to CSR and our CSR focus is aimed at areas that might pose challenNORDEN has chosen a strategic business-driven approach to ges and/or create opportunities for our business. The following CSR as we believe that an initiative is only sustainable if it is areas have been identified: energy and climate, maritime safety good for business. If a company decides to engage in mere and security, employee conditions, and anti-corruption. These philanthropic activities, then these activities would not be prifocus areas are in line with UNGC’s principles and GRI’s reportoritised in times of crisis. On the contrary, if a company invests ing standards. in initiatives that are linked to its core competencies and business strategic challenges, then it would still engage in these We have previously conducted a stakeholder analysis to deterinitiatives in times of crisis, because it makes sense in terms of mine NORDEN’s key stakeholders based on two criteria: the business and has maybe even become a differentiating factor specific stakeholder’s level of concern about CSR issues and for its customers. the specific stakeholder’s ability to impact NORDEN’s business. The following stakeholders have been identified as NORDEN’s When choosing a business-driven approach to CSR, it is imporprimary stakeholder groups: employees at sea and on shore, tant that CSR is integrated into the daily business routines and customers and brokers, suppliers, authorities and regulators, conduct of the company. Hence, CSR should not be seen as investors and analysts, external organisations and local coman add-on. NORDEN’s core business is maritime transportation munities. View from NORDEN’s Shanghai office. 20 CSR report 2011 / CSR at NORDEN NORDEN is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholdcommunicating internally and externally on our CSR work, as well ers to assess whether our CSR focus areas are still relevant or as participating in various relevant CSR networks and forums. if other areas might be relevant to include. Moreover, NORDEN The CSR Department reports to the CSR Executive Body, whose assesses whether new stakeholders might be relevant to include role it is to debate and approve NORDEN’s overall CSR direction. as a primary stakeholder group, and if actual key stakeholders have become less important to NORDEN and its business. To successfully anchor CSR in NORDEN and ensure that it is always linked to our business strategy, CSR ambassadors within Moreover, we have established an overall CSR policy as well as the different departments will be appointed. Departments such more specific policies on human and labour rights, the environas Tankers and Dry Cargo are in dialogue with customers on a ment and anti-corruption, which can be found on our website.12 daily basis. For that reason it is essential that the employees in these departments possess the latest knowledge of NORDEN’s Organisation of CSR CSR efforts if customers were to inquire about it. The CSR amA CSR Department was established in January 2011 to ensure a bassadors receive regular updates from the CSR Department systematic and business-driven approach to CSR. The CSR Deabout NORDEN’s CSR efforts. partment is responsible for establishing and implementing NORDEN’s CSR strategy, policies, Code of Conduct and action plan. A visual overview of the organisation of CSR in NORDEN can Moreover, it is also in charge of producing NORDEN’s CSR report, be seen below. Board of Directors Appoints the CSR Executive Body CSR Executive Body Debates and approves CSR strategy, action plan, policies, major CSR initiatives and ad hoc tasks Review of CSR initiatives CSR Department In charge of creating and implementing NORDEN’s CSR strategy, policies, Code of Conduct and action plan CSR reporting Internal and external communication of CSR Initiating new CSR activities CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors for each overseas office Corporate Communication Corporate Secretariat Norient Product Pool Human Resources IT Finance Legal Dry Cargo Tankers Technical Corporate Secretariat Corporate Communication Human Resources Norient Product Pool Overseas office IT Finance Legal Dry Cargo Tankers Technical Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department 12) www.ds-norden.com/profile/csr/nordensviewson.../ Annex 1: Facts and figures / CSR report 2011 21 Annex 1: Facts and figures Table 1: Environmental performance Energy consumption Unit 2009 2010 2011 Intermediate fuel oil (owned vessels) 1,000 tonnes 128.4 162.6 224 Marine diesel oil and marine gas oil (owned vessels) 1,000 tonnes 2.7 6.2 8 Intermediate fuel oil (other dry cargo vessels operated by NORDEN) 1,000 tonnes 567.4 572.6 710.3 Marine diesel oil and marine gas oil (other dry cargo vessels operated by NORDEN) 1,000 tonnes 8.3 10.4 12.2 Intermediate fuel oil (other tanker vessels operated by NORDEN via Norient Product Pool) 1,000 tonnes 121.8 94.7 97.7 Marine diesel oil and marine gas oil (other tanker vessels operated by NORDEN via Norient Product Pool) 1,000 tonnes 3.5 6.9 7.4 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (a) 1,000 tonnes 832.1 853.4 1059.6 Electricity and district heating (offices) (b) Megawatt hour 1,177.9 1,366.6 1,410.9 Indirect energy consumption by primary source (offices) (c) Terrajoule 4.2 4.9 5.1 CO2 emissions (d,e,f) Unit 2009 2010 2011 Total from owned vessels 1,000 tonnes 379.4 510.2 726.6 Other dry cargo vessels operated by NORDEN 1,000 tonnes 1,802.4 1,825.4 2,262.2 Other tanker vessels operated by NORDEN via Norient Product Pool 1,000 tonnes 392.4 318.4 329.4 Total direct CO2 emissions (scope 1) 1,000 tonnes 379.5 510.2 726.72 Total indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) 1,000 tonnes 0.3 0.4 0.4 Total other indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) 1,000 tonnes 2,247.5 2,279.90 2,595.0 Other air emissions (all operated vessels) (g) Unit 2009 2010 2011 SOx emissions (weighted as SO2) (h) 1,000 tonnes 37.1 34.7 42.5 NOx emissions (weighted as NO2) (j) 1,000 tonnes 80.3 81.6 101.4 Other resource consumption (owned vessels operated by NORDEN) Unit 2009 2010 2011 Waste (average per vessel per month) Cubic meter 5.6 4.7 5.4 (a) The figure includes energy consumption on owned vessels, other dry cargo vessels operated by NORDEN and other tanker vessels operated by NORDEN via Norient Product Pool. In 2011, the direct energy consumption by primary energy source in joules was 42,712.6. The increase is due to growth of the fleet. (b) The figures have been corrected due to inaccurate heating data for our Copenhagen office received from our heating provider during the last couple of years. (c) The figures have been corrected due to inaccurate heating data for our Copenhagen office received from our heating provider during the last couple of years. (d) S  mall deviation in the figures published in the CSR report 2010 due to the use of a more accurate accounting method. (e) CO2 emissions from vessels are calculated from the fuel quantity consumed on a voyage times the duration of the voyage (calculated pro rata) times the CO2 emissions factor for each bunker type (for residual fuel oil the CO2 emissions factor is 3.13, and for marine diesel oil and marine gas oil the CO2 emissions factor is 3.19. (source:”Second IMO GHG Study 2009”). (f) Scope 1 emissions include emissions from owned vessels and also emissions from owned company cars. Scope 2 emissions include emissions from land-based activities at NORDEN’s offices worldwide, except the Annapolis office since electricity is integrated in rental costs. Scope 3 emissions include emissions from chartered vessels, business travel by air transport and leased company cars. (g) The basis for calculations has been expanded for SOx and NOx going from owned vessels to all operated vessels which explains the deviations in the figures from the ones published in the CSR report 2010. (h) S  Ox emissions are weighted as SO2 emissions since this is presumably what the emissions will become in time. SO2 emissions are calculated from the fuel quantity consumed during the year times the average sulphur content in the bunker fuel (in 2011: 2.06%) times 0.02 since sulphur is about twice as heavy as oxygen. The formula is provided by MAN Diesel & Turbo SE.  Ox emissions are weighted as NO2 emissions since this is presumably what the emissions will become in time. NO2 emissions are calculated from the (j) N energy that the main engine produces times the Tier I NOx limit which is 17 gr/kwh, as NORDEN’s owned and operated vessels are Tier I compliant. The energy produced is calculated using the fuel oil consumed in kg divided by the SFOC which in this case is estimated to be 0,173 kg/kWh.(source “Project Guide for MAN S50MC-C7 two-stroke engine, 6th Edition, January 2009”). 22 CSR report 2011 / Annex 1: Facts and figures Table 2: Climate action plan 1. Slide fuel valves for main engines: improves the combustion of main engine and ensures a cleaner engine. 2. CASPERVessel performance monitoring: ensures an overview of the development of the fuel efficiency for each individual vessel in the fleet. 3. Alpha lubricator system for the main engines: ensures an effective dosage of cylinder lubrication oil and a reduction of the cylinder oil consumption can be obtained. 4. M/E cylinder oil scrape down analysis for the main engines: ensures an effective dosage of cylinder lubrication oil via the Alpha Lubricating System and a reduction of the cylinder oil consumption can be obtained. 5. Shaft torque monitoring system: ensures an on‐line real‐time monitoring of the propulsion power delivered to the propeller. 6. Electrical heater: Instead of using the large capacity oil fired boiler to “top up” steam at low engine loads and/or in cold weather a small electrical heating system can be installed and efficiently generate the required “top up” steam. 7. Advanced hull coating: reduce marine growth on the under­water hull. 8. Propeller cleaning: adoption of propeller cleaning on an average 6 months basis. 9. Increased service and check of main engine performance. More frequent check and service intervals of: • the turbo charger • fuel oil pump • air cooler 10. Funding of environmental research, for instance Green steam: on board decision making system that can guide the master to achieve the best possible trim for the actual condition of the vessel, as the trim can have significant effect on the resistance of a vessel. Table 3: LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region broken down by gender (Women= W, Men= M) Employees at sea 2011 W M Full-time 2 791 Part-time 0 0 Employees at sea 2011 W M Indefinite or permanent contract 2 161 Fixed term or temporary contract 0 630 Hellerup Singapore Shanghai Mumbai Rio de Janeiro Annapolis Employees on shore 2011 W M W M W M W M W M W M Full-time 46 111 10 38 7 7 1 3 1 2 5 11 Part-time 13 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hellerup Singapore Shanghai Mumbai Rio de Janeiro Annapolis Employees on shore 2011 W M W M W M W M W M W M Indefinite or permanent contract 54 107 10 35 7 7 1 3 1 2 3 10 Fixed term or temporary contract (e.g. trainees and maternity leave replacements) 5 8 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 1 Annex 1: Facts and figures / CSR report 2011 23 Table 4: LA2 Total number and rate of new employees hired and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Employees Employees Employees at sea that Employees on shore that at sea hired left NORDEN on shore hired left NORDEN Age in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 <30 130 22 24 11 30-50 164 64 22 15 >50 73 39 8 3 Employees Employees Employees at sea that Employees on shore that at sea hired left NORDEN on shore hired left NORDEN in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 Women 2 0 15 7 Men 365 125 39 22 Employees Employees on shore that on shore hired left NORDEN in 2011 in 2011 Hellerup 41 22 Singapore 6 5 Shanghai 2 1 Mumbai 0 0 Rio de Janeiro 0 1 Annapolis 5 0 Table 5: LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Employees on shore 0% Employees at sea 100% Table 6: LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint-management worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Employees on shore 100% Employees at sea 100% Note: The Work Environment Committee covers all employees on shore. All employees at sea are covered by safety organisation consisting of a safety representative, a supervisor and the Master of the vessel. Table 7: Employment level Hellerup Singapore Shanghai Mumbai Rio de Janeiro Annapolis 2011 W M W M W M W M W M W M Management (general managers and above) 6 31 1 6 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 2 Employees excl. management 53 84 9 32 7 5 1 2 1 1 4 10 Management in % of total workforce 3 18 2 13 0 14 0 25 0 33 0 13 Managers in % of total management 16 84 14 86 0 100 0 100 0 100 0 100 Table 8: LT11 Description of policies and programmes regarding substance abuse The crew is introduced to NORDEN’s Drug and Alcohol policy before boarding the vessel. NORDEN has an alcohol policy stating that the blood alcohol content must not exceed 0.4‰ at any time and must be zero for watch-keeping personnel. Abstinence for 24 hours before arriving in port and during the entire port stay must be observed. Violations of the policy are subject to disciplinary actions and possible dismissal with immediate effect. The relatively liberal position on alcohol is due to the Company’s wish for the crew to be able to enjoy an occasional beer or a glass of wine for off duty personnel. Compliance with the alcohol policy is ensured by random and unannounced tests of the crew. 24 CSR report 2011 / Annex 2: Global Reporting initiative Annex 2: Global Reporting initiative The GRI indicators and topics from last year’s report were choowned vessels as last year. We believe that this provides a better sen based on an analysis and discussion in the CSR Executive overview of our environmental footprint. Our accounting policies Body. These indicators and topics have been revised in 2011 by can be found on our website.13 the CSR Executive Body, the CSR Department and the responsible employees for each CSR focus area. This process has led The table on the next page depicts which UN Global Compact to a reduction from 22 performance indicators to 14 indicators principle and GRI indicator the specific section in the report to enable a more in-depth reporting. We have also gone from refers to, as well as the fulfillment of the GRI indicator. A GRI GRI G3 to GRI G3.1. table that follows GRI’s indicator in a chronological order can be found on our website.14 The report boundary includes assets in the parent company, subsidiaries and joint ventures, as well as employees in the parSome of the indicators cannot be fulfilled merely via the CSR ent company and subsidiaries. report; other sources such as the annual report 2011 and our accounting policies should also be consulted. This is the case We have decided to expand our environmental data reporting, for indicators 2.3, 2.5-2.9, and 4.1-4.3 which are located in our so we now also report on our energy consumption, SOx and annual report 2011, and indicators 3.1-3.3, 3.6-3.9 and EN4 NOx emissions for all NORDEN operated vessels and not merely which are located in our accounting policies on our website. NORD DESTINY at Svalbard, Norway. 13) www.ds-norden.com/profile/csr/csrreports/ 14) www.ds-norden.com/profile/csr/csrreports/ Annex 2: Global Reporting initiative / CSR report 2011 25 GRI reporting and UNGC overview NORDEN’s CSR report Location UN Global Compact’s principles GRI indicator and fulfilment Fully Partially NORDEN in brief Pages 2-4 1.1 Senior decisionmaker statement A word from the board of 2.1 Name of the organisation management 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Reporting services NORDEN’s performance 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 2.9 Significant changes in the reporting period Energy and Climate Pages 5-9 7: Support a precautionary approach to LT1 Number of ships controlled environmental challenges EN16 Total GHG emissions 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Maritime safety Pages 10-12 1: Support and respect the protection of huLT13 Detainment of ships by port inspectors and security man rights 2: Not complicit in human rights abuses 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Employee conditions Pages 13-15 1: Support and respect the protection human HR4 Discrimination rights LT9 Policies for working hours, rest hours, etc. 2: Not complicit in human rights abuses 6: Elimination of discrimination Anti-corruption Page 16 10: Work against corruption in all its forms Status and future Pages 17-18 1: Support and respect the protection of 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period human rights EC2 Financial implications and other risks 2: Not complicit in human rights abuses and opportunities due to climate change 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility CSR at NORDEN Pages 19-20 4.1 Governance structure 4.14 Stakeholder groups 4.14 Stakeholder engagement Annex 1: Pages 21-23 1: Support and respect the protection of 3.10 Effect of any re-statements of information Facts and figures human rights 4.4 Shareholders and employee mechanisms 3: Uphold the freedom of association the EN3 Direct energy consumption right to collective bargaining EN4 Indirect energy consumption 7: Support a precautionary approach to EN16 Total GHG emissions by weight environmental challenges EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater LA1 Total workforce environmental responsibility LA2 New employee hired and turnover 9: Encourage the development and diffusion LA4 Collective bargaining agreements of environmentally friendly technologies LA6 Formal joint management committees LT11 Substance abuse Annex 2: Pages 24-25 3.5 Process for defining report content Global Reporting Initiative 3.11 Significant changes 3.12 GRI table Auditors’ reports Pages 26-27 Backpage Page 28 3.4 Contact point for questions 26 CSR report 2011 / Auditors’ reports Auditors’ reports PricewaterhouseCoopers’ Independent Auditor’s Report To the stakeholders of Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S Scope (NORDEN) We have planned and performed our work in accordance with We have reviewed NORDEN’s Corporate Social Responsibility the international standard on assurance engagements ISAE Report 2011 (the CSR Report) for the purpose of expressing 3000 (assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of an opinion on the reliability of the 2011 non-financial data historical financial information) for the purpose of obtaining stated in the CSR Report and on whether the reporting has limited assurance that been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s sustainability reporting guidelines (GRI G3.1), applica• the 2011 non-financial data in the CSR Report have tion level C+. been stated in accordance with the criteria mentioned Criteria for the preparation of the CSR Report • the reporting has been prepared in accordance with GRI The non-financial data have been prepared in accordance G3.1, application level C+ with the criteria set out in Annex 2 of the CSR Report and in the accounting policies. Furthermore, NORDEN has prepared • the CSR Report meets United Nations Global Compact’s a GRI G3.1 content index. requirements for annual communication on progress The accounting policies and the GRI G3.1 content index are The assurance obtained is limited compared to that of an available on www.ds-norden.com. audit engagement as our work has been limited to a review of documentation presented, inquiries and sample testing of These documents contain information on the scope of the information and data. CSR Report, types of data included and Management’s reasons for choosing the data as well as the indicators included Opinion from GRI G3.1 and the GRI Logistics and Transportation SecBased on our work, nothing has come to our attention causing tor Supplement, Pilot Version 1.0. us to believe that Responsibilities and limitations • the 2011 CSR data in the CSR Report have not been NORDEN’s Management is responsible for preparing the CSR stated in accordance with the criteria mentioned Report, including for establishing internal registration and control systems with a view to ensuring reliable reporting, • the GRI G3.1 indicators listed on NORDEN’s website specifying acceptable reporting criteria and choosing data to have not been stated and disclosed in accordance with be collected. Based on our work, it is our responsibility to GRI G3.1, application level C+ express an opinion on the reliability of the non-financial data and on whether the CSR Report has been prepared in accord• the CSR Report does not meet United Nations Global ance with GRI G3.1, application level C+. Compact’s requirements for annual communication on progress The scope of the engagement has not included a review of energy consumption and emissions to air data. We refer to the We are thus able to state that nothing has come to our attenstatement prepared by DNV. tion causing us to believe that NORDEN has not reported in a reasonable and balanced manner. Copenhagen, 7 March 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Bo Schou-Jacobsen Birgitte Mogensen State-Authorised Public Accountant State-Authorised Public Accountant Auditors’ reports / CSR report 2011 27 Det Norske Veritas’ assurance statement DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET NORDEN A/S asked Det Norske Conclusions Veritas (‘DNV’) to verify data for 2011 according to the scope In DNV’s opinion, the Report paragraphs “Energy and Clibelow. DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET NORDEN A/S is entirely remate” and Annex 1 table 1 and 2 provides a fair and credible sponsible for the content of the data. DNV’s responsibility representation of DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET NORDEN A/S’s is to DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET NORDEN A/S’s management performance according to the defined scope. The quality of only, according to agreed terms and assuming that all inforemission and performance data is acceptable. mation provided to us is true. This statement is intended for DAMPSKIBSSELSKABET NORDEN A/S management and We evaluated adherence to the following principles on a scale broader stakeholders. of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Scope of Assurance and Limitations Materiality; Good. Scope 1 and 2 is defined and data colDNV verified in February 2012: lected accordingly. • the CO2 emissions data for 2011 for scope 1, 2 and 3. Reliability; Acceptable. The specified performance informaScope 1 defined as: owned vessels and owned company tion in the statements for 2011 is reliable. Data is based on cars.Scope 2 defined as: electricity and heating at office internal or external sources of good quality. premises.Scope 3 defined as: chartered vessels, leased Completeness; Good. According to the scope all material incompany cars and business travel by airplane. formation is reported. • SOx and NOx data • EEOI data & Climate action plan Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opporWe reviewed: tunities reported back to the management of DAMPSKIBS­ • Excel sheets for accumulation of data and calculations SELSKABET NORDEN A/S. They are generally consistent • Samples of reports / data from suppliers supporting the with management objectives already in place. scope • Principles for calculation documented in excel sheets • Accounting principles related to Climate and Energy and could be improved e.g. by adding information on data the application of these to the data collection and caland information sources used or by standard operation culations procedures. • Collection of data for fuel consumption has been imWe evaluated the GHG data adherence to the three principles; proved in efficiency and transparency. But handling of Materiality, Reliability and Completeness, as set out in DNV’s data and calculation related to bunker sulphur can be Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. improved on efficiency and transparency. Verification Methodology DNV’s Competence and Independence We planned and carried out the work in accordance with the DNV provides sustainability risk management services through DNV’s Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. qualified specialists worldwide. DNV was not involved in the Through on-site verification of data, reporting tools, docupreparation of any statements or data included in the Report ments and interviews, we challenged the data presented in except for this Assurance Statement. the Report. DNV maintains complete impartiality towards people interviewed during the assignment. Copenhagen, 13 February 2012 For Det Norske Veritas, Business Assurance, Danmark A/S Uffe Pilgaard Jens Peter Høiseth Lead Verifier Key Customer Manager Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S 52, Strandvejen DK-2900 Hellerup Denmark Telephone: +45 3315 0451 Fax: +45 3315 6199 www.ds-norden.com CVR no. 67 75 89 19 Contact regarding the content of this report Satnam Kaur Nanda-Jørgensen, CSR & Compliance Manager Email: skn@ds-norden.com Telephone: +45 3271 0881 www.ds-norden.com
