KSPO Sustainability Report 2010 Olympic Center, 426 Olympic-ro, Bangi-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea Elemental Chlorine Free paper(ECF) This Report was printed in soy ink on FSC certified paper, produced in eco-friendly method. This report contains our efforts to create a harmonized world full of healthiness and happiness through sports. It is our third sustainability report, and also the third COP (Communication on Progress) published since we joined the UN Global Compact. We will publish the sustainability report annually on our activities and performances as a “Sports Supporter”. Reporting This report was prepared based on the GRI G3 Guidelines. We place top priority on the objectivity Principles and credibility of data. KSPO Sustainability Report 2010 Reporting This report contains the sustainability management activities, and performance of KSPO in the period Period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010. However, data for the recent three years are also provided to show trends. In addition, annual data from our inception (1989) are also contained when deemed necessary. Reporting Data of our all worksites are included in principle. However, 18 speezons (cycle and motorboat racing Scope branches in rental buildings) are excluded from the calculating environmental data. Numerical data and financial information in the report are denominated in Korean Won (KRW). Assurance To enhance the objectivity and credibility, we received an independent assurance from the third party. Additional For further information not included in the report, please refer to our homepage (www.kspo.or.kr). Information You may contact Social Contribution Team under the Performance Management Department Tel: 02-410-1203 / Fax : 02-410-1199 / E-mail : sustainability@kspo.or.kr Address : Social Contribution Team, Olympic Center, 426 Olympic-ro, Bangi-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea Contents 06 CEO Message 08 Introduction General 10 History 10 Organization 11 Corporate Governance 12 Key Business 14 Corporate Innovation 18 20 Key Performance of Sustainability Management in 2010 24 Sustainability Management at KSPO Sustainability Management Strategy 25 Resolution for Practicing Ethical Management 26 KSPO Risk Management System 26 Selection & Evaluation of Material Issues 27 Stakeholder Participation 28 30 Material Issues of KSPO Sustainability Management Ethical Management 32 Customer Satisfaction Management 34 Social Contribution Activities 38 Improvement of Public Sports Welfare 42 Environmental Management 48 Responsible Leisure 54 Creation of Economic Value Added 60 68 Foundation of KSPO Sustainability Management Employees 70 Business Partners 78 Key Performance Index of KSPO Sustainability Management 82 Major Achievements 84 GRI Content Index 85 UN Global Compact 89 Third Party's Assurance Report 90 Statement GRI Application level check 92 KSPO, Like Heart of Children KSPO’s sustainable management considers the dreams of the next generation. We thrive to make healthy, beautiful and pure future like that of children. The investment in our next generation is the biggest and the most meaningful investment to make the happier society. KSPO will always be there where the healthy dreams are. KSPO, Like Heart of Nature KSPO’s sustainable management takes a lead to protect the priceless value of our environment. In recognition of the significance of the environment and efforts for the harmonious coexistence, KSPO continually takes on a social responsibility. Only by conserving earth’s valuable lives and resources can dream of the bright future. KSPO will continue to march forward for a healthy and green mother nature. CEO message Dear respected stakeholders! I am very happy to introduce the sustainability management activities and performances of KSPO through the third issue of the sustainability management report. KSPO is a sports-related public utility company established in 1989 to promote businesses related to national sports promotion. We are endeavoring to create a world where anyone can freely and conveniently enjoy sports anywhere, anytime. Until 2010, KSPO invested a total of 3.132 trillion KRW to support daily sports by establishing national sports centers and daily sports facilities. Also KSPO supports elite sports by fostering national athletic team, improving their athletic performance, conducting various national sports promotion businesses such as the sports welfare business for the disabled, and fostering the sports industry. By doing so, KSPO has strengthened Korea's sports infrastructure and led the sports welfare in every possible area. KSPO now seeks to embrace our active and challenging business attitude based on the belief that our footstep is the key to Korea's healthy and sustainable future. First, KSPO promises to fulfill our economic responsibilities as the sponsor of sports finances. We will actively foster new profitable businesses centering on the sports industry with the goal of achieving an accumulated investment value of KRW 8 trillion by 2020. Also, we will further strengthen the stability of our fund-raising and investment businesses by diversifying the previously sports betting industry-oriented fund-raising structure. Second, KSPO as the partner of the socially weak will build a sports welfare nation where none is alienated. We will fulfill this promise by increasing investment for expanding the alienated class's opportunity to participate in sports, strengthening support for R&D and finances for the increased competitiveness of small-and-middlesized sports enterprises, and actively promoting combined growth for a balanced social development. Third, KSPO will lead the expansion of green sports as the leader of eco-friendly management. We will intensify our efforts to expand the bicycle culture and establish the infrastructure through 'Tour de Korea' and 'Korea Bicycling Ceremony', and thoroughly preserve the Olympic Park and the Boat Racing Course as ecofriendly ecological parks. By doing so, we will strengthen the parks' functionality as resting areas in the city. We will also minimize our impact on the environment by implementing a company-wide policy on saving energy. President of Korea Sports Promotion Foundation Focused on these 3 major strategies for sustainability management, KSPO promises Jung-Taek, Chung to diligently implement the sustainability management strategies above. We will do everything in our capacity to become the sturdy Supporter who cares for the citizens' health and bright future, and a creative public interest company that creates a value beyond sports. Thank you. Introduction Enjoy Sports, We Support KSPO is operating various businesses including cycle racing, motorboat racing, and Sports Toto to raise the funding to enhance the citizens’ quality of life and to realize a sports welfare country. Moreover, we believe that sports is a basic right to be enjoyed by all, and are annually providing several hundred billions of KRW to the funding to improve the sports welfare in the country with the goal of facilitating sports anywhere, anytime. The funding is used to foster elite national teams, develop the domestic sports industry, and establish a daily sports infrastructure. Our future becomes sound as KSPO’s dream of building a first-rate sports welfare Korea grows with the unlimited sensation and potential of sports. General Organization Name Seoul Olympic Sports Promotion Foundation KSPO is organized into three divisions, three business units, 37 departments, 67 teams, and 18 speezons. Olympic Center, 426 Olympic-ro, Bangi-dong, Headquarters As of December 2010, a total of 844 employees work for the organization, which break down into three Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea Date of establishment April 20, 1989 executive directors, three division heads, one administrative position, 734 regular staffs, and 103 contractbased workers. In addition, we employ 985 staffs in racing course ticket offices and part-timers. Total assets KRW 2.52 trillion Total shareholders’ ● Organizational Chart KRW 2.13 trillion equity Sales KRW 4.67 trillion Chairman Fund accumulated KRW 1.75 trillion Standing Auditor Fund disseminated Auditing Dept Secretary’s Office KRW 3.13 trillion (accumulated) Foundation rationale National Sport Promotion Act (Article 36) Managing Director Sports Industry Racing Business Cycle Racing Motorboat Racing Korea Institute Public agency Division Division Business Unit Business Unit of Sport Science Quasi Government Institution (Fund Management) classification Olympic Youth Hostel No. of employees 844 persons History 13 Branches (Speezon) Administration Dep Cycle Racing Management Dept Cycle Racer Training Center Motorboat Racer Training Center Cycle Racing Operation Dept Customer Satisfaction Dept Sports Industry Research Dept Branch Management Dept Motorboat Racing Operation Dept Construction Management Dept Sports Industry Dept Management Coordination Dept Policy Development Research Dept Planning and Coordination Dept Industrial Infrastructure Dept Toto Business Dept Research and Coordination Dept Fund Coordination Dept Motorboat Racing Management Dept Business Strategy Dept IT support Dept Performance Management Dept Established Seoul Olympic Sports 1989 Apr. Promotion Foundation Jul. Established Korea Sports Industry Co. Ltd. 1990 Sep. Opened Olympic Youth Hostel 1993 Feb. Inaugurated Cycle Racing Association 1994 Oct. Opened Jamsil Velodrome Jan. Merged Korea Institute of Sports Science Operation of Invested Company 1999 Jul. Inaugurated Motorboat Racing Association In order to efficiently manage and operate the foundation’s facilities, KSPO has funded its entire capital 2001 Oct. Started sales of Sports Toto in 1990 to establish and operate KSPO&CO. 1 chairman, 5 departments, 11 teams / 175 staffs Jun. Opened Misari Motorboat Racing Course 2002 Main business activities of KSPO&CO Nov. Opened Cycle Racing Training Center Facility Maintenance (3.85 mil. ㎡) Operation of Facilities 2006 Feb Opened Gwangmyeong Speedom Joined UN Global Compact Jul. Rental: Gymnastics, Fencing, Weightlifting 2007 Hosted the 1st Tour de Korea (International Road Sep. Olympic Park, Misari Motorboat Racing Course, Stadiums, Olympic Hall, Velodrome, Cycling Race) Gwangmyeong Speedom, Convention Center Cycle Racing Training Center, Held the 20th Anniversary Ceremony 2008 Sep. Motorboat Racing Training Center, Sports Center: Bundang/Ilsan Sports Center of Seoul Olympics Bundang/Ilsan Sports Center Convenience: Parking lot, snack shop, cafeteria, etc. 2009 Apr. Hosted the 1st Korea Bicycling Ceremony Apr. Hosted the 4th Tour de Korea 2010 (International Road Cycling Race) Oct. Hosted the 2nd Korea Bicycling Ceremony 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 10 + 11 Corporate Governance The KSPO Board of Directors (BOD) is the top decision-making body that delivers and approves key policies of the foundation. It not only checks but supports the management. Effective BOD ensures sound corporate governance and enhances the efficiency, transparency, and fairness of the foundation. Currently, the BOD comprises of two executive directors (chairman, managing director) and eight independent directors (non-executive directors) and the CEO of KSPO chairs the BOD as stipulated for quasi government bodies. Independent director appointment is made in a transparent and fair manner. We nominate directors among experts in various areas who have professional knowledge and capabilities. We also have appointed one female director (10% of the entire board). ● KSPO BOD Organization Classification Name Position Area of Expertise Chung, Jung-Taek Chairman Executive directors Sung, Nam-Gi Managing Director Kim, Ki-Hong Director of Sports Division, , MCST Sports policies Ex officio member Choi, Jong-Jun Secretary-General, Korea Sports Elite sports ● KSPO BOD Operation Council Kim, Gwan-Sang Prof. of Advertising Creation, Media advertising Independent Pyeongtaek Univ. directors Classification 2007 2008 2009 2010 Kim, Sa-Yeop Prof. of Social Physical Edu., Daily sports Korea Nat’l Sport Univ. Nominated Kim, Hong-Sik Professor of Sport for All, Sports industry No. of Dongshin Univ. meetings held 10 12 11 11 members Yang, Se-Yeong Director of KBSRI Ethical management Prof. of Business Admin., Sookmyung Attendance Lee, Hyeong-Oh Business/economics 90.3% 90.8% 92.0% 90.5% Women’s Univ. rate Hyeon, Jeong-Hwa Coach of National Women’s Table Elite sports Tennis Team Agenda 54 cases 65 cases 33 cases 49 cases (approval/ (35/19) (40/25) (24/9) (40/9) report) In order to ensure the independent status and authority of the non-executive directors, we guarantee the rights to summon the BOD, request to dismiss the chairman, request auditing of the organization, Decision-making participate in the Board Member Recommendation Committee, and throw veto rights for directors of Key decisions are made via the process of relevant division review, internal executive review, BOD concern. We also actively support scene inspections such as visiting business sites and inspecting the deliberation/approval, and feedback on the results. With high proportion of independent directors (80%), research and counseling expenses regarding our business. We also restructured the “e-BOD” system for the BOD has substantial decision-making power. The agenda report of the non-executive board of swift communication and exchange of information amongst the BOD and staffs. This system provides the directors is used prior to the main BOD in order to strengthen the preliminary deliberation function. directors with constant access through the external homepage and internal intranet, and transparently discloses information on the key business status through various materials including the management BOD Operation Evaluation meeting data, business analysis report, BOD agenda and minutes. In particular, all employees can share The BOD is subject to an annual government performance evaluation. The executive directors are agenda items, results of the BOD, opinions and demands for improvement through our own “Open financially compensated according to the government assessment result. As for the independent BOD” system. We also disseminate e-mails every week on the weekly BOD meeting results, KSPO media directors, their terms in office are renewed according to their BOD attendance and contribution. reports and news of key events, and actively support the non-executive director meeting to guarantee the independence of the BOD. The non-executive director meeting had been held nine times in 2010. In 2010, the BOD was summoned 11 times to deliberate and approve on 40 agendas including the amendment of the articles of association and settlement of the 2009 fiscal year, and to report 9 agendas including the report on the chairman’s business proposal. The average attendance rate was 90.5%. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 12 + 13 ● Fund-distribution Business Key Businesses of KSPO ● Sports facility infrastructure Supports the construction of daily sports facilities such as sports centers, playgrounds and daily sports facilities Promotion ● Fostering daily sports leaders Places leaders around the country to promote daily sport of daily sports ● Supporting sports clubs Supports the activities of public sports facilities and sports clubs ● Supporting the Korea Council of Sport for All (SPORTAL) Supports SPORTAL, the national center of daily sports ● Fund-raising Cycle Racing Business Cycle racing is a business of selling tickets and issuing refunds to those guessing the correct ● Fostering elite athletes Supports promising youths and elite athletes ● Supporting domestic competitions Provides sports instructors to elementary schools and winner. After its birth in 1994, as a new weekend recreational activity, it has grown immensely supports operation of weekend leagues of school sports as the core business of fostering the National Sports Promotion Fund. With the opening of the Promotion ● Supporting activation of school sports Provides sports instructors to elementary schools and supports Gwangmyeong Speedom in the family-oriented leisure town and 18 regional hub based leisure of operation of weekend leagues of school sports areas called ‘Speezons’, we will persistently work towards building a flourishing sports welfare elite sports ● Welfare business for athletes Promotes welfare businesses in 8 areas including the funding for nation. research on improving athletic performance, disability, and sports scholarships * Check out www.kcycle.or.kr to find out more about cycle racing. ● Promoting international exchange of sports Supports international exchange of sports such as the participation in international competitions and exchanges between South and North Korea Motorboat Racing ● Supporting the Korean Olympic Committee Supports the Korean Olympic Committee, the national Motorboat racing is a business of selling tickets and issuing refunds to those guessing the correct winner. It has center of elite sports been popular by families and the younger generations since its first appearance in 2002 as a new marine sport, and after the remodeling of the main arena, it has been transformed into a sophisticated multi-culture space of ● Fostering daily sports for the disabled Supports the promotion of health and welfare of the disabled and marine leisure and rest in harmony with the environment. It is loved by the younger generations and families, promotes sociality and is contributing to the funding as the business stabilizes Promotion ● Fostering elite sports for the disabled Improves athletic performance by fostering disabled and elite athletes of sports for ● Establishing sports infrastructure for the disabled Fosters exclusive stadiums capable of * Check out www.kboat.or.kr to find out more about motorboat racing. the disabled providing scientific training and custom-training ● Supporting the Korea Sports Association for the Disabled (KOSAD) Supports the operating expenses Sports Toto for KOSAD, the national center for sports for the disabled Sports Toto is a business where customers are awarded prize money when their predictions and bets of the game results are correct. Although it has been long-loved in Europe, Sports Toto was first introduced in Korea in 2001. Fans can enjoy Sports Toto through 6,700 stores nationwide and also through the internet. Its profits are used to fund the National Sports Promotion Fund, support hosting organizations (e.g., soccer, baseball), and ● Supporting research symposium Supports academic research organizations on sports Promotion of the sports ● Supporting research institutes of sports colleges Supports researches on sports policies, promote various cultural sports. industry improving athletic performance, and sports industry * Check out www.sportstoto.co.kr to find out more about Sports Toto.. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 14 + 15 ● Sports Promotion, Sports Promotion Culture Business Hosting of the Seoul International Sports and Leisure Industry Show (SPOEX) : SPOEX is the largest sports industry exhibition in Korea held annually since 2001 with the goal of discovering excellent sports goods and introducing them on the international stage. We are supporting SPOEX to help domestic sports companies to obtain global competitiveness by inviting leading buyers around the globe to exchange technology and information and to track the overseas industrial trend. We develop national sports policies, establish knowledge Operation infrastructure regarding sports, and foster professional sports of leaders and manpower in the sports industry through KISS, the the KISS* representative sports think tank in Korea. * Korea Institute of Sport Science Culture Business The Olympic Park is a 1.44 mil. ㎡ resting area within the city that is the largest multi-culture space in Korea where many venues like the Olympic Olympic Hall, Olympic Gymnastics Stadium, Olympic Fencing Stadium, Park Olympic Weightlifting Stadium, different size plazas like the Peace Plaza and historic sites like the Mongchon Fortress and Mongchon Haeja (man-made lake) are located. The Seoul Olympic Museum is a place of live education where the features and results of the 88 Seoul Olympics are displayed to Seoul Olympic show its days of glory in a dynamic manner. It creates nostalgia Museum and sensation for the 88 Olympics generation while offering pride and self-esteem of being a citizen of Korea, a leading sports nation, for the post-Olympics generation. SOMA, a sensitizing cultural gallery in the nature, has worked for the development of popularizing culture and sculpture art SOMA* nationally/internationally and to increase the value of the Olympic Park since its opening in 2004. It also provides wide opportunities for the public to experience art through its various cultural programs of classes and popular appeal * Seoul Olympic Museum of Art The Olympic Youth Hostel was built in 1990 as an international exchange and training facility for the youth to commemorate the Olympic Youth success of the Seoul Olympics and to efficiently administer its heritage. Hostel It has various facilities on its grounds including 233 rooms, a restaurant, sauna, exercising facilities and has a magnificent view of the Park and of the Han River 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 16 + 17 Corporate Innovation Advancement of the public company Effort to diversify the profit structure To achieve management efficiency, we divested our share in SBS Sports TV (49%) and the Olympic Village Sports The betting industry (e.g., cycle racing, motorboat racing, Sports Toto) accounted for a great deal of the Center in June, and also signed the collective agreement without disputes for three consecutive years. We are also total sales (83%) for 2010 in KSPO’s profit structure for fostering the National Sports Promotion Fund. planning to promote phased sales of the Ilsan and Bundang Sports Centers after 2011. We also created 60 new We believe that it is necessary to break from the betting industry-oriented profit structure for sustainable positions for 10 new employees (permanent) and 50 youth interns. growth and are stepping up on efforts to discover new businesses that can create new profit. In 2010, after considering the structure of the domestic sports industry, we came to a decision on six major new Effort to improve organizational productivity business directions, five major mid/long-term promotion businesses, and nine new business projects. In response to the government’s demand to implement annual salary based on performance in public Our new businesses is to be promoted in six directions, which are sports activities, businesses supporting institutions, we introduced the annual salary based on performance for the executive management sports activities, public support businesses, derivative sports industry, fund-raising businesses, and through consensus between the labor and management (voted by labor union). We have also essential businesses. A total of three priority business opportunities, five selective business opportunities, implemented the salary peak system for employees below two years of service to achieve virtuous circle and three mid/long-term business opportunities were selected based on the business attractiveness and of manpower structure and reduce mid/long-term personnel expenses. Through organization-wide feasibility assessment.. efforts to decrease the budget, we cut back over 10% of operating expenses. ●New Business Development planning Trial Operation Real Operation Legal Review Legal Amendment Big 5 Business Themes Name of New Business 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Facility Operation & Fostering a Development of culture/sports/ Accumulation Center Bike Park Expansion of Sports/Leisure Facilities Management sports industry tourism complex cluster Expansion of agency sports (e.g., inline skating) Promising sports agency business Promote golf school, taekwondo performances, professional sports P.R. center Development of integrated Establishing platform for sports companies Sports Knowledge Integrated Portal 2.0 U-sports info/ Establishment of U-sports service infra informatization support service system Link sports centers U-health/sports link business Start fund-raising business in 2011 Establishing Establishment of sports medical sports rehabilitation service center by local Operation after constructing 1 rehab hospital (2013~2014) medical service zone infra Trial opening/operation of leisure branch Operation of business Leisure business for external facilities Construction of Establishing Yeongjong-do branch Transfer of Misari Motorboat Racing Course sports leisure Branch business only for foreigners Construction of marine /tourism infra sports facilities Operation of business (Linked business) marine sports business Construction of leports facilities Operation of business (Linked business) Misari Marine Leports/Theme Park Installation of key facilities Maintenance between 2012~2014 Enhancing Eco-friendly entertainment theme park profitability business of KSPO essential Digital advertisement business using Installation of 3 buildings in 2010, operation centering on sports advertisements businesses KSPO building Guest House business 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 18 + 19 Basic Issues ● KSPO Vision 2003 2006 2009 -------------------Advanced sports First-rate public Enjoy Sports, We ---†KRW 4 trillion for sports welfare institution sports corporate Support welfare, No.1 customer of the people creating satisfaction by 2012 the top value Key Performance of Sustainability Management in 2010 2010 ----------†By 2020 – KRW 8 trillion of fund disseminated (accumulated), Enjoy Sports, 10% of sales with new businesses other than sports betting, Overview of Sustainability Management We Support top-grade customer satisfaction Established new Vision 2020 KSPO established and has been promoting the corporate vision since 2003. Our vision “Enjoy Sports, We Support” refers to our value creation activities (We Support) of providing Economic Sector a stable sports financial structure, promoting national leisure activities, and fostering the sports industry in order to realize a sports welfare society where anyone can enjoy sports anywhere, at anytime (Enjoy Raised largest fund ever of KRW 553.7 billion Sports). In 2010, we changed our short-term vision to a long-term system to clearly establish our mid/ We raised the largest fund ever (KRW 553.7 billion) amidst adverse corporate environment such long-term direction and set a new specific performance goal. We are planning to systematically achieve as the expanding illegal gaming industry, the government’s demand for advancement of public our mid/long-term goals: KRW 8 trillion of National Sports Promotion Fund disseminated (accumulated), institutions, and the regulation of total sales by the National Gaming Control Commission (NGCC) 10% of sales with new businesses (KRW 500 billion), and top-grade customer satisfaction for public regarding our fund-raising businesses (e.g., cycle racing, motorboat racing, Sports Toto). institutions (95.7 points). Related page 42-43 Achieved fund disseminated (accumulated) of KRW 3.13 trillion KSPO is aiming to achieve KRW 8 trillion of fund disseminated (accumulated) by 2020 based on our new vision. In 2010, we have financed KRW 169.2 billion in the daily sports sector, KRW 108 billion in the promotion of elite sports, KRW 230.3 billion in the promotion and exchange of international sports, and KRW 22 billion in the activation of sports for the disabled (total of KRW 529.5 billion). This is the largest amount of fund accumulated since our inception in 1989. Related page 42 Social Sector Expanded sports voucher KSPO is running a sports voucher business for the alienated class unable to participate in sports due to economical reasons. For the first time in 2009, we provided low-income youths with free exercise prescription vouchers to register for sports programs for free, and vouchers for sports goods provision. In 2010, we expanded the scope of support and additionally provided low-income families with sports viewing vouchers. We are supporting the entire ticket costs for all family members to enjoy professional sports games of soccer, volleyball, basketball, and baseball. In 2010, we started the business for 0.6% of the entire minimum income households, and are planning to expand the business up to 3.5% by 2012 Related page 44 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 20 + 21 Fostered family-friendly corporate culture KSPO is fostering and operating an active childbirth encouragement system and nurture-friendly culture to overcome the low birthrate issue. We expanded administrative leave for childcare to male employees (used by 3 staffs) and implemented the substitution system for staff on leave to actively encourage the use of administrative leave for childcare. As a result, the usage rate of this leave accounted for 16.7% of the entire female workers in 2010. Also, fostering conditions are considered to the utmost upon personnel placement, flexible scheduling is applied (e.g., reduced working hours for childcare), and a fostering facility is provided within the workplace. Related page 74 Evaluated excellent as public institution supporting SMEs KSPO mandatorily purchases a certain amount of goods produced by SMEs, social enterprises, and women’ s enterprises for shared growth with SMEs. In particular, our purchase rate of SME-made goods amounted to 97.1% in 2010, and the corporate cafeteria designates an off-day once every month to support small enterprises. Also, staffs visit the nearby traditional market every month to purchase goods and donate the entire sum to a nearby welfare facility. Based on such performance, we were awarded the Excellence Award at the “Evaluation of SME Support Performance by Public Institutions”, sponsored by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in 2010. Related page 78-81 Environment Sector Proliferated eco-friendly bicycle culture KSPO is focusing on the value of bicycles, which is recently receiving the spotlight as the keyword of green growth for solving traffic, environment, and energy issues. We are also establishing an infrastructure for bicycle leisure cultures through various channels, changing the awareness on bicycles, expanding its culture, and providing education on the correct usage of bicycles. We also hosted the nationwide bicycle festivals ‘4th Tour de Korea’ and ‘2nd Korea Bicycling Ceremony’ to advertise the ecological contribution of bicycling and expand the bicycling culture. Related page 53 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 22 + 23 Sustainability Management Strategy Mission To realize a healthy and energetic sports welfare society by promoting national sports Sustainability Management at KSPO Identity A public interest company that creates a healthy and happy world for everyone through convenient, comfortable and common sports services* KSPO established its new identity as a “convenient, comfortable, and common” sports service in order to transform into a public company with social responsibilities. Based on this foundation * Establishment of the Organization Identity in 2010 and adoption of a systematic sustainable management strategy, KSPO abides by the corporate KSPO chose sports promotion and industry as core areas of consideration for achieving the mission, and established the organization’s identity that clearly stipulated its roles for the first time in 2010. ethics, performs a thorough risk management, and efficiently communicates with various parties Convenient : Provide programs and sports infra easily and cheaply utilizable by citizens in daily life of interest to actively carry out an advanced sustainable management. Comfortable : Foster comfortable and safe sports environment so that citizens can participate and enjoy sports activities without being burdened Common : Expand balanced support and facilities for all citizens to enjoy sports activities without being alienated or restricted by social, economic or regional factors Public Interest Company: : A national corporate of hope fulfilling social responsibility through sports Vision Enjoy Sports, We Support : By 2020, KRW 8 trillion of fund disseminated (accumulated), 10% of sales with new businesses 2020 other than sports betting, and top-grade customer satisfaction Develop new sports services Promote & support sports ㆍEstablish a sound leisure culture for the cycle ㆍStrengthen sports info and service infrastructure racing and motorboat racing industries ㆍInspect fund-raising business and strengthen ㆍAcquire new growth engine evaluation system ㆍPromote stability of the Sports Toto business Key Strategies Promote & support the sports industry ㆍEstablish a growth infrastructure for the sports industry Develop sports multi-space ㆍInvigorate Olympic Park Establish sustainability management system ㆍStrengthen strategic P.R. ㆍEstablish an ethical management system ㆍEfficiently use business resources ㆍStrengthen utility of management information ㆍFoster a challenging and harmonizing organizational culture ㆍFoster future talents ㆍStrengthen the leadership system Core Fair Play + Team Play + Dynamic Play Values 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 24 + 25 Resolution for Practicing Ethical Management Selection & Evaluation of Material Issues Ethical management is the very foundation of KSPO’s sustainability management. All executive The KSPO Sustainability Report 2010 deals with contents and performances regarding to the key issues members including the CEO must sign the Job Integrity Contract based on internal regulations selected through the materiality test. immediately upon appointment. The system mandates new executives to make an official pledge to conform to our ethical code (e.g., working with impartiality, transparency, and righteousness) and ● Material issue selection process to be held legally and morally responsible upon violation. In 2010, all eleven executive and nonexecutive directors including the new chairman and standing auditor signed the contract. Also, the • Media analysis 110x KSPO sustainability issues (Jan. 1, 2010~Dec. 31, 2010) Code of Conduct for non-executive directors was newly established to further strengthen the ethical • Global standard analysis STEP 1 responsibility of management board. All non-executive directors signed this new Code of Conduct, Social Interest ISO26000, GRI G3, UNGC • Interviews with stakeholders which stipulated the impartial and reasonable business monitoring, the checks-and-balances function, Measure level of interest by surveying internal/external stakeholders, Government, and the ethical responsibilities. Staff & employees, Customers, Subsidiaries & partners, External professional group, Media, Cycle/motorboat racer, Local community welfare group All KSPO staff and employees pledged to practice the ethical standards based on the Code of Ethics. In 2010, the implementation of ethical behavior was periodically monitored through on and offline STEP 2 • Analyze influence of issue on KSPO business performance ethical education and corporate ethics self-inspection. All personnel of the Auditing Department who Influence on Business Linkage between KSPO corporate strategy, sustainability development strategy, and KSPO Social Responsibility Index (KSRI) monitors integrity are obligated to sign the Auditing Contract, which pledges that auditing will be • Interview with internal staffs carried out based on related regulations, facts and evidences. Next, sports center instructors dealing with numerous public services must sign the Bribery and Personal Lesson Prohibition Agreement. • Derive key issues based on social influence and evaluation STEP 3 Based on the Ethics Charter and the Code of Ethics, we obligate the conformance of ethics towards Derive Key Issues on the influence on business • Disclose information on derived key issues customers, ethics towards competition companies and affiliates, ethics towards executives and staffs, and ethics towards the nation and society. We also clarify the detailed code of conduct such as impartial job performance, prohibition of unjust enrichment, and fostering of a sound public office culture based Materiality Test Result on the ‘Code of Conduct’. Our Code of Ethics is disclosed on our homepage(www.kspo.or.kr). A total of 25 issues were derived through the material issue selection process, and each issue was analyzed as follows according to the level of influence on society and business. This report deals with the highest priority issues (i.e., ethical management, customer satisfaction management, social contribution activities, improvement of public sports welfare, improvement of service safety/eco-friendly, responsible leisure culture, creation of economic value) in specific detail under the ‘Material Issues’ page. KSPO Risk Management System ▲ A B C A Issues Page Issues Page Issues Page KSPO established and operates a companywide risk management system in order to protect the High 3 2 1 8. Development of 38-41 21. Risk 26 organization’s reputation, and to promote stable and sustainable development of the promoted businesses. 5 1. Ethical management 32-33 local community management B 64 2. Customer satisfaction 34-37 12 7 management 9. Brand/reputation 36-37 22. Staff 75-76 By considering for the priorities including the influence on the operation of KSPO businesses, frequency, 9 3. Social contribution 38-41 management communication Influence on Society 10. Promotion of sports 42-47 23. Staff reward / 76 20 8 14 activities competitiveness performance 4. Improvement of 42-27 and risk limits, 29 key risks were selected and key business issues were disclosed on the intranet to prevent 10 public sports welfare 11. Staff training & 71-73 evaluation career development 24. Expansion of 76 18 13 5. Improvement of 48-53 and manage companywide crisis. Also, we have written and distributed our risk management manual, are 15 service safety 12. Fair trade 13. Staff safety/ 80 73-74 staff diversity 25. Restructuring 77 11 /eco-friendly health/welfare 6. Responsible 54-59 strengthening risk responsiveness by continuously training the related departments, and formed the Risk leisure culture 14. Responsible 78-81 C 16 7. Creation of 60-67 management of 17 Management Team and Risk Response Inspection Cell. We are also systematically establishing permanent risk economic value the business partner 15. Participation by 28-29 23 stakeholders prevention and immediate response measures through the Emergency Measure Headquarters (director of 19 22 16. Environmental 51-53 24 influence upon each business unit as chairman) and the Risk Management Committee (CEO as chairman). Although some ▼ Low 21 corporate operation 25 17. Promotion of 51-53 energy efficiency risk factors (e.g., safety accidents at event halls, exposure to negative media report) were identified through ◀ Low Influence on business High ▶ 18. Corporate 12-13 governance periodic risk monitoring, the result of core risk monitoring in 2010 revealed that normality was maintained in 19. Prevention of staff discrimination 76 20. Labor-management 77 all sectors due to immediate response of the related departments, and the Risk Management Committee. relationship 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 26 + 27 Stakeholder Participation Stakeholder communication KSPO established multiple channels for smooth communication with various stakeholders, and listens to their voices to actively understand and practice their demands, and Direct/Indirect influence of KSPO on stakeholders expectations from KSPO. Since each stakeholder demands a different core value from KSPO, KSPO is paving the foundation to improve the public sports welfare standard, and to manage as KSPO has a different influence on each stakeholder, we reclassify them according to their healthy and happy lives by fostering the National Sports Promotion Fund and sponsoring characteristics and operate conforming communication channels. The key stakeholders are the fund at the right place at the right time through diligent operation of businesses. divided into groups of value-influencing customers related to policy-making and execution, value-producing customers in cooperating relationships, value-purchasing customers that purchase racing and culture services, and value-sharing customers who are the internal Value-influencing Diligent taxation / job creation / contributory activities in local communities stakeholders. customer / increase of sports budget / promotion of public health and welfare / (local communities, activation of local economies governments) ● KSPO Stakeholder Communication Value-producing customer Fair trade / support of shared growth / sharing of sustainability issues Group Key Stakeholder Communication Channel (Business partners) Government, National Task report, scene briefing session, inspection of Assembly government offices, business evaluation of public institutions Provision of leisure culture opportunities / business innovation through Value-purchasing customer customer participation / operation of integrated customer management Value-influencing Media Meeting with journalists, homepage (customers) system / operation of sound businesses customers (local communi ties, governments) Local government, Fund-raising Business Council, Fund-raising and Evaluation sports institutions Committee Provision of good jobs / harmony between work and life / strengthening Value-sharing of capability through life-long study / combined development of individual customer (staff and Love Sharing Volunteer Corps, social contribution alliance, employees) and organization Local communities online communities Cycle, motorboat racers Meeting with athletes, fair play education Value-producing customers (Business partners) Consignee businesses Frequent partner visits, personnel meetings, task report Participation of BOD of investing company in business Subsidiary and partners meetings, partner surveys, integrity surveys, CEO integrity letter, customer satisfaction surveys Integrated VOC (voice of customer), Customer Counseling Cycle, motorboat racing Committee, company newsletter, various contest exhibitions, Value-purchasing customers customer satisfaction surveys, customer panel meetings, customers CEO CS report (customers) Sports/cultural facility Integrated VOC (voice of customer), customer satisfaction users surveys Value-sharing Labor-Management Single Mind Committee, Chairman customers (staff and Staff and employees Conversation Room, Problem Reporting Center, Survey employees) Talk, Sotoma (anonymous debate), KSPO channel, Proposal Spring, Knowledge Spring 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 28 + 29 Material Issues Material Issues of KSPO Sustainability Management KSPO pursues a high quality sustainable management in all areas concerned. consumer ethical social national sports Through sincere and liable management activities and efforts to prioritize customer management + satisfaction management + contribution + welfare activities progress satisfaction and public interest, KSPO has been laying the foundation for trust and reliance. Furthermore, KSPO is working to redistribute its profits, earned through qualitative and quantitative developments in various business sectors, back to improving the local communities and social welfare. Above all, KSPO is exerting environmental responsible creation of management + leisure activities + economic value every effort to contribute to the sustainable development of humanity and fulfill its environmental responsibilities. Ethical Management Legal compliance KSPO conforms to the Fair Trade Act, and as a result of continuous monitoring, no penalties or nonmonetary restrictions were imposed based on related regulations. (e.g., unjust competition) The greatest competitiveness of a public company is the trust of citizens. We are endeavoring to become a reliable public company through transparent and responsible management. We define KSPO discloses various management information (e.g., personnel expenses, benefit package, BOD ethical management as “contributing to social development by diligently conducting the duties Systemization of transparent information minutes, internal auditing) through integrated public announcement system (Alio, www.alio.go.kr) of a public organization, and actively fulfilling the social responsibilities to create value through disclosure and homepage in order to satisfy the citizens’ right-to-know and realize transparent management. sustainable public sports interest company.” We are also promoting the KSPO ECHO strategy, our To quickly convey information, we also operate based on the principle of announcing any changes practice strategy for ethical management of fulfilling the responsibilities and duties of a public within 14 days of the change. We disclosed 33 government-recommended disclosure items and company by faithfully responding to the social demands. It has the goal of achieving shared 56 internal announcements in 2010. Moreover, we operate a transparent accounting system using growth while exchanging positive influence through sustained communication between KSPO the integrated finance system to promote business transparency, and disclosed business issues, and the stakeholders as in echo. work regulations, contract matters, and fund business status through the intranet for personnel ● Vision Cleanest and most reliable global ethical management leader reference. We also implemented the e-Approval system for transparent work processing, and ● Major Goal Established and managing 4 major goals of ethical management (i.e., proliferation handle almost all documents (99.8% in 2010) through e-Approval. The information is disclosed for of ethical management awareness, proliferation of fair trade, strengthening of sound anyone to easily refer to the work progress of other departments. governance, legal conformity) ● Organization KSPO is operating the Ethical Management Team to establish ethical management Classification 2008 2009 2010 objectives and strategies, and to inspect their implementaiton. The Social Contribution Team deals with social contribution and customer-orientation, the Public announcements 48 items, 10 units 55 items, 11 units 56 items, 11 units Management Coordination Department deals with process coordination, green management and human rights, and the Customer Satisfaction Department deals KSPO introduced the clean card system which partially limits the usage of corporate cards as a measure Operation of clean card with sound leisure activities. of preventing ethical management violations. The transparency and ethicality of corporate card usage is ● Performance strengthened by blocking payments at adult entertainment establishments and at late-night periods (12a.m. ~ 6a.m.). Classification Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 Result of integrity evaluation 89.2pts 91.0pts 87.2pts Ethical management KSPO operates an internal ethical management monitoring system to track the personnel’s ethics awareness Proliferation of ethical evaluation and and practicing level. The monitoring is conducted through self-examination and surveys on all personnel. Participation rate in ethical 87.3% 87.1% 88.1% performance management awareness management education management The ‘Self-examination of Ethics Practice’ consists of six questions, and is used to self-identify step 1 (ethics Activation of internal whistlelevel). Next, step 2 (ethics practice level) is annually inspected using the ‘Ethical Management Practice Index’ 80pts 80pts 80pts blowing system evaluation, which consists of 22 detailed practice diagnosis questions in three fields of corporate ethics practice, overall practice, and practice for each stakeholder. The survey result in 2010 revealed that the ethical Proliferation of fair trade Electronic bidding rate 91.2% 95.2% 97.0% management practice level of KSPO staffs increased from 83.0pts in 2008 to 83.7pts in 2009 and 86.0pts in Strengthening of sound Independence index of the 2010. We are also analyzing the result per field to improve weaknesses and to reflect changes in the ethics 90pts 90pts 95pts governance board management promotion strategy for the following year. Legal compliance In/Outside legal conformity efforts 60pts 60pts 80pts Strengthening of ethical KSPO is promoting ethics education by using various on/offline channels to strengthen the ethics capacity awareness through of our staffs. In 2010, KSPO staffs completed an average of 27 hours of ethical management education. Prevention of In addition to the Auditing Department for self-inspection, KSPO runs the Corruption Report Center, preventive Continuously promoted since 2006, KSPO Social Responsibility Management e-Learning is the representative corruption through a voluntary reporting center for preventing, and continuously monitoring corruption and legal anti-corruption internal control education of internally developed training program which collectively deals with overall social responsibility (e.g., violations. External stakeholders such as customers and affiliates can report staff corruption anytime system customer satisfaction, social contribution, ethical management). 88% of all staffs completed this program. through the Corruption Report Center, e-Civil complaints, and integrated VOC. Staffs can also use the Clean Report Center and the internal Public Interest Report Center to self-report or report a colleague’s corruption. Three violation incidents were reported at the Corruption Report Center in 2010. After thorough investigation, disciplinary actions were taken on the wrongdoers. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 32 + 33 KSPO customer KSPO is presenting our practicing strategies and direction for customer satisfaction management service standards to the stakeholders through the Customer Service Charter and the Implementation Standard. The Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Service Charter is a declaration on the service principles provided to the customers, and consists of four major practicing charters. The Service Implementation Standard is a promise to implement the services related to specific and core tasks on the practicing charters mentioned KSPO searches for corporate value from amongst our customers’ happiness. We are endeavoring to in the Service Charter. It is established according to the characteristics of each customer contact creatively and actively enhance customer values and realize customer satisfaction by understanding point. The Customer Charter and Service Implementation Standard are disclosed at all times on the even the hidden needs of customers. In particular, we are implementing a companywide customer homepage (www.kspo.or.kr) and contact scenes. satisfaction strategy and customized service strategies in different branches due to the different customer characteristics and demands resulting from a diversity of businesses. We seek to become Principle for To promptly respond to customer demands, our principle is to respond to e-Civil complaints and a public enterprise achieving top-grade customer satisfaction as a trustworthy partner supporting processing VOC customer proposals within 3 business days and VOC within 1 business day. We have internally set our customers’ happy and well-being lives. the VOC processing target time to within 2 hours in order to achieve an almost real-time response. ● Vision Trustworthy partner supporting our customers’ happy and well-being lives. We humbly accept negative VOCs (e.g., dissatisfaction, criticism) and do not voluntarily delete listed ● Major Goal Inspecting implementations and promoting major goals of protection of customer VOCs without the specific request by the specific customer. Furthermore, we analyze the collected information, expansion of customer participation, expansion of customer satisfaction VOCs to establish CS strategies, develop new businesses, and improve work processes. management culture, increase in customers, and activation of communication and Classification 2008 2009 2010 monitoring ● Organization We are operating a CS Department to plan the customer satisfaction management Processing time 143min 163min 57min goals and strategies, and to inspect their implementations. The Social Contribution No. of cases 3,539 2,822 3,201 Team oversees the companywide CS strategy, and is established in each business unit (i.e., Customer Satisfaction Team, Customers Service Team, Administration Team) to plan and implement custom CS strategies considering for scene characteristics. Integration of opinions KSPO transparently discloses our management information and diversely supports the participation of through customer customers in management to establish a trusting and respecting partnership relationship. We are also actively ● Performance participation reflecting the presented opinions in business operation through the CS panel that constantly monitors the Classification Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 VOC processing status, Cycle/Motorboat Racing Customer Counseling Committee that provides advice on Establishment of protection Protection of personal system for customers’ personal 60pts 80pts 80pts the overall racing business (e.g., operation, customer service), Clean Toto Committee that pursues sound customer information information operation of the balloting, and the Olympic Park and Sports Classroom Monitoring Group. Expansion of customer Adoption rate of customer 12.6% 13.9% 16.5% participation proposal Measurement of Self-measurement of customer satisfaction Measurement of internal customer satisfaction Expansion of customer service level and improvement activities to strengthen staff’s service capacity customer satisfaction Internal customer satisfaction level 75.2pts 75.4pts 73.7pts level and Customer satisfaction at the contact point is management culture KSPO annually surveys the customer satisfaction improvement efforts greatly influenced by the satisfaction level of No. of visitors to museum, level on our business operation and uses the results Increase in customers 238,801 249,866 328,847 memorial constituents, who are the internal customers. We to establish the business operation strategies, and Customer satisfaction on public discarded the awareness that customer satisfaction Activation of 84.5pts 86.3pts 82.3pts improve services. Surveys were conducted on institution is only the work of departments coming in communication and 1,430 customers at key service branches of each monitoring Average processing time for VOC 143min 163min 57min contact with the customers. Consequently, business unit since May 2010. The result of the we developed the internal customer support <KSPO Family Websites> total customer satisfaction level was 75.4pts in Integrated Homepage of KSPO : www.kspo.or.kr Sports Industry Division : www.sportsbiz.or.kr process satisfaction index (ICSI) based on the Racing Business Division : www.krace.or.kr Korea Institute of Sport Science (KISS): : www.sports.re.kr 2010, compared to 74.4pts in 2009, and 70.6pts determination that internal customer satisfaction in 2008. Also, the service implementation status leads to the improvement of service quality Customers can list proposals, questions and complaints through the ‘Voice of Customers (VOC)’ was closely inspected in three phases by using Real-time tracking and provided to external customers, and are annually on the homepage of each business unit for 24 hours, and their opinions are transmitted to the the mystery shopping methodology to track responding to customer surveying all staffs for the internal customer related department through the integrated VOC system. The processed result is directly sent to customer dissatisfaction factors that could not be demands satisfaction level. The results displayed a the customer via Happy Call in SMS and e-mail formats. Also, staffs are obligated to list their identified through quantitative evaluation. We then continuous improvement from 75.2pts in 2008 endeavored to achieve immediate improvement names and contact numbers when making the reply for responsibility reasons. Customers can then to 75.4pts in 2009, but fell by 1.7pts to 73.7pts in in services by deriving a total of 45 improvement present opinions on our reply and process through the evaluation of satisfaction level. Alike the 2010. Analysis revealed that there was insufficient tasks through workshops and training for areas online process, opinions are collected offline using diverse methods (e.g., call center, phone, visit, empathy (e.g., active coordination, consideration of improvement and service fields degrading document), which are just as quickly processed by related departments. for others). We conducted training to improve compared to the previous year.. empathy. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 34 + 35 Participation in customer satisfaction survey for public institutions Brand management KSPO endeavors to provide correct information on various funding businesses and operation of KSPO participates in the customer satisfaction survey annually conducted on public institutes and marketing activities responsible fund-raising businesses in order to improve corporate image of a human/financial nationwide under the supervision of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance (MOSF). Survey results partner for our citizens’ healthy lives and a sports welfare country. Yet, we reject artificial showed 82.3pts in 2010, which was a 4.0pts drop from 86.3pts in 2009. Consequently, we management of our reputation through excessive advertisement, and thoroughly reject P.R. strengthened the customer communication channel regarding key dissatisfaction issues of service for business expansion or sales increase in case of the fund-raising business. Moreover, we contact point and stabilized the self-examination of service quality, while also endeavoring to thoroughly comply with regulations related to advertisement. improve the satisfaction level in 2011 by deriving CS improvement tasks for each business unit. Systematic response In 2010, we made a safety diagnosis on all Olympic Park facilities and conducted maintenance Customer dissatisfaction KSPO seeks to conduct focused analysis on customer dissatisfactions, and establish immediate for customer safety on the weak areas. We also conducted a fire safety assessment on crowd facilities (i.e., Olympic improvement activities Swimming Pool, Woori Finance Art Hall) and established 147 action plans such as reinforcing response measures for frequently repeating key dissatisfactions. firefighting equipment. Moreover, we conducted detailed safety training (59 times on 1,499 Analysis and improvement of dissatisfaction factors through customer satisfaction survey people) for different situations such as flood damage, typhoon, emergency evacuation, power In order to improve the facilities of cycle/motorboat racing branches, which were pointed out as the failure, and first aid, and established the Safety & Disaster General Management Plan for largest dissatisfaction factor in the customer satisfaction survey in 2009, we committed the highest Olympic Park Facilities (safety inspection and situational response action manual) in November amount of resources (KRW 19.1 billion) to improve the race audience facilities, branch environment, to strengthen on-site responsiveness of crowd facilities. We are frequently inspecting the safety and racing equipment. Also, we fostered a comfortable viewing environment (e.g., replacing seats at of customer facilities by comprising risk joint inspection teams for each sector, and conducting Speedom, fostering the maze garden, planting ornamental trees, improving customer convenience safety inspections at all performance facilities prior to the show. We also thoroughly educated facilities, expanding the book café) to expand eco-friendly and sound leisure culture spaces for the Olympic Park site leasing company on the incidental risk response manual to ensure family-size visitors. Moreover, we operated the multi-culture space for families by hosting various customer safety. cultural performances, exhibitions and special lectures with prominent figures throughout the year. As a result, the number of participants in the culture leisure program greatly increased from 418,374 in 2009 to 538,867 in 2010. Dissatisfaction improvement activities through VOC After we received a complaint regarding unfriendly call response in April, we conducted phone monitoring twice on all staffs along with service improvement training. Consequently, a complimentary VOC was received in September. Next, as complaint VOCs regarding race judging increased (13 VOCs in March alone) we introduced a camera for judgment in October to increase the accuracy of the judging. After October, the number of complaints greatly dropped to two cases. We also provided explanations regarding complaints (112 cases) on blocking sales, due to the purchase limitation of Sports Toto, by visiting the shops and providing online training. The number of complaint VOCs dropped to zero after July. We consider the protection of our customers’ personal information as the most important factor in the Protection of customer personal information sustained development of web-based customer communication, and are thoroughly preventing customer information leaks, counterfeiting, and falsification. We are strengthening the ethicality and responsibility of customer information managers and personnel through professional training and annual periodic inspection of the implementation of the protection plan for customers’ personal information. Moreover, we established a homepage security server (SSL, Secure Sockets Layer) to protect personal information sent and received between the customer and KSPO web server, encrypted key customer information (e.g., account number), and enabled the use of information only after receiving the customer’s consent even when establishing the customer information integrated management system. There were no customer complaints regarding the infringement of customer information, such as the personal information leakage in 2010. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 36 + 37 Hope Re-START Project for supporting rehabilitation of the alienated class We are supporting the economical independence and stability of the people by supporting Social Contribution Activities business start-ups for heads of households above the age of 40 facing difficulty due to low income despite their work abilities and willpower. We support KRW 20 million (2% annual interest) KSPO does not believe in fulfilling only the legal responsibilities. In addition to providing to start-up seekers amongst our cycle/motorboat racing customers, and also support economical sports welfare with the National Sports Promotion Fund, we consider it to be a natural independence through start-up education, management guidance and aftercare consulting. In corporate duty to engage in contribution activities to the local communities by using 2010, we loaned a total of KRW 200 million of start-up support fund to 10 heads of households. our human resources and capital. We are actively supporting the development of local We also supported KRW 200 million in the neighbor love business to achieve social integration communities through various activities by supporting sports, culture, and living. of the disabled and multicultural households (e.g., supplied/repaired wheelchairs, supported job rehabilitation program, provided sports learning mentoring to multicultural households, offered ● Vision Respected corporate fulfilling social responsibility management as a public interest employment training to married women migrants). company ● Major Goal Promoting major goals centering on shared growth through sports and local Culture experience classroom for the disabled at SOMA community sharing activities of proliferation of social contribution culture, activation SOMA offers an art training program to children with disabilities in order to stimulate their of sports contribution activities, and social contribution performance management. emotions and improve their social adaptability through culture experiences. We also hosted 12 ● Organization The Social Contribution Team oversees the planning and implementation experience opportunities in 2010 for 362 children with disabilities, where they viewed the works of the companywide social contribution strategy. The Customer Satisfaction of the outdoor sculpture park and carved their own works. Team, Customer Service Team, and Administration Team handles the detailed social contribution strategies and their implementation in each business unit. Teenager culture training at the Olympic Youth Hostel The Administration Team also handles coordination with the local community We provide various culture training opportunities through the Olympic Youth Hostel in order and operation of the donation fund. ● Performance to foster and support a sound teenager culture. We annually announce our teenager training program with the themes of local community issues (e.g., environment, welfare, culture), sports Classification Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 experience programs, and promotion of teenager rights and interests, and also support the Annual no. of participants in 6,561 7,642 8,089 program’s hosting expenses. In 2010, we invited 180 Korean teenager residents in Japan for volunteering activities the 20th anniversary of the Youth Hostel, and hosted an event of visiting the Olympic Park, the Proliferation of social contribution culture Rate of staffs participating in 79.7% 81.2% 82.7% Olympic Memorial and key cultural relics so that they may understand our history, tradition, and Love Sharing Fund culture. Amount of Love Sharing Fund KRW 102 mil KRW 112 mil KRW 104 mil (accumulated) Sponsoring local culture associations Activation of sports social No. of beneficiaries of sports 955 557 3,496 contribution activities volunteering activities We hosted the Joy OL-Park Concert (15 teams, 178 times) and the Olympic Park Concert (15 teams, 26 times) by offering the Olympic Park’s outside stage to small-sized organizations Social contribution performance Love sharing mileage per person 23.5pts 25.5pts 29.3pts management (e.g., clubs) free of charge in order to foster the local societies and offer a diversity of culture experience opportunities to the citizens. Consequently, society and club members were offered the opportunity to unfold their dreams and talents on the stage, and citizens the opportunity to view amazing performances out in the nature at no expense. Processing procedure for KSPO designated local community communication departments and personnel in each business local community unit and 18 Speezons to effectively collect and promptly respond to the demands of the local Dream Tree Sports Classroom with Olympic medalists demands communities. Besides offline agreements, locals can register their opinion on the integrated website The Olympic Memorial is running the Dream Tree Sports Classroom, annually joined by Olympic of KSPO, social contribution corner of each business unit, and VOC system for 24 hours. The medalists, to encourage and instill hope in promising youths dreaming of becoming medalists. demands of each business unit and Speezon are processed by the corresponding department of In 2010, Su-nyeong Kim (archery) and Byeong-gwan Jeon (weightlifting) participated in the each business unit, customer demands by the Social Contribution Team and CS departments of class and discussed topics including their experiences as students, training for the national corresponding business units, and external cooperation and donation by the Social Contribution Team and the General Affairs Team. team, challenging spirit, process of winning their medal, and performed demonstrations to 100 promising dream trees. The Olympic Museum has been open to the public for free since 2009 to Contribution activities KSPO is engaging in various social contribution programs in order to return our sports service help people relive the Olympic spirit and share empathy. using industry infrastructure and know-how back to the society. It is because we believe that active business infrastructure contribution activities for the alienated class are also an important role of the sports service industry in addition to economical contribution through tax payments and job creation. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 38 + 39 Volunteering activities Sharing activities through sports lessons Voluntary participation Systematic support for the activation of contribution activities using professional in social The KSPO Sports Group provides various sports lessons including the marathon lecture (250 KSPO is actively and systematically supporting our staff’s social contribution activities. We know-how contribution activities participants), the canoe experience classroom (110 participants), and the cycling MTB classroom (334 encourage and reward excellent participants by acknowledging volunteering activities during by staffs participants). Also, we offer lessons on correct and safe bicycling every Monday through Thursday work hours (8 hours a month) and applying the social contribution integrated mileage system. at Gwangmyeong Speedom to promote the health of local residents and reduce carbon emissions, Also, 81% of all staffs voluntarily donate KRW 2,000~20,000 from their monthly paychecks to and also host bicycle riding and environment cleaning activities along the stream from the Speedom foster stable finance, and KSPO operates a matching fund with the accumulated donation fund to to Yeoido once or twice a month. The motorboat racing course offers a free marine experience for support love sharing activities. On the other hand, our continuous promotion of the Love Sharing sports difficult to come by in our daily lives (e.g., leisure kayak, leisure boat racing, rafting boat). In Campaign, where each person participates in at least one volunteering activity a year, has led to particular, the handicapped and children from low-income families are prioritized in the selection. A an increase in the number of annual volunteering participants. total of 9,141 participants conducted the marine sports experience. Operation of sports KSPO operates various non-popular sports groups to perform our social role as a public interest Staff volunteering activities of contributing talent group for non-popular sports corporate. Starting with our Cycle Group and Marathon Group in 2000, we have expanded KSPO Racing Business Division is engaging in public interest activities using arenas and Speezon facilities, games for social contribution to five games and 65 athletes in the Fencing Group (2003), Canoe Group (2008), and Women's and diverse volunteering activities using our staff’s talents in order to expand the public interest finance Sccer Group (2010. We annually budget KRW 7.2 billion in operating the sports groups, and also through the fund-raising business and achieve shared growth with the local communities. The Motorboat host Tour de Korea, National Bicycling Ceremony, National Motorboat Competition, National Racing Broadcast Team used their filming and editing know-how to make memorial videos and provide Canoe Competition, and National Canoe Slalom & Ship Chartering Competition to invigorate the commemorative filming volunteering to the alienated class. In 2010, we planned for six outdoor excursion related sports. We are also planning to create a Diving Team in 2011. experiences for Hanam Care Center for the Disabled. The Cycle/Motorboat Racing Facility Team conducted Classification Total Cycle Marathon Fencing Canoe Women’s household maintenance and inspection of electricity facilities for the alienated class for a total of six Soccer times. Also, we regularly supported living money to the alienated class (solitary elders, children heads of Established Year 2000 2000 2003 2008 2010 household), and conducted monthly physical volunteering at local welfare centers through the Left Hand No. of Athletes 66 15 8 7 9 27 Volunteering Corps and the Right Hand Volunteering Corps. Annual Budget KRW 7.2 bil KRW 1.6 bil KRW 1 bil KRW 800 mil KRW 800 mil KRW 3 bil KSPO sports social Regular supporting activities for the alienated class of local communities contribution activities sports lessons Sports viewing sports goods sports experience We formed a regular volunteering corps for each business unit to periodically and sharing stably support the alienated class of local communities. We make monthly visits to sister welfare facilities to conduct physical volunteering activities (e.g., cleaning, bathing, Supporting sports viewing activities for study rooms cooking) and convey support goods, support food (e.g., rice, side dishes) to minimum KSPO concentrates on supporting our organizational capacity and resources to improve sports wage households in the area, and improve residential environments. welfare for teenagers. In order to provide sports game viewing opportunities to the relatively deprived study room children, we hosted excursion events to soccer, basketball, baseball games and Various volunteering activities for a coexisting society F1 Grand Prix in 2010. A total of 2,913 study room children participated in the event. All business units of KSPO formed 1:1 sisterhood relationships with a rural village in order to achieve a balanced development of the city and countryside. We make regular exchanges Soccer ball sharing activity for children in Africa such as helping out during the busy farming seasons, purchasing agricultural goods, Supporting the participation of the alienated class in sports activities through sustained sharing of supporting maintenance of aged buildings, and providing free health examinations to the sports goods, we supported 980 soccer balls to children in 14 least-developed countries in Africa (e.g., local villagers. We also work with the Red Cross and annually make blood donations, and Senegal, Kenya) to share the meaning and joy of sports in celebration of 2010 World Cup. donate our blood donation certificates to assist in the treatment of blood disease patients. Every winter, we support briquettes to underdeveloped areas unequipped with proper Provision of various sports experience opportunities heating facilities. In 2010, 40 staffs and Olympic medalists (e.g., Jae-hyeok Sa) delivered KSPO annually hosts sports experience events using our business infrastructure, and operated the ice 15,000 briquettes to 40 households in Saewugae Town, Sinnae-dong. skating and marine sports experience classroom in 2010. In January, Hyeon-su Ahn (gold medalist in Vancouver Winter Olympics) visited the Olympic Park Ice Rink to directly teach ice skating to 503 participants. In July, we invited 575 children from group homes, welfare facilities and the house for the disabled to Misari Motorboat Racing Course and provided the opportunity to directly learn and experience rare marine sports (e.g., fly fishing, wakeboarding). 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 40 + 41 Supporting the Daily National Sports Center Sports Sector We have been supporting the construction of National Sports Centers (regional public sports Improvement of Public Sports Welfare centers) since 1997 so that citizens can conveniently and cheaply enjoy daily sports such as swimming, fitness work-out and basketball throughout the nation. 158 National Sports We have systematically established the fund support strategy and are effectively utilizing the fund under Centers have been established between 1997 and 2010, with a total of KRW 378.8 billion of the vision of building a sports powerhouse Korea where everyone can join in and enjoy the sports the National Sports Promotion Fund committed in this project. In 2010, 20 new regions were rights without being excluded. We believe that sports are not an option, but rather ‘a basic right that newly designated and supported with a funding of KRW 40.9 billion. Our goal is to establish should be fairly enjoyed by all’. one sports center in every city, district and borough by 2012. ● Vision Elimination of blind spot to sports welfare ● Construction of National Sports Centers ● Major Goal Improvement of participation conditions for daily sports activities, fostering of Classification 2008 2009 2010 sports-friendly education environment, improvement of sports conditions for the No. of Constructed National disabled, strengthening of international sports competitiveness 13 sites 29 sites 20 sites Sports Centers ● Organization The Fund Coordination Department oversees the fund support business using the Supported Amount KRW 46 billion KRW 53.1 billion KRW 40.9 billion National Sports Promotion Fund, and the Planning and Coordination Department handles the fund operation plan. Expansion of playground sports facilities ● Performance We are installing artificial grass and urethane tracks on nationwide school and public 2010 playgrounds since 2000 in order to promote our children’s happiness, and improve the Item Goal for 2011 adverse sports environment. In 2010, we designated 103 schools (elementary ~ high schools) Goal Performance Achievement and 37 public playgrounds while prioritizing remote schools in the town, township and Total KRW 450.9 bil KRW 529.5 bil 117.4% KRW 655.2 bil complex unit to improve the playground facilities. The accumulated number of supported sites tally up to 1,136 from 2000 to 2010, and a total of KRW 357.5 billion of the National Daily Sports KRW 170.2 bil KRW 169.2 bil 99.4% KRW 195.2 bil Sports Promotion Fund was committed. Elite Sports KRW 107.0 bil KRW 108.0 bil 100.9% KRW 156.6 bil ● Support of Playground Sports Facilities Sports for the Disabled KRW 20.7 bil KRW 22.0 bil 106.3% KRW 26.9 bil Classification 2008 2009 2010 No. of Supported Playground 108 sites 200 sites 140 sites Int’l Sports/Sports Industry KRW 153.0 bil KRW 230.3 bil 150.5% KRW 276.5 bil Sports Facilities Supported Amount KRW 32.9 billion KRW 70.0 billion KRW 49.0 billion Supporting the National Sports welfare is an essential factor for the healthy lives of citizens and requires continuous Sports Promotion Fund investment and support for the sustainability growth of the society and nation. Yet in Korea, Multi-sports facilities in rural areas its proportion is only at a level of 0.1% of the government budget, which is extremely In order to lessen the gap of sports environment between the urban and rural areas, we started adverse in terms of financial support and investment in facilities to improve sports welfare, constructing multi-sports facilities (e.g., recreation center, aqua center) since 2006 in local governments of compared to advanced nations with a proportion ranging between 0.5~1.6%. The National rural town and township units unequipped with sports welfare service. In 2010, we constructed new facilities Sports Promotion Fund is a financial source fostered and operated to promote various in five areas (Seocheon-gun, Yesan-gun, Buan-gun, Geochang-gun, Chuncheon-si) by supporting a total of businesses for the improvement of national sports welfare by complementing the inferior KRW 3 billion in 2010, and mandated the installation of welfare sports facilities for elders in consideration national sports finance. Ever since our inception in 1989, we supported a funding of KRW for the aging population in rural areas. A total of 33 rural multi-complex facilities were constructed between 2.6 trillion. We plan to support a funding of KRW 652.2 billion in 2011. The execution of the 2006 and 2010, and the supported amount was KRW 18 billion. National Sports Promotion Fund is overseen by KSPO, Korea Council of Sport for All, Korean ● Construction of Multi-Sports Facilities in Rural Areas Olympic Committee, and Korea Sports Association for the Disabled. Classification 2008 2009 2010 ● Fund Support Performance in Comparison with National Sports Budget(Unit: KRW 100 mil. ) Construction of Multi-Sports 7 7 5 Classification 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Facilities in Rural Areas Supported Amount KRW 3.75 billion KRW 3.75 billion KRW 3 billion National Sports Budget 1,489 1,812 2,343 2,165 1,527 Fund Support Size 2,291 2,367 2,578 3,860 5,295 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 42 + 43 At-your-door health examination services Supporting the elite Supporting the identification and fostering of excellent athletes We provide sports welfare services nationwide in order to eliminate blind spots to sports welfare sports sector We are developing various aid projects to foster the next-generation elite athletes that and provide equal opportunity to everyone. The Service Team of the National Fitness Center (NFC) will lead the sports powerhouse Korea. We systematically select and foster youth athletes dispatched 17 experts (e.g., medical laboratory technologist, sports curer, nurse) to conduct 13 (elementary school students) dreaming of joining the future national teams, and select types of health examinations and fitness tests, and provided nutrition consultation and exercise teenager representative groups centering on non-popular sports entries (16) with few strong program based on the test results to residents living in underdeveloped and excluded areas, players in order to maintain a balanced development between all sports events. We also recipients of the livelihood program, child head of households, and solitary elders. Moreover, the endeavored to pave the foundation of elite athletic performance (e.g., dispatching exclusive Gymnastics Angel Group provided national health gymnastic lessons at welfare organizations, trainers, supporting overseas training) by identifying national team substitutes with excellent nursing homes, and the backwoods to help people maintain their health. athletic abilities.. ● At-your-door health examination services and gymnastic lessons ● Foster system for national elite athletes Classification 2008 2009 2010 At-your-door Health Examination 6,865 6,880 6,573 Gymnastics Angel Group Lessons 705 times (108,820) 1,209 times(190,847) 1,056 times(333,002) Sports voucher, the coupon of hope for the healthy lives of the alienated class Dream tree youth → teenager representative athlete → substitute → national team athlete (with potential) (centering on non-popular events) (with excellent (with most excellent athletic The national daily sports survey in 2008 revealed that 9.9% of respondents were unable to participate in athletic performance) performance) sports viewing due to the economical reasons. Thus, we are ongoing the sports voucher business for lowOperation of pension and reward system for medalists income alienated classes so that no citizens would be excluded from sports activities for economical reasons. International competitions such as the Olympics and the World Cup are no longer simple A voucher is a sort of gift card concept used for the social security system. A sports voucher provides sports activities, but are rather changing into an industry creating an enormous economic teenagers of low-income households with free registration to sports programs for a certain period of time. value and improving the national brand value by promoting the nation’s status. We offer various welfare benefits (e.g., pension, reward) to athletes enhancing the national prestige Sports lecture/goods voucher Sports viewing voucher with excellent performance in domestic and overseas competitions. Athletes are given lifelong Since 2009, we have been supporting the sports We introduced the sports voucher system in October pension based on their accumulated match result scores, and the coaches of awarded lecture fees and goods purchase expenses for youths 2010 to invigorate the sports leisure culture of lowand teenagers (ages between 7~19) of minimum income families after focusing on the fact that the athletes are also rewarded with prize to provide the incentive to boost athletic performance income households. Applicants were monthly number of people facing economical difficulties and take pride in contributing to their country. There were 824 pension beneficiary medalists supported with KRW 60,000 for sports lecture fees in viewing sports games was on the increase. in 2010. We also implement various sports welfare policies by supporting accident insurance and KRW 65,000 for goods purchase expenses. A total We selected support subjects from low-income to athletes and coaches, sports scholarship to excellent student athletes, and living expenses of KRW 1.96 billion was supported to 9,247 applicants. households and supported the expenses for the to national team athletes of minimum income families to help them focus on their training. In 2010, the support amount was increased by 53% entire families to directly enjoy the heat of sports on from the previous year to KRW 3 billion, providing the scene. In 2010, we increased the scope of the ● Welfare Business Financial Support for Athletes 14,047 teenagers with the opportunity to participate sports voucher to the four professional games of Classification 2008 2009 2010 in sports activities. The beneficiary satisfaction survey soccer, volleyball, basketball, and baseball. A total of regarding the sports lecture voucher was tallied at 1,039 beneficiaries received the support. No. of Beneficiaries 3,651 3,884 3,467 86.0pts, rising from 82.5pts in 2009. Supported Amount KRW 9.3 billion KRW 8.6 billion KRW 7.7 billion KRW 8.6 bil. Supporting the construction of national team training grounds ● We make efforts to provide stable training experience and improve athletic performance of our national 3.5% ● team athletes. Tae-reung National Village, which is used as the training grounds of national team athletes, KRW 3.0 bil. 1.2% 0.6% KRW 1.96 bil. ● ● accommodates only 20 events due to its size limit, and cannot provide diverse training opportunities to all ● ● sports events. Therefore, we are planning to support KRW 95.4 billion of our total business budget of KRW 184 billion up to 2011 for the stable construction of the new Jincheon Training Camp and purchase of 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 advanced equipment. We have supported a funding of KRW 26.4 billion in 2010. Sports voucher support amount Support subjects of sports voucher (rate of total minimum income households) 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 44 + 45 Activation of R&D for developing key technologies in the sports industry Operation of the Korea Institute of Sport Science (KISS) We are promoting the academic support business and supporting researches at university research KISS is the sole sports science research institute in Korea. It dispatches exclusive researchers for each labs and sports academic organizations with inferior financial status. Accordingly, we are hosting event (total of 16) to improve the athletic performance of national team athletes, supports stateacademic contests in the sports sector (e.g., research projects for sports research labs affiliated with of-the-art training equipment, training data, and psychological counseling data to maximize the colleges around the nation, elite/school sports) and supporting the publication business. In 2010, athletes’ abilities, and actively convey research know-how on the strength analysis in international we supported 16 projects with KRW 6.75 billion, which was KRW 1 billion more than the previous competitions and benchmarking of advanced sports powerhouses. It also offers close support of year. Furthermore, we are acting as a think tank in all sectors such as sports policies for realizing an responsible personnel when athletes participate in domestic and overseas games to help achieve advanced sports nation, development measures for the sports industry, and enhancement of elite excellent results through physical and psychological stabilization. sports through the Korea Institute of Sport Science (KISS), the top sports research institute in the Provision of service information on daily sports for the disabled country. We are building the pavement for becoming a sports knowledge powerhouse by creating a Funding support for sports for the disabled The greatest reason for the low participation of the disabled in daily sports is the insufficient channels database and sharing the research results. The database of papers is continuously growing from 2,115 for movement and provision of information. Therefore, we provide systematic and professionalized in 2008, 3,398 in 2009, and 4,110 in 2010. information and services to invigorate the participation of the disabled in daily sports. We also dispatch experts on sports for the disabled to cities and provinces, constantly provide information Fostering professional sports manpower through the online Daily Sports Information Center and blog, and operate diverse counseling routes We are focusing our efforts in fostering professional manpower conforming to the expansion of (e.g., phone, internet, in person). Also, we selected five cities and provinces around the nation and the sports market and consumers. The focus is not only on fostering coaches and instructors for supported the purchase of special vehicles to assist the convenient movement of the disabled. competitions and daily sports, but also fostering the professional manpower for the alienated class Furthermore, 139 daily sports coaches directly visited the facilities to support people with mobility of our society (e.g., elders, the disabled). We are currently planning for measures to strengthen the disabilities (total of 499,075) with sports activities. training by introducing the effective duration system for qualifications. Moreover, we are operating eight practical programs (e.g., sports marketer, business managers of sports facilities) through KISS Increased opportunities to participate in daily sports based on the evaluation that the professional manpower fostering system for the domestic sports In order to provide daily sports programs specialized to respective disabilities, we launched a public industry is insufficient compared to its market size or future growth potential. contest and developed seven events including wheelchair handball, fin swimming, and inline hockey, which we are propagating through seminars. We provided disabled people with the opportunity to participate in sports activities by hosting the sports class for the disabled at 292 sites and holding Eoulim Athletic Meet with non-disabled people (total of 41 times). We also dispatched instructors and supported facility fees and purchase expenses for exercise goods to actively support the activities of society clubs. Consequently, the number of registered society clubs for the disabled increased from 889 in 2009 to 1,079 in 2010. The participation of the disabled in daily sports has been continuously rising from 5.5% in 2008 to 7.0% in 2009 and 8.3% in 2010. Supporting improvement of athletic performance for elite sports for the disabled In order to strengthen elite sports for the disabled, we dispatched full-time coaches for the national team, supported the training of substitute athletes, and provided lifelong pension to medal-winners in international competitions, with equal application standards and prize money as non-disabled medalists. In 2010, we supported pension of KRW 2.8 billion to 216 medalists including those of the Vancouver Winter Olympics. Also, we are expanding our financial support (e.g., living expenses, graduate college tuition fee, accident insurance) for the welfare of disabled athletes facing financial difficulties. Supporting the hosting cost for international sports events Supporting the international sports We support the hosting of various international sports competitions in order to develop the local industry economies and promote the national brand. We supported a funding of KRW 198.1 billion in 2010 for the successful hosting of international competitions including 2011 Daegu World Championships, 2014 Incheon Asian Games, and 2015 Gwangju Summer Universiade. We are also continuously supporting funding for the globalization of taekwondo and hosting of Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 46 + 47 while banning the use of high-toxic pesticides, and are continuously trying to reduce the use of pesticides. Furthermore, we ran a residual pesticide examination on the soil, water, and grass in the Environmental Management Olympic Park in order to more actively reduce environmental pollution. This action is mandated only on the food and golf course, but we voluntarily applied a stronger standard. The residual KSPO believes that simple conservation is just as important as creative production in the pesticide examination on our golf course displayed not one single type of pesticide in the Olympic sustainable development of humanity. We are thus endeavoring to reduce greenhouse Park. We are planning to gradually introduce eco-friendly pest control methods (e.g., use of tree gasses and efficiently utilize resources based on the belief that continuing development to shaft injection-type pesticides, pest control using sex pheromones) to prevent damages to visitors satisfy the current needs without considering for the environment is meaningless. and water pollution from spraying the pesticides. ● Pesticide usage in the Olympic Park & Boat Racing Course ● Vision Public company that actively fulfills the environmental responsibilities ● Major Goal Planning to promote companywide green management, increase in the efficiency of Classification 2008 2009 2010 resource utilization, minimization of pollutant emissions, promotion of environmental Olympic Park (ℓ) 1,361 1,710 1,274 management awareness, and operation of eco-friendly green space Boat Racing Course (ℓ) 959 659 624 ● Organization The Management Coordination Department oversees the energy and resource management on the company-level. There are environmental departments in each business unit. The environment and ecological resources in the Olympic Park are Effort to protect water quality in the business unit managed and preserved by the Construction Management Department and the Mongchon Haeja (area of 53,400㎡, water quantity of 76,000㎥) is an artificial lake within the Olympic Park. It is ● Performance Facility Management Department.. a resting place for the visitors, as well as the home of various aqua life, flora and fauna. We fostered an artificial plant island and are operating a circulation pump to manage the water quality of Mongchon Haeja, and are endeavoring to remove floor dredges and buoyant pollutants in the lake. We also request a professional Classification Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 company to regularly examine the water quality. Moreover, we remove the causing materials of water pollution Usage of Water 1,660,227㎥ 1,661,623㎥ 1,301,222㎥ by using eco-friendly organic enzyme fermenting agent in order to maintain a water quality above Grade 3. Increase in the efficiency of The Misari Boat Racing Course operates a purification system to manage the water quality of the freshwater Usage of Gas 1,953,003N㎥ 2,033,871 N㎥ 1,813,722 N㎥ resource utilization lake. Introduced in 2008, the system condenses and purifies any impurities in the water (10,000㎥/day). In 2010, Usage of Electricity 38,021,863Kwh 39,591,257Kwh 41,134,051Kwh the system processed 26.3 tons of waste. We are thoroughly maintaining the water quality by operating the Purchase Rate of Eco-friendly purification system and regularly removing buoyant substances to purify the water quality. Particularly in 2010, 52.7% 80% Minimization of Goods we saved approximately 270,000 tons of influx water into Han River compared to 2009 by efficiently managing pollutant emissions Maturity of Waste Level 2 Level 2 Level 3 the freshwater in consideration of the water supply. The Boat Racing Course is a freshwater lake that always Management System Promotion of maintains a certain water level. We supply water from Han River when the level is low for natural reasons, and Acquisition of International environmental the discharge level of water into Han River is extremely low. Environment Specification 1 1 1 management Certification awareness Financial risks and Due to the characteristic of motorboats racing, the course does produce a certain level of noise. In case where responses from the the level of noise goes above such level that it can cause inconveniences to the lives of nearby neighbors, then Enhancement of environmental value of the Olympic Park environment Ecosystem it may arise a problem in running a motorboats racing business. Therefore we need to abide by the noise preservation efforts KSPO manages the Olympic Park and Misari Neighborhood Park to provide clean air and healthy regulation standards. Also, KSPO is a sports service providing company, hence we do not have a big impact or ecological space in the city. In order to efficiently manage the shrubbery in Olympic Park, the responsibility in a climate change as we do not manufacture any kinds of products. However, we still are public largest urban ecological herb park, we established the shrubbery management system in 2010 that organization, so we have a responsibility and obligations to abide by the government’s energy savings policy can systematically manage any shifts or transplants of the shrubbery in real-time. Opened to the and continuously decrease the level of energy usage. public in May 2010, the Rose Plaza was planted with 14,000 petals of roses (129 types) including 20 rare types of roses over 10,520㎡ of land to provide Seoul citizens with a precious ecology Provision of noise-reduction equipment in Misari Neighborhood Park Eco-friendly along with the flower garden complex (13,100㎡) and the wild flower complex (1,200㎡). business operation Due to the characteristic of motorboats racing each other, the course does produce a certain level of noise. KSPO endeavors to conform to the noise regulation standards to not cause any inconveniences Reduced use of pesticides to minimize environmental pollution to the lives of nearby neighbors. However, in May 2010, a civil complaint was raised by a resident We conform to regulations related to the use of pesticides in a safe and eco-friendly manner in living near the race course. After measuring the noise during a race near the residential area revealed order to manage the Olympic Park and Boat Racing Course, which are resting areas of the citizens. Since 2008, we have been managing the shrubbery by using low-toxic or normal pesticides 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 48 + 49 that the noise exceeded 55dB, the noise-related environment standard, Hanam-si disseminated the administrative order to ban the use of racing motorboats, the source of noise. Yet, since the geographical characteristic of the boat racing course resulted in a high noise level even on days without races, Hanam-si acknowledged our various efforts to reduce the noise level according to the administrative order. The order was nullified in January 2011. We are now planning to fundamentally solve the noise reduction issue in order to minimize any inconveniences to the local residents from the racing noises. First, we are reinforcing the soundproof walls (5m->8m in height, 100m->610m in length), developing noise reduction device for motorboats, and installing soundproof shrubbery to absorb any residual sound. In particular, we are planning to establish the General Noise Management Plan for Boat Racing Course to systematically manage the noise issue, and concentrate on 16 short/long-term tasks in three sectors (i.e., racing facility, racing equipment, operation) by 2014 by additionally fostering soundproof shrubbery, improving the sound absorption performance of soundproof walls, and developing suppressed noise motorboats according to the General Noise Management Plan. Installation of eco-friendly generation equipment and energy-saving facility We installed four wind power streetlamps and one photovoltaic system (produces 39.82kW of energy) in 2010 to create new energy without degrading the natural scenery of the Olympic Park. We are also planning to construct four photovoltaic systems by 2011. The total amount invested in the eco-friendly generation equipment is KRW 311 million. Energy-saving Investment in energy-saving equipment at business units We installed 580 Energy Keepers (energy-saving multiple-tap) in all offices and replaced 9.3% of office lighting with energy-saving LED at Seoul Olympic Hall in order to save energy in office spaces. We also installed laser sensors at 75 sites, replaced energysaving sensor-type automatic taucet and water-saving showers to reduce wasted power and tap water in the bathrooms. Moreover, we are gradually changing our business vehicles into eco-friendly vehicles of 6 hybrid and 14 small cars. In order to save energy at 11 buildings including the Olympic Park performance facility and the Sports Center, we also formed the Energy-saving Countermeasure Team, conducted continuous training and advertisement, installed high-efficiency equipment (e.g., energy-saving lamps), and substituted the use of tap water with underground water to save water resources. Overview of Olympic Park Waste management ㅇ Area: 1,447,122㎡ We are recommending the use of recycled goods and thoroughly managing wastes ㅇ Shrubbery : 340,000 (320,000 of shrubs (e.g., royal azalea, forsythia / 48 types), 15,000 of forest trees (e.g., pine tree, zelkova / 119 types) to minimize environmental pollution. Our waste discharge and processing results are Operation of eco-friendly ecology: Rose Plaza, Wild Flower Learning Center (e.g., dicentra, pasqueflower), Wild Flower Floor transparently reported on the jurisdiction office and the online waste management system (e.g., field poppy, Mexican Aster), Mongchon Field (e.g., arrow flower, sunflower), Naeseong Farm (e.g., barley, wheat) (www.allbaro.or.kr). We also conform to the legal regulations and process waste by consigning ㅇ Main Ecological Resources : 405 types of wildlife (e.g., white heron, raccoon, red-eared slider) the task to a professional waste disposal company. The waste discharge amounts in 2010 ㅇ No. of Carvings : 218 pieces (8 sculptures) were 157 tons of waste synthetic resin, 1,267 tons of recyclables, 357,240 liters of food waste ㅇ No. of Annual Visitors : 7.3 million and 1,203 kg of waste oil and lubricating oil. KSPO will report the waste discharge amount Overview of Misari Neighborhood Park on an annual basis. ㅇ Area: 977,278㎡ ㅇ Shrubbery: 130,000 (120,000 of shrubs (e.g., four-season roses, boxwood tree), 8,000 of forest trees (e.g., pine tree, juniper, evergreen) Resource recycling and eco-friendly purchases ㅇ No. of Carvings: 18 pieces We are operating the e-Approval system to reduce the use of paper, and processed 99.6% ㅇ No. of Annual Visitors: 3.3 million of all document tasks in 2010 with this system. We purchase all office copy paper with recycled paper, and consumed 300,187g (1,601 boxes) of paper in 2010. KSPO will report the 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 50 + 51 consumption of paper on an annual basis. Furthermore, the Olympic Swimming Pool is recycling ● Direct Energy Consumption previously disposed water to efficiently manage water resources. We are annually recycling 6,653 Classification 2008 2009 2010 ㎥ of water by reprocessing the water previously disposed of after being used as coolant in the ozone generator (the water processing equipment of the Olympic Swimming Pool). We also City Gas ( N㎥) 1,953,003 2,031,755 1,813,722 collect and recycle all residual chemical measurement samples for swimming pools to annually Oil Consumption (ℓ) 256,876 287,284 281,605 save 4,204㎥ of water. Moreover, we are continuously increasing the purchase rate of eco-friendly Oil consumption refers to the consumption from 128 business vehicles and racing motorboats. goods. The purchase rate in 2010 was 80%, which was a 27.3% increase from the 52.7% in 2009. There were no violations of environmental regulations during the reporting period. ● Indirect Energy Consumption ● Usage of water Classification 2008 2009 2010 Classification 2008 2009 2010 Water Usage (㎥) 1,941,229 1,896,342 1,586,772 Electricity (kwh) 46,403,171 48,164,499 49,604,979 The values include water used for residential purposes at the business unit and the freshwater of the boat racing lake. Local Heating (Gcal) 21,485 20,744 21,821 Voluntary efforts of the staff to save energy We formed the Energy-saving Promotion Committee to establish an annual 10% energysaving plan, and monitor the implementation using the Energy Keeper. Every Wednesdays are Bicycle education/provision business Propagation of designated as the KSPO Green Day, when 1/3 of the elevators stop operations, all elevators the bicycle culture We focused on the value of bicycles, currently popular as the keyword of green growth that do not operate below 4F, and staffs practice the no-leftovers movement in the company solves transportation, environment and energy issues, and used various channels to establish cafeteria. Moreover, we are actively participating in year-round energy-saving by designating a bicycle leisure culture infrastructure, change awareness on bicycles, propagate the bicycle the indoor temperature standards as 18℃ for winter season and 28℃ for summer season, culture, and provide education on the proper handling of bicycles. We supplied bicycles to and turning off 20% of office lighting. We also operate four commuter buses to reduce the 82 middle and high schools across the nation, and also published the bicycle publication use of commuting vehicles and promote the use of public transportation, and introduced the “Run! Dreamer the Green Bicycle” and distributed 8,000 copies to elementary schools and public libraries nationwide. Also, we constructed an international standard MTB course at selective vehicle days and controlled the entrance of nonparticipating vehicles to increase Motorboat Racing Training Center in Yeongju, open to societies and clubs, and fostered the the participation rate. Bicycle Traffic Safety Training Center to introduce a safe bicycle culture to the children. In addition, Gwangmyeong Speedom and Misari Motorboat Racing Course lend free bicycles Energy consumption and operate a free repair center to facilitate an environment where anyone can conveniently The total energy consumption at KSPO is reported on key business office facilities and ride bicycles. customer facilities (e.g., Headquarters, Olympic Youth Hostel, Gwangmyeong Speedom, Misari Boat Racing Course), crowd facilities (e.g., Olympic Swimming Pool, Performance Hall, Hosting competition to invigorate the bicycle culture and industry Sports Centers in Olympic, Bundang, Ilsan), and various lease facilities inside Olympic Park. We are endeavoring to provide the opportunity to respond to climate changes by paving the foundation for the bicycle culture boom, soon to be an axis of CO2 reduction living culture, ● Carbon Dioxide Emissions by hosting the large-scale bicycle culture for all citizens to enjoy. Hosted to propagate the 5,853 use of bicycles and foster an international sports event, the ‘4th Tour de Korea 2010’ is an 5,576 ● 5,291 international road cycling competition along the 4 major rivers. 38 teams (336 participants) Direct Emission (tCo2eq/yr) ● ● participate in the 2,191km course throughout 11 regions of Korea including Seoul and Jeju from April 22 to May 2 in the Elite Race, Special Race, and Bicycle Parade. ‘The 2nd Korea 27,704 Bicycling Ceremony’ was participated by 13,000 society members and local residents in 16 26,809 26,134 ● cities and provinces across the nation (October 22~30) for programs including the Bicycle ● Indirect Emission (tCo2egq/yr) ● Relay Parade and the Cross-country Grand March. 32,994 32,662 ● Total 31,710 ● ● 2008 2009 2010 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 52 + 53 Analysis and treatment of excessive addiction Responsible Leisure KSPO believes that closely going over the social concerns and negative opinions on the betting industry and possessing the self-recovering ability to effectively prevent and swiftly treat our customers’ excessive addiction are the first step of responsible business operations. We are Cycle racing, motorboat racing, and Sports Toto are the three major sports service industries ongoing active anti-addiction activities and advertising treatment activities to emphasize the risks of KSPO, and are implemented to foster the National Sports Promotion Fund, the essential of excessive addiction and immediately alleviating problems through the counseling center based source of finance for realizing a sports welfare nation. We determine the value of the on the belief that excessive addiction is not a personal problem, but a problem of the family, fundraising business by focusing on the qualitative aspect. How well does it grow? KSPO and society. The excessive addiction prevention and treatment activities are centered on instead of the quantitative aspect. How much does it grow? We seek to become a public the clinic. Customers with concerns for excessive addiction can seek consultation at each branch company diligent to customers, local communities and government by focusing not only on clinic and online/phone counseling, and those classified as excessively addicted can receive the positive aspect of the fundraising business, but also on continuous self-reflection and secondary intensive counseling and diagnosis at the main clinic. Customers requiring professional contemplation on the negative aspects. and sustained treatment after the secondary counseling are transferred to special hospitals for systematic treatment and rehabilitation. In 2010, a total of 398 customers, approximately twice ● Vision Realization of public welfare through the development into sound leisure sports from 2009, were classified as excessively addicted and received secondary intensive counseling ● Major Goal Strengthening of the entertainment factor to establish a sound leisure culture, social and diagnosis at the main clinic, among which two customers received treatment from a tertiary influence management, responsible leisure culture system, creation of value in the clinic. The number of counseling seems to have increased from the continued notification on local communities the hazards of excessive addiction, change in awareness through preventive counseling, and ● Organization The Planning & Coordination Department oversees the responsible leisure increasing number of customers trying to solve excessive addiction through the clinic. culture management and coordination tasks, and the Management Coordination ● No. of counseling for excessive addiction at KSPO Clinic Department, and Toto Business Department oversee the planning and implementation of the general soundness plan. Furthermore, the 18 cycle/ Classification 2008 2009 2010 motorboat speezons are endeavoring to establish a sound leisure culture and Counseling Preventive 6,922 8,721 9,708 develop the local community cultures. on excessive ● Performance addiction and Goal Addiction 3,903(7,530 cases) 2,333(8,133 cases) 4,669(11,798 cases) Classification Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 No. of excessively addicted 72(204 cases) 190(384 cases) 398(545 cases) customers Interest level in cycle/ 66.9 pts 75.1 pts 73.6 pts No. of customers treated at Entertainment pleasure motorboat racing, Sports Toto 1 2 2 Efforts to foster special hospitals 60 pts 100 pts 100 pts multi-culture space Influence on society No. of participants in meeting Excessive addiction risk awareness and prevention activities 6,922 8,721 9,708 management with clinic customers KSPO operates a preventive clinic to prevent the excessive addiction of cycle racing, Maturity of sound 60 pts 100 pts 100 pts Responsible leisure management system motorboat racing, and Sports Toto customers. We are promoting an active preventionculture Strengthening soundness oriented policy in order to prevent problematic addiction through the clinic’s addiction 51 times 52 times 63 times training in sales agencies Activation of the fundraising prevention experts and counselors, and also established systematic countermeasures (e.g., KRW 3.96 tril. KRW 4.27 tril. KRW 4.49 tril. Creation of value business various psychological therapies, treatment programs, rehabilitation support services) for the in the local Participation rate in national communities 34.2% 41.5% effective treatment and rehabilitation of the addicted. Clinic centers are established at 13 sports activities Participation rate in daily branches besides the main cycle racing and motorboat racing course for on-site prevention 5.5% 7% 8.3% sports for the disabled and counseling. Also, clinic centers will be established at all cycle/motorboat racing branches by 2013, and existing clinics will be used to prevent Sports Toto addiction in 2011. ● Clinic counseling treatment system Efforts to prevent At-your-door preventive service and alleviate business side-effects First KSPO promotes active preventive and advertising activities to identify excessively addicted Counseling 13 branches (Olympic Park/therapist) Customers concerned for excessive addiction customers and those with high concerns for excessive addiction, and to treat them as soon as possible. The Meeting the Customers event is held on a yearly basis, where customers of Secomd the main branch and 18 external branches meet close hand. During this meeting, customers Counseling Main clinic (specialist/therapist) Customers classified as excessive addiction are checked for their mental and physical health through psychotherapy that checks for addiction, stress and anxiety, and fitness tests for blood pressure, blood test and body fat Third Special hospital Customers requiring sustained and professional Counseling (Kangbuk Samsung Medical Center) treatment test. A total of 9,708 customers participated in this event in 2010. Also, the mental sideeffect test and the psychotherapy service are always provided both on and offline. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 54 + 55 ● No. of participants in the “Meeting the Customers” event ● Awarding of 2010 KSPO Speezon Soundness Competition Classification 2008 2009 2010 Classification Speezon Innovation No. of Participants 6,922 8,721 9,708 • To start the first clean branch declaration in all branches • Customers signing the purchase limit agreement contract Grand Prize Sanbon • War against drinking (completely deny access to the customers under the influence of alcohol) • Invitational lecture by customer representative related to the Furthermore, advertisements such as periodic publications, prevention posters and leaflets are soundness project disseminated to continuously notify customers on the risk of addiction and to naturally find out about the clinic through the clinic’s homepage online event. In addition, sustained preventive • Unique customer campaign based on the theme of health Excellent Award Jangan No-smoking campaign, examination and counseling to promote efforts such as the UCC contest on the ‘Prevention of Excessive Addiction in Speculative Games’ customers’ health to alert customers on the risk of addiction and the preventive measures have resulted in an Dongdaemun • Install surveillance alarm to prevent consecutive purchases increase in the counseling customers from 16,854 in 2009 to 21,506 in 2010. Encouragement Award • Contribution activities to strengthen the bond Uijeongbu with local communities Treatment support for excessively addicted households Operate free English classrooms and barber shop for customers Excessive addiction negatively influences not only the customer, but more broadly one's family and workplace. KSPO focused on the point that the family member's understanding Efforts for sound sales of Sports Toto and participation is most important for fundamentally treating the excessive addiction, and is KSPO stipulated relevant regulations and is thoroughly conforming to the guidelines to operate conducting a family-participation addiction treatment program. Customers fearing excessive a sound Sports Toto business. In particular, we are constantly conducting inspections for addiction and their families can join the 2-day workshop to think about and solve the addiction cheating and guideline activities for the 6,687 Toto shops across the nation, and are employing problem based on the topics of correct awareness of games, fostering one’s self-control abilities, secret inspectors to crack down on violations of the sales code. Consequently, we identified 121 improving family relationship, promoting one’s self-esteem and self-efficacy. In 2010, 82 families violating shops. The violators are penalized with suspension of business for a certain period of participated in a series of four workshops. After the workshop, customers are assigned to time, and must mandatorily complete our refinement training. Moreover, we prevented highpersonal therapists and receive periodic management on the progress and treatment effect price purchases, announced sound methods of enjoying Sports Toto, and signature-seeking through visits, phone and internet. When requiring a more professional treatment, customers campaigns to induce customer participation. are supported with diagnosis and treatment expenses for hospitalization treatments, as well as rehabilitation to prevent the relapse of addiction symptoms. Improving the operation Maximum purchase price for cycle racing, motorboat racing, Sports Toto method for Purchasing of cycle racing, motorboat racing, and Sports Toto by underaged persons is Efforts for sound Most of the concerns for the speculative nature and excessive addiction of the sports service the soundness external branches industry comes from the operation of external branches for cycle and motorboat racing. of the racing business prohibited by the National Sports Promotion Act and related regulations. The purchase limit Unlike the main courses where the races are held, the external branches broadcast the races per person is strictly prescribed as within KRW 100,000 per game for cycle and motorboat on screen, which leads to concerns that it is more inclined towards the speculative industry racing, and KRW 100,000 per turn for Sports Toto. Since failure to conform to the maximum than sound leisure activities. KSPO operates a total of 18 external branches (speezons), among purchase limit may lead to excessive addiction and additional damages from economic which 13 broadcast both cycle racing and motorboat racing. We consider such concerns for the losses, KSPO seeks to block the source of purchasing beyond the stipulated maximum speezons, which are operated to facilitate the customers’ accessibility and viewing experience, purchase limit. as the greatest factor that threatens the sustainability of the sports service industry, and are endeavoring to come up with measures to make the branches more sound and beneficial. Our Systematic improvement for conformity of maximum purchase limit Introduction of the real name e-Card TF team derived a master plan and detailed strategies to achieve the sound mid/long-term In September 2010, we introduced the very first e-card in the industry, the ‘Green Card’. development of the speezons. The Green Card makes it impossible to purchase beyond the maximum purchase limit, and customers can prevent addiction by setting one’s own purchase limit. The purchase is KSPO Speezon Soundness Competition nullified when the customer attempts to purchase beyond the set limit. Furthermore, the In order to achieve the soundness of our Speezon by gathering the brains of our field addiction diagnosis program mounted on the card device enables users to diagnose for employees, KSPO hosted the 1st Speezon Soundness Excellent Performance Competition in addiction and inhibits them from making impulsive purchases by displaying the monthly March 2010. It was because deriving and implementing the soundness tasks conceived based on purchases and pattern data. KSPO is planning to make a trial operation of the Green Card at what the field employees see and feel up close to the customers is the most efficient measure the main course and Nonhyeon Branch, and then expand it to all branches after September for achieving soundness. All 18 Speezon actively participated and voluntarily endeavored to 2011. Sports Toto introduced the 3 step membership authentication process for the identify the soundness task. The selected excellent performance business will be actively reflected soundness of online purchasing, which prevents customers from possessing more than one in the 2011 Speezon Soundness Strategy and be propagated throughout all Speezon ID. It also induces sound purchases by limiting the purchase frequency to 6 times a day. In 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 56 + 57 addition, the system allows the customer to self-limit the purchase amount and frequency. * Efforts to operate fair racing KSPO places the highest priority in the betting industry (e.g., cycle/motorboat racing, Sports Toto) on Violations of the maximum purchase limit and KSPO response fairness and transparency. We are endeavoring to strictly prevent fixed matches, moral slackness by KSPO strictly monitors violations of the maximum purchase limit at each cycle/motorboat racing the hosting organizations, inconformity of the maximum purchase limit by sales shops, and operation of illegal online sports betting websites so that this principle may not waver. branch and Sports Toto stores through Sound Keeper and secret inspectors. There were cases We operate the Cycle & Motorboat Racer Integrity Committee to prevent fixed races, hold 112 hours where some violated the maximum purchase limit despite continuous guidance and inspections. of fixed match prevention training for all racers, and conduct dope tests to 375 racers (50% of the 1,716 customers were caught for violation of the purchase limit of cycle/motorboat racing tickets, total 752). We also periodically hold cheating prevention training for hosting organizations to achieve and 135 stores were caught for selling beyond the purchase limit of Sports Toto. Violating fair operation of the Sports Toto games, and conducted a total of 30 secret inspections and at-yourdoor training to 5,834 sales shops (87% of the total 6,700) to establish a sound ticketing culture customers were restricted (e.g., warning, forced exit, entrance denial) and subjected to clinical amongst the shops. counseling and soundness education. Stores violating the purchase limit were restricted with In 2011, we are planning to form a Corruption Countermeasure Committee for each professional suspension of business and subjected to mandatory completion of soundness training on the team to constantly monitor for signs of cheating and obligate involved parties to sign contracts importance of soundness, related laws, and methods of eliminating illegal actions. banning illegal actions, and will operate a report center. Moreover, we will operate the alarm system for abnormal sales to identify foul play at an early time, and will amend related laws to strengthen the control and restrictions against illegal private sports betting websites. We are also planning to actively foster cheating prevention experts and expand preventive training and inspections to promote the *Implementation of 3-strikeout system for violating customers of the maximum purchase limit ethical responsibility awareness of related parties and organizations. In case of incidents that impede for cycle/motorboat racing tickets impartiality despite such preventive efforts, we will impose severe restrictions such as legal punishment on the racer, related parties and hosting organization, and reducing the support funding. KSPO has implemented the first 3-strikeout system in the industry in July 2010 in order to strictly conform to the maximum purchase limit. The 3-strikeout system is a system that denies entrance for certain duration of time when catching a customer purchasing above the stipulated maximum purchase limit three times over a year. It was introduced to strictly conform to the Soundness training for employees and customers maximum purchase limit and to prevent customer addiction. We are endeavoring to establish a KSPO is continuously conducting various soundness training for staffs, affiliates and customers sound purchasing culture by inducing clinical counseling and treatment programs for excessive in an effort to effectively prevent addiction from the sports service industry. Furthermore, 248 addiction when catching customers make excessive purchases. staffs and affiliate employees participated in the ‘Addiction Prevention Instructor Program’ by the National Gaming Control Commission (NGCC). ● Soundness training in 2010 Improvement in the operation method of Sports Toto After considering for the characteristic of Sports Toto where the prize money would be carried Target Employee & Workers Sales Stores Racer/Host Customer • Training on the • Regular training on • Training on reinforcing • Training on prevention over in case there were no first prize winner, KSPO newly established the system of limiting the reinforcement of soundness conformity of maximum fairness & ethics of excessive addiction capacity purchase limit • Preventing fixed matches • Training on sound betting carry-over of the prize money to a maximum of 3 times (formerly unlimited) in February 2010. Content • Training on the prevention • Training on conformity • Operation of fair matches culture and usage of excessive addiction and of customer guidance and of the clinic By limiting the carry-over frequency to three times and distributing the prize money to follow-up prohibition of related regulations consecutive sales winners when there is no first prize winner on the 3rd time, we succeeded in limiting excessive • Strengthening work ethics purchases. In the case of the win-tie-loss bet for soccer, the first prize money dropped by 75% • Cycle/Motorboat Racing: • 63 times (17,375) • Training upon entrance • Cycle/Motorboat Racing: 6 times (1,568) every week 10 times (730) compared to 2009. Also when establishing the ticketing-turn per Toto product, we expanded the Result • Sports Toto: 1 time (248) • Training for hosting • Sports Toto: Constant training organizations: 38 times on the homepage (17,353) proportion of products with little customers and issued mid/low-dividend products as 83.6% of the entire turns in order to minimize the possibility of addiction following the high prize money. Prevention and crackdown on illegal/controlled racing Certification of quality management system of the sports service industry KSPO formed an exclusive organization to block the expansion of illegal online cycle/motorboat Sports Toto received the ISO certificates on IT management and security in November 2010 in racing and Sports Toto businesses, and established close coordination with related organizations order to acquire the trust of our customers. It received ISO20000 with top grade in all 13 sectors to crack down on illegal races. We are continuously promoting P.R. activities to ban the use of as for the examination on IT service management, and ISO27001 after receiving top grade in 131 illegal websites in order to prevent damages, and are also paying rewards for reporting illegal out of 133 assessment indexes as for the 11 security fields designated by ISO on IT information websites. Consequently, crackdown on illegal online cycle/motorboat racing websites increased protection. Accordingly, the sports service industry of KSPO acquired the reliability and safety from 138 cases in 2009 to 145 cases in 2010, and crackdown on private offline races also of business operations along with ISO9001 for motorboat racing, ISO9001 for cycle racing, and increased from 6 cases in 2009 to 8 cases in 2010. In addition, 2,897 illegal Sports Toto websites ISO20000 for cycle racing ticketing IT services. were discovered and closed down. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 58 + 59 demand on the advancement of public enterprises, expanding illegal gaming industry, and Creation of Economic Value Added the total sales regulation of the National Gaming Control Commission (NGCC) regarding our fund-raising business (e.g. cycle racing, motorboat racing, and Sports Toto), we raised a record-high KRW 553.7 billion and contributed KRW 529.5 billion in 2010. Exceeding governmental sports funding of KRW 152.7 billion, the Korea Sports Promotion Fund supported by KSPO in 2010 amounted to KRW 529.5 billion. We are providing support KSPO growth and funding in order to develop Korea into a global sports power. Through cycle racing/ From our inception in 1989 to 2010, we have recorded an annual fund-raising increase motorboat racing/Sports Toto, we seek to create more jobs. We also contribute to expand rate of 12.1%. In 2010, we raised KRW 553.7 billion. This is approximately 10 times the the poor sports funding as well as to develop the economy of local communities. According amount of what we raised in 1989 which was KRW 56.3 billion. to the vision we newly established in 2010, KSPO will strive to reach a total funding of KRW 8 trillion by 2020. 2010 ● Vision Secured sports finance through stable funding 1989 (*) *accamulated ● Major Goal Stable allocation of sports promotion sources and reasonable distribution of resources Funds raised Funds raised Category Proportion (%) (KRW billion) ● Organization Fund-raising for the National Sports Promotion Fund is overseen by the Racing Category (KRW billion) Proportion (%) Cycle Racing 5,268 11.5 Business Division and the Sports Industry Division. The operation of funds and Operating Sports Toto 17,364 38.1 other financial affairs are managed by the Planning & Coordination Department., Income 472 84 ● Performance whereas funding is authorized by the Fund Coordination Department. Motorboat Racing 202 0.4 Additional Income Income 58 10 from fund 11,843 26.0 2010 management Goal for 2011 Additional Category Others 33 6 6,229 13.7 Goal Performance Accomplishment Income Rate Others 4,685 10.3 Fund Accumulated KRW 466 billion KRW 553.7 billion 119% KRW 600.9 billion Total 563 100 Total 45,591 100 Fund Disseminated KRW 450.9 billion KRW 529.5 billion 117% KRW 655.2 billion (Accumulated) Amount of funds used (accumulated) skyrocketed from KRW 9.8 billion to KRW 529.5 ● Plan to achieve a total funding of KRW 8 trillion according to the 2020 company-wide vision of KSPO (Total funding of KRW 8 trillion by 2020) billion in 2010. In 2011, we plan to contribute KRW 655.2 billion which is KRW 125.7 billion more than that of 2010. Category ● Annual performance of Korea Sports Promotion Fund Raising (Unit: KRW 100 million) ~’09 Sub-total ‘10 ’11 ~ ‘12 Total Total '89~'03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 ’11 Plan (Until 2010) Funding KRW 2602.4 billion KRW 529.5 billion KRW 500 billion KRW 8131.9 billion Plan annually 31,319 11,655 1,526 1,747 2,291 2,367 2,578 3,860 5,295 6,552 Fund-raising by source KSPO accumulated funds up to the end of 2010 stand at approximately KRW 4.56 trillion. Main Korea Sports Highest fund raising of KRW 553.7 billion in 2010 sources are fund-raising business (50.1% including cycle racing/motorboat racing/Sports Toto), fund Promotion Fund Raising & Support management income (26%), additional income (13.7%), and other business (10.3%). In 1989, interest Reached a total of KRW 3 trillion 131.9 billion for Korea Sports Promotion Fund income was a dominant source representing 84% of total funds. However, fund sources have been diversified as we have operated new businesses since 1994 when we started Cycle racing. Since our inception in 1989, KSPO has recorded a total of KRW 4 trillion and 559.1 billion for Korea Sports Promotion Fund through fund-raising in cycle racing/motorboat racing/Sports Funddistribution by sector Toto, fund operation, and additional income. KRW 3 trillion and 131.9 billion were contributed Funds raised from diverse sources have been distributed to many sectors including daily sports to many sectors including sports promotion business, youth fostering sector, and Olympic (43%), elite sports (48%), school sports (6%), youth fostering sector (2%) and the Olympic commemoration projects. Despite the adverse corporate environment such as government commemoration projects (1%). Accumulated distribution until 2010 amounted to KRW 3.13 trillion. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 60 + 61 Economic Value Created by Project ● Accumulated distribution by sector from 1989 to 2010 Economic value created by each business in 2010 is as follows: Cycle racing KRW 506.3 billion, Youth Category Daily Sports Elite Sports Int’l Sports etc Sports for the Total motorboat racing KRW 168.6 billion, Sports Toto KRW 835.3 billion, and others KRW 154.3 billion. As fostering disabled & Olympic such, these fund-raising businesses hold nearly 90% of total created economic value of KSPO. Economic Amount (KRW 13,428 8,499 7,451 896 1,045 31,319 value out of operating income by business is as the following: Cycle racing 25%, motorboat racing 100 million) 26%, and Sports Toto 45%. The main reason behind such high profit of the Sports Toto business is Proportion (%) 43 27 24 3 3 100 the fact that its refund rate (56%) is relatively lower than that of both cycle racing and motorboat Olympic commemoration project aims at inheriting spirits of the 1988 Seoul Olympics Games and maintaining facilities racing (72%). of the Games. ● Economic value created by business in 2010 (Unit: KRW 100 million) During the past five years, most of the distribution (KRW 803.3 billion) has been done to build infrastructure of Item Cycle racing Motorboat Racing Sports Toto Others daily sports such as National Sports Center and sports facilities at school grounds and rural areas. In 2009 and 2010, distribution to elite sports increased substantially as we expanded supports for the international sports Operating Income 20,050 6,541 18,731 1,332 events including 2014 Incheon Asian Games, F1 Grand Prix Korea, and the 2011 Daegu World Championships Operating Expenses 14,910 4,807 10,415 365 in Athletics. Non-operating Income 26 8 268 5,225 ● Distribution by sector for the past five years (Unit: KRW 100 million) Non-operating 24 21 155 4,464 Expenses Category 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Depreciation 79 35 76 185 Elite Sports 556 667 896 2,066 3,205 Economic values created 5,063 1,686 8,353 1,543 Daily Sports 1,549 1,527 1,518 1,585 1,854 School Sports 186 173 164 209 237 Distribution of KSPO distributes its economic value to various stakeholders including employees, partners, Economic Value governments, local communities, and beneficiaries of the National Sports Promotion Fund. In 2010, distribution by KSPO broke down into governments (36%), National Sports Promotion Creation of KSPO creates economic value through the fund-raising business and the fund distribution Economic Value Fund (32%), partners (22%), employees (4%) and internal reserves (6%). Distributed value is business. In order to continually generate value, we have changed our management equivalent to the created value. paradigm of fund-raising projects from quantity-focused strategy to customer-oriented strategy which is based on sound and responsible leisure. In addition, we are discovering ●Distribution of economic value (Unit: KRW 100 million) various distribution sectors to meet sports needs of rural areas. Economic value of KSPO is Stakeholders 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the sum of operating income and non-operating income after deducting operating & nonInternal Reserves 6% Employees 4% operating expenses and depreciation costs. In 2010, economic value of KSPO recorded Governments, etc. 1) 4,263 5,095 5,402 5,737 5,924 KRW 1.66 trillion which is KRW 22.8 billion lower than that of 2009 (KRW 1.69 trillion). The National Sports 2,291 2,367 2,578 3,860 5,295 Promotion Fund 2) National Partners proportion of economic value out of operating income stood at 35.7%. Sports 22% Partners 3) 2,588 3,180 3,471 3,644 3,631 Promotion Fund Governments, ●Summary of economic values created (Unit: KRW 100 million) 32% etc.: Local Communities 4) 11 12 15 27 21 36% Item 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Employees 5) 716 793 792 813 719 Operating Income 27,218 38,220 41,378 45,256 46,654 2010 Economic value distribution proportion Internal Reserves 540 2,407 2,006 2,792 1,055 Operating Expenses(*1) 17,513 24,502 27,241 28,977 30,497 Economic Value 10,409 13,854 14,264 16,873 16,645 Distributed Non-operating 1,798 3,607 4,066 5,560 5,527 Income(*2) 1) Corporate income tax on an accrual basis + Non-operating public spending from our taxes and dues, cycling racing income and Sports Toto income 632 3,030 3,545 4,595 4,664 2) Contribution to sports organizations including Korea Sports Council + Expenses(*3) contribution to local governments for expansion of daily sports infrastructure (e.g. playground facilities) Depreciation 462 441 394 371 375 3) Operational expenses paid to consigned partners (e.g. Sports Toto) 4) Total donations to local communities Economic Values 5) Wages + allowances + retirement payment + welfare benefits + training expenses 10,409 13,854 14,264 16,873 16,645 Created (*1) Excludes wages, depreciation, and reserves (*2) Excludes corporate income tax returned and reversal of various reserves (*3) Excludes reserve for original purpose business and internal workers welfare fund . 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 62 + 63 Distribution to governments Distribution to employees Distribution to governments increased by KRW 18.7 billion to KRW 592.4 billion in 2010 from KRW Distributions to employees take the forms of wages, retirement payments, welfare benefits, training 573.7 billion in 2009. Such distribution composed of corporate income tax, other taxes and dues, expenses, etc. In 2010, we spent a total of KRW 71.9 billion for such uses. and public spending allocated from proceeds of fund-raising business. In particular, racing taxes (leisure tax, etc.) which account for 18% of cycle and motorboat racing revenues, take up 70.6% Description 2007 2008 2009 2010 (KRW 418 billion) of our distribution to governments. This is a significant source of financing for local Distribution to employees 793 792 813 719 governments with relatively small budgets and poor financial structure. ● Economic value distributed to governments (Unit: KRW 100 million) Distribution of economic value by Sports racing business Economic value created from our cycle racing, motorboat racing, and Sports Toto Details 2007 2008 2009 2010 Remark businesses in 2010 amounted to KRW 1.45 trillion, accounting for 86% of the total 18% of cycle/motorboat racing Racing taxes 3,846 4,255 4,024 4,180 economic value created across KSPO. Distribution by business is as the table below. revenues Distribution of motorboat/Sports Legal payments 1,054 1,146 1,570 1,800 Toto profit to other public agencies Cycle Racing Motorboat Racing Sports Toto After deduction of corporate income Corporate income tax 148 -49 98 -103 tax refund Stakeholder Taxes & dues 47 48 45 47 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Total 5,095 5,400 5,737 5,924 Employees 329 346 291 141 145 128 Partners 313 327 389 263 269 274 2,778 2,908 2,807 Distribution to partners Distribution to partners consists of commissions paid to Sports Toto operators (Sports Toto Co., Ltd.), Governments 3,323 3,300 3,657 1,251 1,326 1,150 833 975 1,178 prize money to the cycle/motorboat racers, and consignment fees for the maintenance of Olympic Park. Distribution to partners dropped by KRW 1.3 billion to KRW 363.1 billion in 2010 from KRW Local Communities 7 16 11 4 7 6 364.4 billion in 2009. Internal Reserves 505 602 715 240 133 128 3,560 4,148 4,368 ●Economic value distributed to partners (Unit: KRW 100 million) Economic Value 4,477 4,591 5,063 1,899 1,880 1,686 7,171 8,031 8,353 Description 2007 2008 2009 2010 Distributed Sports Toto business and 2,932 3,211 3,378 3,350 consignment fees Welfare benefits & prize money to 248 260 266 281 cycling/motorboat racers Contribution to national sports promotion fund Total 3,180 3,471 3,644 3,631 In a bid to promote national sports, our core business, we contributed KRW 529.5 billion in 2010 (KRW 143.5 billion increase from KRW 386 billion in 2009) for establishing daily Distribution to local communities sports infrastructure, and supporting elite sports and school sports. KRW 169.2 billion of Our distribution of economic value to local communities is conducted through social contribution the contribution is used for daily sports facilities such as National Sports Centers and sports activities such as donations and emergency relief. We distributed a total of KRW 2.1 billion to local facilities at school playgrounds. Our contribution also consists of KWR 108 billion for elite communities in 2010. KSPO not only provides financial support, but also conducts various volunteer sports (sponsorship to Korea Sports Council and other sports organizations, welfare for activities such as visits to social welfare facilities. We also help the solitary elders and families led by international sports athletes), KRW 230.3 billion for international sports, and KRW 22 billion teens through our Sharing Love volunteer group where all our employees participate. for sports for the disabled. Description 2007 2008 2009 2010 Donation (KRW 100 million) 12 15 27 21 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 64 + 65 ● Distribution of national sports promotion fund (Unit: KRW million) Category 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 Total 257,827 385,984 529,476 Sports Trainers for Elementary Schools 7,762 10,813 Daily Sports 143,362 193,098 169,237 School Sports Promotion 3,000 National Council of Sports for All 2,735 2,816 2,647 International Sports & Exchanges 28,783 87,938 230,250 National Association Promotion 2,372 2,875 2.875 Int'l Sports Exchange 1,461 1,372 1,754 Daily Sports Program 14,872 18,156 19,363 Anti-doping Activities 1,725 1,762 1,932 Int'l Exchange of Daily Sports 464 469 722 Hosting Int'l Competitions 9,197 5,118 68,257 Other Daily Sports Organizations 2,403 2,406 2,535 Athletic Center 2,000 9,000 9,000 National Physical Examination Program 441 441 441 Taekwondo Promotion Project 650 2,650 Sports Voucher 1,929 3,000 IAAF World Championships 2011 Daegu 6,220 37,863 35,841 Daily Sports Coach (Social Service) 16,270 19,354 20,725 2014 Incheon Asian Games 1,500 21,960 77,583 Pilot Operation of Sports Clubs 3,056 3,101 2,498 Taekwondo Promotion Foundation 2,650 3,333 3,533 2010 World Leisure Association 900 2,600 Establishment of Taekwondo Park 20,000 Establishment of National Sports Centers 46,000 53,100 40,900 2015 Gwangju Summer Universiade 1,000 Daily Sports facilities 32,941 69,976 48,991 Sports R&D 3,000 6,000 7,000 Sports Complexes in Rural Areas 3,750 3,750 3,000 Sports Science Research 1,030 880 1,000 Establishment of Open Multi-purpose Gyms Sports Industry Development 700 9,825 14,940 (Basic Sports) Leisure Sports Facilities 4,000 4,000 Sports for the Disabled 4,255 4,024 4,180 Establishment of Soccer Centers & Parks 16,058 Korea Sports Association for the Disabled 2,701 2,856 2,906 Town-based Daily Sports Facilities 2,000 Daily Sports for the Disabled 3,125 5,365 6,187 Elite Sports 64,027 77,062 108,002 Sports Complex for the Disabled 6,473 7,390 6,027 Korea Sports Council 8,884 8,949 9,069 Operation of Sports Complex for the Disabled 7,456 10,400 4,947 Sports Organizations 18,361 25,373 24,120 City/Province Sports for the Disabled 1,900 1,875 1,900 City/Province Sports Councils 1,555 1,728 1,555 Training Athlete Candidates 6,041 6,061 5,908 Training Young Athletes 1,435 1,435 National Junior Sports Festival 8,855 8,412 9,633 Athletic Clubs 1,964 1,966 Sport Universities 2,533 2,533 Youth/Women Soccer Promotion 3,307 Unpopular Sports Promotion 2,060 (Intense Athlete Training) Training Facilities of National Teams 26,458 National Sports Festival 4,328 4,265 4,265 Welfare of Athletes 7,034 8,578 11,141 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 66 + 67 Other Issues Foundation of the KSPO sustainability management KSPO is working to enhance the capabilities as well as to establish a symbiotic relationship among the staffs and collaborating businesses. Through various programs to encourage staff development, employee benefit programs for a content lifestyle, a fair compensation and multilateral activities to encourage a flexible organizational structure, we have established a culture to value every member of our team. We are also implementing financial assistance and various policies to help collaborating businesses to develop together. ●KSPO Employees: 844 employees (in 2010) Employees Category Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 KSPO considers people, especially our employees, as the most significant factor for Total No. of Employee(s) 839 818 844 sustainable development. Capacity/competitiveness of employees leads to the capacity/ Contract Worker(s) 18 15 37 competitiveness of a company. Given such firm belief, we strive to develop the values of our Employment Youth Intern(s) 0 75 50 personnel and to enhance their competence. We also put utmost effort to become a familyTurnover Rate(%) 3.7 5.4 2.8 friendly foundation in order to allow our employees to enjoy a happy life in their workplaces Employment rate of the disabled (%) 2.54 2.38 2.82 and homes. Employment Employment rate of personnel of 5.8 6.0 6.0 ● Vision Balanced development of workplace and home considering social national merit (%) ● Major Goal We focus on active communication, health, safety, human rights protection, work life equity Employment rate of natural science & 25 24.8 25.6 engineering personnel (%) balance and development of employees to enhance the values of our personnel. Rate of total female employees (%) 23.1 23 23.8 ● Organization Human rights protection, work life balance, health, active communication, and Female workforce Rate of female executives (%) 3.9 2.8 4 development of employees are managed by the Management Coordination Rate of newly recruited female 18.2 31.3 27.9 Department. Safety of athletes are managed by the Cycle Racing Management employees (%) Department & Cycle Racing Operation Department. Usage rate of maternity leave (%) 100 100 100 ● Performance No. of maternity leave 19 22 18 Category Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 Reinstatement after maternity leave 11 7 4 No. of baby leaves 8 18 29 Training hours per person 124 157 162 Maternity Leave Employee Capability Usage rate of baby leave(%) 4.35 10.29 16.67 Development Education expense per person KRW 1.1 million KRW 1.5 million KRW 2 million Usage rate of spouse 100 100 100 maternity leave(%) No. of spouse maternity leaves 35 29 35 Work Life Balance Satisfaction of welfare 74.9 pts 76.3 pts 79.7 pts No. of paternity leave 1 2 3 Balanced Personnel Index Human Rights 13.8 pts 14.0 pts 16.1 pts (Converted to Points) Turnover Rate : (Total number of those who changed jobs / Average number of employees)*100 Female Workforce: 59% when including support jobs (Ticket agent etc.) Athlete Accident 0 Case(s) 0 Case(s) 0 Case(s) Health and Safety Employee Training Desired Talent of KSPO Employee Accidents 0 Case(s) 0 Case(s) 2 Case(s) & Career Development Along with the establishment of mid/long-term strategy, KSPO established new qualifications Communication Employee Satisfaction Level 78.6 pts 80.0 pts 81.9 pts for our employees to enhance the capacity of our workers who are the source of our competitiveness. KSPO employees must be a Fair Player (who performs in transparent and fair means), Team Player (who harmonizes and cooperates for a common goal), Dynamic Player (who leads the future/changes with creativity and challenging spirit), and CS Player (who creates customer value based on expertise and customer-oriented minds). Establishment of a Mid/Long-term Training System KSPO has established a new mid/long-term training system as a means to effectively fulfill its new 2020 Vision Strategy. Through an overall analysis on the new vision, external environment, customer demand, and employee demands, KSPO established a mid/long-term talent development mission/vision, and 3 major strategies. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 70 + 71 Training Management Method for Talent Development KSPO promotes the Career Development Program (CDP) to facilitate the systematic and ● KSPO HRD Vision and Strategy strategic growth and management of elites. CDP supports the education for employee capacity development, and establishment of individual career goals and paths. This program seeks to Lead the creation of challenging/cooperative organizational culture and sustainable enhance the individual capacity of our employees by providing a clear vision of one's growth Mission development of the organization/individual by providing top talent development services. direction. It established a total of 16 career fields as well as a systematic education course for Key Player who realizes sports welfare society the required capacity of each type. It also sets an annual desired goal for each job, and evaluates Desired Talent the capacity. It then establishes/implements career development plans, and examines the results Fair Player Team Player Dynamic Player CS Player through evaluation at the end of the year. In order to develop the capacity of our employees, KSPO requires over 75 training hours every year. The average training hour taken per person in Vision Most reliable and top human resource development center of public institutions 2010 was 162 hours. This is higher than 157 hours in the previous year. Training expenses also showed an increase from KRW 1.5 million to KRW 2 million. Performance-oriented Customer-oriented Specialization -----------------------------------------------------------------------KSPO retirement program for stable settlement of retirees 3 Major Strategies Establishment and implementation Activation of customized training Procure HRD organization & KSPO manages an education program for pre-retirees to support stable life settlements and to of systematic/sustainable training personnel expertise system. Focus on the development of professionals. expand the range of opportunities of our employees after retirement. As a means to minimize the stress from environmental changes after retirement, we maintain our relationship with the employees with continuous contracts. We also dispatch them to workplaces with less work load as site managers. In 2010, we provided a stable workplace for 5 retirees. Furthermore, we support the payments for national pension & unemployment insurance of our employees. We also abide by the governmental guideline of providing at least the wage of a month to employees with a ● KSPO Talent Fostering System year of work experience in our foundation. Through cumulative tax on severance pay and interim Staff 1st-2nd 3rd 3rd 4th 4th 5th-6th 7th Managerial adjustment, we help the short and long-term economic stability of our employees. Training Course Class Manager Class Class Class Class Class Class & Contract Team Director Employee Leader Improvement of work satisfaction through active solutions for difficulties KSPO DNA Program ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● KSPO manages an Ombudsman center and association to immediately solve the problems Intergroup Team Building ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Organization of our employees, and to guarantee a stable career. With our intranet, we receive and solve Development Team Building Facilitator(Selected) ● ● ● ● any problems of our employees. This intranet also allows employees to enjoy fair treatment. Hanmaeum Promotion Contest ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● It enables our employees to propose any objections regarding their personnel matters such KSPO Imagination Contest ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● (Selected) as transference and evaluation. We also check and improve the system through monitoring Visionary Leadership ● activities on the satisfaction level of employees. Stragetic Leadership ● ● Team Leadership ● ● Employee safety Prevention of disease and promotion of health Leadership by Class and hazard prevention Through collective agreements, KSPO defines and discusses matters regarding the safety Facilitation Leadership ● and health of our employees. It also established and observes the regulations on occupation Professional Leadership ● ● safety and health acts. In order to prevent industrial hazards and create a pleasant working Self Leadership ● ● environment, KSPO established the Occupational Health and Safety Committee in 2008. This Performance Improvement Training ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● body consists of 5 members from the labor, and another 5 member from the management Creative Planning Course ● ● ● sector. It conducts regular inspections on the safety of employees and their workplace. We Thinking Skill Development Course ● provide annual checkup for all employees through joint activities with the National Fitness Systematic Document Course ● ● Center (NFC). Sports prescriptions are issued based on scientific measurements of endurance, Common Problem-solving Course ● ● speed, power, and muscular strengths. There were two cases of industrial hazard (1 death, 1 Presentation Skill Course ● ● ● ● ● disease) during our report period. Thus, in order to enhance working environments and health of KSPO Biz Academy ● ● ● ● employees, we plan to strengthen workplace environment inspection, health management, and KARF Program(Selected) ● on/off-line education regarding safety and health. Furthermore, we plan to begin the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) from the second half of 2011. We will solve various difficulties such as KSPO Management Course ● ● ● ● ● Elite Talent (Selected) working stress and personal hardships through professional counseling, therapy, and education. KSPO Specialist Course ● ● ● ● ● On-line ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● U-Learning Prevention of workplace accidents Reading Communication ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● We perform annual fire drills in each business including Olympic Park, Misari Park, and Olympic Youth Hostel. Employees are trained on evacuation, first aid, and use of fire extinguishers. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 72 + 73 ● KSPO Basic Welfare Programs Regarding cycle racing/motorboat racing, we allocated 84 safety staffs for the safety and Category Content Description protection of our customers. We also conduct weekly education for customers on safe racing and prevention of accidents. Pre-birth/Post-birth/Maternal protection leave Prenatal diagnosis (1 per month) Birth Support Support grant for families with 3 children. Welfare Programs Birth/Child friendly culture through active birth support systems 3 days of paid vacation for fathers Birth, Child Care Checkup for uterine/breast cancer KSPO supports birth/child friendly culture to overcome the low birth rate issue of Korea. We No working overtime during pregnancy extended the maternity leave period, and even allowed male employees to take paternity leaves Childcare leave (2 years per child within 6 years after Childcare support as well. We implemented an alternative workforce system for absent employees in order to birth), day care center, family care leave strongly recommend the use of maternity leaves. With a 16.7% usage rate of maternity leaves in Mortgage loan Capital support for buying and renting houses 2010, it is showing a continuous increase. There were 3 male employees who requested paternity leaves as well. Through collective agreements, we guarantee the same job after the maternity Guarantee life Stabilization of life loan Capital support for the stabilization of employees' life leave or a job with the equivalent amount of wage. It is also required to consider the child Employee welfare fund Funding business for employee welfare rearing environment when dispatching employees to other departments. We also allow shortened Physical training center, medical checkups for members, working hours instead of maternity leaves. Moreover, our employees are given a paid vacation for Medical checkup collective insurance for accidents, sick leave, special checkup Health support for elders prenatal diagnosis. In case of child birth, we provide vacations as well as layette. Exclusive lounges are also available to pregnant employees for rest and breast-feeding. Air-purifiers and lactation Staff insurance Legal insurance and group accident insurance equipment are in the lounges as well. Since 2003, we are managing day care centers in the Leave of absence for self-development (non-paid), Support Self-development leave company to better support our employees. Self-development for self-development (graduate school) support Hobby clubs Mountain climbing, marathon, leisure sports, cycling, and ● Increase of maternity leave usage rates by female employees others Cultural support Scheduled work, Family Day, cultural performance, art 2008 2009 2010 gallery, and education programs 4.4% 10.3% 16.7% Employee & family Children's school expenses Full coverage for middle/high schools. support University: Interest-free loan Percentage of maternity leave: Maternity leave users / Entire female employees Family ceremonies Congratulatory or consolation bonuses, flowers, vacations ● Selective Welfare Programs Category Description Self-development Support expenses for reading, IT, language, qualification, and elective courses Work life balance through Stable life support through various welfare Expenses for outpatient treatment, glasses, hearing aids, Health care flexible working system programs and oriental medical clinics KSPO relieves the pressure of child care KSPO considers the satisfaction of Leisure/Hobby Expenses for membership resorts, sports/leisure facilities, equipment, courses Support hobby club activities through flexible working systems. Based employees as the key factor that improves on the work schedule set by individual the services for our external stakeholders. Cultural activities Performances and historical/cultural facilities enjoyed for free employees, they can adjust not only Accordingly, we manage various welfare Usage of daycare centers/elderly housing commuting hours but also working days Family-friendly Pre-school education fees for children programs for our employees. Basic welfare Anniversary/holiday presents as well. This relieves the pressure of child programs and selective welfare programs Family Day and field trip program with families (Olympic Park) care, and increases the efficiency of work. are equally available regardless of the Furthermore, we also established a day care contract type. center near our headquarters so that our Establishing corporate culture with challenges and harmony Revitalizing employees can work without any worries communication among KSPO believes that in order to establish a creative, passionate corporate culture, it is important about their children. We also appointed employees to support all employees to make the most of their abilities. Based on this belief, we launched a every Wednesday as a 'Family Day' which program designed to create ‘challenging’, ‘harmonious’ corporate culture. To strengthen the members’ does not allow working overtime, but rather challenging, community spirits, and promote improvement for both individuals and the organization, provides quality time with their families. we carried out a program for hiking along the ridges in Mt. Jiri, climbing Mt. Halla as 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 74 + 75 well as trekking in Jeju Olle Roads. To encourage harmony among members from the head office, Education on human rights and preventing sexual harassment rank and occupational group, the participants were divided into groups voluntarily with 150 members In 2010, education on sexual harassment and equality were held 3 times in total, and the programs in total. for the entire staff as well as online education with easier access were both conducted with 690 participants (attendance rate of 86%) altogether. Along with the education, the actual state is checked Operating KCP (KSPO Communication Plan) for active communication twice a year by following the self-inspection table for sexual harassment. In addition, we operate KSPO Communication Plan is an internal communication strategy designed to increase mutual booths for counseling, and hired exclusive counselors to find the solution to problems regarding understanding among the employees, and make efforts for the future of the organization. We are sexual harassment. When incidents related to sexual harassment occur, they will be handled by striving to develop a bond of sympathy between the members by holding a workshop where they deliberation committee and if victim wants the case to be sent to external agencies such as National can share ideas about vision and strategy, encouraging online communication via CEO messages Human Rights Commissions of Korea, it will be done so. There were no cases of offenses related to and SNS (Twitter), and visiting the department that deals with customers as well as listening to the sexual harassment in 2010. difficulties. In addition, we open Hof Day (Beer Day), hold luncheon meeting to have talks with the employees and encourage clubs within the company. Cooperative Current state of KSPO labor union industrial relations The KSPO labor union has established an exemplary union culture based on win-win cooperation Fair rewards KSPO performance management system and trust. The corporation has two major labor unions, which includes the organization labor union and performance Performance management is divided into two systems – group and individual performance. which consists of members from general, sales, research and technical departments, and general evaluation Evaluating performance involves financial and non-financial goals related to the overall labor union which has members from management, as well as general and daily contract jobs. The tasks and aim of the organization, while evaluating competence is carried out once a year organization labor union, which was established in 1989, has 4 branches and 343 members (70.3% regarding individual knowledge, skill, attitude, and behavior patterns. The performance is of 488 workers) while general labor union was established in 2006 and has 698 members (57.6% of examined by a management evaluation team consisting of experts from inside and outside 1501 workers). Through article 10 in the collective agreement (obligation to notify), KSPO derogated the company for transparent, fair assessment. The result of the performance evaluation is regulations for working conditions, and made immediate reports about hiring workers, promoting, linked to compensation, and system for personnel affairs. granting rewards/punishments compulsory. Also in KSPO, the opinions from the employees must be collected through briefing sessions when reorganization takes place. The organization must ensure Granting rewards based on ability and performance free union activities, and no penalties can be given to workers who take their time off to participate We compensate outstanding performers who made contribution to reaching higher level of in those activities. Under win-win cooperation, KSPO labor union has maintained peaceful business management performance and those who are ranked high in the performance evaluation, by offering atmosphere for 22 years since its foundation, and is still carrying on advanced industrial relationship. differentiated educational opportunities. Fifteen employees who made contribution to management performance will be given an opportunity to learn about innovation of management both at home Managing joint labor-management conference and abroad, and four of the employees who scored high in performance evaluation as well education To achieve better industrial relationship and advancement, the organization and both unions are and training evaluation will be able to attend local graduate schools without paying any tuition. exchanging opinions on pending issues and difficulties of the employees. In 2010, the joint laborAlso, for those who did well in the performance and ability test, we support them to make sure they management conference was held once every quarter (4 times in total), featuring 5 members from complete KHPI (KSPO High Potential Individual/Key Employees) leadership course and receive degree each union to discuss issues including introduction of the internal welfare fund, advancement in labor(MBA). The outstanding performers will have their current position replaced with higher one, while management relationship, staff training system. Also, working-level talks were held regularly to share poor performers will be dismissed regardless of their ranks in order to support talented employees. A ideas about important issues among labor and management such as personnel and compensation. specialized program to help poor performers develop their competence is being conducted. Aside from this, peace and win-win situations are promoted by united labor-management committee, workshops and creativity competitions. Fair treatment without discrimination Ensuring diversity among employees The recruiting process in KSPO is carried out fairly and transparently with the principle of social equity in mind. There are no restrictions on academic ability or age, and anyone with great capability can apply to this organization without being discriminated. The average salary of the new recruits in 2010 was 24 million won, which is 200% in comparison to minimum wages set by law. Also, KSPO follows the rules set by collective agreement and ethical standards within the organization, which means that human rights are respected, and no one will be discriminated due to their sex, academic ability, age, religion, birthplace or disability. Based on the collective agreement (article 33), the wage system values the work equally without sexual discrimination, and all employees are compensated and treated fairly based on their performance and ability through real salary system. There were no reports of unfair treatment during the reporting period. In 2010, we set the new retirement age (55 years old) for the temporary workers to ensure stable employment, and 99 people were switched to unlimited contract jobs. For work positions including salespeople, the residents near the business sites have the priority for hiring. KSPO respects restrictions on both child labor and forced labor. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 76+ 77 Business Partners ● KISS Certifications Classification 2007 2008 2009 2010 KSPO is always striving to achieve shared growth with numerous partners that have in/ tangible business relationships. KSPO and our affiliates are reliable assistants for the growth No. of tests for sports goods 276 313 373 393 of each other. Perceiving such symbiotic relationship, we are carrying out various programs No. of quality certifications 10 17 17 33 for fair and mutual trades. ● Vision Fair and rational business partner seeking shared growth ● Major Goal Strengthen support for partners in order to achieve shared growth, Sports Equipment Show for Small/Medium Companies maintain fair and transparent business trades, focus on the support for the In order to become a sports power, we must not only expand domestic markets, but also develop responsible business management of partners our sports industry into a global brand by entering foreign markets. However, marketing abilities of ● Organization Management Coordination Dept. is in charge of supporting fair trades with sports equipment manufacturers are extremely limited since most of them are small and medium our partners. Technological developments and financial support for small companies. KSPO discovered the possibility of the sports industry as the new growth engine of our and medium enterprises are managed by the Sports Industry Division. nation. Since 2001, we have hosted Seoul International Sports and Leisure Industry Show (SPOEX) Cycle Racing Operation Dept. and Motorboat Racing Management Dept. which is Korea's largest sports equipment show. SPOEX is Korea's largest sports industry exhibition are in charge of the cooperative relationships with cycle/motorboat racers. that discovers new sports equipment, and introduces them to the global society. It attracts powerful Sports Toto Dept. works for cooperative business activities with the stores. ● Performance buyers around the world, and shares technology/information. It is an international stage that enables and Goal domestic companies to acquire competitiveness by providing information about foreign industrial trends. 2010 SPOEX is the largest of all the previous shows. 309 exhibitors participated with 905 Classification Performance Evaluation 2008 2009 2010 booths installed in the exhibition. Thanks to the active participation of 72 buyer companies from 38 Rate of electronic bids 82.5% 91.7% 96.9% nations, domestic sports equipment companies enjoyed the opportunity to enter foreign markets. Fair trade expansion Purchase rate of small/ medium enterprise 84.2% 91.2% 97.1% Cycle/Motorboat Racer Support products We provide prize money to cycle/motorboat racers according to their racing records. In order to 224 exhibitors / 264 exhibitors / 309 exhibitors / 905 Partner support SPOEX Booth 756 booths 820 booths booths guarantee a stable life, we also provide various types of benefits and welfares. Annuity and accident insurance of the racers are paid by our foundation. We also designate a hospital for the health of our racers. We also respect all the family events and ceremonies of our athletes. We support them Partner Support Convenient access to contract information by allowing the racers to freely use our training equipment and facilities. Furthermore, we also hold Activities For the settlement of transparent business culture, KSPO expanded the subjects for electronic an annual Hanmaeum Sports Festival for active communication between KSPO and our racers. bids by lowering the standard to KRW 10 million or higher. This allows more bids than the We also operate a separate intranet site for cycle/motorboat racers so that we can process their standard required by the national contract law which is KRW 22 million. 97% of the entire civil complaints real-time. Furthermore, we also conduct surveys regarding racing management, purchase products were made through electronic bids in 2010. Purchases through electronic welfare, and equipment support in order to offer better conditions. We also carry out weekly training bid are gradually increasing from 2008 (91%) and 2009 (95%). Furthermore, the entire contract programs for safe and fair racing of our racers. We continuously hold various education programs progress is managed through computer systems. For the convenience of our partners, we also with professional trainers for the prevention of accidents, development of our racers, and fair/ post bidding notices, contract information, and contract conditions in our official website. transparent racing games. Financial support for the competitiveness of the sports industry Prevention of Cycle and Motorboat Racing Accidents Since 1991, KSPO has provided funding for the revitalization of the sports industrial market as Racers receive health checkups from doctors before each race to prevent racing accidents. KSPO well as the competitiveness of top sports companies. We provide loans with low interest rates (4%). also checks the equipment, and conducts safety educations. In cycle racing, each cycle is carefully Such loans are available to sports equipment manufacturers, facilities, and service providers. checked for assembly status and condition of parts. In motorboat racing, we train racers against falls, Until 2010, KRW 161.5 billion was offered to 588 companies. In 2010 alone, KRW 8.1 billion was subversion, and collision accidents. We also provide safety equipment such as safety suits, helmets, offered to 28 companies. Furthermore, we provide consulting services to small and medium and gloves to prevent injury of athletes. Moreover, we carry out anti-doping training to prevent the companies which lack network and information so that they can solve their difficulties. We also use of drugs. support the expenses to acquire domestic/foreign certifications (KRW 900 million in 2010). We will enhance the recognition and credibility of Korean sports goods through testing/quality certification (KISS Mark) of Korea Institute of Sports Science (KISS). In 2010, we newly gained certificates for 33 items including bicycles, golf clubs, and artificial turf. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 78+ 79 Fair Trade Small/Medium Enterprise Growth Support ● Satisfaction level of the funding business (2008~2010, Displayed in figures) For shared growth with small/medium-sized companies, we strive to abide by the policies recommended by the government. In 2010, the purchase rate of products of small/medium companies was 97.1% (KRW 105.5 billion). This is a 5.9% increase from 91.2% (KRW 67.9 billion) in 88.1 86.6 points 2009. We expect further increase to 98.1% in 2011. 85.1 points points ● Performance of 2010 Government-recommended Policy 2010 2009 Technology 2008 Classification Small/Medium Social Company Female Company Development Enterprise Product Government-recommended rate (Compared to total 50% or higher 3% or higher 5% or higher 10% or higher Cooperation with consigned offices & stores purchase) For active communication and exchanges with 6,687 stores around the country, we hold KSPO Performance 97.1% 0.4% 6.8% 8.7% discussions and workshops about our know-how. We also carry out on/off-line education Technology development product is the recommended proportion from the product purchase amount of small/ such as special lectures and Sports Toto presentation sessions. We provide customized medium companies. education programs for stores that are new, chain supervisors, and ordinance violators. Furthermore, we close our cafeteria once a month for the support of small businesses. During that Penalties such as special training and suspension of business are imposed upon stores that day, we visit nearby small markets, and purchase KRW 21 million worth of ingredients. Through such violated ethical standards. We provide active support such as facility improvement and performance, KSPO recorded 85.7 points in the evaluation of public institution support to small/ education overseas for stores with excellent performance. Furthermore, we continuously medium businesses conducted by the Ministry of Knowledge Education in 2010. This is a 51.4 point carry out education for the prevention of cheating to the major figure of Sports Toto increase from 34.3 points in 2009. We received a commendation from the minister with the highest management such as employees, sports club authorities, and athletes. We look forward to score out of all other quasi-governmental institutions regarding culture/social/life. achieving shared growth through joint promotions and visits to the hosting organizations. Support for Responsible Support for shared growth with partners Ethical Education for Partners Management To ensure counter integrity between KSPO and our affiliates, we send out the CEO Integrity Letter Understanding and cooperation of our partners are essential for the promotion of ethical of Business Partners 2 times a year that notes the areas of cooperation required from affiliates for fair performance management. Thus, KSPO conducts ethical education for not only our employees, but also and prevention of corruption. Through workshops and visits to our affiliates, we continually share for our partners. We maximized the educational effects by offering KRW 200 million for a common ground for cooperation and co-existence. When concluding contracts, we chose our renovation expenses to 50 Sports Toto stores which recorded the best ethical performances. affiliates after considering their financial soundness, corporate credibility, supply performance, human rights protection, and observation of labor laws. The integrity contract is made to prohibit bribery ● Education for Partners and unfair trade, compulsory for contracts over KRW 30 million (388 integrity contracts concluded in 2010). In case our affiliates violate the integrity contract, we carry out restrictive measures such as Cat. Title Major Contents disqualification of bidding rights and cancellation of bid/contract. In 2010, there were no records for Easy Ethical Management (2 times), CS Coaching Field Education (818 Provide customer-centered Employees any violation of integrity contracts by our affiliates. people in 20 branches) services Athletes Education for anti-cheating to cycle/motorboat racers (112 H) Transparent/Fair Game Cooperation with funding organizations We publish monthly newsletters to enhance the transparency of our funding business, and activate Consigned Ethical Education for the Game Host (1,863 people, 38 times) Establish ethical standards for Employee Ethical Education to Sports Toto Stores fair sales in Sports Toto business communication with other funding organizations. We also hold regular workshops and presentations (6,687 stores, 63 times) for major funding organizations such as fund execution organization and city/province autonomous Transparent management & communities. We formed a sports promotion consultative group with other funding organizations, Funding Org. Funding Organization Cooperation Workshop (4 times) calculation of funds and use it as our communication channel. For the right execution of funds, we monitor the funding Customer Ethical Purchase Education (812 people, 14 times), Prevent excessive betting. progress through the site assessment. We also provide feedback about improvement matters Prevention of Excessive Betting (9,708 people, 2 times) Know-how for healthy betting to the fund execution organization. Such effort allows a transparent and efficient execution of funds. Moreover, we established an on-line funding system in order to promptly provide detailed information to the beneficiaries. We carry out annual satisfaction surveys to understand the satisfaction level, and requirements of our affiliates regarding our overall funding business. 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 80+ 81 Key Performance Index of KSPO Sustainability Management Classification Detailed Evaluation Criteria 2008 2009 2010 Staff participation rate in love sharing fund 9.3 9.4 9.6 Propagation of social Fund accumulated for love sharing fund (Unit: KRW 1 million) 9.3 9.3 4.7 contribution culture Average volunteering hours of staffs 9.3 9.3 9.3 Continuous social contribution activities 11.2 5.6 8.4 Social Expansion of social By diagnosing our sustainability management standard and continuously monitoring contribution programs Contribution Sports-related social contributions 11.2 11.2 11.2 our activity results, KSPO has developed and operates KSPO Social Responsibility Index (KSRI), our internal sustainability management diagnosis tool, to promote the trust of our Improvement of social Social contribution activities index 10.4 10.5 11.5 contribution performance stakeholders. evaluation system Satisfaction level of beneficiaries of social contribution activities 9.5 9.8 10.8 KSRI is the focal task of KSPO for practicing social responsibility management, and consists Communication with Activation level of communication channel with local communities 5.6 8.4 8.4 the local communities of 25 indexes over 6 fields. The core fields of KSPO social responsibility management are 1) creation of customer value, 2) enhancement of staff value, 3) activation of social contribution, Total 78.5 73.5 73.9 4) expansion of corporate ethics, 5) reduction of influence on the environment, and 6) Result of KSPO integrity evaluation 11.0 11.2 10.8 creation of responsible leisure culture. KSRI results displayed a continuously rising trend over Propagation of ethical Education on ethical management 10.8 10.7 10.9 the past three years, and details of the examination are as follows: management awareness Activation of whistle-blowing system 9.9 9.9 9.9 Ethical Management Expansion of fair trade Increase rate of e-bidding 6.4 10.4 10.4 Soundness of governance BOD independence index 15.3 15.3 16.2 Compliance Legal conformity efforts in/out of company 22.8 26.4 35.2 Classification Detailed Evaluation Criteria 2008 2009 2010 Total 76.2 83.9 93.4 Protection of customer Establishment of the customers’ personal information protection 3.6 4.8 4.8 information system CO2 emissions points 12 11.5 11.5 Expansion of customer Adoption rate of customer proposals 19.2 14.4 19.2 participation Increase in resource efficiency Water usage points per person 11.2 9.9 9.9 Expansion of customer Customer satisfaction management Internal customer satisfaction level 23.3 23.4 22.8 Paper usage per person 10.8 10.8 10.8 Value culture Environment Purchase rate of eco-friendly products 4.5 4 6 Increase in visitors Cultural facility activation performance 21 21 21 Reduction of pollutant discharges Maturity of waste management system 3.0 3.0 3.0 Customer satisfaction level 7.6 7.8 7.4 Communication & monitoring Promotion of environmental Acquisition of international environment specification certificates 12.4 12.4 12.4 VOC processing time 9 9 9 management awareness Total 83.7 80.4 84.2 Total 53.9 51.6 53.6 Joy through leisure activities 7.7 8.6 8.5 Credit completion performance 8 8 8 Entertainment and pleasure Development of capacity Efforts to foster multi-culture spaces 6.9 11.5 11.5 Training investment cost per staff 3.2 6.4 8 Activation level of the prevention clinic 10.8 10.8 10.8 Benefit package satisfaction level 10.1 10.3 10.8 Management of social influence Work/life balance Responsible Supervision result on cheating 13.5 13.5 12.1 Maturity of family-friendly management 5.4 8.1 10.8 Leisure Culture Staff Maturity of soundness management system 6 10 10 Maturity of bias-prevention system 4.8 6.4 8 Propagation of responsible Protection of human rights leisure culture awareness Activation level of soundness education 6 8 10 Balanced personnel index 6.4 4.8 3.2 Employment-inducing effectiveness index 13.6 15 15 No. of safety accidents for athletes 2.5 2.5 2.5 Creation of value in the local Health/safety communities Sports activation index 12 12 12 No. of accidents for staffs 2.5 2.5 2 Communication Employee satisfaction index 28.2 28.9 29.3 Total 76.5 89.4 89.9 Total 71.1 77.9 82.6 Aggregated Total 74.3 78.3 81.5 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 82+ 83 Major Achievements GRI Content Index KSPO is planning to focus on improving in three fields (i.e., staff, social contribution, and environment) with lower scores among the six major fields of social responsibility management. We plan to introduce the employee assistance program (EAP) in 2011 to solve staff problems such as work stress and personal difficulties through professional counseling and treatment. We will also host the Imagination Contest to promote the organization’s challenging spirit and harmony, and implement childbirth promotion policies to make our staffs happy at both home and work. We will also increase code Description pages the opportunity for staffs to participate in new social contribution activities that can contribute to the 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 6-7 development of local communities, and further strengthen sports social contribution activities for the Strategy and Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 18-19. 25-27 alienated class. In addition, we will plan and promote a companywide green management strategy to minimize environmental pollution from our business, endeavor in voluntary energy-saving to reduce 2.1 Name of the organization. 10 CO2 emissions, and also lead in the propagation of the bicycle culture. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 14-16 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, ● External Awards 2.3 11 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 10 Classification Evaluation Result (Awards) Evaluating Organization Year Organizational Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with N/A (KSPO has only 2.5 Korea BSC Award Wesley Quest 2008 Profile either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered domestic operation) in the report. General Management Korea Knowledge Management Award Knowledge Management Academy 2009 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 10 Sustainability Management Award Ministry of Knowledge Economy 2009 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 14-16 Outstanding Award as an Early-fund Raising Organization Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2009 customers/beneficiaries). Economic Performance Outstanding Award as a Leading Organization for School Ministry of Education, Science and 2009 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 10 PE Normalization Technology Excellence Award from Korea Space Design Grand Award Customers Space Design Alliance of Korea 2009 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 10 (Misari Motorboat Racing Course) Industry Safe Management Award Open Management Research Institute 2008 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 84 Employees Citation from the Minister of Employment and Labor for Ministry of Employment and Labor 2010 Advancing Labor-Management Relations 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. C2 collaborNo.1 Public Institution in the SME Support Performance Ministry of Knowledge Economy 2010 ations Evaluation 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). C2 Ethical Corporate Ethics Award Korean Association of Business Ethics 2007 manage3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) C2 Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights ment Excellent Integrity Public Institution 2009 Social Commission 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. C2 perforSports Chosun Advertising Award Sports Chosun 2008 mence Report 3.5 Process for defining report content. 27 Social Sports Khan Advertising Award Sports Khan 2008 contriParameters Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint bution 1 Branch – 1 Village Award Love-Farm Headquarters 2008 3.6 C2 ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Most Excellent Korea Representative Brand Award (Social State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Korea Brand Association 2009 3.7 C2 Contribution Sector) (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). Most Excellent Industrial Safety Management Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, Hankyung Newspaper 2006~2008 (Cycle Racing) 3.8 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or 11 Responsive ISO 9001 for Cycle/Motorboat Racing DNV 2008 between organizations. Leisure Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and ISO 9001/14001 for Cycle/Motorboat Racing DNV / BSI Korea 2009 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other 60-67, 82-83 Environinformation in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge ISO 9001/14001 for Olympic Park International Certification Registrar 2008 from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. ment EnvironCitation from the Mayor of Daejeon Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, PerfoDaejeon Metropolitan City 2009 3.10 No re-statements ment (for Active use of bicycles) and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ mence periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 84+ 85 code Description pages code Description pages Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement No signiEC04 Significant financial assistance received from government. N/A 3.11 methods applied in the report. ficant charges Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 84-88 EC06 N/A significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 90-91 EC07 N/A at significant locations of operation. Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public 38-41, 42-47 4.1 12-13 EC08 60-67 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. EN01 Materials used by weight or volume. 83 4.2 12-13 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the EN02 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. N/A 4.3 12-13 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the EN03 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 53 4.4 12-13 highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, EN04 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 52-53 4.5 12-13 and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. EN05 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 51-52 4.6 12-13 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and 4.7 12-13 EN06 49-50 Governance, governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Commitments, Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 4.8 25, 89 EN08 Total water withdrawal by source. 52 and economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Engagement Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and 4.9 12-13 EN09 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. No sources management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 52 4.10 12-13 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 4.11 26 EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas. 48-50 organization. Environmental Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected 4.12 89 EN12 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 48-50 to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 53 4.13 89 organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 53 4.14 28-29 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 51-52 4.15 28-29 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A 4.16 28-29 stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. N/A 4.17 27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. EC Economic 60-67 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 52 EN Environmental 48-53 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 52 Disclosure on LA Labor Practices and Decent Work 70-77 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. N/A Management Approach Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, HR Human Right 70-77 EN26 and extent of impact mitigation. 48-50 34-37, 38-41, SO Society EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A 42-47 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonPR Product Responsibility 34-37, 54-59 EN28 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 51 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee LA01 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 71 EC01 60-67 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to Disclosure on capital providers and governments. Management Economic LA02 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 71 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to Approach LA EC02 48-53 climate change. LA04 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 77 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC03 72-74 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 86+ 87 code Description pages Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is LA05 specified in collective agreements. 77 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related UN Global Compact LA07 70, 73-74 fatalities by region. Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA10 54-59, 73-76 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to LA13 70-73 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. UN Global Compact is an international agreement advocated by the United LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 12-13, 71 Nations. It aims at addressing problems related to human rights, labour, HR01 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights 75-77 environment and anti-corruption. KSPO joined the UN Global Compact in clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. July 2007 and declared its support for the ten principles of the Compact. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human HR02 78-80 rights and actions taken. Going forward, we will carry out the principles by internalizing them in our Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Disclosure on HR04 78-80 management strategies. Management Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Approach HR HR05 77 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. The TEN PRINCIPLES Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR06 77 contribute to the elimination of child labor. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Human Rights HR07 77 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of SO01 impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. 38-41, 54-59 internationally proclaimed human rights; and SO02 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 33 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SO03 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 33 Disclosure on Management Labour Standards Approach SO SO04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 32-33 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and SO05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 42-47 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonPrinciple 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; SO08 compliance with laws and regulations. 32-33 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR01 36-37 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of Disclosure on Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant employment and occupation PR03 56-57 Management products and services subject to such information requirements. Approach PR Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR06 36-37 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Environment Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR09 32-33 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to provision and use of products and services. environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. . 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 88 + 89 Third Party’s Assurance Report ▒ Verification process and conclusion In order to form our conclusion, KMAR undertook the steps outlined below to assess KSPO’s internal processes for reviewing the sustainability reporting practices. Dear Readers of KSPO 2010 Sustainability Report Surveyed KSPO’s sustainability related media information during the reporting period ▒ Foreword Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data Assessed internal documents and materials The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) had been Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances engaged by KSPO to verify the contents of its 2010 Sustainability Report (the Report). KSPO is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within the Report. Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, related department visits and Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information in the interviews, we held several discussions with KSPO on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the verification scope stipulated below. Report’s final version in order to confirm whether our recommendations for improvement and revisions have been reflected. ▒ Our independence ● Economic performance With the exception of providing third party verification services, KMAR is not involved in any other We compared the Report with KSPO’s 2010 Financial Statements and found that the financial data KSPO business operations that are aimed at making profits in order to avoid any conflicts of interest presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2010 Financial Statements. and to maintain independence. ● Environmental and social performance ● Verification of the economic section We observed that the information contained in the environmental and social sections has been KSPO described its efforts and achievements of its sustainability activities in the Report. The verification process appropriately presented. We did not discover any significant errors. was designed to provide readers with the following information; ▒ Recommendation for improvement ● Verification of environmental and social section We hope KSPO’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with Review whether financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from KSPO’s 2010 stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. Financial Statements Audit Reports and Annual Reports as defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors To secure comparability and accuracy of sustainability performance information, which are the ● Verification of environmental and social section report quality assurance principles, it is needed to supplement the internal report guideline of the Review whether environmental and social information included in the Report is presented organization, and during this procedure, sufficient communication with people in charge of internal appropriately. performance is required. Considering that the Report contains large amount of information regarding management type ‘”Appropriately Presented” means that the actual data and the original information are appropriately and process of KSPO, quantitative information indicating the achievement and effect of KSPO’s reflected in the contents of the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic sector, we management effort is somewhat insufficient. In future performance report, an effort is required to based our evidence gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than the limited verification in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. resolve this imbalance. . ▒ Verification standards September 2011 KMAR performed the review based on our own verification. We also used the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments In CEO Ki Ho Park 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 90+ 91 2010 KSPO Sustainability Report 92
