UN Global Compact Communication on Progress DAFA A/S 2011/2012 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, implementing a DAFA Supplier Code of Conduct In the spring of 2010 DAFA A/S decided to join UN in addition to engaging our self in more local Global Compact, the world’s most extensive initiaactivities. Of the latter several different initiative for corporate social responsibility. tives is worth mentioning: e.g. development of our DAFA Airstop SystemTM that reduces energy DAFA A/S has a history of more than 70 years as consumption is households, engagement in a an independent, privately owned Danish company. local business network of social responsibility – We develop, manufactures and supplies a wide from business to business, employment of young range of products and total solutions that seal, people that need a new chance to change old patabsorb and protect in construction and industry. terns and not to forget that we have cancelled all Our roots are firmly planted in the Danish soil but Christmas presents to our customers and replaced we do have a vision of becoming a company with these with a Christmas card informing them of a global presence. financial contribution of 50.000 DKK to the Danish Cancer Society. Both profit, planet and people matters to DAFA. Based upon our history we regard our way of We still believe, however, that doing the right doing business as a sustainable success with a things is a process of continuous improvements sound balance between economic, ecological and and that the impacts from OUR improvements social performance. is OUR responsibility. By analyzing our risks we can focus, prevent and make the best use of our As a voluntary, multi-stakeholder initiative, the UN resources. Global Compact brings together all relevant actors – government, business, labour and civil society We are very conscious of our limited size and – to advance universal principles in the areas of impact DAFAs actions will have in the bigger pichuman rights, labour standards, the environment ture. Just as we know that we cannot solve all the and anti-corruption. problems all the time. As we expect to develop our company into further But by using UN Global Compact as a lever we will more globalized business operations it is natural extend our sustainable business ethics while strivfor us to include our ethic standards in a global ing for our vision of becoming a global company. perspective. In the UN Global Compact we are givAnd we look forward in the years to come to coming a frame that enables us to do so in a formalmunicate our progress. ized manner and demonstrate our continuing commitment to advancing the ten principles of the Best regards, Global Compact in both our policies and business operations. This is our second UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. We have, in this Year Jacob Norby 1, decided to have our focus on developing and Managing Director, DAFA A/S DAFA A/S • Holmstrupgaardvej 12 • DK-8220 Brabrand • Tel. +45 87 47 66 66 • E-mail dafa@dafa.dk • www.dafa.dk March 2012
