Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsibility leads to success How we combine economic, ecological, and social action Contents Success and responsibility go hand in hand........................ 2 Success stories 2011 Perpetual ice?..................................................................... 6 It’s the mixture that does it .............................................. 10 The tree of the Berbers . .................................................. 14 Pictures of the future........................................................ 18 Taking a fresh look at chemistry ...................................... 22 CR Strategy Our CR Strategy............................................................... 29 Values and management systems . ................................... 42 CR Performance Corporate governance and compliance............................ 51 The business..................................................................... 52 Employees........................................................................ 63 The environment.............................................................. 77 Safety................................................................................ 91 Society.............................................................................. 94 Annex Profile............................................................................ 101 Largest sites................................................................... 103 Market positions 2011.................................................. 104 Major shareholdings ..................................................... 106 Awards and accolades 2011.......................................... 107 Membership of networks and initiatives ...................... 108 About this report........................................................... 109 GRI statement ............................................................... 111 GRI index . .................................................................... 112 Independent Assurance Report..................................... 114 Credits........................................................................... 116 Our cover shows an argan tree. STOCKOSORB by Evonik helps new argan trees to grow in the Moroccan desert. Dr. Klaus Engel, Thomas Wessel, Chairman of the Executive Board Chief Human Resources Officer Dear Readers, 2011 was the best fiscal year for Evonik Industries since the Group was formed. An operating result (EBITDA) of €2.8 billion from sales of €14.5 billion is proof of our economic strength. But success and responsibility are two sides of the same coin. The major challenges of a growing world population and climate change can be met only with new technologies, smart products, and modern processes. As one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies, Evonik is a development partner of and supplier to many key industries. We are aligning our business to long-term global megatrends and aim to offer solutions that will solve the pressing problems of our time. Consequently, we believe that increased benefits for our customers, improvements in quality of life, and social added value are the foundations for economic success. Each year, in our Corporate Responsibility Report, we explain how we maintain this—not always simple—balance between economic, ecological, and social responsibility. As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we undertake to promote the ten principles of the Global Compact and see them as a guiding principle in our everyday work. Against this background, it is especially our employees who, with their attitude and commitment, contribute enormously to the fact that Evonik is not only successful but also acts responsibly. Dr. Klaus Engel Thomas Wessel Chairman of the Executive Board Chief Human Resources Officer ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 1 “Success and responsibility go hand in hand” An interview with Dr. Klaus Engel, Chairman of the Executive Board, and Chief Human Resources Officer Thomas Wessel It’s all a question of attitude. For Evonik, responsibility isn’t just a buzzword; it’s a question of attitude. Like a common theme, it permeates every area in the Group. This can be seen not only in Evonik’s understanding of growth. In the last fiscal year, Evonik generated sales Wessel: For Evonik, responsibility isn’t just a of €14.5 billion and an operating result buzzword. Rather, accepting responsibility is a (EBITDA) of €2.8 billion. That makes 2011 question of attitude, of one’s own mindset. the best financial year since the Group was Transferred to our Group, this means: responformed. What part did responsible conduct sibility must permeate every area of the Group. play in this success? It determines how we act. Ultimately, it’s our employees who make the difference with their Engel: Responsible conduct and financial everyday actions. This is why we encourage success cannot be separated from each other. this mindset among our trainees and apprenThey need each other. At Evonik we think tices when they join the Group. Raising awarelong-term―not only since the last financial ness for Corporate Responsibility issues is a crisis, which demonstrated impressively where fixed part of the training in Germany―also on focusing solely on short-term profits gets you. a very practical level. Just consider our understanding of growth, for example: As one of the world’s leading speIn spite of record figures, the Group contincialty chemicals companies, of course Evonik ues to promote efficiency to underline the wants to grow. But for us, growth as such is Group’s planned growth. But, surely this has not a value. It’s the way in which this growth to affect the employees? is achieved that is important. We aim to grow in three ways: profitably, value-oriented, and sustainably. “For us, growth as such is not a value. It’s the way in which this growth is achieved that is important. We aim to grow in three ways: profitably, valueoriented, and sustainably.” Dr. Klaus Engel, Chairman of the Executive Board 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Wessel: Broad-based acceptance by our And on the other hand, the conceptual strucemployees is an important requirement for the ture of our research allows us to develop new success of the On Track 2.0 efficiency program. solutions quickly and specifically. I’m thinking We’re designing On Track 2.0 in close collabohere of our strategic research unit Creavis and ration with the employee representatives in our project houses that carry out research in the company. Efficiency, competitiveness, and specific areas for a fixed time. Just recently, we profitable growth on the one hand, and good opened a new project house in Taiwan. In this prospects for jobs and employees on the other, booming region for consumer electronics, we are two sides of the same coin. want to make use of new opportunities for optoelectronic applications. Engel: Our goal is to improve the structures and workflows in the company noticeably. On Track 2.0 is closely linked with our Group program Evonik 2016, in which we focus on efficiency, growth, and values. The idea is: The “Efficiency, competitiveness, more efficient and powerful we are as a Group, and profitable growth on the sooner we can develop and market solutions that will help to improve the quality of the one hand, and good life of many people in the long term. And our prospects for jobs and shareholders also profit from this. employees on the other, are two sides of the same As regards the future: Where does Evonik see economic perspectives? coin.” Thomas Wessel, Engel: Evonik is focusing its activities on the Chief Human Resources Officer important global megatrends of health, nutrition, resource efficiency, and globalization. For example, our pill coatings help optimize drug There are already more than 7 billion people administration for patients. Thanks to our on the planet. According to United Nations’ amino acids for animal nutrition, more people estimates, this figure will have risen to about have access to a healthy diet. Special additives 8 billion by 2025. They all have to live from used in resin systems allow the construction the resources of just one planet. of large wind turbines. I could go on and on. But the important thing is: Evonik sees itself as Engel: In view of this development, the econa specialty chemicals company that develops omy, politicians and society will face enormous and markets solutions for the pressing probchallenges. Managing climate change and its lems and major challenges of our time. The consequences is of key importance. On the one more comprehensively we fulfill this role, the hand, global warming threatens the livelihood more people can benefit from our knowledge. of so many people. On the other hand, a whole Evonik is already a preferred development range of other pressing problems are closely partner and solution provider. We aim to linked to climate change. I’m talking about expand this position. This is why we are movaccess to clean drinking water, for example. ing closer to our markets and our customers throughout the world―not only in terms of Wessel: This is an assessment that our employproduction but also development. ees and customers also share. Our strategies are based on findings from the materiality Wessel: Research and development (R&D) analysis with which we evaluate the relevance play a key role at Evonik. On the one hand, we of global challenges for Evonik, and also on increased our spending on R&D again in 2011. numerous discussions and surveys. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 3 “Resource efficiency must increase if a growing world population is to live from the resources of a single planet.” Thomas Wessel, Chief Human Resources Officer What specific contribution does Evonik Engel: Our products also contribute to climate make to contain climate change and its protection. We’ve also calculated that. But you consequences? can’t simply subtract the savings from the emissions―that would be disingenuous. But Engel: As an industrial company, we consume the message remains: With the Group’s innoraw materials and cause emissions. In principle, vative products and solutions, Evonik is makthis will remain so. But at the same time, our ing an important contribution towards climate solutions form the backbone of many products protection. that conserve resources and protect the environment. But of course, we must keep our emisWessel: It must also be said that ecological sions as low as possible. sustainability means more than just climate protection. For example, consider our Wessel: Back in 2005, we set ourselves ambinew AVENEER process to produce MMA, tious emission targets in our key business of the starting substance for PLEXIGLAS specialty chemicals. By 2014, we aim to reduce (ACRYLITE in the Americas). The process no our specific, energy-related greenhouse gas longer uses sulfuric acid. This is a major step emissions by 20 percent compared to 2004. towards resource efficiency, which must We’re well on the way to meeting this target. increase if a growing global population is to Naturally, our vision must also extend beyond live from the resources of a single planet. 2014. This is one reason why we’re currently further developing Evonik’s Corporate Responsibility strategy. Last year, for the first time we determined the carbon footprint of our specialty chemicals. In strategic research, we established a method which we use to investigate the greenhouse gas effects of specific innovation projects at a very early stage. In other words, we’re leveraging various areas so that we’ll emit fewer greenhouse gases in future. 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Success stories 2011 AVENEER Less CO2 from direct process emissions is only one of the 6 advantages of our new MMA production process. Multinational teams We take advantage of diversity in the Group to enhance the 10 future prospects of employees and the company. Argan tree project in Morocco STOCKOSORB helps new argan trees to grow in the 14 Moroccan desert—trees and opportunities. Corporate Foresight Team We project a picture of the future and think about how to 18 make megacities livable. Sponsoring education For the patents of tomorrow, we invest in educational oppor22 tunities today. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 5 This penguin 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries strengthens our technological position. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 7 Perpetual ice? When it comes to the climate, the earth is in bad shape. This century, global temperatures could climb by four to six degrees. This sounds negligible, but it will have an enormous impact on the melting of the polar ice caps. Reducing CO2 emissions, therefore, is imperative—even if only in small steps. One such step is a new production process from ­Evonik that also makes the Group a technology leader. The pilot of the small Twin Otter plane with the philosophy of small steps—to develop descends, and drops the nose of the aircraft, sustainable climate protection projects such as which is equipped with integrated snow run­Evonik’s innovative AVENEER process. Among ners, to land on the glacier on the Antarctic its advantages, it dispenses with the sulfuric continent. The roar of the engine seems to acid that is normally used in the production of make little impression on the small penguin. methylmethacrylate (MMA). It also signifiIt pauses on the ice, motionless, as if it knows cantly reduces CO2 emissions through direct there is no danger. process emissions. In addition, AVENEER more or less eliminates the SO2 emissions that occur with established processes. As Gregor Technically feasible Hetzke, head of ­Evonik’s Performance Polymers In reality, the danger lies elsewhere: in increasBusiness Unit, explains, “Over the last few ing global warming, which contributes to the years, we’ve worked feverishly on proving melting of the polar ice caps and thus threatthat the new process is technically feasible, ens the penguin’s habitat. The main culprit is and that it saves costs and conserves resources the greenhouse gas CO2, which is generated as anticipated.” by such sources as industrial production pro­Evonik’s commitment to the development cesses. Significant reduction of CO2 emissions of the process is not surprising. After all, the and more efficient use of resources are among production of methylmethacrylate, which is the biggest challenges we face in the next few used as a starting material in the production of years. PLEXIGLAS, for example, is highly resourceA new study by the US Department of intensive. Here, too, AVENEER is superior. Energy shows just how great these challenges Compared to other MMA production processes, are. The study reveals that in 2010, such factors Methylmethacrylate as the improved world economy caused the (MMA) is the largest increase in CO2 emissions ever recorded. starting product for Worldwide CO2 emissions increased by 500 the production of PLEXIGLAS. million metric tons, or 6 percent, with the greatest increases in the emerging markets. It is all the more important, then—in keeping 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex it offers significant advantages in terms of rawBenefit to society material efficiency. The pilot plant in Worms The AVENEER process promotes (Germany) has confirmed an overall yield of the globalization and resource 95 percent in the use of raw materials, while efficiency megatrends. It protects the traditional ACH sulfo process produces the environment through a sigyields of 85–90 percent. In fact, the C4 process, nificant reduction of direct prowhich is widely used in Asia, utilizes only about cess emissions and uses raw 60–70 percent of the raw materials. materials efficiently. Use of This is not the only advantage of AVENEER: renewable raw materials in the While established processes produce large ­ vonik is one of the major producers of acrylic E process is also currently under waste streams that have to be disposed of worldwide. development. through costly incineration, the ­Evonik process leads the field with its nearly complete closed loop and recycling of raw materials such as the new process improves the carbon balance By conserving resources, ­Evonik ammonia. by about 15 percent. The CO2 footprint of variachieves significant cost savings ous MMA processes is determined from the and increases its ability to comFirst AVENEER plant in the consumption data of the raw materials used, pete by ensuring security of supthe most important energies, such as steam and ply for its customers. ­Evonik also planning stage electricity, as well as the masses and energy comes closer to achieving its goal All these facts and figures have proven their balances that can be prepared from them. of cost and technology leadervalidity year after year in the pilot plant in Environmental protection is not the only ship, and improves the ecoWorms, which was built in 2007. There, we area in which the process represents a quantum friendliness of its manufacturing meet the head of the Acrylic Monomers Busileap forward: It also opens up new opportuniprocesses. ness Line, Hans-Peter Hauck, who also thinks ties and gives ­Evonik enormous flexibility in Benefit to ­Evonik highly of the AVENEER process—and for a its choice of locations for future production special reason. “It’s an excellent illustration of facilities. Add to this the fact that MMA and the fact that economics and ecology don’t methacrylic acid are produced in a single unit, have to be mutually exclusive. With this innowhich allows the company to consolidate its vation, we can ensure security of supply—not position as one of the world’s leading techonly long-term but permanently—for our nological players in methacrylate chemistry. VISIOMER methacrylate monomers, which ­Evonik is currently planning construction of are used in the coatings and plastics industry, the first plant based on the new AVENEER and also as raw materials for cosmetics and technology. contact lenses.” This is particularly important AVENEER shows that financial targets in light of the increasing scarcity of fossil and sustainability are equally achievable. Never­ resources, but AVENEER can do even better theless, it still takes countless and far-reaching than that: In the future, the process will allow ideas and actions to come to grips with climate renewable resources to be used as starting change and the melting of the polar ice caps. products, an area in which a lot of work is Which is why, over the long term, the airplane currently being done. may remain the least of the Antarctic penguin’s Taken together, the considerably higher problems. yield and significantly lower emissions mean that plants using AVENEER will see clear improvement in their carbon footprint compared to established processes such as C4 and ACH sulfo. Compared with Asia’s C4 process, ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 9 This diversity 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries supports our growth. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 11 It’s the mixture that does it Every person is different. From birth. And by what marks us thereafter—our cultural and social environment and our experience. All that makes each one of us completely unique, and humanity as a whole all the more varied. That is good, because only different ways of looking at things open up new paths, expand our horizons, and lead to new solutions. As they do at E ­ vonik. Where we have long since recognized and treated the diversity of our workforce as a valuable asset. Options for external growth through diversity (from left to right): Dr. Björn Brunnhöfer, Artur Leng, Vinod Paremal and Dr. Frank Steding. The development of a growth strategy for Asia diversity of our workforce, and to use it puris on the agenda in the Corporate Development posefully for our benefit is a stated goal at conference room at the ­Evonik Corporate ­Evonik.” To develop all individuals to the maxiCenter. The focus is on the attractiveness of mum of their potential, and to strengthen the specialty chemicals market in the region, competitiveness and respond to developments and how E ­ vonik can benefit from the potential such as demographic change. And because we of the Asian market. Johann-Caspar Gammelin, have long since learned that diverse teams are head of Corporate Development, has assemsignificantly more efficient. Diversity does not bled a hand-picked team for this discussion. only mean equal and performance-oriented Clare Torralba, for instance, was born in the consideration of men and women wherever Philippines, and brings not only her training possible. It also includes different life/work in business and chemical engineering to the experience and functional backgrounds, differtable, but also her experience gained as Vice ent ages and different nationalities—the entire President Sales Asia South. As a chemical range of diversity. engineer and now head of the Comfort & Insulation Business Line in the Consumer Specialties Business Unit, Tammo Boinowitz A broader perspective possesses comprehensive technical knowledge The “Asia Round” that is meeting just now and extensive business experience. Economist demonstrates the value of this diversity. Clare Daniel Brünink brings an outside perspective Torralba is familiar with specific Asian habits to bear from his earlier work at a consulting of thought, knows the buying habits and preffirm. With their different biographical backerences of the people and the related demands grounds, perspectives and competencies, they on products. Tammo Boinowitz tests possible can now help project the clearest possible opportunities to see if they are implementable picture for specialty chemicals in Asia and the and feasible; from his macro-economic viewopportunities for ­Evonik. point, Daniel Brünink broadens the perspective For Walter Weimer, head of Executives & to include possible new or different approaches. Talent Development, this scenario is not an The key point for division head Gammelin: accident but an integral part of our corporate “Different skills, talents and experiences help culture: “To recognize and acknowledge the broaden the base for our strategic decisions.” 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex To use diversity in this way, and to benefit Here, too, diversity in terms of culture, age, Benefit to society from it, we must also promote it consistently. function, and experience is needed. Chemical By valuing diversity and consciously ­Evonik does this by purposefully directing engineer Dr. Frank Steding, for example, has acknowledging differences in oridiversity through three levers. Talent Manheld various positions in the operating areas gin, gender, age, function, and agement, Recruiting and other departments and in Controlling and has also spent several experience, ­Evonik creates the can access key indicators for gender and age, years in the USA. Vinod Paremal grew up in conditions that are needed for its and also for current and medium-term needs. Dubai, holds an MBA degree from a French employees to develop their talents The creation of an attractive employer brand, business school, and got to know ­Evonik to the fullest. This contributes to recruitment and job filling vacancies are manthrough a talent development program. Artur their personal and professional aged through transparent processes and a Leng started his career at E ­ vonik in the USA growth and opens up new and difcorresponding set of policies and guidelines. and possesses comprehensive experience ferent career opportunities. These are supplemented by development proin company valuations. Chemist Dr. Björn grams, training events and workshops, as well Brunnhöfer previously worked on a number of projects at a business consulting firm. Now The purposeful promotion and use they are contributing their know­ledge to the of individual abilities strengthens structured development of external growth motivation and commitment to topics, and will also benefit from this time performance throughout the when they move on to other areas later. Then, company. In this way, ­Evonik can they will, indeed, possess far-reaching experifully utilize the available creative ence and background know­ledge for strategy potential—for the development development. of innovative products and solu­Evonik promotes diversity not only in its tions, and of effective strategies strategic planning offices but everywhere for the regions. A better underClare Torralba, Corporate Development. throughout the Group. Diversity, moreover, standing of the culture also is not just limited to our workforce but also enhances local business opportuas by networking, for instance for women. includes customers, suppliers, shareholders, nities. “The support for women in specialized and and other stakeholders. Because globalization Benefit to ­Evonik management positions, for instance through changes markets, demands and expectations, the ‘Women@Work’ seminars, which were because values are changing, and because the started this year, is only one point along the company can only succeed by adjusting to diversity spectrum, but it is an important one,” change and by anticipating future developments. notes Andrea Napalowski from the Executives ­Evonik meets these conditions a thousandfold: & Talent Development Division. But compatithrough its employees, who, in their diversity, bility of career and family is just as important, can make the difference. Because one thing as is a different mindset for senior executives. is certain: It’s the mixture that does it! EveryAs the benefits of diversity are discussed and where and always. concrete measures are developed in Mindset Workshops, flexible working conditions and new forms of working contribute to a better work-life balance. Diversity has also been included as an element of the goal agreements for executives. Corporate Development is now turning its attention to options for external growth, in other words, possible acquisitions, for the continued successful development of Evonik. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 13 This tree 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries may open up new markets. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 15 The tree of the Berbers For the Berbers in Morocco, the argan tree is a source of firewood, animal feed, and valuable oil. But the number of these trees has declined considerably. This is where STOCKOSORB, a granulate product for the soil from ­Evonik, can help with reforestation. The dusty road stretches mile after mile across the landscape. Here in southwestern Morocco, the sun can regularly push temperatures above 40°C in the summer. Goats search for food amidst the rocks and boulders. They find precious little, as grass and bushes are sparse in this wasteland. Indeed, this would be all the livestock would have were it not for the young leaves and shoots of the argan tree. Side by side, the animals crouch in the crowns of the These goats venture high into the tops of argania spinosa trees, which reach more than 10 meters into to find the tree’s shoots. the sky. Some of the trees are said to be 400 years old. fatty acids. The Berbers have traditionally used Heat, nutrient-poor soil, and water shortthis oil for cooking—and for beauty care. What ages have little effect on argania spinosa, as is more, Berber women have established numerthe tree is called in Latin. The plant will even ous cooperatives over the years for producing thrive in otherwise barren landscapes. Thanks and marketing argan oil. The tree is thus a key to its long roots, the trees can reach water deep element in the proper functioning of the local below ground. Under particularly adverse economy. Even the press cake left over from conditions, they simply stop growing and drop oil production can be fed to the livestock. their leaves. The argan tree is also crucially important That is how the argan tree ensures its own ecologically: it tolerates high temperatures, survival—and that of the Berbers, whom it prevents soil erosion, needs little water, and supplies with valuable raw materials. For this thrives under extreme climatic conditions. reason, the Berbers refer to it as the “tree of Nevertheless, the area covered by these trees life.” Its hard wood provides fuel and construchas shrunken dramatically over the past cention materials. The shoots and young leaves tury for a variety of reasons, including clearing, feed the goats raised by many of the local overgrazing, and modern farming methods. inhabitants. And finally, the seeds of the argan Efforts are now underway to preserve the existfruit supply a valuable oil rich in unsaturated ing stands. In 1998, UNESCO designated the 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex when the ­Evonik product was used, the surBenefit to society vival rates rose by 40 to 150 percent. The Argan trees secure a living for the young trees did best with a combination of Berbers of southwest Morocco STOCKOSORB and irrigation. and prevent desertification. If For this, the European Chemical Industry reforestation is successful, people Council has honored ­Evonik with its Sustainand the environment will benefit ability Award in the “Large Companies” cateequally. gory. “These results are very encouraging,” says Harrouni. Nevertheless, the scientists are still just starting out: “Whether the saplings The Group is increasing its know­ The seeds of the tree supply a high-quality oil. survive long-term will become apparent only ledge of the properties and after three, four or even five years.” potential fields of application of remaining forest a Biosphere Reserve. ReforesBut from ­Evonik’s standpoint, the experiSTOCKOSORB soil granulate. tation is turning out to be excruciatingly difficult, ment has already paid off. “Reforestation pro­ At some point, these efforts though. “So far, no approach has worked,” jects with native plants may become increascould result in new business says Cherif Harrouni, professor at the Institut ingly important worldwide over the next few opportunities. Agronomique et Veterinaire Hassan II in Agadir, years. It is important to know as much as posBenefit to ­Evonik where the focus of his work is preserving the sible about potential areas of application for remaining stands of argan trees. “Primarily STOCKOSORB,” stresses Dr. Annette zur because argan seedlings are extremely sensiMühlen, ­Evonik’s specialist in agricultural uses tive to drought.” of STOCKOSORB. This is where STOCKOSORB from ­Evonik And who knows? Before long, small, enters the scene. The soil granulate, a “super­ young plants might be growing right next to absorbent,” can absorb and store many times giant, centuries-old argan trees in southwest its own weight in water, which makes it ideally Morocco. In any case, Harrouni and ­Evonik are suited to improving the water storage ability of continuing their research. New tests, including poor soil. If the soil dries out, STOCKOSORB the use of STOCKOSORB to fight soil erogradually releases the water and prevents the sion, are currently in preparation. plants from suffering drought stress. Farmers, landscape conservationists, and forest owners worldwide are exploiting its benefits to grow vegetables, ornamentals, and trees. Harrouni and his team planted over a thousand argan saplings at four different locations in the area around Agadir in early 2010. Prior to planting, the soil was mixed with prehydrated STOCKOSORB. The saplings were then divided into two groups: one was irrigated with 30 liters of water a month, while the other was not irrigated at all. Control groups Cherif Harrouni of the University of Agadir is working on a reforestation program for argania spinosa. without STOCKOSORB were also planted for both categories. The scientists found that the saplings planted in the soil treated with STOCKOSORB have a significantly higher survival rate than that of the control group. Depending on the location, ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 17 These children 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries keep five employees busy. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 19 Pictures of the future We can’t predict the future. But we can think about it, try to evaluate developments and anticipate trends so we can draw a picture of the future, sketch solutions to challenges, and try to identify attractive new growth markets. ­Evonik’s Corporate Foresight Team shows how to do this. A live illustrator at a meeting? Someone who in business management to the team. Political draws everything that happens? Many people scientist Ines Lietzke has experience in forefind this pretty unusual. For ­Evonik’s Corposight activities. And as the youngest member rate Foresight Team, which works out of the of the team, Dr. Rafael Gentsch, not only concompany’s strategic research unit Creavis tributes a fresh perspective but increases the Technologies & Innovation in Marl (Germany, international flavor of the team, as he holds it’s quite reasonable—as are the Future Wheel, both Spanish and Swiss passports. Brainwriting, and other creative methods. But the Foresight Team doesn’t fit a template, either in terms of its objectives, tasks and working methods, or in its composition. Ultimately, as its name suggests, its objective is to look forward and describe potential future scenarios. Sustainable scenarios, of course. This demands a change in perspective: different approaches, changing points of view, and new ideas. Dr. Bernhard Schleich took all these points into account when putting together his Foresight Team. “I wanted to find team Looking together into the future (from left to right): Dr. Nobert Kern, Dr. Rafael Gentsch, Dr. Bernhard members who fit the interdisciplinary characSchleich and Regine Trippe. ter of the task,” says Schleich, a physicist, who has been appointed to head the team, partly due to his experience in establishing Creavis. The members of the team, which began its Focus on megacities work in 2011, actually complement each other This is the kind of diversity that gives contours exceptionally well. They include, for example, to the team’s vision of the future, and directs Dr. Nobert Kern, a chemist, who has worked for its focus to topics such as “megacities.” Indeed, ­Evonik for many years and conducted research urbanization is a global megatrend and mega­ for Creavis. Regine Trippe brings her expertise cities are becoming hot spots of economic 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex mayor, another the representative of the public Benefit to society utilities, and yet another an environmentalist. A fact-based exploration of future The method clarifies differing viewpoints, and trends and possible future develilluminates an issue from all possible sides. By opments and their associated the end, the team has gathered concrete results, problems make it possible to such as a special method for supplying and develop solutions for resource processing drinking water that can be used to and energy efficiency in a timely obtain water from the surrounding air. The manner. Ideas for meeting the first technical tests are already underway. And demand for drinking water or with regard to energy efficiency, the team is Outside the box: Creative methods help to develop safeguarding energy supplies help a picture of the future. exploring the idea of using an ­Evonik product create a greater quality of life as for building insulation. regards the urbanization to come. growth. The numbers prove it. In 1950, New York was the only city with more than 10 million inhabitants. By 2015, there will be 26 such Firmly anchored in the Group By looking to the future early on, cities, and 22 of them will be located in develAs these examples illustrate, the team isn’t Evonik wants to recognize potenoping countries. The Vision 2050 study by the exactly locked away in some ivory tower. It is tial growth markets and develop World Business Council for Sustainable Develmore like a think tank firmly anchored in the sustainable solutions for the largopment (WBCSD) goes even further, foreGroup. For example, the team looks to the est markets of the future. This casting that 98 percent of the growth in world future together with representatives from all should help consolidate the compopulation from the current 7 billion to 9 bilsix business units, Process Technology & Engipany’s trendsetting role in spelion people will occur in cities. According to neering, as well as Innovation Management. In cialty chemicals, and contribute predictions, two-thirds of the world’s populafacing the future and describing the scenarios to securing business success for tion will live in cities by 2030. it sees, the team also relies on support from the long-term. To place this development in the context external futurologists, as well as experts in Benefit to ­Evonik of specialty chemicals and open up growth science and research. The reason is clear. “The markets for ­Evonik, the Corporate Foresight growth markets we identify must be sustainTeam has literally drawn a picture of these able, attractive and financially feasible,” says cities, developed Pictures of the Future, and Bernhard Schleich. “The future is complex. supplemented them with trends and projecThe Foresight team’s scenario technology, in tions of current development. The result has particular, offers us a tool for reducing that been a variety of sketches, with just as wide complexity and translating it into concrete a variety of challenges with regard to issues options.” such as energy, traffic, water supply, nutrition and health. The Corporate Foresight Team’s job now is to develop ideas to solve these problems, and at the same time, sound out growth markets and new business options. To come up with these kinds of ideas, the Corporate Foresight Team relies on the creative methods mentioned above. Roleplay is used in a current workshop. To discuss drinking water supply in a megacity and the various issues associated with it, each workshop participant plays a different role. One plays the ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 21 This bus 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries is expected to provide us with many new patents. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 23 Taking a fresh look at chemistry In the German educational system, scientific and technical training leads a shadow existence in many places. It starts too late, and often even dedicated teachers fail to attract students. ­Evonik is helping to change all that. With its educational sponsorship offers, E ­ vonik wants to help present chemistry in a more interesting way, and bring back the fun of experimentation. Miriam Tabot doesn’t have complete control schools near its production sites include hardover the pointer. No matter how hard she tries, ware and software along with several chemisthe tool simply does not obey. But the 13-yeartry modules. The technology of the innovative old is fully engrossed in her attempt to combine 3D learning and teaching environment was the available chlorine molecules and sodium developed by Visenso GmbH from Stuttgart atoms into sodium chloride. That wouldn’t be and customized for use in schools and universuch a problem if it weren’t for the 3D pointer sities, with the explicit input of schools for the that keeps escaping her, but Miriam thinks it’s content design of the modules. all cool. “This makes learning fun,” she says, That was an important aspect for Andreas passing the controller to her classmate, Leon Roy-Werner, chemistry teacher and assistant Florysiak, who immediately knows what to do. principal at the Essen school. “It allows us to “I have a Wii console at home,” he laughs and include our own topics in the modules,” he takes the 3D glasses off. notes. As an example, the school included a short video about burning steel wool in its Totally engrossed, Miriam Tabot laboratory into the module. In the virtual controls a virtual chemistry classroom, this experiment can now 3D pointer. be shifted from the visual level to explaining molecules and theory. Even during the pilot test, the teacher found that the Cyber Classroom increased motivation and enhanced the students’ understanding of chemical processes This scene isn’t taking place in a teen bedroom, and reactions. “This makes it easier for us to but in the chemistry lab of the Elsa Brändström switch from the material level in the lab to the vocational high school in Essen, one of four world of atoms.” German schools that received a Cyber ClassMarkus Langer enjoys being part of the room station from ­Evonik. The 3D learning ­Evonik educational sponsoring initiative to environment is intended to help students provide teachers with options for lesson planexperience and understand the complexity of ning. As the head of Corporate Marketing and chemistry in theory and practice. The Cyber PR, he sees three major goals of the initiative. Classroom stations that ­Evonik provided to “Our educational sponsorship must show that 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Benefit to society With its educational sponsorship activities, ­Evonik assumes social responsibility and promotes understanding of scientific concepts, giving teens new access to science and opening up new vistas in terms of careers. An experiment with burning steel wool … … is transferred to the molecular level via 3D animation. Educational sponsorship is important for ­Evonik to ensure a quali­ vonik is taking its corporate citizenship responE sors numerous school activities near its sites. fied future labor pool for its own sibility seriously. At the same time, the initiative, Some 120 employees have been engaged in a company. The comprehensive along with all of our sponsorship activities, has program to conduct exciting chemical experiapproach teaches sciences at a to position E ­ vonik as a creative industry group, ments in preschools and schools for more than young age and continues to proand it has to make a positive contribution to ten years, and apprentices visit their alma maters mote them. attract qualified employees in the future to as school scouts to recruit students for work in support the work of our HR team.” The comthe chemical industry. The participating sites Benefit to ­Evonik prehensive approach of the Cyber Classroom also share information regularly at an internal meets all three of these goals for the specialty “Sponsoring Academy” to learn about successchemicals company, from preschool to graduaful approaches. tion, and has already been used for a number ­Evonik also wondered how to get “digital of unusual projects. natives” excited about natural sciences, but the answer was obvious: teaching methods and materials had to adapt to a time characterized 3D learning experience by Playstation and iPhones to help teens develop Five-year-old Thomas has benefited from such an emotional relationship with science and to a project, or more precisely from our Evonik find professional prospects in that field. Kinderuni (Evonik “Kids’ University”), a joint The plan seems to be a success with Miriam project of E ­ vonik and the North Rhine-WestTabot, Leon Florysiak, and their schoolmates phalian daily newspaper Rheinische Post. For at Elsa Brändström vocational high school in three weeks, numerous preschools in the Essen. The fascination with 3D that went mainregion received free copies of the paper, with stream when Avatar came to the big screen is instructions for age-appropriate experiments. now moving into schools and lesson plans. Little Thomas learned about setting up experiWith 3D goggles students can virtually move ments every day and then built a submarine through a complex molecule and experience for gummy bears or an elevator for candles. reaction equations from within the involved The text also explained the scientific backatoms. This makes it easier to understand ground to the experiments in understandable complex chemical processes and can even be language and pointed out the many scientific fun, or “totally cool,” as Miriam Tabot would phenomena that can be discovered in daily situsay about her new chemistry classes. ations. On the side, the children also learned that newspapers can be truly exciting. For ­Evonik, Kinderuni is just a continuation of a proven approach, since the company spon­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 25 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Strategy Our CR Strategy................................................ 29 Values and management systems...................... 42 Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex CR See also page 53 Our CR Strategy Evonik Group: Key figures Evonik is one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies. In addition, it maintains investCR See also page 101 f. ments in real estate and energy. Profitable growth and a sustained increase in the value of the value Profile of the company are the key focus of our strategy. Focus on high-growth megatrends With our specialty chemicals, we are focusing on high-growth megatrends that are especially significant for the sustained development of our company, especially resource efficiency, health, nutrition and globalization, so as to open up attractive markets for the future. In doing so, we will take advantage of our integrated technology platforms and consistently continue to develop them further. We possess a well-balanced spectrum of operating areas, end consumer markets and regional presences. We work closely with our customers. We intend to continue our ambitious growth strategy consistently over the coming years. To this end, we are purposefully expanding our activities in economically attractive regions. We view market-oriented research and developCR See also page 56 ff. ment as an important engine for future growth. The continuous improvement of our cost structure Research and Development is also a high priority for E ­ vonik. Strategy consistently implemented In keeping with the orientation of our strategy toward the megatrends resource efficiency, health, nutrition and globalization, we restructured our operations in 2011. The six business units, in which our core specialty chemicals business is grouped, are now aligned in the three segments Consumer, Health & Nutrition, Resource Efficiency, and Specialty Materials and organized in line with similar themes and long-term success factors. We divested activities that no longer fit our core business. Thus, we divested of our carbon black business during the reporting period. We also sold our majority stake in the electric power company STEAG GmbH to a consortium of municipal utilities CR See also page 55 in the Rhine-Ruhr region. Together with the German Mining, Chemicals and Energy industrial Focus on specialty chemicals leads union (IG BCE), we signed important agreements in the reporting period to implement the future to changes in the Group model for our real estate activities. In order to make ­Evonik even more transparent and flexible, we further reduced the complexity of the Group in the reporting year. To this end, we transferred the management of all operations of ­Evonik Degussa GmbH, ­Evonik Goldschmidt GmbH, ­Evonik Oxeno GmbH, ­Evonik Röhm GmbH and Evonik Stockhausen GmbH to ­Evonik Industries AG. Other entities followed effective April 1, 2012. As of April 1, 2011, the operating business will be directly managed by Evonik’s Executive Board, which we have expanded from three to six members for this purpose. The direct management of the operating business by members of Evonik’s Executive Board makes it possible to streamline decision-making structures and thus to speed up processes. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 29 Responsibility is indivisible For Evonik, business success and responsibility belong together and are contingent upon one another. We endeavor with our innovative products and solutions to help overcome global challenges such as climate change, scarce resources, poverty and malnutrition. In doing so, we are supported by our Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy. This strategy is founded on corporate values and core competencies. Based on three dimensions, the business, employees and processes, it is an integral part of our corporate strategy, strengthen it and lending it new impetus. It assists in achieving the corporate goals of profitable growth and added value, which are indivisibly linked to the critical drivers of sustained development, and at the same time, promote clear differentiation from the competition. We want to continue to develop our CR strategy in the future. Now that corporate responsibility activities have been stepped up significantly in corporate functions such as procurement and training, the aim is, in the future, to integrate the responsibility for a sustainable focus of business Internet Responsibility/CR at Evonik activities even more deeply into the core processes of the individual business units, including their at www.evonik.com research, production, marketing and sales activities. Materiality analysis in greater depth In 2010, we identified and assessed the most significant challenges for sustainable development, both for Evonik and for our stakeholders. To this end, all business units performed a materiality Internet Company/Megatrends analysis, which revealed that the following challenges are considered particularly important: climate at www.evonik.com change, utilization of resources, health, population growth, and demographic change. Based on these results, we developed specific recommendations for action by the business units in 2011. These include such items as an intensive dialog with customers to inquire into shared system solutions and the implementation of the main themes and focal points from the risk management analysis in the business units. In order to gain a keener vision of the challenges for our international locations, we included the Greater China and South America regions in the materiality analysis. This largely confirmed the results from the business units, but specific regional differences also emerged. Access to water is assigned far greater significance in both Greater China and Brazil. For Brazil, this is also true for biodiversity, especially with regard to business opportunities. Opportunities that might follow from climate change were rated lower in Greater China. Moreover, diversity and equality of opportunity, were treated separately in the Greater China Region, since the assessment of these two aspects proved to differ greatly. We will use the results of the materiality analysis to adjust the main areas of focus for our CR strategy and to identify new business opportunities with and across the business units, while also giving Further information consideration to the other CR dimensions, processes and employees. To this end, we will continue CR Report 2010, page 16 ff. to add depth to the materiality analysis in 2012. 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Materiality analysis of society Regions and ­Evonik in comparison Stakeholder expectations 1. Population growth 10 11. Diversity and equality of opportunity1) 9 2. Resource utilization 8 7 6 5 10. Health 4 3. Access to water 3 2 1 9. Poverty 4. Climate change 8. Urbanization 5. Biodiversity 7. Demographic change 6. Human rights Brazil China ­Evonik 1) China-only evaluation of equality of opportunity. Impact of E ­ vonik 1. Population growth 10 11. Diversity and equality of opportunity1) 9 2. Resource utilization 8 7 6 5 10. Health 4 3. Access to water 3 2 1 9. Poverty 4. Climate change 8. Urbanization 5. Biodiversity 7. Demographic change 6. Human rights Brazil China ­Evonik 1) China-only evaluation of equality of opportunity. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 31 Materiality analysis of the business Regions and ­Evonik in comparison Opportunities 1. Population growth 10 11. Diversity and equality of opportunity1) 9 2. Resource utilization 8 7 6 5 10. Health 4 3. Access to water 3 2 1 9. Poverty 4. Climate change 8. Urbanization 5. Biodiversity 7. Demographic change 6. Human rights Brazil China ­Evonik 1) China-only evaluation of equality of opportunity. Risks 1. Population growth 10 11. Diversity and equality of opportunity1) 9 2. Resource utilization 8 7 6 5 10. Health 4 3. Access to water 3 2 1 9. Poverty 4. Climate change 8. Urbanization 5. Biodiversity 7. Demographic change 6. Human rights Brazil China ­Evonik 1) China-only evaluation of equality of opportunity. 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Dialog with our stakeholders Exchanges with our stakeholders are a key element of ­Evonik’s CR strategy. We are engaged in a continuous dialog with customers, employees, owners, investors, suppliers, labor unions, scientific organizations and legislators and maintain contact with local residents and non-governmental organizations. In 2011, we continued to intensify the exchange with our stakeholders. In view of the sustainability challenges, we expect this to produce not only a balancing of interests, but also continued strategic development of our business with respect to potential process improvements and the role of ­Evonik in the social environment. Stakeholder survey In the fall of 2011, we asked our stakeholders again how well informed they felt by Evonik’s last CR report and what global challenges they felt were particularly important for the Group. Unlike in 2010, we mainly surveyed customers. Of the 198 stakeholders surveyed, 45 responded. This was a significant increase in the return rate from 4 percent to 22 percent. The majority of those questioned felt they were “well” or “very well” informed by the 2010 CR Report. Here, the theme of responsible management was the most interesting to readers, followed by information about the supply chain, as well as climate protection and energy efficiency. In the view of the respondents, the most important challenges that ­Evonik should address were human rights, resource utilization, access to water, and health. By contrast, the importance of the challenge of climate change was clearly rated lower than in the previous year. These results coincide largely with the findings of our materiality analysis. The internal and external assessments of the most important challenges for E ­ vonik are thus in agreement. Relevance of challenges for our stakeholders low high Population growth Resource utilization Access to water Climate change Biodiversity Human rights Demographic change Urbanization Poverty Health Diversity and equality of opportunity Participants were asked to rank the aspects in the order of their importance for our shared future. While the stakeholder survey in 2010 addressed a variety of stakeholder groups, the 2011 survey focused on customers. 2010 2011 ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 33 Relevance of challenges for ­Evonik low high Population growth Resource utilization Access to water Climate change Biodiversity Human rights Demographic change Urbanization Poverty Health Diversity and equality of opportunity Participants were asked to rank the topics in the order of their importance for E ­ vonik. While the stakeholder survey in 2010 addressed a variety of stakeholder groups, the 2011 survey focused on customers. 2010 2011 Stakeholder dialog On April 20 and 21, 2011, ­Evonik held its first Sustainability Day. More than 100 of Evonik’s senior executives and participants representing politics, business and society engaged in discussions with Evonik’s Executive Board and other experts about the importance of sustainability for business. On the second day, Evonik’s executives formed six working groups in order to develop specific ideas and projects for the Group and cast light on sustainability as a business model. They addressed the demands that customers and society place directly on ­Evonik as well as approaches to enhancing the sustainability performance of the Group through supplier and/or logistics management. The process that was thus set in motion was continued along the value chain in subsequent months and the results of the Sustainability Day were further refined. Based on the results from the individual working groups, specific proposals for the implementation of the strategy in the individual business units will be developed in the spring of 2012 and the projects will then be presented to operational units. We will also assimilate these ideas as we continue to evolve our CR strategy and thus align our CR activities even more closely with Evonik’s business. How to build on the results of the Sustainability Day will also be the subject of the CRconnect dialog which will be held for the first time in 2012. The objective here is for employees involved in CR to network and to engage in discussions about current CR issues that are relevant to the business. Those employees who are particularly concerned with CR topics as part of their work will be invited to a one-day event, including workshops. Due to internal restructuring, we postponed the Future forum planned for 2011 to 2012. The series of events will now start under the name Forum Future in 2012 and promote the exchange of views with stakeholders, above all with customers. 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Employee participation The CRtopic series which was begun in 2011 offers information on current CR issues and is open to all interested employees. The format for these half-day events, which feature presentations by experts, is designed to introduce business-relevant future-oriented CRtopics, raise participants’ awareness of them, and discuss their relevance to Evonik. After starting with the topic of human rights in 2011, a CRtopic was held in January 2012 on the Wittenberg Process, by which labor and management in the chemical industry are seeking to revitalize their social partnership. At least one other CRtopic event is planned for 2012. Cooperation Forming a network with universities and scientific institutes is another pillar of our stakeholder dialog. In the “­Evonik Meets Science,” forum for example, our experts engage in an exchange about current research issues with top scientists from various disciplines. The forum is regularly held in Europe, Asia, and North America. As a result of this year’s meetings in Japan and the USA, CR See also page 94 ff. an agreement to cooperate in an “Industrial Partnership for Research in Interfacial and Materials Society Engineering” was signed with the University of Minnesota. Focus in 2011 In 2011, the general theme of which was “Focusing,” we advanced our CR management as well as our activities along the three dimensions of our CR strategy—the business, employees, processes. To this end, the focus was on creating methodological foundations to measure CR and sustainability criteria along the value chain. The planned realignment of the CR strategy in 2012 will respond to the expectations of our stakeholders and the results of our materiality analysis. CR management The activities in 2011 were marked by the adaptation of the CR organization to the new corporate structure. The close alignment to the needs of the operating business was the primary concern here. To this end, we have begun to move the CR Steering Committee and the CR Coordination Committee closer to the business in terms of personnel. To monitor the effectiveness of CR management we have developed a management model. In 2011, CR See also page 43 ff. we expanded the model to include the three CR areas of action as well as internal and external CR Management systems and tools performance evaluations. We will test this model in 2012. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 35 Contribution to the business CR See also page 8 f. ­ vonik Carbon Footprint (ECF) E Perpetual ice? Climate change confronts industry, politicians and society with new challenges that also affect CR See also page 80 f. ­Evonik. In order to be able to develop a reasonable approach to the reduction of greenhouse gases, Emissions of greenhouse gases we have calculated the Group’s CO2 footprint (­Evonik Carbon Footprint or ECF). To this end, in 2011, for the first time ever, we compiled data on our greenhouse gas emissions along the value chain, based on the data for 2008. In terms of methodology, we were guided by the “Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Standard.” Because of our focus on specialty chemicals and the divestment of a majority stake in our energy operations, we looked exclusively at climate-relevant emissions from the chemicals operations, as this is our core business. Excluding the usage phase of Evonik’s products in 2008 the ECG was approximately 25.2 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). The results of the ECF were subject to a limited-assurance review by Internet an independent German auditing firm. The plan now is to update the ECF continuously based on www.ghgprotocol.org current data. The accounting for greenhouse gases serves to identify the material sources of emissions along the value added chain for our products—from the provision of raw materials to the disposal of wastes after the usage phase. Building on this foundation, the next steps will be to identify potential savings and take the appropriate action. The emissions data that have been identified can be used further to participate in mandatory and voluntary initiatives. This includes, for example, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in which we plan to participate from 2012 forward. To be able to quantify and evaluate the potential climate effect of new products even in the early stages of development, ­Evonik is developing a method of its own, the Carbon Footprint Estimation model (CFE). A limited-assurance review by an independent auditing firm found that the model is suitable for correctly determining savings based on our internal standards. The CFE model enables a standardized evaluation of development projects with respect to greenhouse gas emissions in all phases of the product life cycle. In this way we will ensure that various ­Evonik projects are evaluated on the basis of comparable criteria. In the reporting period, the method was piloted during strategic research in the Eco2 Science-to-Business Center (S2B). We are also calculating the greenhouse gas savings for the application of selected beacon projects. To this end, the full life cycle emissions from the application of ­Evonik products were compared with comparable alternatives without ­Evonik products. The greenhouse gas emission savings from the beacon projects were calculated to equal 43.5 million metric tons of CO2e. However, these cannot be compared directly with the ECF, since this is based on emissions that are caused by the manufacturing of products (as a rule, intermediate products) by ­Evonik (including production and supply chain emissions, excluding the usage phase). The savings, on the other hand, are calculated Download on the basis of life cycle emissions during the use of Evonik’s products. We also arranged for an ECF Folder and CFE Folder under “Responsibility“ independent auditing firm to conduct a limited-assurance audit of the total amount of greenhouse at www.evonik.com gas savings. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Strategic management via sustainability indicators In the future, we will seek to evaluate investment and acquisition decisions by using so-called sustainability indicators. We also want to use these key parameters for the strategic management of our business activities. For this purpose, in 2011 we analyzed the major ecological and societal indicators used to measure CR and sustainability. Aspects such as energy efficiency, CO2 intensity, water consumption, waste volumes, recycling, use of renewable raw materials, plant and occupational safety, diversity, demography, and sustained benefits for our customers represent the basis for the assessment of our CR and sustainability activities. In 2012, we will apply the method we have developed for the first time in two business units. Systematic registration of requirements A system for capturing the published CR sustainability goals of our major customers, retailers and competitors was developed and implemented by the Consumer Specialties Business Unit. This is to help us meet the external demands made on ­Evonik. At the same time, this system is designed to support ­Evonik’s strategic positioning. The targets that are captured include, for example, standards for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption as well as social sustainability goals. After testing in one additional business unit, this system will now be available throughout the Group. In addition, we have laid the foundations for establishing an ongoing CR communications channel with key customers in order to coordinate the methodology and reciprocal expectations about CR targets. Here, we are proactively promoting joint pilot projects for transparency and environmental efficiency along the supply chain. Focus on employees In 2011, the pilot project “CR in vocational training” was rolled out to all of ­Evonik’s training locations in Germany. The apprentices worked together with the trainers on a joint multi-site project on the topic of social media. The goal was to raise apprentices’ awareness of responsible use of social networks and train them accordingly. The participants presented the results of this project to a broad internal audience in November 2011. The content developed to date has been transferred to a web-based mediateque, which is available to all apprentices and employees at E ­ vonik. During the reporting period, we also advanced the integration of CR into our ongoing training. After the starting signal in March 2011, we identified potential points of expansion for our existing training and continuing education offerings—for instance, a CR module at the orientation events for new employees. In addition to putting the basic message across, sensitizing employees is also a primary concern. We are currently developing a system of flagging ongoing training offerings of relevance to CR to make them easier to identify. For our online training, we are presently developing a separate module designed to convey the basics of CR and sustainability to all employees. The range of CR issues covered by the ongoing training program is to be expanded by the end of 2012. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 37 CR management expanded along the supply chain In 2011, ­Evonik procured raw materials, energy sources, technical goods and services with a value of about €9.4 billion. About 60 percent of the total value of purchases was accounted for by the procurement of raw materials. CR is systematically integrated into the procurement of these goods. To test compliance with sustainability standards by our suppliers, a risk analysis systematically identifies suppliers who pose a potential risk. This is particularly based on internationally recognized country indices showing the status of humanitarian development and fair business practices, as well as an annual minimum invoice volume. The assessment of compliance with sustainability standards is based largely on the principles of the UN Global Compact and covers the areas of quality, health and occupational safety, environmental protection, anti-corruption, working conditions, and responsibility along the supply chain. In 2010, we surveyed about 80 percent of the suppliers identified as a potential risk by way of a self-assessment. In 2011, we expanded the survey to over 90 percent of these suppliers. We will continue the process of analyzing the potential risk posed by our suppliers over the next few years until nearly all relevant suppliers have been evaluated. Analysis and evaluation of the suppliers’ self-assessments are supported by standardized supplier management software. 60 percent of the evaluated suppliers have a valid quality management certificate, but 19 percent do not have certified management systems (or components). In the area of environmental protection, 66 percent of the suppliers evaluated meet Evonik’s requirements—34 percent of the suppliers evaluated have a valid certificate, while an additional 32 percent indicate that they have implemented a non-certified environmental management system that meets Evonik’s requirements. In the area of safety and health, 71 percent of suppliers surveyed meet Evonik’s requirements—34 percent with a valid certificate and 37 percent with a management system that has not been certified yet. The supplier assessments described here are the basis for identifying suppliers for whom further reviews and improvements must be initiated. In the case of these firms, our survey in 2010 in the previous year revealed a need for clarification due to reported shortcomings or missing or contradictory responses, which resulted in on-site CR audits—for example, in China. To support us in this we retained the services of a recognized certification organization. Based on the audits, improveTarget Procurement achieved all of the ments were agreed with the firms in question, which are now being successively implemented. CR targets it set for 2011 The goal stated in the CR Report 2010, therefore, which has been fully achieved. 73 percent of the suppliers surveyed meet ­Evonik’s requirement for management commitment to corruption prevention. 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex For Procurement, CR training events are an important way of increasing sensitivity to the overall topic of Corporate Responsibility. The purchasing staff (26 employees) whose task is to monitor and process the self-assessments of suppliers who pose a potential risk completed an intensive training program in 2011. In addition, we educated close to 40 percent of our employees in procureCR See also page 47 ment worldwide on CR topics at classroom training events in 2011. The CR training events will be Supply chain management continued in 2012 until all employees involved in the global procurement training programs have Further information completed them. The training programs will be supported by online and classroom training modules. CR Report 2010, pages 12, 21, 35 Procurement: CR objectives for 2012 Continue risk analysis to cover 90 percent of suppliers identified as potential risks using a self-assessment questionnaire Conduct at least ten CR audits with a focus on China and Brazil Expand CR training to 50 percent of procurement staff in charge of procurement from suppliers with risk potential ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 39 CR Program 2012 Objectives Action Deadline Current status (as of February 29, 2012) CR management Align CR organization to Alter membership of committees 2011 New CR Coordination Committee members named new corporate structure Name new CR Steering Committee members in 2012 New appointments to CR Steering Committee after response to new strategic focus Strategy 2.0 development Establish and strengthen Establish a CR department 2011 Completed CR coordination Validate responsibilities of CR Partners 2011 Completed Develop ­Evonik-specific CR performance management 2012 Alignment to new strategy underway model: adapt to new CR strategy Corporate Citizenship Conduct regional status assessment; adapt to new 2012 Survey started CR strategy Position CR Maintain active membership in UN Global Compact Ongoing Active collaboration in German Global Compact and econsense network and econsense Join Global Reporting Initiative as organizational 2011 Membership as organizational stakeholder obtained; stakeholder active collaboration anticipated Present CR roadshow 2nd half of 2012 To be continued after strategy development Introduce CR in diverse functional areas Ongoing Global ESHQ officers, location managers, innovation managers, etc. Continue to develop CR strategy 1st half of 2012 Preparation underway, consultants selected The business Establish CR issues Conduct materiality analyses in business units and Ongoing Completed for the business units and some regions; management as an early regions materiality analyses completed in the BUs; results valiwarning system dated with participants and recommendation issued Deepen understanding of “global challenges:” 2012 In preparation develop and employ a training concept Engage in systematic dialog Hold Sustainability Day 2011 Day held, implementation of follow-on projects in with stakeholders business units kicked-off Hold Forum Future 2012-2014 2014 In preparation Integrate CR into R&D Ensure methodical assessment of innovation projects 2013 Started Implement CR in the strategic innovation process 2014 Planning underway Integrate CR into customer Implement cross-BU “customer relations“ project 2012 Systematic implementation begun relations Employees Ensure responsible Distribute main policies to regions 2011 Completed treatment of employees Evaluate policies from a human rights perspective 2011 Completed Conduct human rights due diligence 2012 Planning underway Revise policies in light of findings from human rights 2012 Planning underway review Implement diversity strategy Ongoing Diversity integrated in goals agreed with executives; network for women established; mentoring program for women in preparation, etc. Ensure continual improvement of family and work ofOngoing Reauditing for “berufundfamilie” certificate in spring ferings of 2012; identify optimization requirements; include additional sites and regions; increase involvement of fathers Expand CR questions in the employee survey 2012 Planning underway 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex CR Program 2012 Objectives Action Deadline Current status (as of February 29, 2012) Motivate and involve Include CR aspects in employee appraisal interviews 2012 Include aspects of responsible conduct and leadership employees in CR implein employee appraisal interviews; exempt employees/ mentation executives in 2012; for use from 2013 Integrate CR into performance objectives agreed with 2015 Planning underway managers and employees Integrate CR into training Develop new CR aspects with respect to the relevant Ongoing CR aspects integrated into training at all German megatrends from a training perspective locations; common toolbox developed Integrate CR into career Integrate CR at start of career and into ongoing 2012 Status assessment completed; content and program development training development begun Promote CR designation as a mark of quality 2012 Development of a list of criteria to assess ongoing training from a CR perspective Develop CR training tool for ongoing training of 2012 Development of a web-based training tool employees Processes Continue ongoing improveImplement long-term environmental targets 2014 Within the target range ment of CR performance in relevant areas of action Implement long-term occupational safety targets for 2014 Target achieved in the chemicals segments, reduction Chemicals and Real Estate in accident frequency in Real Estate segment within target range Train in the Code of Conduct and anti-corruption Ongoing Regular classroom training sessions and e-learning compliance tools Develop and implement a climate strategy, identify 2011 ­ vonik’s carbon footprint (ECF) 2008 determined, E ­Evonik's carbon footprint methodology evaluated, conditions for development of a climate strategy created Evaluate relevant KPIs to assess investment decisions 2012 Pilot project completed, integration into business and portfolio management (Evolution) begun Participate in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Ongoing In preparation starting in 2012 Expand the Ecological Monitoring and Management 2013 Planning begun System CR self-assessment for new raw materials suppliers 2012 Started prior to concluding contract Nearly complete evaluation of suppliers identified as 2016 Started potential risks Standardize CR data collection through use of IT tools Ongoing New GRI indicators integrated, implementation in the HR Information Collector Promote exchange of CRconnect: Format for internal dialog and Ongoing 1st CRconnect event planned for 2012 experience on CR networking CRtopic: Format for information on CR-related issues Ongoing 2nd CRtopic held in early 2012, additional events planned Regular Group-wide exchange of experience Ongoing International exchange on CR and related topics ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 41 Values and management systems Corporate responsibility is part of ­Evonik’s basic philosophy and covers the business, employees, Internet society and the environment. We have committed ourselves to a number of external principles and Responsibility at www.evonik.com guidelines, which are supported and supplemented by our own rules and regulations. Corporate values and competencies “Courage to innovate,” “responsible action” and “sparing no effort” are Evonik’s three corporate values and are firmly rooted are firmly rooted in our day-to-day working life. They form the principal foundation for decisions by our employees. Here, the competence of our employees, their creativity, specialization skills, self-renewal and reliability, are a major factor that determines ­Evonik’s success. Principles, policies and guidelines External principles and guidelines Good corporate governance, in other words, responsible, goal-oriented management and supervision of the company are an integral part of ­Evonik’s business processes. It is designed to strengthen confidence in our company. At the same time, good corporate governance contributes to the creation of transparency for all stakeholders and roots responsible action firmly in our company. For ­Evonik, the starting point for ensuring responsible management and supervision of the company that is oriented towards the sustained creation of added value is found—aside from compliance with the relevant laws and standards—in the acceptance of the German Corporate Governance Code. Evonik signed the Code of Responsible Conduct by Business in late 2010. It sets out standards for responsible corporate conduct that are visible, verifiable and usable in daily practice. These include fair competition, cooperation between social partners, the merit principle and sustainability. In 2009, ­Evonik joined the United Nations Global Compact and thus committed itself, in its sphere of influence, to compliance with the ten Global Compact principles. These include respecting labor and human rights, avoiding discrimination, protecting people and the environment and the fight against corruption. To the extent that it is possible within its corporate framework, ­Evonik will also not tolerate conduct that violates the guidelines for responsible corporate behavior issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). We respect the general Convention on Human Rights and the core labor standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). As part of the global Responsible Care initiative, we have been committed for many years to the continuous improvement of our performance in health, safety, the environment and product stewardship, and we emphasized this once again in 2006 as a co-signer of the “Responsible Global Care Charter” of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Code of Conduct ­Evonik’s binding Group-wide Code of Conduct covers its main corporate values and principles and governs the conduct of ­Evonik and its employees internally in dealing with each other and externally in their interactions with shareholders, business partners, public authorities, governmental representatives and the public. It requires all employees to comply strictly with all relevant laws, regulations and other standards. It also demands adherence to certain ethical standards. Compliance is monitored and any violations are followed by sanctions. The Code of Conduct promotes a culture of clear responsibility, mutual respect and trust, reliability and integrity. 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Global Social Policy In our Global Social Policy (GSP) we have undertaken to adhere to fundamental values based on internationally recognized standards of conduct and principles. These include the United Nations’ CR See also page 91 ff. Convention on Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises as well as the Safety core labor standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO). ­Evonik is committed to compliance with and implementation of basic values such as the protection of children, freedom of engageDownload ment, equality of opportunity and diversity, freedom from discrimination as well as health and www.oecd.org www.ilo.org safety in the work place. In 2011, the GSP was distributed to all employees in 13 languages. We expect our suppliers to respect the principles set out in the GSP and to taken them into account in Internet their conduct. Going forward, we will not only seek to strengthen our employees’ awareness of www.verantwortlich-handeln.com/ html/en/529.htm the need to respect human rights but also establish a due diligence process specific to human rights. www.unglobalcompact.org As a first step to this end, we have analyzed our internal guidelines accordingly. In 2012, we plan www.responsible-care.de to revise the GSP in line with our findings. Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Values The Environment, Safety, Health and Quality (ESHQ) Values define the Group’s understanding of ESHQ. In combination with more detailed guidelines and operating procedures, they form our binding ESHQ framework. The ESHQ Values define protection of people and the environment as a fundamental component of our conduct. CR See also page 77 ff. The environment With the ESHQ Values as our starting point, we manage the topic of ESHQ for the entire Group by means of guidelines and goals. An outside expert opinion confirmed in 2009 that these rules Download Code of Conduct, Global Social Policy and policies are in compliance with the law. The responsibility for their implementation rests with and ESHQ values under “Responsibility” the business units, which verify implementation by various means, including regular audits of the at www.evonik.com regions and sites. CR Management Policy The corporate CR Management Policy sets out the responsibilities for CR and the CR management organization. The Policy ensures that the Group’s CR strategy is implemented according to uniform standards. In addition, it governs the Group-wide coordination of all CR activities. Together with the CR Strategy, we plan to further refine the CR Policy in 2012. Management systems and tools We derive other policies, together with management systems and tools, from the Code of Conduct, the Global Social Policy and the ESHQ Values. The corporate divisions perform a coordinating function for the relevant topics. Within this overall organization, CR Management and the House of Compliance perform an overarching coordinating function. CR organization Executive Board CR Steering Committee CR Coordination Committee CR Project Groups ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 43 CR management Our CR management helps us meet our responsibility to the business, our employees, the environment and society. We have further expanded this area in 2011. Responsibility and organizational structure The overall responsibility for CR rests with the Executive Board. Organizational responsibility is delegated to the Chief Human Resources Officer, who also chairs the CR Steering Committee. The Steering Committee is the highest body in the CR organization at ­Evonik. Its members are the heads of selected corporate divisions and ­Evonik Business Services as well as a representative of the Central Works Council. This committee, which meets at least once a year, is charged with the implementation and continued development of the CR Strategy. The committee also decides on specific CR projects. The Steering Committee is supported by the CR Coordination Committee, which initiates new projects, monitors them on an ongoing basis and forms working groups to implement CR projects. The CR Coordination Committee is formed by the CR Partners. In 2011, we established the new Corporate Responsibility Department within the Environment & Responsibility division. This supports and advises the Steering Committee. It also guides the activities of the Coordinating Committee and initiates CR projects. CR Partners The task of the CR Partners is to ensure broad acceptance of corporate responsibility throughout the Group. They are representatives of the business and service units, and as the Corporate Center, and the major regions in which Evonik is active. This combination ensures that the concerns of the operating units and the Corporate Center, as well as the points of view of the foreign companies flow into the ongoing development and implementation of the CR Strategy. The CR Partners form the CR Coordination Committee. In 2011, the CR Partners reviewed and confirmed their tasks at a workshop. House of Compliance Compliance refers to conduct on the part of a company, the members of its governance bodies and its employees that complies with and respects all applicable laws, statutory mandates and prohibiInternet tions, as well as the company’s own internal policies and commitments. Company/Compliance & Corporate Governance Conduct in conformance with the rules is guided by the ­Evonik Code of Conduct. The compliance at www.evonik.com culture created especially by the Code of Conduct is the foundation for the House of Compliance. The Master Policy on Compliance was issued in 2011 to ensure a consistent Group-wide understanding of compliance. It sets out the relevant standards and criteria for the creation and ongoing development of a compliance management system. The Policy defines responsibilities, authorities, tasks and reporting requirements within the House of Compliance. The issues that have been identified as particularly relevant for our company form the pillars of our compliance management and are brought together in what we call the House of Compliance. As a technology-driven specialty chemicals company, we value environment, health, safety, quality, intellectual property protection IT compliance as highly as the classic compliance issues of antitrust law, foreign trade law, anti-corruption measures and data protection. This comprehensive definition of compliance is the result of a risk analysis conducted with external support. The issues are subject to regular reviews initiated by the Chief Compliance Officer. The Chief Compliance Officer coordinates the structure and ongoing development of the House of Compliance. He operates autonomously and reports directly to the Chairman of the Executive Board. On all major issues he is supported by the Compliance Committee, which acts as an internal advisory committee and is composed of the heads of various corporate and specialist departments and of the Corporate Audit division. Compliance officers in the business units and regions ensure the close integration of our business activities. 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex House of Compliance Supervisory Board Executive Board Coordinated by the Chief Compliance Officer (Chairman of the Compliance Committee) Capital Market Compliance Know-how Protection Environment, Safety, Fighting Corruption Data Protection IT Compliance Antitrust Foreign Trade Health, Quality Effectiveness of the compliance management system Compliance management system Compliance culture Antitrust law Compliance with antitrust law is one of ­Evonik’s key corporate objectives and is also set out in our Code of Conduct. Group-wide classroom and online training, conduct guidelines as well as specific legal advice on all issues relevant to cartel law are the primary elements of our compliance activities in relation to antitrust law. Foreign trade law Each employee is responsible for compliance with all applicable export and customs regulations. We ensure compliance with the applicable export controls through our Policy on Compliance with Global Trade Regulations, as updated in 2011, and the trade compliance organization, which builds on it and has been realigned accordingly. Our trade compliance organization relies on a special department with Group-wide responsibility, a specialized IT system, as well as a worldwide network of about 70 trade compliance officers and trade compliance managers. Fighting corruption ­Evonik is strictly opposed to all forms of corruption. Even the impression of corruption and corruptibility must be consistently avoided. The Code of Conduct therefore establishes a zero-tolerance principle, which is set out in detail in the Master Gifts and Hospitality Policy together with the regional implementation regulations as well as the Policy for the Use of External Intermediaries for the Sale of ­Evonik Products and Merchandise. For the practical application of the guidelines, any employee can access the relevant checklists that briefly summarize the principal requirements for the respective guidelines via the compliance page on the Evonik Intranet. In 2011, the Executive Board issued the Group Policy on Fighting Corruption and Advancement of the Code of Conduct. It defines responsibilities, authorities, tasks, reporting requirements aimed at avoiding corruption and the consequent harm to E ­ vonik. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 45 Capital market compliance In early 2011, capital market compliance was included in the House of Compliance. The requirements for the conduct and organizational obligations of ­Evonik and the employees of the Group are set out in Group-wide policy guidelines, which also provide information about the legal consequence of any violation of the prohibitions under capital markets law. Data protection management The organization of data protection and the permissibility of processing personal data are set out in ­Evonik’s Data Protection Policy. The implementation and coordination of the regulations are supported by the Corporate Data Protection Officer. Web-based training programs and information about the relevant laws and responsibilities are available on the Evonik Intranet. ESHQ management With the corporate Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Values as our starting point, we manage ESHQ for the entire Group by means of policies and operating procedures. Internet Responsibility/ESHQ The responsibility for the implementation of these regulations rests with the business units, which at www.evonik.com verify and ensure this implementation with the aid of regular audits of the regions and sites. In addition, the Environment & Responsibility division at the Corporate Center reviews compliance with corporate regulations by means of audits. In 2011, 25 audits were conducted worldwide. Based on the findings and analyses of international and external monitoring activities, on-site inspections and reviews, talks are conducted that focus on the potential for improvement and the implementation of agreed measures. The Executive Board is informed annually about the audit findings. Intellectual property protection Protecting the knowledge and expertise of our employees and thereby preserving Evonik’s competitive and technological edge is the aim of the Know-how Protection Policy. This policy was adopted mid-year and sets out the principal responsibilities, authorities and reporting requirements, as well as the baseline standards for know-how protection. IT compliance The secure handling of information and the secure use of information systems are set out in Groupwide policies and regulations. The IT Compliance Enforcement Program (ICEP) at ­Evonik enforces the implementation of the compliance requirements that legislation and the Group have set out for persons in charge and employees for the operation and use of IT systems. State-of-the art information security and data protection technology is employed throughout the Group. Modern security systems are installed are installed to prevent potential unauthorized access and loss of data wherever possible. These are continuously enhanced and adapted to the constantly changing risk situation in order to remain appropriately prepared for potential risks in the future. Various training measures are used to heighten all employees’ awareness of the need for information technology security. 46 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Human resources management Evonik’s strategic growth and efficiency targets require comprehensive support by Human Resources (HR) using specifically tailored concepts. Some key future issues that still have to be addressed include ongoing internationalization, the promotion of diversity and demographic trends. Realignment of our HR strategy has paid off in this area: Based on the three strategic goals Attract, Develop and Retain, together with the professionalization of HR work as an internal target, we have defined various fields of action in the areas of employer branding and recruitment, career development and management, as well as the specific challenges of HR work in Asia. These will serve as the focus for HR work in 2012. Important structural requirements for outstanding global HR work are established by the HR on Track program, which has been used to set the initial direction for the HR organization and HR processes. Acquisitions and divestments We seek to strengthen our existing core business through targeted acquisitions. Thus, we conduct a systematic and intensive due diligence process for all potential acquisition targets prior to any purchase in order to identify all material chances and risks and arrive at an appropriate assessment. Should restructuring or divestment be necessary, we also implement these consistently. In addition to the legal and financial conditions and the reliability of the transaction, we also attach great AR Annual Report importance in any divestment to the future development prospects of the business concerned and For more information, see also page 112 ff. its employees. Our activities should therefore be part of a new owner’s core business with good in the ­Evonik Annual Report 2011 prospects for future development. Supply chain management The standards that Evonik sets for suppliers throughout the Group are set out in the corporate procurement policy. We expect our suppliers and business partners to accept our principles for responsible and fair treatment of employees, customers, suppliers and the general public, and to meet their responsibility accordingly. In addition, we have incorporated the CR Strategy into our general purchasing conditions. In this way, supply chain management is aligned even more closely with the themes of health and safety, environmental protection and anti-corruption measures, as Further information well as social aspects such as working conditions. This approach is intended to enable more sustainable CR Report 2010, pages 12, 21, 35 procurement and contribute to risk management at Evonik. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 47 48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Performance Corporate governance and compliance.................. 51 The business............................................................ 52 Employees . ............................................................. 63 The environment..................................................... 77 Safety....................................................................... 91 Society..................................................................... 94 Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Corporate governance and compliance Corporate governance comprises all principles for the management and supervision of a company. As an expression of good and responsible corporate management, it is therefore a key element in Evonik’s management philosophy. The principles of corporate governance relate mainly to cooperation within the Executive Board and Supervisory Board and between these two boards and the shareholders, especially at Shareholders’ Meetings. They also relate to the company’s relationship with other people and organizations with which it has business relations. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board of Evonik Industries AG are explicitly committed to responsible corporate governance and identify with the goals of the German Corporate Governance Code. The Executive Board of Evonik Industries AG is responsible for running the company in the company’s interests with a view to sustained value creation, taking into account the interests of stakeholders. It works together trustfully with the other corporate governance bodies for the good of the company. The Supervisory Board advises and supervises the Executive Board. It appoints the members of the Executive Board and the Chairman of the Executive Board. The Supervisory Board is subject to the German Codetermination Act 1976 (MitbestG). In accordance with these statutory provisions, the Supervisory Board comprises twenty members: ten representatives of the shareholders and ten representatives of the workforce. The representatives of the employees are elected by the workforce CR See also page 29 ff. and comprise seven employee representatives and three representatives of the industrial union. Our CR Strategy Performance-based remuneration for senior management The Supervisory Board is responsible for the employment contracts with the members of the AR Annual Report Executive Board. It determines the total remuneration for each Executive Board member comprising For more information, see page 154 f. and a fixed base salary, shortand long-term remuneration components, post-employment benefit 188 ff. in the ­Evonik Annual Report 2011 payments, expense reimbursements, insurance and various other fringe benefits. The contracts for all Executive Board members and all senior executives include elements that are based on their individual performance and on the overall performance of the Group. Fighting corruption In 2011, ­Evonik further strengthened its anti-corruption measures. As a company that operates on a global basis, we also enter into transactions with regions where there is a risk of corruption according to the ranking on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. We exercise particular care in our dealings with public officials and in the selection of sales agents. Corruption risks are monitored as part of the Group-wide risk management system. Once a year, they are subjected to a risk inventory, which is updated each quarter. Our employees can contact the responsible compliance officer at any time on a confidential basis or, if need be, anonymously, or via the compliance hotline in order to report compliance-related matters. Any indication of conduct that does not comply with the guidelines is pursued. If necessary, the investigation is followed by disciplinary measures. In 2011, in a total of five cases in the entire Group staff members were dismissed. A violation of the anti-corruption guidelines also has far-reaching consequences for our business partners and can result in the termination of the business relationship. In 2011, this occurred in three cases. Since 2011, Corporate Audit and Compliance have pursued signs of unsound practices at the joint venture Evonik Sanzheng Fine Chemicals Co., Ltd. in Northern China. The investigations uncovered a significant number of irregularities. As a result, we dismissed three employees of the joint venture on short notice in January 2012. We intend to terminate the joint venture as quickly as possible. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 51 Compliance training In order to continue to raise awareness of compliance topics among our employees, various online and classroom training sessions are offered on the individual elements of the House of Compliance. The goal is for all employees to undergo training in all topics that are relevant to their work every three years. In the anti-corruption area, we have defined job groups for which this topic is especially important. This includes all departments engaged in external contacts. In Germany, these are presently about 5,600 employees for whom participation in the training is mandatory. About 85 percent have already successfully completed the web-based training program. The e-learning program on anti-corruption measures was prepared in early 2011 and translated into four languages (English, Chinese, Portuguese and Japanese). It was first introduced in Germany and the international roll-out is currently underway. In order to raise awareness of compliance among ­Evonik’s apprentices at the very beginning of their working life, they receive training in compliance activities and our Code of Conduct as part of the ­Evonik Starting Kit in their first year of training. New employees are also informed about compliance issues and the rules and regulations in effect in the Group during classroom training sessions. Various measures were taken in 2011 to raise the awareness of compliance issues among employees: “Tone from the Top,” an interview with the Chairmen of Evonik’s Executive Board on various compliance topics was distributed as a video via the intranet with subtitles in 15 languages. To reinforce these messages, appropriate video formats featuring the heads of the business units were also produced for dissemination via the intranet in 2012. Additional episodes of “Compliance Reports” were produced in 2011. These short videos portray various situations that pose a risk for E ­ vonik and its employees in relation to compliance topics. In addition, a Responsibility Folder combining the corporate brochures containing the publications on the Code of Conduct, the Global Social Policy and the Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Values was distributed to employees in Germany and in the regions in 15 languages. The business Excellent performance 2011 was a very successful year for Evonik. We were able to significantly increase our earnings as the result of high global demand for our products. The key drivers of this success were high demand and, accordingly, high capacity utilization together with improved margins. Most of our production facilities operated at full capacity, particularly during the first half of 2011. Toward the end of the year, capacity utilization returned to normal levels in line with the development of demand. Overall, our sales in 2011 increased 9 percent to €14.5 billion. We were again able to improve our operating earnings as a consequence of increased volume, high capacity utilization, successful cost reductions, and higher selling prices. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and the non-operating result (EBITDA) grew 17 percent to €2.8 billion, while the EBITDA margin AR Annual Report increased from 17.8 to 19.0 percent as earnings rose faster than sales. Earnings before interest, taxes For more information, see page 9 ff. in and the non-operating result (EBIT) surged 28 percent to €2.1 billion. Thanks to our success busithe ­Evonik Annual Report 2011 ness performance, our net income rose 38 percent to €1,011 million. 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex ­Evonik Group: Key figures in € million 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sales 14,444 15,873 10,518 13,300 14,540 EBITDA1) 2,236 2,165 1,607 2,365 2,768 EBITDA margin in % 15.5 13.6 15.3 17.8 19.0 EBIT2) 1,363 1,298 868 1,639 2,099 ROCE3) in % 9.7 9.0 7.7 15.0 18.7 Net income 876 281 240 734 1,011 Total assets as of December 31 19,800 20,115 18,907 20,543 16,944 Equity ratio as of December 31 in % 25.7 25.6 27.6 29.1 35.8 Cash flow from operating activities 1,215 388 2,092 2,075 1,309 Capital expenditures4) 1,032 1,160 569 652 830 Depreciation and amortization4) 862 842 712 694 647 Net financial debt as of December 31 3,924 4,583 3,431 1,677 843 Employees as of December 31 43,057 40,767 33,861 34,407 33,556 Figures for 2009 adjusted to reflect the reclassification of the former Energy Business Area to discontinued operations, figures for 2008 and 2007 as reported. 1) EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, write-downs and non-operating result. 2) EBIT = Earnings before interest, taxes and non-operating result. 3) Return on capital employed. 4) Intangible assets, property, plant, equipment and investment property. Sales by region1) Other Germany 2% 26% Central and South America 4% North America 19 % Other European countries 29% Asia 20% 1) By point of sale. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 53 Value added Value added is calculated from sales and other revenues less the cost of materials, depreciation and amortization and other expenses. In line with the successful development of the operating business, value added rose 9 percent to €4,565 million in 2011. The largest share of value added—58 percent (2010: 65 percent)—went to our employees. 11 percent (2010: 5 percent) of value added was paid to the state in income tax and other taxes, while another 9 percent (2010: 11 percent) went on interest payments. Shareholders of ­Evonik Industries AG received 22 percent of value added, up from 18 percent in 2010. Breakdown of value added in € million 2011 2010 Total value added 4,565 4,191 Split Employees 2,628 2,732 State 492 215 Creditors 431 451 Non-controlling interests 3 59 Net income 1,011 734 Figures do not include the energy business. Significant increase in investments ­Evonik is expanding in business segments and markets where it already has—or intends to build— a strong competitive position. The company’s targeted investments are intended to secure potential for sustained, profitable growth and added value. In 2011, we increased capital expenditures 27 percent to €830 million (2010: €652 million). The increase was based on strategic growth projects that had already been planned during the economic crisis and were either begun or continued in 2011. This was compounded by newly approved projects, which will result in higher capital expenditures in the years to come. The largest single project completed in 2011 was the expansion of our production capacities for lithium-ion cells in Kamenz (Germany). In regional terms, the focus of capital expenditures was on Germany, which accounted for 58 percent, followed by the USA and China, which accounted for 13 and 8 percent, respectively. We have budgeted total capital expenditures of over €6 billion in the next five years to expand our specialty chemicals business. Major projects completed or virtually completed in 2011 Segment Location Project Consumer, Health & Nutrition Various sites Expansion of production capacity for methionine Garyville (LA, USA) New steam and power supply infrastructure Resource Efficiency Yokkaichi (Japan) New production plants for monosilane and AEROSIL Specialty Materials Liaoyang (China) Expansion of production capacity and relocation of production of stabilizers/additives Changchun (China) Expansion of production capacity for PEEK Marl (Germany) Expansion of compounding capacity Real Estate Germany Energy-efficient modernization, new developments in the Cologne area, selective purchases of residential real estate in the Ruhr region, portfolio acquisitions 54 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Focus on specialty chemicals leads to changes in the Group We made great advances in our effort to turn ­Evonik into a company with an exclusive focus on specialty chemicals. On March 2, 2011, we closed the agreement signed in December 2010 to sell 51 percent of shares in STEAG to a German municipal utilities consortium in the Rhine-Ruhr region. This offers the Energy business the opportunity to fully leverage its growth potential with a new majority shareholder. We also agreed to binding commitments to divest the remaining stake in STEAG between 2014 and 2017. We also concluded agreements with the German Mining, Chemicals and Energy industrial union (IG BCE) on the implementation of the future model for our real estate activities. The planned merger of our real estate business with THS, in which ­Evonik and IG BCE each hold 50 percent of the shares, will result in the third-largest German housing company. To ensure a stable ownership structure in the long term, ­Evonik plans to transfer a portion of its real estate holdings to the Contractual Trust Arrangement (CTA) that secures the long-term pension claims of ­Evonik employees. RAG-Stiftung also plans to take a stake in the real estate company. As part of our concentration on specialty chemicals, we expect to completely divest our real estate holdings in the intermediate CR See also page 29 term. ­Evonik and THS pooled the management of their real estate holdings in the joint venture Strategy consistently implemented Vivawest Wohnen GmbH effective January 1, 2012. Active portfolio management combined with efficient capital allocation is a high priority for the Evonik Group. We invest only in businesses that promise sustained, profitable growth, and supplement our portfolio with targeted acquisitions to add specific products, markets, and technologies. At the same time, we divest activities that no longer match our strategy or fall short of our profit expectations. To strengthen our leading market position in the Consumer, Health & Nutrition Segment we acquired the RESOMER business of the Boehringer Ingelheim Group of Ingelheim (Germany), the pharmaceutical business of SurModics Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Birmingham (Alabama, USA) and the hanse-chemie Group in Geesthacht (Germany) in 2011. We also took over the activities of the Norwegian company FESIL Sunergy AS from FESIL AS of Trondheim (Norway) to supplement the Resource Efficiency Segment and boosted the North American position of our hydrogen peroxide business in the Specialty Materials segment by acquiring a Canadian production facility from Kemira Canada Inc. of Maitland (Ontario, Canada). In late July 2011, we divested the carbon black business from the Resource Efficiency segment to a investment company owned by funds, which are managed and advised by Rhône Capital LLC, New York (New York, USA) and Triton Partners, St. Helier (Jersey, Channel Islands). At the same time, we also sold the plastic additives and plastisols business from the Resource Efficiency segment to Kaneka Belgium N.V. of Westerlo-Oevel (Belgium). Fostering customer relationships Close cooperation with our customers is one of Evonik’s strength. Our customers are a source of inspiration and ideas and therefore act as value drivers, particularly with regard to CR and sustainability demands coming from the market and consumers. We work with our customers to develop or advance new and existing products and adjust our services. In some cases, we also move up the CR See also page 33 ff. value chain and share intermediate steps of production with customers, depending on the parties’ Dialog with our stakeholders expertise. Regarding customers as cooperation partners is an essential step in the direction of CR and sustainability. It takes a shared understanding of our products and how they are applied in the market to clearly define and present their advantages. We performed life cycle analyses for all major products and product groups and shared them with our customers to create transparency about the environmental impact of our products and their application. Based on this information, customers can compare us effectively with our competitors and give us feedback on our performance. This approach creates trusting cooperation, an important cultural step for the future of our society. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 55 Important aspects of customer relationships include the many contacts with employees in procurement, product development, engineering, marketing, strategic development, and management. For our key accounts, these contacts are coordinated in our Strategic Partnership Management system. Research and Development Driver of profitable growth For ­Evonik, innovative energy and customer proximity are important success factors and drivers of profitable growth. As one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies, in 2011, we increased spending on research and development (R&D) by 8 percent to €365 million (2010: €338 million) so that we can continue to offer our customers new and improved products and applications. Our R&D is organized on a decentralized basis and is closely aligned to market requirements. ­Evonik’s worldwide R&D network spans more than 35 sites with about 2,400 employees. These days, future-oriented areas of innovation are found principally at the interfaces between traditional disciplines, for example, between chemistry and biology, and chemistry and engineering. Our experts thus increasingly work in interdisciplinary teams. In addition, ­Evonik has defined six cross-unit Areas of Competence that will allow us to leverage further synergies in the development of innovations and realize additional growth potential. R&D at ­Evonik R&D expenses €365 million Expenses for joint research with other companies, universities and scientific/technical institutes approx. €8 million R&D employees approx. 2,400 Locations more than 35 R&D projects approx. 450 Number of new patent applications filed approx. 300 Total patents held and applications filed more than 24,000 Total registered trademarks (including applications filed) more than 7,500 Funding of innovation projects by the European Union and the Federal Republic of Germany about €16.1 million A strong culture of innovation ­Evonik sees itself as a “learning organization” and has anchored this in a long-term innovation management program. We have set up stringent processes in our operating units and our strategic research unit Creavis Technologies & Innovation (Creavis) to allocate the R&D budget to specific projects. I2P (Idea to Profit)—our all-round project management system—allows efficient identification and evaluation of the entire innovation process. Sustainability also plays an important role CR See also page 36 in our innovation culture. For example, ­Evonik has developed a method to evaluate the carbon CFE footprint of future products and processes at an early phase in their development. 56 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex R&D spending Other Development of new products ~5% ~40 % Improved applications for established products ~10% Improved production processes for established products New technology platforms ~25% ~20% To complement current innovation processes and structures, we intend to invest up to €100 million in promising start-ups in the next few years through our corporate venturing activities, either directly or indirectly through specialist venture capital funds. We see this as a suitable tool for accelerating the development of new businesses and opening up new growth opportunities in the megatrends that we have identified. At the same time, our Corporate Foresight Team is developing robust future businesses for ­Evonik with a time horizon of 10 to 15 years. The focus will be on future needs. Based on trend analyses we will identify the challenges that the markets will face in the future. One example of this is the growing number of megacities throughout the world—cities CR See also page 20 f. in which more than 10 million people live—and the associated opportunities for our specialty Pictures of the future chemicals activities. Interdisciplinary strategic research Our project houses, science-to-business (S2B) centers, and internal start-ups are run by Creavis. CR See also page 60 After the recent completion of our successful System Integration Project House, we are currently Globalization―a megatrend operating the Light & Electronics Project House in Taiwan. We currently have two S2B centers: the S2B Center Biotechnology, which is developing new biotechnology products and processes based on renewable raw materials, and the Eco2 S2B Center, which is working on innovative products and applications in the field of energy efficiency and climate protection. As of January 1, 2012, the Coatings & Additives Business Unit took over the printed electronics project from the former Nanotronics S2B Center. This is the first time a business unit has taken over a business built up according to the S2B concept, together with all employees and the research and applications technology. Systematic networking with scientists Based on the motto “Open Innovation,” ­Evonik also has many cooperation agreements with universities and scientific institutes to ensure that top research findings on sustainable aspects of chemistry, biology, and physics are rapidly transferred to the company. In 2011, we invested about CR See also page 95 €8 million in joint research with universities, scientific and technical institutes, and other companies. Support for junior researchers Our technology scouts in China, Japan, India, Brazil, and the USA have a network of contacts to leading scientific institutions and companies in their regions. This enables them to rapidly identify suitable cooperation partners for business ideas developed by their colleagues on the operational side. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 57 Internal Innovation Award We also have an internal Innovation Award, which is presented annually in recognition of outstanding application-oriented research achievements. In December 2011, the award for the category “New Product/New System Solution” went to VESTAMID for a fluoride-free backsheet for solar modules. The new VESTAMID backsheet is much easier to recycle than a composite film made from polyvinyl fluoride and polyester. In addition, it is more resistant to temperature and light, reflects better, and is also less expensive. In the category “New or Improved Process,” the award went to an innovative process for producing a titanium silicalite catalyst that was developed in collaboration between the Inorganic Materials and Advanced Intermediates Business Units. This innovation is used in the HPPO (hydrogen peroxide to propylene oxide) process that Evonik and Uhde developed together. In the HPPO process, hydrogen peroxide is used to produce propylene oxide, a starting product for polyurethanes. The market for propylene oxide is growing fast, espeInternet Company/Research & Development cially in Asia. With the new catalyst the process is now simpler, less expensive and, because of the at www.evonik.com reduced waste flows, more environmentally friendly. Research also contributes to sustainable development On the basis of its technology and research expertise, ­Evonik works in areas of research where particularly strong growth is expected. We provide key answers to the economic megatrends of resource efficiency, health, nutrition, as well as globalization, while opening up promising new growth markets. In the long term, our R&D contributes to sustainable development and to balancing economic, ecological and social interests. Resource efficiency―a megatrend Secure energy supplies together with environmental conservation—­Evonik researches and develops new products and applications to improve resource efficiency. New polyimide membranes optimize biogas purification Biogas is an eco-friendly energy source that is becoming increasingly important in today‘s energy supply. It can be used to generate power or heat or as a fuel, and provides a high energy yield per square meter of land. Evonik has developed SEPURAN Green, a product for the inexpensive and energy-efficient purification of biogas, which increases the increases yields and conserves valuable resources more than previous technologies. The alternative energy source is produced as raw biogas by fermentation of biomass, an organic substance consisting of, for example, plants, liquid manure, or effluent sludge. The methane content is the most important reason for using the biogas, as it releases energy when under combustion. Apart from methane, the fermentation also produces carbon dioxide and other trace gases. Since carbon dioxide is not combustible, it lowers the calorific value of the gas and thus has to be removed. Only then can the biogas be fed into the natural gas grid. This is where the new especially selective polymer membranes from ­Evonik come in. They convert raw biogas simply and efficiently into highly pure biomethane. The special feature of the product is its pressureand temperature-resistant high selectivity which ensures improved separation of carbon dioxide and methane. The high-performance polymers also have the advantage that the separated, highly pure biomethane no longer has to be compressed to be fed into the grid. Consequently, the biogas can also be used in smaller plants, which allows decentralized energy supply. 58 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Improved building insulation The requirements for renovation work are increasing, particularly when it comes to energy consumption. This is a particular challenge in the case of heritage-protected facades and buildings with little available space, both of which require special solutions. In collaboration with a customer, Evonik developed this solution: panels that insulate the building from inside. The special feature of these panels is their AEROSIL core. The insulation panels will be marketed under the brand name CALOSTAT. Because of the outstanding thermal insulation of properties AEROSIL the panel thickness could be reduced by two-thirds compared to other insulation panels. Several buildings have already been insulated with the new panels. Health and nutrition―a megatrend Aging while remaining healthy, and without looking old: ­Evonik helps make this dream come true. We develop active ingredients that are used in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. We also produce the four most important amino acids for advanced animal feeds. In doing so, we make an important contribution to the sustainable nutrition of the world’s population. The BMBF’s PeTrA project: Simpler administration of biotherapeutics The goal of the PeTrA project (Platform for efficient epithelial transport of pharmaceutical applications with innovative particular carrier systems), which is sponsored by the German Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF) is to make injections superfluous in biotherapeutics through new tablet and spray formulations. PeTrA is managed by a consortium consisting of ­Evonik Industries AG, Merck KGaA, EMC microcollections GmbH, the Helmholtz Center for Infection Research, and the Fraunhofer Institute for Interfacial Engineering and Biotechnology (IGB). Universities and hospitals are also participating. PeTrA started on July 1, 2011, will run for three years, and has a budget of €6 million. Biotherapeutics enable new therapies, such as cancer immunotherapy, but generally have to be PeTrA (­Evonik funding reference injected. The objective of PeTrA is a broadly applicable system for administration orally via the number: 13N11454) is part of the BMBF funding program “Efficient transport of respiratory tract. To this end, the biotherapeutics are packaged in nanoparticles made of new active ingredients in biological systems – biofunctional polymers. The particles protect them against degradation in the stomach or intestine BioMatVital: Biotransporter” and transport them safely to the target region. Amino acids in aquaculture Within the scope of its strategic development, ­Evonik has expanded its amino acid marketing activities to include aquaculture. In view of the increasing scarcity of natural resources, the addition of amino acids to feedstuff saves valuable fish meal, increases the feed efficiency for fish and crustaceans, and reduces environmental impact because of the lower nitrogen output. To open up premium markets with a differentiated range of products, ­Evonik developed a new, innovative product that provides an optimized and more efficient source of methionine for shrimps and other crustaceans. We are also investigating fermentative production of innovative algae with a high Omega-3 fatty acid content as a substitute for fish oil. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 59 Globalization―a megatrend Strong growth in emerging countries is enabling many people to improve their standard of living, which also means that demand for high-quality products will increase. ­Evonik is expanding its presence in growth regions because we can best fulfill our customer’s requirements when we are close to them. First project house in Asia In April 2011, ­Evonik started its Advanced Project House “Light & Electronics,” which moved into its newly built premises and laboratories in Hsinchu (Taiwan) at the beginning of 2012. By taking this step towards Asia, we are advancing the necessary globalization of our research activities and getting even closer to our customers and markets. The project house will deal with new products and technologies for the photovoltaics, display, and lighting industries. In its project houses, Evonik develops research topics that span multiple business units. Employees work together with cooperation partners and universities to develop new products and technologies. The Advanced Project House represents an evolution in this successful concept with an even greater focus on business development and customer loyalty, where innovation processes are adapted to customers’ increasingly short innovation cycles. Light & Electronics is Evonik’s ninth project house and the first one outside Germany. “Tego Innovation Center” services the Asian growth market locally In November 2011, ­Evonik opened its first research and development center for coatings and colorants additives in Asia. The Tego Innovation Center covers the Shanghai and Singapore sites, and is part of E­ vonik’s global innovation network. In the new Tego Innovation Center, scientists and experts from the region work together with regional customers and research institutes to develop individual solutions that will enhance our Asian customers’ competitive strengths. The research concentrates on regional needs, with the focus on future-oriented, environmentally friendly coating systems, and thus takes account of the resource efficiency megatrend. In addition to cooperating with business partners, particular emphasis will be placed on research cooperation agreements with the top local universities. Product stewardship Responsible handling of chemicals ­Evonik gives high priority to the safe handling and use of chemicals. Consequently, our ESHQ (environment, safety, health and quality) Values reflect a commitment to protecting people and Internet the environment. This also includes an explicit commitment to product stewardship in keeping with www.responsible-care.de the provisions of the chemical industry’s Responsible Care initiative. Systematic evaluation of product life cycles Since 2001, ­Evonik has used a Chemicals Management System (CMS) that facilitates an evaluation of products in the form of lifecycle tracking. The CMS is structured to meet the voluntary commitments to the Responsible Care initiative as well as the Global Product Strategy (GPS) of the Internet International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). It contributes to the development of a Products & Solutions/ Product stewardship future-oriented and sustainable product portfolio through the identification and evaluation of at www. evonik.com substance-related hazards, thus facilitating a timely response which also helps protect our employees. The CMS ensures the identification of risks that arise from the use of substances for their intended purpose. In this way, it also provides the basis for effective and technically sound communications about the potential impact of our products. 60 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex CMS risk-assessment process Select substances for risk assessment Gather information Allocate substances to tiers Complete information Hazard characterization Exposure assessment Risk characterization Document outcome The overall evaluation of a substance in CMS is a multi-step process. As a first step, all substances that are placed on the market in quantities exceeding one metric ton p.a. are registered and the available data on the selected substances is collected. The substances are then prioritized and any missing data is obtained. In the next step, the intrinsic properties of the substances are evaluated to characterize the potential hazard to people and the environment. This is followed by an assessment of the exposure of people and the environment during the handling and use of the substance. This is the basis for the risk assessment. The information about the risk potential of a product makes it possible to reach conclusions about whether the present safety practice is adequate or needs to be improved. Improvements also include possible restrictions on the use or a ban on the marketing of products by ­Evonik. Implementation of REACH Under the EU chemicals regulation REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), all substances produced, imported or placed on the market in the EU in quantities of more than 1,000 metric tons p.a. had to be registered by November 30, 2010. Particularly hazardous substances for the environment, as well as substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or have an adverse affect on the reproductive organs in quantities above one metric ton also had to be registered. In this initial phase, ­Evonik pre-registered 167 substances and registered additional substances without pre-registration status. Since early 2011, ­Evonik has been preparing substance dossiers and substance safety reports for the second registration phase, which runs through May 31, 2013. This Internet covers substances that are produced in quantities of between 100 and 1,000 metric tons p.a.. ­Evonik www.reach-info.de expects to register approximately 160 substances for this tonnage band. By the end of 2011, ­Evonik had completed a total of more than 300 registrations. It is estimated that Further information ­Evonik will register up to 800 substances by 2018. To date, the registration obligations have caused CR Report 2010, page 43 no noteworthy changes in the portfolio. ­ vonik supports the Global Product Strategy E The aim of the Global Product Strategy (GPS) of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) is to create a consistent process for the risk evaluation of substances so as to ensure the safe handling of chemicals. ­Evonik explicitly supports the GPS initiative and actively drives it forward. As a member of the GPS steering committee—the Chemical Policy and Health Group—we actively participate in shaping the working principles and framework for the strategy. One of the goals of the GPS is to make information about the safe handling and use of chemical substances available in the form that can be understood by the general public. Under an agreement by the ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 61 European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic), the relevant Safety Summaries for substances used in the EU were to be prepared on the basis of the REACH registration dossiers by the end of 2011. ­Evonik published these Safety Summaries on its website on a timely basis. Presently, more than 90 Safety Summaries are available there for the EU as well as 104 Safety Summaries for the USA. Internet They can also be accessed via the website of the International Council of Chemical Associations www.icca-chem.org (ICCA). In 2012, we will update the Safety Summaries for the USA. In addition, Safety Summaries that are relevant for the China region will also be made available in Chinese and/or new information sheets will be prepared. GHS: uniform labeling of chemicals The Global Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) has been in effect in Europe since the start of 2009. In compliance with the EU Regulation, we implemented the new rules for substances by the end of 2010. This includes adjustments to the classification and labeling of substances as well as the safety data sheets and tags. Implementation for mixtures is mandatory as of June 1, 2015 and is already being successively implemented in the segments. We Internet www.umweltbundesamt.de/ also submitted information on more than 1,600 substances for the classification and labeling regchemikalien/ghs ister. There are no minimum quantities for substances under this reporting obligation. Minimizing animal testing To comply with national and international legislation, ­Evonik is also required to conduct tests on animals. In doing so, we follow what is referred to as the 3R concept: Reduce, Refine, Replace. Internet This concept is also an element of our new guideline on the topic of animal testing, which we www.epaa.eu.com adopted in 2012. Before we order testing on animals, we examine in light of the exposure whether it is scientifically justifiable and legally possible to avoid it. In order to avoid animal testing wherever possible, we agree on joint testing with other manufacturers of the same substance and rely on data that has already been published. In addition, ­Evonik also supports the development of alternative test methods. Thus, the Group is a member of EPAA (European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testing). It also supports SET (Foundation for the Promotion of Alternate and Complementary Methods to Reduce Animal Testing) via the Chemical Industry Association. We are engaged in a direct dialog with the responsible authorities about the acceptance of alternative methods. 62 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Employees Realignment of HR work The strategic realignment of the Group with a focus on specialty chemicals and the changes in the management structure in 2011 posed many challenges for the Human Resources departments. In the course of these changes, HR work at ­Evonik also underwent a realignment. Consistent perforCR See also page 47 mance evaluation and remuneration systems, consistent labor union agreements and a competency Human resources management model adapted to the new requirements in 2011 testify to this. HR Strategy—Employees as a critical success factor The realignment of our HR strategy in accordance with the strategic drivers Attract, Develop and Retain has proven its worth. The next important step is to put the HR Strategy into practice as a guiding framework for HR work and to continue and implement it through concrete measures. Here, the HR departments are bound by their own commitment in the spirit of functional excellence. On the HR business side, we want to achieve excellence for all of our employees. We will support the strategic growth and efficiency goals of the Group with specifically tailored personnel concepts in order to make an important contribution to keeping ­Evonik on a sustainable course to success, especially in the rapidly growing markets in Asia. Based on the three strategic goals Attract, Develop and Retain, together with the professionalization of HR work as an internal target, we defined various fields of action in 2011 in the areas of employer branding and recruitment, career development and management as well as the specific challenges of HR work in Asia. These will be the substantive focus of our work in 2012 so that we can achieve our goal of delivering outstanding HR performance. ty Co r sib te ili ra Re Develop po sp Cu on ltu ra HR re te Performance & po Co Va lu r Attract Retain es HR Strategy Corporate Strategy (Growth, Portfolio Management, Efficiency) Outstanding HR performance HR on Track provides important structural requirements for our HR work worldwide. The goal is to achieve an outstanding HR performance through efficient and uniform processes, transparent structures and modern HR IT systems. This also includes a culture of partnership and cooperation across departmental boundaries in order to create HR work “from the same mold.” ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 63 In late 2011, we decided on the first organizational and procedural changes—the reorganization of HR support for the German locations in three sub-regions under uniform management starting in 2012. At the same time it was agreed to introduce an ­Evonik Recruiting Center and an ­Evonik HR Counseling Center for Germany; further standardization of existing rules and regulations is planned jointly with the workforce representatives. In addition, we worked with international participants in 2011 to develop a uniform HR process model. The results are to be implemented starting in 2012 together with the introduction of a new global HR IT system for all employees. Strategic HR planning with dynamic scenario simulations ­Evonik uses a system for strategic HR planning that can model quantitative and qualitative changes in the workforce and future workforce requirements under dynamic scenarios. This was put into production at the German sites in 2011. In 2012, we expect to support important investment projects of the Group with this approach to HR planning. From the labor market, 3,160 new employees were recruited in 2011. In addition, we were able to recruit 660 young people for an apprenticeship at Evonik and another 100 were given places on a special program to prepare them for work. Recruitment of employees from the labor market 2011 in % (Reference: employees as of Dec. 31, 2010) No. of new hires By region Europe 6.0 1,497 Americas 10.8 476 Asia 23.8 1,158 Other 12.2 29 By gender Female 11.4 886 Male 8.5 2,274 By age Under 30 19.4 1,180 30 to 50 8.7 1,723 Over 50 3.0 257 9.2 3,160 We are opposed to any form of forced labor. Our employment contracts are entered into with the independent consent of our employees who are free to end the employment relationship by giving unilateral notice. 64 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Employee structure As of year-end 2011, the ­Evonik Group had 33,556 employees; 35 percent of the workforce was employed outside of Germany. The headcount declined by 5,767 employees mainly as a result of divestments. Following the sale of the majority interest in STEAG, about 5,500 employees left the Group. Owing to the acquisition of an Indian energy company, which occurred in January 2011, this number is materially higher than the figure at year-end 2010. With the divestment of the carbon black business in the Resource Efficiency segment, the headcount decreased by about 1,450 employees. We are certain that we have placed both activities into good hands that will enable the positive future development of the business as well as of the employees. The overall staff fluctuation rate at the company in 2011 was 2.2 percent worldwide; 412 employees left our Group after giving notice on their own accord. Other reasons for fluctuations mainly include parental leave and long-term illness. Staff fluctuation 2011 Fluctuation rate in % (Reference: employees Unplanned turnover as of Dec. 31, 2010) (number of employees) By region Europe 1.9 468 Americas 3.5 155 Asia 2.4 115 Other 3.4 8 By gender Female 3.5 275 Male 1.8 471 By age Under 30 3.1 187 30 to 50 2.4 479 Over 50 0.9 80 2.2 746 Employee structure 2009 2010 2011 Total employees 33,861 34,407 33,556 of whom female 7,557 7,749 7,863 of whom male 26,304 26,658 25,693 of whom apprentices in Germany 1,8831) 1,8401) 1,8111) 2,1652) 1) Apprentices with a training contract with E­ vonik. 2) Apprentices with a contract with ­Evonik, third party training and the “Start in den Beruf” program to prepare young people for work. The average age of employees in 2011 was 41.4 years. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 65 Employees by segment1) Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2010 Consumer, Health & Nutrition 6,384 6,326 Resource Efficiency 6,381 7,874 Specialty Materials 6,846 6,789 Services 10,946 10,616 Real Estate 1,135 1,098 Other operations 1,864 1,704 Continuing operations 33,556 34,407 Discontinued operations (Energy) 0 4,916 ­­Evonik 33,556 39,323 1) The former Energy Business Area was deconsolidated in 2011 following divestment of the majority stake. Employees by region 2011 2010 Count Count in % Count Count in % Europe 24,654 73 24,904 72 thereof Germany 21,909 65 21,894 64 thereof Western Europe, excluding Germany 2,355 7 2,545 7 thereof Eastern Europe 390 1 465 1 Americas 4,214 13 4,400 13 thereof North America 3,905 12 4,064 12 thereof Central and South America 309 1 336 1 Asia 4,523 13 4,865 14 Other 165 1 238 1 33,556 100 34,407 100 Age structure in the ­Evonik Group in % Under 21 years 4 21 – 25 years 8 26 – 30 years 9 31 – 35 years 10 36 – 40 years 12 41 – 45 years 15 46 – 50 years 17 51 – 55 years 15 56 – 60 years 8 Over 60 years 2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 66 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex To prevent child labor, we verify the age of our employees during the hiring process. Our four youngest employees are 15 years of age and participate in a training program. Structural changes―new corporate alignment As of August 1, 2011, the management of all operations of ­Evonik Degussa GmbH, ­Evonik Goldschmidt GmbH, ­Evonik Oxeno GmbH, ­Evonik Röhm GmbH and ­Evonik Stockhausen GmbH was transferred to ­Evonik Industries AG. As a result of these changes in company management and the associated transfer of a total of more than 13,600 employees, ­Evonik Industries AG is now the single employer for all employees of the transferred units. At the same time, the Framework Balancing of Interest agreement and the On Track Framework Social Plan, including the provision that excludes contract termination with notice, were extended for another two years until December 31, 2014. Standardization of employment conditions As part of the realignment of ­Evonik as a specialty chemicals group, the staff of the Corporate Center and of the corporate service provider ­Evonik Services GmbH were migrated from the company-based union collective bargaining agreement to the industry-wide collective bargaining agreement for the chemical industry as of January 1, 2012. With the exception of the Real Estate segment, the ­Evonik Group is thus largely covered by uniform collective bargaining agreements. Remuneration systems realigned world-wide In cooperation with the employees’ representatives, the remuneration systems for employees exempt from collective agreements and for senior executives in Germany were adjusted in keeping with the new corporate alignment. The previous remuneration arrangements in the Group, which varied in the extreme, were replaced by a new uniform system. This creates transparent remuneration structures that take the specific needs of Evonik into account. At the international level, two projects to introduce global remuneration standards and to realign the remuneration systems were undertaken in Asia. In the Greater China Region, the appraisal and job grading system was revised. In the South-East Asia, Australia, New Zealand (SEAANZ) region, we have started the regrading. Our next step is to integrate additional regions into the Evonik Global Grading System. Performance bonus under the wage agreement―the Performance is right In connection with the performance evaluation for 2011, we agreed with the Central Works Council on new uniform regulations for the performance bonus for all non-exempt employees in Germany. In doing so, we succeeded in designing a new uniform performance bonus system for the ­Evonik Group that combines the appraisal interview and the performance review for the non-exempt employees into one logical unit. Employee participation 2011―sharing in the company’s success The “Mitwachsen” employee participation plan was offered in Germany for the fourth time in 2011. About 34 percent of the entitled employees subscribed to participation rights (2010: 29 percent). The plan rewards our employees for their commitment by enabling them to share in the success of the Group: Capital invested in the form of participation rights yields a return that is based on the return on capital employed (ROCE) realized by the Group. In addition, ­Evonik also promotes participation through subsidies. For legal and tax reasons, the employee participation plan in this form is only available in Germany. This notwithstanding, close to 83 percent of our worldwide locations offer performance and/or profit-based incentive systems, in many cases in the form of premiums and/or bonus schemes. These systems cover about 83 percent of our employees (excluding apprentices). At some German locations, incentive systems that are primarily performance-based are also available to apprentices. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 67 Competencies―consistently growth oriented The clear focus on specialty chemicals is also reflected in the changed demands on management, senior executives, and employees. The central perspectives Passion For Business and Passion About People establish key points of focus for the future within the framework of the ­Evonik competency model. A reasonable balance of profit orientation and longer-term strategic thinking will be as relevant for success as a permanent capacity for innovation and change. The key to this are people with a broad range of experience to whom we will assign responsibility in line with their strength, and to whom we will offer sustained development—on the basis of the ­Evonik competency model. Employee appraisal interviews―a core element of employee development We established a uniform Group-wide standard for annual appraisal interviews back in 2008. In 2011, we refined it based on our new competency model. We continue to view regular employee appraisal interviews as a core element of career development and as a core management tool. The results of the most recent employee survey in November 2010 show that this tool is used across the board in almost all business units. Personnel expenses and social security contributions The personnel expenses for the continuing operations of the ­Evonik Group in 2011 totaled €2.63 billion and thus decreased by €104 million (3.8 percent) from the prior year. Provisions for pensions were recognized on the basis of benefit plans for retirement, disability and survivors’ benefits. The benefit obligations differ according to the legal, tax and economic circumstances in the respective countries in which the companies operate. As a rule, the level of benefit obligations depends on the employee’s length of service and remuneration. Germany accounted for the great majority of the provisions for pensions recognized on the balance sheet date, i.e. about 93.6 percent (2010: 93.2 percent). The great majority of company pension plans at companies in Germany are defined benefit plans. The benefit obligations in Germany are primarily funded by provisions and by the pension fund assets. In 2010 for the first time, some pension obligations were partly funded externally in the form of a contractual trust arrangement. The plans agreed at foreign entities are either defined contribution or on defined benefit plans. Personnel expenses in € million 2011 2010 Wages and salaries 2,140 2,207 Social security contributions 315 309 Pension expenses 149 198 Other personnel expense 24 18 2,628 2,732 Voluntary social benefit plans depend on regional conditions and requirements. In most countries in which ­Evonik operates, there is a public health insurance system with a varied range of benefits. Depending on regional requirements, ­Evonik offers its employees company health insurance—to supplement or replace the lack of legally stipulated care—in order to ensure adequate care in the event of illness. 68 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Proportion of employees with access to health insurance 20111) in % Statutory health (multiple entries possible) care system Company plan Mixed forms Germany 100 0 0 Other European countries 98 0 65 North America 8 92 1 Central and South America 97 0 88 Asia 84 9 49 Other 62 24 18 1) Deviations from prior year possible owing to process improvements. Disabled employees account for 5.7 percent of the workforce at ­Evonik in Germany. Thus, ­Evonik exceeds the quota of 5 percent that is prescribed in Germany. Except in a very few cases, there are also public retirement benefit schemes and a large number of company pension plans that differ from region to region. In addition to employer models, these include models financed solely by employees and in many countries, a mixture of both types. Proportion of employees who have a company pension plan 2011 in % Financed by Financed by (multiple entries possible) employer employee Mixed forms Germany 42 42 35 85 Other European countries 50 50 0 33 North America 100 100 0 100 Central and South America 0 0 0 87 Asia 9 9 0 8 Other 0 0 0 92 Equality of opportunity CR See also page 42 f. Equality of opportunity is part of our responsibility to our employees. Our Code of Conduct and Code of Conduct and our Global Social Policy forbid any form of discrimination on the basis of origin, race, religion, age, Global Social Policy gender, sexual orientation, or disability. Contacts for reporting cases of discrimination are available in all regions. In addition, measures for the integration of foreign employees are available to 70 percent of our workforce. More than half of our employees have access to measures or activities to prevent discrimination. In 2011, there was one reported case of discrimination that led to sanctions under employment law. The remuneration of both exempt and non-exempt employees is gender neutral and is based solely on the grade assigned to the job they perform. 23.4 percent of our employees are female. 16 percent of our employees occupy a senior executive position. In that group, every sixth job is held by a woman. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 69 Cooperation based on mutual trust The success of the company relies to a significant degree on cooperation between employer and employee representatives on the basis of mutual trust. Such cooperation occurs in compliance with the relevant laws of the countries in question and takes the operating framework into account. The representatives of the employees receive timely information on significant operational changes. Employee representation is in place at almost all locations in Germany in the form of works councils and senior staff committees. The works councils are empowered by law as the legitimate representative for the non-exempt and exempt employees, while the senior staff committees are the legitimate representative for senior executives. Issues for the respective groups of employees that span across specific sites fall under the jurisdiction of the Central Works Council and the Group Senior Staff Committee. At the European level, the Group-wide interests of the employees are represented by the Evonik Europa Forum, which brings representatives of management and workforce together. In all regions in which ­Evonik operates, our employees have the fundamental right to join labor unions, to the extent that national law does not limit the right to freedom of assembly or collective agreements. The works councils and the senior staff committees work together constructively on the basis of mutual trust. In 2011, their work was focused on the development of the new remuneration system for all exempt employees and senior executives of the Group. Worldwide, 96 percent of our employees work at companies where employee representation is in place. 96 percent are covered by collective bargaining agreements or other collective rules governing remuneration. Initiatives from employee surveys In late 2010, 78.8 percent of those surveyed participated in the Group-wide employee survey that is conducted at regular 2-year intervals. The results show that loyalty to the company and the rating of employee involvement have noticeably increased. One issue where employees are specifically demanding action is the issue of individual development initiatives. From the perspective of our employees, there have been sustained improvements in the area of management, which was often strongly criticized in earlier surveys. As part of the follow-up process, the survey results are transFurther information lated into specific improvement measures. By the end of 2011, more than 200 improvement measures CR Report 2010, page 50 had already been worked on. Preparing for work As labor and management partners, IG BCE and the Federal Employers’ Association for the Chemical Industry (BAVC), created the “Start in den Beruf” initiative more than ten years ago. This program offers school leavers without an apprenticeship position the opportunity to start their working lives nevertheless. In 2011, we increased the number of participants throughout ­Evonik from 70 to 100 in light of our good experience. Since 2001, more than 500 young adults have gone through the program at ­Evonik locations. A little more than 71 percent of the participants subsequently started a training program; seven percent were referred to continuing programs. E ­ vonik offers special project days and internships for high school students. A total of more than 2,600 boys and girls participated in these in 2011. More than 4,200 days across all participating training locations were devoted to these programs—that accounted for about 38 percent of the total time that the training locations invest in preparing high school students for the working world. 70 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Training We want to recruit our future employees—for which the need will grow in the coming years as a result of demographic trends—primarily from the ranks of those that we have trained and developed, so as to realize sustained HR work. About 2,160 young adults are being trained at more than 20 training locations in Germany for about 40 officially recognized qualifications. Apprentices account for close 9 percent of our workforce and thus way above the industry average (5.1 percent including the “Start in den Beruf” program). In 2011, investment in training totaled €49.8 million. Nearly half of all apprenticeships at Evonik are in the field of chemicals. The other half is spread mainly across metal, electrical and commercial qualifications. In the past five years more than 99 percent of our apprentices successfully completed their training. In 2011, we increased the share of apprentices hired on a permanent contract at the end of their training by about 150 percent. This means that starting in March 2011, every other apprentice was immediately offered a permanent employment contract upon completing their apprenticeship. In the past, it was approximately one in five. To the others who complete the training, ­Evonik offers employment contracts for a period of between six and twenty-four months, which frequently also lead to permanent employment. Various cooperative programs with universities exist at a regional level that combine training or work with a university education (dual-track and/or cooperative majors). Cooperative programs Internet with general high schools are in place in various regions to support high school students prepare Career at www.evonik.com for their future career. Ongoing education and training The success of all of our employees is important to us, because only this will allow ­Evonik to succeed. Depending on their current function and position in the Group, our employees have access to various development programs. Beyond the training offerings and the development landscape at ­Evonik, we support life-long learning by our employees through specific initiatives. In this way, we ensure that ongoing training is based on requirements and thus supports the strategic objectives of HR work while developing the personal competencies and skills of our employees. In Germany, a large part of the personal development/training on offer is supported by ­Evonik Business Services. The figures calculated for 2011 also include some contract employees and some foreign participants: • approximately 270,000 hours of ongoing education, of which more than half involved foreign language training, plus workshops, seminars or training courses at external providers. Another point of focus were measures that were conducted in response to special requirements and/or served to advance the general technical and/or personal education of the employee. • an average of 20 hours in which the nominated employees were offered ongoing education at classroom training events (12 hours/employee averaged over the entire German workforce). Scholarship programs―from training to the lecture hall ­Evonik offers attractive scholarships to high-performing former apprentices who have demonstrated above-average performance at the company and wish to study for a bachelor’s degree after completing their apprenticeship, or a master’s degree after earning a bachelor’s degree. The goal of the program is to win the loyalty of specialist employees over the long term and to work with them early to shape their professional future. The scholarship program is a building block for our ability to meet personnel-related challenges even more readily in the future. In 2011, 13 scholar­ships were awarded to high-performing graduates from our own training programs. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 71 ­ vonik on Facebook E As a contribution to the dialog with a new generation of media users, ­Evonik can also be found on Facebook. The company page which went live in summer 2011 is not meant to convey comprehensive information. It follows the usual customs of social networks such as the “word of mouth” principle, quick response times, and the opportunity to participate directly in ever-changing actions and campaigns. The dialog with the (primarily) young target groups is supported by a Social Media officer and the voluntary involvement of numerous apprentices at the company. Based on their personal first-hand experience, they make a valuable contribution by easing possible anxiety about the transition from school to job and establishing a first uncomplicated contact with the company. Internet This is utilized above all by students who have learned about ­Evonik at a job fair or university event www.facebook.com/­Evonik and want to continue and exchange experience in this way. Career and family For ­Evonik, family-focused corporate management is both a manifestation of social responsibility and a profitable long-term investment. Our goal is therefore to promote the compatibility of work and family with the same degree of attention and intensity as before. As early as 2009, Evonik was awarded a corporate certificate as a family-focused company by the non-profit Hertie Foundation. The re-auditing process at the German locations started in September 2011. Concrete site-specific measures for the next three years will be developed with the involvement of a large number of employees and senior executives, and a new goal agreement for Evonik will be signed. Evonik will not only establish a commitment with this “berufundfamilie” Internet audit but will also use this as a strategic management tool in support of the implementation of a www.berufundfamilie.de family-focused HR policy for the long term. Examples of new site-specific measures are the expansion of the child vacation programs by increasing their duration and regional scope, the expansion of emergency child care at Evonik’s locations, and more extensive regular care for children under 3. Through informational events, we drew the attention of our employees to the many opportunities for immediate and free counseling and referrals available to employees in Germany who need to care for sick or elderly relatives through our longstanding cooperation partner. In the course of 2011, 447 employees were on parental leave, a third of them number had already started their parental leave at the turn of the year 2010/2011. Men accounted for about 38 percent. They took an average of 4.1 months parental leave (women: 12.4 months). Of the employees who returned from parental leave in 2011, on average, almost three times as many returned to full-time employment than to part-time employment. For the returning women, full-time and part-time employment was more or less balanced. On a worldwide basis, more than one in two employees was able use on a part-time model offered at the location where they work, even though there is no statutory right to part-time employment at most locations outside Germany. 72 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Ability to work and quality of life As a result of our simulation-based approach to strategic HR planning for some year now we have had a clear insight into how the age structure of the Group will change in the future. One fact can be observed at almost all locations: The number of employees who will be 50 and older will increase significantly in the next few years. The question arises whether our jobs and working positions are suitable for this age group. The projected shortage of skilled staff is not the only factor that highlights our dependence on our 55+ employees. In addition to demographic change, there has been a noticeable increase in life-style related diseases such as psychological illnesses and diseases of the musculoskeletal system. Changes in general habits and constant availability, increased pressure of work and the mixing of leisure time and work time also represent a new dimension of challenges for our employees. Many locations have already worked actively toward meeting these challenges for some years. In the reporting period, we began to develop a Group-wide concept that includes the initiatives that were already in place. This concept is to ensure in future that the ability to work and the quality of life will gain even greater visibility as a topic for ­Evonik and that even more employees can be reached. In addition, Evonik is planning to create systems that will establish uniform basic standards and promote an exchange of best practices within the Group. Counseling in case of problems in which employee or social counseling can help is available on site for between 79 percent and 95 percent (depending on the specific case) of our employees. Worktime models by region 20111) Percentage of staff with access to the models Extended Extended in % (multiple Fixed work Flextime Special Shift Part time unpaid leave paid leave entries possible) time model model Work model model (> 3 months) (> 3 months) Germany 2 83 25 81 82 41 Other European countries 9 34 40 52 68 12 North America 43 52 44 93 92 92 Central and South America 90 0 0 10 89 0 Asia 41 32 13 1 9 0 Other 2 25 45 4 18 0 1) Deviations from prior year possible due to process improvements. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 73 Working hours and vacation entitlements by region 20111) Weekly working hours Vacation days p.a. Working hours permitted Statutory by law ­Evonik requirement ­Evonik Germany Up to 48 37.5–40 242) 28–303) Other European countries 35–48 35–40 20–303) 203)–514) North America 44 – no limits 37.5–42 0–104) 10–303) Central and South America 44–48 40 15–304) 22–304) Asia 40–48 37.5–48 5–304) 104)–253) Other 37.5–40 37.5–40 153)–304) 204)–303) 1) Deviations from prior year possible due to process improvements. 2) Work days (Monday–Saturday). 3) Work days (Monday–Friday). 4) Calendar days. The regulations in question include country-specific rules, e.g. for reasons of tenure, age. Two cases in working hours exceeded the permitted level were identified at Evonik (outside Germany) in 2011. Talent management Competition for the best talent is increasing. It is our belief that we should fill key positions from within the company, if possible. For this reason, Evonik promotes and fosters quality within its own ranks. Top performance—together with the potential to assume an executive or key function—is a criterion for identifying talent. For Evonik, the “2/2/2 Rule” is an important element of development, as it allows our senior managers and young talent the opportunity to become involved in at least two functions, two organizational entities and two countries. Alongside this “on-the-job” career development, we also closely integrate our “off-the-job” talentmanagement measures with operating activities. Living a feedback culture ­Evonik Industries uses 360° feedback as a tool for targeted employee and organizational development. Many employees are already familiar with 360° feedback and took advantage of the opportunity to receive extensive responses from supervisors, colleagues, employees, and customers. The tool was revised in the reporting period on the basis of the newly revised competency model. In 2011, Evonik’s Executive Board also conducted a 360° feedback procedure for the first time. The Group’s senior executives are to follow this year. Diversity―driver of creativity and innovation ­Evonik acknowledges diversity as a value for the company. It creates a sustained basis for ideas and innovation and thus enhances competitiveness company. For us, diversity means more than focusing on differences of gender or nationality. A diversity of disciplines during education and training, experience in multiple organizational entities and functional areas as well as mixed age teams are equally important to us. The ­Evonik Diversity Strategy was developed and adopted by the Executive Board in early 2011. In order to draw the attention of senior executives to diversity, the Executive Board included the topic in the goal setting process for all senior executives in the Group. At the same time, more than 100 top managers discussed the individual aspects of diversity and, especially, the challenges for leadership behavior in all-day Mindset workshops. In doing so, each 74 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex management team reflected on the relevance of the topic for its own area in order to identify where there was a need for action and to introduce measures. In many units, these workshops have already been extended to the teams. In addition to the Diversity Mindset workshops, we established the Women@Work format, a specially-designed seminar for the demands on women in specialized and management positions. Five pilot events were held to analyze personal strengths and competencies, intensify active selfmarketing, and exchange strategies for effective communications. A total of 70 women from CR See also page 12 f. various areas have already participated. Additional seminars are to follow in 2012. We also supported It’s the mixture that does it networking among our female colleagues. Protecting and promoting health Maintaining employees’ health as a matter of corporate policy Protecting and promoting the health and, therefore, productivity of employees is firmly anchored in Group policy. Our Global Health Program sets down our basic philosophy, and its requirements are detailed in the “Corporate Policy Occupational Health and Health Promotion,” which was revised in 2011. Many sites, particularly those in Germany, also have Works Agreements on health topics, which Internet primarily regulate non-smoker protection in the workplace, the handling of addictions, and the www.demographic-risk-map.eu procedures for reintegration following prolonged illness. Implementation of Group requirements is regularly reviewed through corporate audits. In some regions, these are supplemented by regional audit systems. An additional tool for monitoring performance in occupational medicine and health is our extensive Occupational Health Reporting System at the large sites. In 2011, this system was expanded for the first time to include a regional reporting system for the entire North America Region. Programs and measures for preventive health protection All measures related to occupational health protection and medicine are based on a risk assessment. The key focus of risk limiting activities—wherever possible—is on reducing exposure by taking technical or organizational precautions, such as the use of closed systems when handling hazardous substances. Where this is not possible, employees protect themselves by wearing suitable protective clothing. The effectiveness of these occupational safety precautions is monitored by means of preventive medical examinations, such as biomonitoring. Employees receive regular instruction in workplace risks and precautions, including training in ergonomic work methods and minimizing back strain. One major aim of these activities is to prevent occupational illnesses and work-related health problems. During 2011, 18 cases of occupational illnesses were registered in the chemicals segments (2010: 11). As in the previous year, no occupational illnesses were registered in the Real Estate segment. Programs to promote health In 2011, ­Evonik launched a uniform system for promoting health in the workplace, the primary goal of which is promoting a healthy lifestyle. To this end, the company defined five subject areas of special importance to health preservation: exercise, a healthy diet, work-life balance, addiction prevention, and infection prevention. A medium-term target is to offer programs in all five areas at all locations. Many ­Evonik sites already have at least some of these programs in place. For example, many sites around the world promote sports activities or offer flu shots free of charge in the fall. The basic programs are supplemented by targeted health campaigns for the early detection of common and preventable or treatable disease patterns. In 2011, health campaigns at the German sites focused primarily on Diabetes mellitus, osteoarthritis, and hypertension. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 75 The selection and design of all activities to promote workplace health at ­Evonik’s sites are aligned to local needs and opportunities. This can also include provision of basic on-site healthcare services, especially in countries with limited healthcare options such as Barro do Riacho (Brazil), Yingkou (China) and Gajraula (India). Focus on occupational safety There were no fatal accidents involving ­Evonik employees or contractors under ­Evonik’s direct supervision in 2011. Moreover, no fatal traffic accidents were reported, either during business trips or to employees traveling to and from work. However, one contract employee, who was not under our direct supervision, lost his life in an accident involving a mobile working platform at the site in Tippecanoe (Indiana, USA). Accident frequency1) 2) 2011 2010 Chemicals including Services 1.5 1.3 Real Estate 1.1 2.3 Real Estate (other activities) 28.2 42.0 Continuing operations 2.1 2.1 Discontinued operations (Energy) − 5.2 Total 2.1 2.5 1) N  umber of accidents involving E ­ vonik employees and contract employees under ­Evonik’s direct supervision per one million working hours, which have resulted in lost working days. 2) The former Energy Business Area was deconsolidated in 2011 following divestment of the majority stake. In our core specialty chemicals business, the accident frequency rose to 1.5 (2010: 1.3), which makes the third time in a row that we have reached the target value of 1.5 that we announced for 2014. The increase in accident frequency was not spread evenly over all production sites but was concentrated in a few. Targeted measures have been agreed to improve performance. CR See also page 91 Plant safety A severe accident, in which two of our employees died, occurred in late March 2012 at the Marl site. To monitor the trend in occupational safety at ­Evonik, we are using lagging indicators. These include accident frequency, among others. However, these indicators are no longer sufficient at the high level ­Evonik has now reached. This is why, in the future, we will be using leading indicators for monitoring and control purposes. We created a leading indicator based on an employee survey on the status of occupational safety and the safety culture. The first Group-wide survey on the safety culture took place in November 2011. About 50 percent of all employees were approached to take the survey, and some 65 percent of these responded. The survey was evaluated after this report went to press and, therefore, could not be included. 76 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex The environment Key environmental data for the core specialty chemicals business Environmental targets ­Evonik is committed to making a contribution to climate protection, minimizing the environmental impact of its business activities, and steadily improving its environmental performance. Consequently, we established goals for reductions in key parameters for our chemicals business in 2005 for a ten-year period (2004–2014). • Greenhouse gases: reduce specific energy-related emissions of greenhouse gases by 20 percent • Water consumption: reduce specific water consumption by 20 percent • Production waste: reduce specific production waste volume by 20 percent Monitoring the fulfillment of these targets is integrated into management processes and supported by global site audits. Our environmental attainments remained in line with our targets in the reporting year and we were again able to reach our goal of reducing the specific water consumption. The specific data relating to our environmental attainment are based on continuing operations. Divestments are deconsolidated in the same manner as for financial reporting to keep the focus of improvement measures on current business with current operational facilities. At the same time, this allows for elimination of effects resulting from the divestment of businesses. The data of acquired businesses are recorded at the time of acquisition and their emissions and production are added into our environmental impact calculations. This improves or lowers our performance, depending on the deviation of absolute environmental impacts of the new activities CR See also page 109 f. from the corporate average. As a consequence, future portfolio developments may have a signifiAbout this report cant impact on our environmental performance indicators. Since key environmental data are standardized for production, economic factors play a role as well. To give an example, a reduction in production volume typically does not result in a reduction in energy-related CO2 emissions of the same magnitude. This is due to a base load that is unrelated to production and also takes into account the fact that some facilities actually have lower efficiencies when they are not producing at full capacity. Thanks to targeted environmental measures, such as efficiency improvements in energy generation and optimized production processes, specific greenhouse gas emissions declined continuously from 2004 to 2008. During the economic crisis of 2009, this performance indicator increased slightly by one percentage point. In spite of the economic recovery in 2010, our emissions performance remained at that level. This is primarily attributable to the acquisition of the Tippecanoe site in Lafayette (Indiana, USA) , which was added to our scope of consolidation that year. The Tippecanoe site manufactures active ingredients and intermediates for the pharmaceutical industry, which require high specific energy volumes for complex, multi-step syntheses. The development of specific water consumption followed a similar curve to greenhouse gas emissions. After a successful reduction through 2008, we experienced a minor setback in 2009, which had been fully compensated by 2010. This is mainly the result of targeted water savings measures, cooling water circuits, and the shutdown of production plants that required large amounts of cooling. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 77 Attainment of greenhouse gas emission targets in the core specialty chemicals business1) Changes compared to 2004 (2004 = 100) 20043) 100 2005 97 2006 89 2007 85 2008 83 2009 84 20103) 84 20113) 83 2014 80 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Target Target 1) Continuing operations. Reduction in the specific greenhouse gas 2) Excluding CO2 emissions from chemical processes. emissions was within the target corridor 3) The information for the years 2004, 2010 and 2011 were subject to a limited assurance statement by PwC. Attainment of production wastes targets in the core specialty chemicals business1) Changes compared to 2004 (2004 = 100) 20042) 100 2005 94 2006 89 2007 93 2008 84 2009 74 20102) 81 20112) 82 2014 80 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Target Target Reduction in the specific production 1) Continuing operations. waste was within the target corridor 2) The information for the years 2004, 2010 and 2011 were subject to a limited assurance statement by PwC. Attainment of water consumption reduction targets in the core specialty chemicals business1) Changes compared to 2004 (2004 = 100) 20042) 100 2005 91 2006 89 2007 83 2008 81 2009 83 20102) 77 20112) 73 2014 80 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 Target Target The target concerning reduction in specific water consumption was 1) Continuing operations. attained again 2) The information for the years 2004, 2010 and 2011 were subject to a limited assurance statement by PwC. 78 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex In addition to characteristics that are directly associated with the production process, specific factors may also impact the volume of specific production waste. For example, certain reactions can result in by-products as well as the target product. These may either be marketed directly for other applications in compliance with legal requirements, serve as raw materials for additional syntheses without reprocessing, or be considered waste. Furthermore, devices such as effective filter presses can reduce the water content and accordingly, the volume of sludge. This led to a significant reduction in waste volumes in Antwerp (Belgium) in 2008 and 2009. The increase in 2010 is mainly associated with the addition of the Tippecanoe site to the scope of consolidation. Production Evonik’s worldwide production capacity dropped 2 percent to a total of 10.35 million metric tons in 2011. This was primarily attributable to the divestment of the carbon black business. In the continuing operations, production rose slightly by 1 percent from 9.62 million metric tons to 9.74 million metric tons. Some 9.51 million metric tons of raw materials were required for the synthesis of products in the continuing and discontinued operations. This included some 0.69 million metric tons of renewable resources, which is the equivalent of about 7 percent of the raw material input. The bulk of renewable resources used in 2011 comprised dextrose, saccharose, fats, and oils that primarily were used for the fermentative production of amino acids and cosmetic products. The reduction of the total raw material input is essentially attributable to the reduced use of black oils after the divestment of the carbon black business. Production volumes and inputs in the core specialty chemicals business in million metric tons 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Raw material inputs 9.79 10.55 10.27 9.06 10.13 9.51 of which renewable raw materials 0.68 0.71 0.79 0.64 0.68 0.69 Output 10.46 10.88 10.79 9.26 10.61 10.35 Environmental protection costs In 2011, we invested around €48 million (2010: €36 million) in environmental protection. This included improves to effective end-of-pipe technologies, which do not involve the production process, but reduce environmental impact through downstream measures, such as the installation of modern filters. We also invested in environmental protection measures that were integrated in systems and processes. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were divided among a large number of smaller measures. To give a few examples from Germany, Wesseling invested in water and flood protection, Rheinfelden installed an additional activated carbon absorption system, Essen renovated an exhaust scrubber and floor coatings, Rheinmünster introduced air purification measures in the context of facility expansions, and Krefeld reduced its wastewater load. Our site in Antwerp (Belgium) rebuilt a wastewater buffer tank, expanded the central container storage, and optimized suction systems and exhaust gas lines. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 79 Operating costs for environmental protection were €251 million in 2011 (2010: €264 million). Among other factors, this reduction is attributable to the divestment of the carbon black business and a temporary reduction in the costs associated with REACH. Environmental protection costs in the core specialty chemicals business in € million 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating costs for environmental protection 236 252 259 259 264 251 Investment in environmental protection 56 49 44 43 36 48 Emissions of greenhouse gases Compared to 2010, absolute greenhouse gas emissions from the continuing and discontinued operations declined significantly by 9 percent to 8.324 million metric tons of CO2 equivalents in 2011. Based on the changes in our portfolio, we expect another reduction in the same range for 2012. Specific emissions, i.e. emissions relative to output, also declined significantly by 7 percent. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is principally due to a reduction in process-related CO2 emissions, which dropped by one quarter with the divestment of the carbon black business. In the scope of consolidation of continuing operations, i.e. after deconsolidation of the carbon black business, greenhouse gas emissions remained nearly unchanged from the previous year. They declined slightly, by 1 percent, relative to output. Thanks to the excellent capacity utilization use in 2011, the facilities operated by our core specialty chemicals business ran at full capacity, with optimized efficiency. As a consequence of targeted energy initiatives and numerous individual measures, we were able to reduce energy-related CO2 emissions by 2 percent in the continuing operations, although the output rose (+ 1 percent) in the same time. To achieve this decoupling of greenhouse gas emissions and growth, our activities in Marl included reducing the power needs for the in-house cooling water supply of a power plant, optimizing the turbo compressor in refrigeration, and using more efficient pumps in the recooling plants. ­Evonik even received an award from the government of Shanghai (China) for its successful implementation of energy savings projects, including for the wastewater treatment at the MMA plant at the Multi-User-Site China (MUSC). The Rheinfelden site (Germany) used a number of CIP (=continuous improvement process) ideas from employee teams to reduce energy. The increased use of the gas and steam power plant in Marl had another positive effect on the development of CO2 emissions. Some coal-fired power plant blocks were not fully operational in 2011 because of repair and maintenance and repair work. Furthermore, the Tippecanoe site in the USA discontinued the use of coal to fuel its steam production and switched to natural gas in late 2011. Evonik’s direct CO2 emissions are logged in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, a globally recognized accounting standard, which includes the emissions from combustion in our own facilities along with, for example, CO2 emissions caused by our business vehicles. Their impact on total emissions was comparatively minor in 2011 and amounted to some 5,800 metric tons of CO2 equivalents (=0.07 percent). Nevertheless, the Group decided in 2011 to give preference to vehicles with low CO2 emissions in the future. 80 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex In addition to direct emissions, our overview also included indirect CO2 emissions, i.e. those associated with the purchase of energy (power and steam). The data on both energy sources are “net”—in other words output for third parties is subtracted from input volumes. That enables us to eliminate the proportion of energy-related CO2 emissions attributable to third parties at our large multi-user sites to generate chemicals-specific indicators. In 2011 we compiled data on Evonik’s carbon footprint for the first time ever, on the basis of the CR See also page 36 data for 2008, in order to identify greenhouse gas emissions from our core specialty chemicals ­Evonik Carbon Footprint business at the various stages in the value chain. Greenhouse gas emissions in the core specialty chemicals business in thousand metric tons CO2 equivalents1) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 a) Continuing and discontinued operations Energy-related CO2 emissions (from energy inputs, net) 5,631 5,694 5,656 4,966 5,482 5,451 Process-related CO2 emissions 3,870 3,965 3,813 3,172 3,618 2,728 CH4 35.9 16.2 17.4 16.8 15.4 14.8 N2O 18.5 59.4 74.1 74.3 68.1 129 HFC 1.41 2.04 1.10 0.65 2.4 1.6 9,556 9,737 9,561 8,230 9,186 8,324 Output in millions of metric tons 10.61 10.35 Specific greenhouse gas emissions in metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton output 0.914 0.895 0.886 0.889 0.866 0.804 b) Comparison 2010 and 2011, continuing operations only2) Energy-related CO2 emissions (from energy inputs, net) 5,629 5,537 Process-related CO2 emissions 1,179 1,230 CH4 15.2 14.7 N2O 68.1 129 HFC 2.6 1.6 6,894 6,912 Output in millions of metric tons 9.62 9.74 Specific greenhouse gas emissions in metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton output 0.717 0.709 1) GWP factors: CO2: 1, N2O: 310, CH4: 21, HFC: 140–11,700, PFC: 6,500–9,200. 2) Excluding carbon black. Prior-year figures restated. Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated by multiplying the global warming potential (GWP) of the various gases by their GWP factors. The GWP is the ability of various gases to absorb longwave thermal radiation reflected from the surface of the Earth. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 81 Energy inputs Compared to the previous year, absolute net energy inputs remained virtually unchanged in the continuing and discontinued operations in 2011. By contrast, specific net energy inputs increased slightly by 2.5 percent. In terms of the development in continuing operations (core specialty chemicals business, divestment of carbon black business, and others), the absolute and specific net energy input decreased by 1 and 2 percent, respectively. This is a clear sign of increased efficiency in the generation of energy, production improvements, and successful energy management systems in the core specialty chemicals business. In many cases, the potential to raise efficiency further from this high level becomes increasingly smaller and more expensive. However, since chemical production is typically associated with high energy demand, inefficiency is unacceptable for economic reasons in addition to environmental considerations. As a result, we are continuously searching for savings potential, and involve our employees in the process through a suggestion system, special workgroups, and dedicated workshops. The operating units can also rely on the services of dedicated corporate departments such as OPEX (Operational Excellence), which develop specific proposals for increasing energy efficiency. The integrated production model in chemical plants is an example of energy-efficient management. The intelligent connection of energy requirements and production rules out resource waste. To give an example, various chemical plants generate steam in exothermic (i.e. heat-releasing) processes, which is then used in exhaust heat networks. This relieves power plants of some steam production needs and saves fossil fuels. Additionally, the use of liquid and gaseous fuels from production for energy generation contributes to reduced resource consumption. The port operations in Marl (Germany), for example, improved their control concepts in 2011 and implemented technical changes to allow for the combustion of exhaust gases from the liquid gas area in the power plant. We also use a variety of incineration plants for waste, treatment sludge, exhaust gas, and wastewater to generate steam. Alternative fuels account for nearly 9 percent of total energy inputs in our core specialty chemicals business. 82 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Energy inputs in the core specialty chemicals business in terajoules 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 a) Continuing and discontinued operations Gaseous fossil and non-fossil fuels 38,087 38,372 37,169 34,052 36,584 37,572 Solid fossil fuels 26,349 26,699 26,707 23,642 25,350 22,445 Liquid fossil and non-fossil fuels1) 4,059 4,087 5,305 3,446 3,636 3,471 Power, external input2) 18,364 18,573 18,134 15,211 16,960 20,818 Power, external output 9,079 8,904 8,180 6,346 7,472 10,551 Steam, external input 7,309 6,471 6,305 5,822 7,656 7,596 Steam, external output 14,172 14,106 14,991 14,031 14,650 13,246 Net energy input (after subtraction of output) 70,917 71,191 70,448 61,796 68,064 68,105 Gross energy input 94,167 94,201 93,618 82,173 90,186 91,902 Output in millions of metric tons 10.46 10.88 10.79 9.26 10.61 10.35 Specific energy input (net) in terajoules per thousand metric tons output 6.78 6.54 6.53 6.67 6.42 6.58 b) Comparison 2010 and 2011, continuing activities only3) Net energy input (after subtraction of output) 70,117 69,294 Output in millions of metric tons 9.62 9.74 Specific energy input (net) in terajoules per thousand metric tons output 7.29 7.11 1) Including biomass. 2) Including captive hydroelectric power generation. 3) Excluding carbon black. Prior-year figures restated. Other emissions into the air We use a large number of technical and organizational measures to minimize air pollution. These include returning exhaust gases to the production process, thermal processing of residual gases with high caloric value (to replace natural gas), effective integrated and additive environmental protection measures, and consideration for emissions in the engineering of new facilities. For example, our power plants use electro-filters to remove particulates from flue gases. NOx reduction is achieved with catalysts and scrubbers ensure the removal and precipitation of sulfur. Emissions reduction in the production plants also relies on a variety of end-of-pipe systems that use condensation, adsorption, and thermal and catalytic incineration processes. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 83 The range and volume of emissions in the core specialty chemicals business depends largely on the characteristics of the fuel mix used for energy generation and chemical production processes. Accordingly, the divestment of the carbon black business led to a sharp drop in CO2 emissions and other emissions into the air in 2011 in line with the emissions spectrum of the carbon black production, particularly SO2, NOx, CO and particulates emissions. Now that the carbon black facilities are no longer part of the scope of consolidation, in SO2 and NOx emissions of the continuing operations are largely associated with combustion processes in energy generation. Portfolio adjustments were mainly responsible for the sharp drop in CO emissions (−91 percent) in 2010, along with the almost complete elimination of emissions of ozone-depleting substances. Other emissions into the air in the core specialty chemicals business in metric tons 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Carbon monoxide (CO) 111,670 79,895 103,359 87,141 7,557 4,936 Sulfur oxides (SOx as SO2) 34,492 35,791 35,029 27,335 30,959 19,463 Nitrogen oxides (NOx as NO2) 12,126 12,527 11,639 9,449 11,313 9,074 NMVOC 2,648 1,760 1,567 1,300 1,297 1,172 Particulates 1,311 1,328 1,273 1,064 1,188 872 Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 0.62 0.85 0.78 0.73 0.84 1.16 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances1) in metric tons CFC-11 equivalents 0.48 15.9 15.6 15.6 0.04 0.05 1) Ozone depletion potential (ODP) is a relative parameter that indicates how hazardous substances are for the ozone layer compared with the reference substance, fluorinated hydrocarbon R11 (trichlorofluoromethane). Prior-year figures restated. Emissions into water When it comes to planning new production facilities, we follow the principle of “avoid over process over eliminate” to minimize the volume of wastewater, which in turn benefits the environment and saves treatment costs. In the operational phase, we strive to improve process systems to minimize or eliminate wastewater volumes. To enhance safety in the disposal of wastewater, we use separate drainage systems that prevent contamination of cooling water and ensure that production wastewater is not diluted with cooling water. We have also built high-performance collector systems as part of our water protection measures, which are used for intermediate storage of peak wastewater loads that could overburden the wastewater treatment facilities. In this manner, wastewater can be fed gradually to the treatment plants for environment-friendly disposal. We also incinerate some treatment sludge in our own facility, and the heat from the resulting incineration gases is used to generate steam. The wastewater flow at our sites is carefully monitored by regular sampling and continuous measuring equipment. In addition to in-house monitoring, we are subject to supervision by the authorities, in the form of unannounced control visits to verify our compliance with permissible discharge values. 84 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Chemical oxygen demand (COD) wastewater loads declined 18 percent in 2011 compared to the previous year, mainly because of production changes. Total phosphorus loads (phosphates expressed as phosphorus), total nitrogen load, and AOX loads remained approximately at the previous year’s levels. The increase in total phosphorus loads in 2010 is associated with the addition of the Tippecanoe site in the USA to the scope of consolidation. This plant requires phosphoric acid for its production processes. Heavy metal wastewater loads have stabilized at a low level since 2006. Wastewater loads1) in the core specialty chemicals business in metric tons 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 COD 5,908 7,403 6,764 5,558 5,960 4,890 N 656 543 523 475 468 484 P 72 62 66 46 116 114 AOX 3.0 3.0 2.0 1.6 1.6 1.6 Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 4.7 4.3 4.3 4.0 5.4 4.5 1) The data show the accumulated volumes of wastewater loads at all sites. Alongside direct discharges into receiving water, it shows the proportionate indirect discharges. Prior-year figures restated. Waste Our waste management priorities are: • The first priority is to avoid waste through continuous process improvements and the development of integrated production systems • If this is not possible, waste should be recycled or used to generate energy • As a last resort, it should be disposed of safely. The process optimizations in operational systems focus on avoiding and minimizing waste. Examples include the internal recycling of substance flows and the use of highly specialized catalysts to increase yield and reduce secondary reactions. In 2011, the total amount of waste was 18 percent higher than in 2010, mainly due to construction activities at the Marl site and the complete demolition of all chemical production facilities and buildings at the Münchsmünster site (Germany). ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 85 Waste in the core specialty chemicals business in metric tons 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Hazardous production waste 214,691 201,769 188,590 140,555 175,867 195,916 of which reprocessed 120,625 114,802 94,011 74,563 100,423 103,071 of which disposed of 94,066 86,967 94,579 65,992 75,444 92,845 Non-hazardous production waste 223,080 227,323 206,588 152,343 188,633 167,752 of which reprocessed 127,408 150,713 135,022 99,848 131,396 110,545 of which disposed of 95,672 76,610 71,566 52,496 57,237 57,208 Hazardous building and demolition rubble 15,842 37,177 19,613 8,580 4,932 12,665 of which reprocessed 484 6,400 6,674 713 1,243 1,880 of which disposed of 15,358 30,777 12,939 7,867 3,689 10,785 Non-hazardous building and demolition rubble 102,031 82,463 88,443 60,770 54,721 125,105 of which reprocessed 59,664 61,359 68,186 48,088 37,906 72,236 of which disposed of 42,367 21,104 20,257 12,682 16,815 52,869 555,644 548,732 503,234 362,248 424,153 501,438 Specific waste in metric tons of waste per metric ton output 0.053 0.050 0.047 0.039 0.040 0.048 Specific production waste in metric tons of production waste per metric ton output 0.042 0.039 0.037 0.032 0.034 0.035 Prior-year figures restated. Hazardous production waste increased 11 percent from 2010. This is mainly attributable to increased use of liquid hydrocarbon residues as a replacement for heavy fuel oil in the gas synthesis plant in Marl. The reduction in non-hazardous production waste is based, among other factors, on a change in the fuel mix used for energy generation at the Tippecanoe site in the USA. The substitution of coal with natural gas also reduced the boiler ash volume. The reprocessing rate was 57 percent in 2011 (2010: 64 percent). This includes recycled substances, Further information incineration with recycling of heat energy, and other processing methods. Prominent examples of CR Report 2010, page 61 f. recycling at E ­ vonik include the reuse of PLEXIGLAS, which can be almost completely recycled. 86 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Waste management in the core specialty chemicals business in metric tons 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Incineration with recycling of heat energy 107,849 128,847 79,926 41,595 55,828 51,857 Disposal by incineration 91,265 81,798 89,527 69,720 75,645 94,813 Recycling (including composting) 200,333 175,873 194,630 142,296 144,060 182,288 Landfill 89,479 99,683 74,678 33,866 42,965 48,299 Chemical/physical/biological treatment 59,542 25,593 30,477 17,452 14,436 19,801 Other disposal methods 4,092 8,384 4,658 17,999 19,576 50,793 Other reprocessing methods 3,083 28,553 29,338 39,320 71,643 53,587 555,644 548,732 503,234 362,248 424,153 501,438 Prior-year figures restated. The question of recycling or reusing packaging is a special concern in the context of waste avoidance strategies. A high proportion of products in the core specialty chemicals business are distributed as bulk goods. Bulk packaging includes intermediate bulk containers (IBC), drums, canisters, and flexible bags. This industrial packaging conforms to statutory requirements such as the German Packaging Ordinance. To comply with German regulations, we use third-party disposal companies to collect and dispose of such empty packaging in Germany. These companies have a nationwide network of pick-up points to ensure completely emptied industrial packaging can be returned anywhere in the country. Depending on the percentage of recyclable materials, different companies are used for the recycling of steel/tin, paper and plastic packaging. Where possible, packaging is reconditioned by specialist companies for reuse. Internationally, ­Evonik complies with the applicable regulations in each country. Water data The core specialty chemicals business processes water from a number of sources to make it suitable for further use. Water is mainly used for cooling and process purposes in production facilities, to generate steam in power plants and for sanitary requirements. We raise efficiency with integrated systems of graduated water qualities and by reusing water in conjunction with recooling facilities. To give an example, we use water that is no longer suitable for cooling purposes for rinsing filters or for industrial cleaning. Furthermore, water that evaporates from cooling cycles is often replaced by condensate or reutilizing water from other sources. Total water intake decreased 6 percent in 2011 compared to the previous year. This sharp reduction in the use of groundwater in part resulted from the divestment of the AlzChem Group. Portfolio changes were also the main cause of the reduction in the consumption of surface water in 2011. Water intake in relation to production output decreased 3 percent compared to 2010, indicating increased water use efficiency at our sites. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 87 Water intake by source in the core specialty chemicals business in thousand m3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Drinking water1) 15,480 16,043 15,721 14,732 17,185 17,312 Groundwater 135,041 125,132 123,970 113,214 87,341 84,157 Surface water 249,169 248,914 240,514 201,200 214,223 200,169 Rainwater 654 667 2,413 2,387 2,423 2,228 Other2) 12,213 15,103 12,850 5,844 7,594 6,162 412,557 405,860 395,468 337,378 328,766 310,028 Specific water consumption in m3 per metric ton output 39 37 37 36 31 30 1) Water from municipal or other utilities. 2) Various sources. Prior-year figures restated. As in 2010, around 95 percent of water consumption in 2011 was for cooling purposes. The calculation of the proportion of total water consumption used for cooling includes the amounts used in closed cooling circuits. In 2010 and 2011, some 80 percent of cooling of production facilities used closed circuits with recooling facilities, while the remainder relied on through-flow cooling. The use of recooling facilities saves considerable amounts of fresh water compared with through-flow cooling, since only evaporation volumes have to be offset, and generally cuts costs. However, potentially higher energy requirements for the circulation and evaporation of the water in cooling circuits and safety criteria have to be taken into consideration. Water consumption in the core specialty chemicals business in thousand m3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Cooling, without cooling circuits 334,040 327,280 322,442 273,827 255,610 240,919 Cooling circuits 926,541 939,741 944,336 916,987 1,143,161 1,124,003 Production1) 78,517 78,580 73,026 63,550 73,155 69,109 Share in % Cooling 94 94 95 95 95 95 Production 6 6 5 5 5 5 1) Including drinking water and water for sanitary requirements. Prior-year figures restated. In 2011, as in previous years, the majority (73 percent) of the water discharged from our drainage systems into the environment was uncontaminated water from through-flow cooling systems. In some cases, production effluent is pretreated in decentralized production facilities before full treatment in in-house or municipal wastewater treatment plants. 88 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Water discharge in the core specialty chemicals business in thousand m3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Through-flow cooling water (uncontaminated) 303,242 303,710 299,850 249,899 227,784 217,680 Process effluent 66,822 62,375 64,034 59,872 66,680 72,725 Drinking water and water from sanitary installations 1,515 1,417 1,745 1,460 1,669 1,261 Other 799 741 605 777 5,427 6,280 372,378 368,243 366,233 312,008 301,559 297,945 The difference between water intake and water discharge is due to the fact that some water is released as steam or used in products. Biodiversity and ecosystem services It is widely acknowledged that any loss in biodiversity diminishes the quality of goods and services which ecosystems provide. The chemical industry and others benefit from these ecosystem services. Examples include the availability of clean water and renewable raw materials as well as ecosystem services which regulate and maintain the quality of our planet’s air, water, and soil. The sustainable use of natural resources is ­Evonik’s primary means of conserving biodiversity and ecosystems. We substantially foster the sustainable use of resources by means of our certified environmental management (ISO 14001), the continuous optimization of the energy and resources efficiency of processes, concerning energy efficiency and resource efficiency, the pursuit of long-term environmental objectives (2004–2014), and our innovative products. To achieve a better understanding of locale-specific aspects of biodiversity, in 2011 we established for the first time which of our sites border a conservation area protected by international or national conservation status as well as whether or not our operations at these sites have a significant impact on the biodiversity of the conservation areas in question. Four sites in Germany abut conservation areas which are protected by the European Union’s Directive on the Conservation of Natural Habitats and of Wild Fauna and Flora (Council Directive 92/43/EEC). Five sites in other countries are adjacent to conservation areas which are regulated by countryspecific legislation. ­Evonik did not identify any significant impact on the biodiversity of these conservation areas in 2011. Although treated wastewater is discharged into the Lippe and Rhine rivers from our sites in Marl, Wesseling, and Lülsdorf (all in Germany), the pollutant loads in these wastewater flows do not exceed permissible levels. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 89 Sites and protected areas ­Evonik site Country Status of conservation area (adjacent) Marl Germany 92/43/EEC area Wolfgang Germany 92/43/EEC area Wesseling Germany 92/43/EEC area Lülsdorf Germany 92/43/EEC area Lafayette USA national Portland USA national Morrisburg Canada national Americana Brazil national Dandenong Australia national ­ vonik will conduct biodiversity checks in 2012 for the first time ever. The European Business & E Biodiversity Campaign (EBBC), coordinated by the Global Nature Fund, has developed biodiversity checks for companies. These assessments help companies to gauge the impact on biodiversity of the company as a whole or individual departments. Based on the objectives of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), EBBC biodiversity checks examine aspects such as a site’s premises, properties, procurement, product development and production, logistics and transport, and products. Moreover, ­Evonik is actively participating in a study—commissioned by Cefic (European Chemical Industry Council)—which examines biodiversity and ecosystem services as well as their significance for the chemical industry. Carbon dioxide emissions in the Real Estate segment In the Real Estate segment, heating-related CO2 emissions from residential units let by ­Evonik remained at the previous year’s level at around 300,000 metric tons. The energy technology in our housing units is systematically being modernized, 850 residential units were upgraded in 2011. We also invested in numerous individual measures, from optimized heating systems to improving the insulation of various parts of the buildings. CO2 emissions have been calculated since 1992, using a method on the basis of heating-related CO2 emissions for the general housing stock in Germany developed by the German Energy Agency (dena). The calculation also assumed a consistent, comparable housing stock based on the updated year-end inventory of 2011 and included inventory changes due to demolition and new construction. As in the previous year, maintenance plans were established and implemented by regional tradesmen for all heating facilities. This not only ensures proper use, but also optimizes energy consumption. Vivawest, which was established by Evonik’s Real Estate segment and THS started operating in January 2012. This new company will continue the effort to ensure optimal residential quality for tenants in its approximately 130,000 housing units. 90 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Safety CR See also page 60 ff. Safety is a top priority at ­Evonik. Our objective is to protect our employees and local residents of Product stewardship our sites, as well as the environment, against any potential negative impact of our activities. To this CR See also page 76 end, we strive to ensure the safe operation of our installations and safe transportation of our products Focus on occupational safety and intermediates. Plant safety Avoiding the release of protection against the release of hazardous substances, fires and explosions is of prime importance not only to employees but also to local residents. There were no accidents with a significant impact on people or the environment at any of ­Evonik’s production sites in 2011. At the site in Mapleton (Illinois, USA) about 230 kilograms of caustic methyl chloride was released through a properly functioning safety valve. No one was injured, however, and the environment was not endangered. The incident was reported to the responsible authorities. There was a severe fire in the CDT (cyclo­dodecatriene) plant at the Marl site at the end of March 2012. Two ­Evonik employees died, and a member of the emergency-response team was slightly injured. CDT is used as a starting material for plastics production. The substance released in the accident was butadiene, a highly flammable liquid gas that is classified as a cancerogenic under long-term exposure. Based on measurements taken immediately after the accident occurred, the concentration remained below the detection limit. To prevent incidents, even if they cause little or no damage, ­Evonik has developed its own key plant safety indicator. This lagging indicator records the frequency of unplanned substance releases, fires, and explosions. The reporting thresholds are 5 kilograms for toxic gases, 25 kilograms for toxic liquids, and 100 kilograms for other hazardous substances. It is important to note that incidents are also recorded when the substances in question have been captured and have not caused any damage. Fires and explosions are recorded if they cause damage of €20,000 or above. Fires and explosions that result in inconvenience or a warning to the local community are also recorded along with incidents that cause minor damage. In general, that means the smaller the value of the lagging indicator, the higher the process safety. The value has improved significantly since the key indicator was launched in 2008. Using a reference base of 100 points for 2008, the value of the index dropped to 70 points in 2009, and 68 points in 2010. In 2011, it was 52 points. ­ vonik also plans to introduce a leading indicator for process safety, which will show the efficiency E of the company’s management system for preventing incidents. The leading indicator is based on a survey of the production sites on such key aspects of process safety as standards and objectives, initiatives and programs. The first survey is scheduled for 2012, and will be integrated into the regular audits or implemented by the site managers as a self-assessment. Transportation safety In our core specialty chemicals business, the volume of shipments in 2011 was approximately 9.61 million metric tons of goods (2010: 10.06 million metric tons). Hazardous materials accounted for 60 percent of that total and other goods accounted for 40 percent. The decrease in shipping volumes is primarily attributable to the sale of the carbon black business. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 91 Outgoing shipments of hazardous materials in the core specialty chemicals business in thousand metric tons 2011 2010 Air 0.5 0.6 Ocean 807 530 Inland waterway 912 1,108 Rail 882 833 Pipeline 1,601 1,578 Road 1,559 1,596 5,762 5,646 Outgoing shipments of other goods in the core specialty chemicals business in thousand metric tons 2011 2010 Air 5 6 Ocean 768 916 Inland waterway 20 24 Rail 256 365 Pipeline 66 103 Road 2,733 3,000 3,848 4,414 Based on reports in our internal system, there were a total of 16 transportation-related incidents in 2011. Of these, 14 occurred on roadways. Five fewer incidents occurred than in the previous year. The data comprises all accidents, including damage to packaging and transport containers, even when they involve no product release. We attribute the decline in transportation-related incidents to our efforts to prevent accidents during the transportation of our products. Some of these efforts include our practice-oriented safety days, which we and our logistics service providers devote to training and drilling our employees in best practices in securing loads and checking containers. Based on the Responsible Care reporting criteria set by the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI)—release of over 200 kilograms of hazardous substances or more than 1,000 kilograms of other substances, damage to people or damage to property exceeding €40,000 with road closures of several hours—we had no transportation-related incidents to report for Germany in 2011. If we apply those criteria worldwide, there were four transportation-related incidents to report. E ­ vonik is also working with VCI and the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic) on the preparation and ongoing development of appropriate guidelines, which would give smalland medium-sized companies access to information and recommendations for practical application. The guidelines assist these companies in implementing legislation, rules, and additional standards set by the chemical industry. Guidelines are also becoming increasingly important in the field of supply chain security, since regional certifications, such as those required under the US Customs-Trade Partnership against Terrorism (C-TPAT) of the United States, and the EU’s Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) program of the EU are still not mutually recognized as equivalent by the relevant authorities. Having acquired the C-TPAT certificate in 2005, ­Evonik obtained site-specific AEO certificates for all German production sites in 2011. 92 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex From this solid base, and following the cost-benefit analysis in 2011, we intend to apply to the CR See also page 38 German Federal Aviation Office for “known consignor” approval for the relevant production sites, CR management expanded as defined by Regulation 300/2008 of the European Parliament, within the transitional period that along the supply chain runs to March 25, 2013. Corporate security ­Evonik’s Emergency Management team was activated once in 2011 after the earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan in March. Its first task was to ensure the safety of employees in Japan. Our production sites, which are located in the south of the country, were not seriously damaged in the catastrophe. For a long time, however, it was unclear whether the Fukushima nuclear accident would also affect South Korea and parts of China. E ­ vonik is active in both regions. The Group’s Emergency Management team set up an information platform on the ­Evonik intranet with current news and assessments of the situation in Japan by our local Emergency Management team. The employees at our German locations were advised on the proper handling of products from Japan. The experience gained from this incident was incorporated into the Group Emergency Management Plan. We also answered inquiries from customers on compliance with our due diligence in the procurement of raw materials in Japan. Here, the most pressing concerns were supply reliability and non-contamination of procured materials. E ­ vonik is also monitoring developments in the Middle East and North Africa (the MENA region). The emergency management organization for the region has been fundamentally modified. Cefic and VCI have incorporated the topic of security into the Responsible Care initiative. The European Responsible Care Security Code describes and stipulates management practices. ­Evonik‘s management system for Group security meets and, where appropriate, supplements this standard. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 93 Society E ­ vonik regards itself a corporate citizen, with all associated rights and obligations. As a consequence, maintaining positive and trusting relationships with neighbors and communities is a high priority for our sites and we are donors and sponsoring partners for issues that are especially important to us. As a member of numerous associations and initiatives, we actively contribute to the social and political dialog. Donations and sponsorship of non-profit projects 20111) Sports³⁾ 4% Science 15% Other²⁾ 7% Arts 36% Schools 10% Social projects 28% 1) Expenditures by the Corporate Center, the business units and Innovation Management; total: approx. €8.9 million. 2) Includes political donations. 3) Not including sponsorship for the Borussia Dortmund and MSV Duisburg soccer clubs. Getting children excited about chemistry As one of the world leaders in specialty chemicals, we are interested in boosting education in natural sciences and technology, not just in Germany. Our approach starts in preschools and elementary schools, where children typically do not attend systematic lessons in chemistry, biology, or technology. Nevertheless, they often show interest in scientific and technological concepts and strive to better understand the world they live in. Some 150 Evonik employees take part in the company’s Young Spirit initiative. Armed with ­Evonik materials, they visit preschools and schools in their free time and carry out easily understandable classroom experiments. Young Spirit started cooperating with the university student network Young Chemists Forum in 2011. A collaboration with effort with a major regional newspaper led us to visit preschools in the Lower Rhine area with our ­Evonik Kinderuni (“­Evonik Kids’ University”). For three weeks, the participating preschools received copies of the paper with a daily experiment for teachers and children. Our ­Evonik Foundation joined the company’s efforts to make sciences more exciting for children in late 2011. Professor Proto’s Fantastic Institute is a virtual chemistry lab and is designed to attract interest in chemistry among elementary school children. Using video material, Professor Proto answers questions on the function of baking powder or making your own effervescent candy powder. The site contains many practical examples from the history of chemistry, and also contains Internet experiments to do at home. Elementary school teachers can download descriptions of experiments www.professor-proto.de for use in science lessons. 94 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex These projects are accompanied and supported by a large number of cooperations and sponsorships for preschools, schools, and other educational institutions. As an example, ­Evonik supports the Youth Dialog of the Ruhr Initiative’s Youth Dialog and the nationwide Girls’ Day. Our path to educational sponsorship–­Evonik Cyber Classroom ­Evonik joined forces with Visenso last year to start an innovative project intended to get high school students excited about chemistry. The ­Evonik Cyber Classroom uses modern fascination with 3D animation and interactivity to explore the world of molecules and reactions with a Wii-style controller. The first four modules of the Cyber Classroom were developed in close cooperation CR See also page 24 ff. with four schools in the vicinity of our sites in Essen, Hanau, Rheinfelden, and Wesseling (Germany). Taking a fresh look at chemistry Support for junior researchers CR See also page 71 As a world leader in specialty chemicals, we need to attract sufficient numbers of qualified profesScholarship programs―from training sionals to work for us. We therefore actively seek contact with universities and college students. to the lecture hall The ­Evonik Foundation, Essen, awards annual scholarships to young researchers who do not have Internet sufficient means to finance their studies. www.evonik-stiftung.de/en/ In the 2011/2012 academic year, ­Evonik is supporting support ten universities with a total of 150 German scholarships. These scholarships, which are awarded by the federal government in cooperation with private donors, are intended to counter the shortage of skilled labor and encourage more Internet young people to earn a university degree. The ­Evonik Foundation has a long tradition of sponsorwww.deutschland-stipendium.de ing the research projects of dedicated undergraduate and graduate students. A passion for culture ­Evonik is a key sponsor of the arts in North Rhine-Westphalia, but our commitment reaches far beyond this German federal state. We are proud sponsors of the Ruhr Festival in Recklinghausen, Europe’s oldest theater festival, and also support the Küppersmühle Museum in Duisburg as well as the establishment of an academy for the Jewish Museum in Berlin. Together with the renowned Bach Academy, we regularly organize a popular Christmas concert in the Essen Philharmonic Hall. Sports make us strong ­Evonik is the main sponsor of the professional soccer club Borussia Dortmund (BVB), which won the German championship in 2011. We also support the second league club MSV Duisburg. This commitment strengthens the ­Evonik brand, but we also use our position as the main sponsor of BVB to promote concerns that are close to our heart. Thus, we started supporting the “­Evonik BVB Soccer School,” which has given more than 1,000 children a chance to receive instruction. We have also reserved space in the BVB stadium to give organizations such as Adveniat, the Latin America charity of the Catholic Church, and “roterkeil.net,” a network to fight child prostitution, CR See also page 93 a chance to promote their activities. When the BVB organized a fundraiser match to help earthquake Corporate security victims in Japan, E ­ vonik donated €1 million to help children. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 95 Being a good neighbor In our view maintaining a positive relationship with local residents is a basis for our long-term success and we are convinced that the regions in which ­Evonik is active benefit from our commitment. Our fair compensation boosts the purchasing power in the regions, and our employee benefits provide additional social security. Furthermore, the surroundings of our sites also see increased economic activity from cooperations with local suppliers. The Group and its employees make active contributions at the sites to work toward social cohesion. Examples of such efforts range from taking part in a fundraiser footrace in Shanghai to donating the revenue from a porcelain sale to a school in Hanau, and helping apprentices from Marl to repair an open-air swimming pool. In 2011, the company established a Sponsoring Academy to promote information sharing among ­Evonik sites and to further professionalize neighborhood communication. Campaigns during the International Year of Chemistry When the United Nations proclaimed 2011 the International Year of Chemistry, ­Evonik took part in the campaign as a sponsor to make chemistry more transparent and to show what it can do. The company supported several projects. The nationwide Chemistry Day was the focus of these activities and involved Open House activities at nine of Evonik’s German sites on September 24, 2011. Some 40,000 visitors were offered information about our products and services, for example in terms of apprenticeships, and learned which role chemistry plays in the areas of climate protection, mobility, and health. Similar activities took place at our plants in Antwerp (Belgium) and Xinzhuang (China). Working with other major chemical companies, ­Evonik also sponsored a worldwide school contest on the topic of water. UNESCO and IUPAC (International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry) supplied two simple experiment kits to give students the necessary tools for taking water samples, analyzing their salt content, and testing various filter methods in a “global experiment.” Representation our interests ­Evonik also maintains a constructive dialog with politicians, representatives of industrial associations and unions as well as with numerous non-governmental organizations. We play an active role in the public and political debate and raise awareness of our interests as a value-enhancing industrial corporation. These activities range from the local and national level in Germany to European and international activities. In the area of energy and resources policy, our contributions have focused on the design of emissions trading, the development of electromobility and questions relating to biofuels, while nano and storage technologies are our priorities in research policy. We also play an active role in chemicals and raw materials policy. ­Evonik is included in the European Commission’s list of lobbyists as required by the European Directive on transparency in lobbying. 96 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex ­ vonik contributes to numerous industry associations and organizations. Dr. Klaus Engel, the E Chairman of Evonik’s Executive Board also serves as the President of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). The ­Evonik Group is a member of econsense, an association of leading German companies and organizations that promotes corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainable development. We are also a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and we are committed to the global Responsible Care Initiative and have signed the Responsible Care Global Charter. Representatives of our Group also play a role in national, European and global interest groups and actively contribute to the development of international, European and national standards. We regularly sponsor the annual conference of the Boao Forum for Asia (BFA) in China and regard participating in this forum as an important opportunity Internet www.econsense.de/en to share knowledge and experience in one of the world’s most dynamic regions. Since its establishment www.wbcsd.org in 2001, the BFA has become one of the leading platforms for high-level interaction of business http://english.boaoforum.org leaders from Asia and elsewhere in the world. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 97 98 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Annex Profile.................................................................... 101 Largest sites........................................................... 103 Market positions 2011.......................................... 104 Major shareholdings . ........................................... 106 Awards and accolades 2011................................. 107 Membership of networks and initiatives . ........... 108 About this report................................................... 109 GRI statement . ..................................................... 111 GRI index .............................................................. 112 Independent Assurance Report............................ 114 Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Profile Essen-based ­Evonik Industries AG is one of the world’s leading specialty chemicals companies. Profitable growth and a sustained increase in the value of the company form the heart of our strategy, which is supported by our owners, RAG-Stiftung (74.99 percent) and funds managed by CVC Capital Partners (25.01 percent). ­Evonik is active in over 100 countries around the world and has its own production facilities in 26 countries. The Group had 33,556 employees at the end of 2011. In fiscal 2011, ­Evonik generated sales of around €14.5 billion and an operating result (EBITDA) of around €2.8 billion. Our specialty chemicals activities focus on high-growth megatrends—especially health, nutrition, resource efficiency, and globalization—and our goal is to enter attractive future-oriented markets. To support this, we use integrated state-of-the-art technology platforms which are constantly being refined. Our strengths include the balanced spectrum of our business activities, end-markets and regional presence, and working closely with our customers. We intend to systematically pursue our ambitious growth strategy in the coming years and drive forward our leading market positions and technological edge. At the same time, we intend to step up our presence in economically attractive emerging markets, especially in Asia, through significant investment projects. Our market-oriented research and development is a key driving force for profitable growth in the future. A steady improvement in the cost position of the ­Evonik Group, for example, through operational excellence, is also very important to us. E ­ vonik’s operations are grouped in three segments, each of which has two business units which act as entrepreneurs within the enterprise. The Group also includes the Services and Real Estate segments. The Corporate Center supports the Executive Board in its strategic management. In order to focus on specialty chemicals, at the end of 2010 we signed an agreement to sell 51 percent of the shares in the energy company STEAG to a consortium of municipal utilities in Germany’s Rhine-Ruhr region. We also made binding arrangements to sell our remaining shares in these activities between 2014 and 2017. Our real estate activities, which we plan to exit entirely in the medium term, focus on letting homes to private households in the federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia. Alongside ­Evonik’s portfolio of residential real estate, it comprises a 50 percent stake in THS. Effective January 1, 2012, ­Evonik and THS bundled the management of their properties in a newly formed joint venture, Vivawest Wohnen. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 101 Structure of the E ­ vonik Group ­Evonik Segments Consumer, Resource Efficiency Specialty Materials Services Real Estate Health & Nutrition Business Consumer Inorganic Performance Units Specialties Materials Polymers Health & Coatings & Advanced Nutrition Additives Intermediates Consumer, Health & Nutrition This segment produces specialty chemicals, principally for applications in consumer goods, animal nutrition and pharmaceutical sectors. It comprises the Consumer Specialties and Health & Nutrition Business Units. Resource Efficiency This segment provides solutions for environment-friendly and energy-efficient products. It is comprised of the Inorganic Materials and Coatings & Additives Business Units. Specialty Materials The heart of the Specialty Materials segment is the production of polymer materials and their preproducts, and additives. It comprises the Performance Polymers and Advanced Intermediates Business Units. Services This segment principally comprises Site Services and ­Evonik Business Services. It mainly provides services for E ­ vonik’s chemicals segments and Corporate Center, but also serves third parties. Real Estate The Real Estate segment comprises Evonik’s portfolio of residential real estate and a 50 percent stake in THS. 102 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Largest sites Employees Germany Marl 6,618 Hanau-Wolfgang 3,119 Essen 2,397 Darmstadt 1,538 Wesseling 1,288 Other European countries Antwerp (Belgium) 1,019 Zurich (Switzerland) 276 Ham (France) 227 Slovenská L‘upča (Slovakia) 188 Gramatneusiedl (Austria) 167 North America Mobile (Alabama, USA) 712 Lafayette (Indiana, USA) 642 Parsippany (New Jersey, USA) 402 Greensboro (North Carolina, USA) 277 Hopewell (Virginia, USA) 254 Central and South America São Paulo (Brazil) 159 Barra do Riacho (Brazil) 54 Buenos Aires (Argentina) 34 Americana (Brazil) 33 Querétaro (Mexico) 23 Asia Shanghai (China) 1,021 Yingkou (China) 644 Nanning (China) 402 Nanping (China) 333 Taipei (Taiwan) 200 Other/rest of world Dandenong (Victoria, Australia) 73 Morrinsville (New Zealand) 29 Umbogintwini (South Africa) 28 Midrand (South Africa) 22 As of December 31, 2011. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 103 Market positions 2011 Global Capacity in Product Application ranking1) metric tons p. a. Consumer Specialties Fat chemistry, quaternary derivatives Fabric softeners 1 5) Amphoteric surfactants Shampoos, shower gels 1 5) Ceramides, phytosphingosines Cosmetics 1 5) Skin cremes Professional skin protection 2–3 5) Organically modified silicones Additives for polyurethane foams, cosmetics, radiation-cured separation coatings 1–2 80,000 Superabsorbents Diapers, feminine hygiene products, incontinence products, technical applications 1–2 470,000 Health & Nutrition Exclusive synthesis Intermediates and active substances for pharmaceuticals and specialty applications 2 5) Pharmaceutical polymers Drug-delivery systems, e. g. tablet coatings 2 5) Amino acids and amino acid derivatives Pharmaceutical intermediates and infusion solutions 3 5) DL-methionine Animal nutrition 1 360,000 Threonine Animal nutrition 3 35,000 Tryptophan Animal nutrition 3 5) Inorganic Materials Organosilanes, chlorosilanes Rubber, paints and coatings, adhesives and sealants, building protection materials, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, optical fibers, photovoltaics 13) 270,000 Fumed silicas, fumed metal oxides Silicone rubber, paints and coatings, ­adhesives, sealants and plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, high-temperature ­insulation, electronics 1 Precipitated silicas Binders for fuel-saving tires (“green tires”), battery separators 1 Matting agents Additives for the paints and coatings industry 24) 500,000 Precious metal powder catalysts Life sciences and fine chemicals 1 5) Activated nickel catalysts Life sciences and fine chemicals, industrial chemicals 3 5) Coatings & Additives Organically modified silicones Additives for paints and printing inks 2 5) Polyester resins Canand coil coating 1 31,000 Isophorone chemistry Environment-friendly coating systems, high-performance composites (crosslinkers) 1 5) Oil additives Viscosity index improvers 1 5) Thermoplastic and reactive ­methacrylate resins Binders for paints and coatings 1–2 5) 104 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Global Capacity in Product Application ranking1) metric tons p. a. Performance Polymers Polyamide 12 High-performance specialty polymer ­applications (e.g. automotive, medical, sport, gas and offshore pipelines) 1 5) Methacrylate monomers Dispersions, coatings, plastics, additives, adhesives, optical lenses 1–2 5) Methacrylate polymers Construction materials for the automotive (PMMA m ­ olding compounds and and electrical/electronics industries, PMMA semi-finished products) ­specialty medical technology, architecture, design and communications applications 1–2 390,000 PEEK Special applications in the oil and gas, ­automotive and aviation industries, ­electronics/semiconductors, specialty medical technology (e. g. implants) 2 500 Advanced Intermediates Alcoholates Catalysts for biodiesel, pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and other applications 1 >200,000 Cyanuric chloride Crop protection and industrial applications (e. g. optical brighteners) 1 115,000 Hydrogen peroxide Bleaching of pulp and textiles, oxidation agent for the chemical industry, starting product for polyurethane 2 650,000 Butene-1 Co-monomer for polyolefins 12) 235,000 Isononanol High-molecular plasticizers 2 340,000 DINP High-molecular plasticizers 2 220,000 1) ­Evonik’s assessment based on various individual market reports/information and in-house market research. 2) Freely traded volumes. 3) Chlorosilanes: freely traded volumes. Overall assessment—market position differs depending on application. 4) Ranked second by volume and first by sales. 5) No data available. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 105 Major shareholdings1) Name of company Registered office Shareholding in % Consolidated subsidiaries Germany CyPlus GmbH Hanau 2) 100.00 ­Evonik Degussa GmbH Essen 2) 100.00 ­Evonik Goldschmidt GmbH Essen 2) 100.00 ­Evonik Litarion GmbH Kamenz 100.00 ­Evonik Oxeno GmbH Marl 2) 100.00 ­Evonik RohMax Additives GmbH Darmstadt 2) 100.00 ­Evonik Röhm GmbH Darmstadt 2) 100.00 ­Evonik Services GmbH Essen 2) 100.00 ­Evonik Stockhausen GmbH Krefeld 2) 100.00 ­Evonik Tego Chemie GmbH Essen 2) 100.00 hanse chemie AG Geesthacht 100.00 Infracor GmbH Marl 2) 100.00 Li-Tec Battery GmbH Kamenz 50.10 Vivawest GmbH Essen 100.00 Other countries ­Evonik Cyro LLC Parsippany (New Jersey, USA) 100.00 ­Evonik Degussa Antwerpen N.V. Antwerp (Belgium) 99.99 ­Evonik Degussa Brasil Ltda. São Paulo (Brazil) 100.00 ­Evonik Degussa Canada Inc. Burlington (Canada) 100.00 ­Evonik Degussa (China) Co., Ltd. Beijing (China) 100.00 ­Evonik Degussa Corporation Parsippany (New Jersey, USA) 100.00 ­Evonik Degussa Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo (Japan) 100.00 ­Evonik Monosilane Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo (Japan) 100.00 ­Evonik Oxeno Antwerpen N.V. Antwerp (Belgium) 100.00 ­Evonik RohMax USA, Inc. Horsham (Pennsylvania, USA) 100.00 ­Evonik Stockhausen LLC Greensboro (North Carolina, USA) 100.00 Nippon Aerosil Co., Ltd. Tokyo (Japan) 80.00 Joint ventures (recognized at equity) Germany StoHaas Monomer GmbH & Co. KG Marl 50.00 THS GmbH Essen 50.00 Associated companies (recognized at equity) Germany STEAG GmbH Essen 49.00 1) A full list of companies included in the consolidated financial statements can be found in the Annual Report 2011. 2) Utilizes the exemptions permitted under Sections 264 Paragraph 3 and 264 b of the German Commercial Code (HGB). 106 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Awards and accolades 2011 Category Awards and accolades Presented by Products ­Evonik Industries AG ÖkoGlobe 2011 environmental award ÖkoGlobe Institute of the First Prize in the “Ecological Concept Car” University of Duisburg-Essen category (Germany) Consumer Specialties Responsible Care Award in the European Chemical Industry (Baby Care/STOCKOSORB) “Large Companies” category Council (Cefic) Consumer Specialties The China Personal Care & Cosmetics Reed Sinopharm Exhibitions & (Personal Care) Innovation Awards 2011 Ringier Trade Media Coatings & Additives Technology Innovation Award 2011 for Ringier Trade Media Inorganic Materials Coatings Industry Coatings & Additives 1st Place in the “Silicas” and “Tintometric Paint & Pintura Inorganic Materials Systems – Colorants” categories Advanced Intermediates Ringier Food & Beverage Technology Ringier Trade Media (Agrochemicals & Polymer Innovation Award Additives) Employees ­ vonik Industries AG E China’s Top Employer 2011 Corporate Research (­Evonik Degussa (China) Co., Ltd.) Foundation (CRF) Institute Awards from customers Health & Nutrition Frost & Sullivan Europe Customer Service Frost & Sullivan Leadership Award 2011 Inorganic Materials Supplier of Excellence Award Jushi Group (Functional Silanes) Consumer Specialties Supplier of Excellence Procter & Gamble (Household Care/Baby Care) Coatings & Additives Superior Service & Support Award Idemitsu Lubricants America (­Evonik RohMax USA, Inc.) Corporation Performance Polymers Outstanding Supplier Award 2011 BYD Company Limited (Acrylic Polymers) Advanced Intermediates Supplier of the Year Tarkett (Performance Intermediates) Other E ­ vonik Industries AG JUVE Award – Inhouse Team of the Year JUVE Verlag (Mergers & Acquisitions Legal) for M&A ­ vonik Industries AG E Science-to-Business Center in Marl Ministry of Innovation, (Creavis Technologies & Innovation) honored as “Location of Progress” Science and Research of North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany) Rhine-Main Training Center 1st place for the introduction and German Chemical Industry (Worms production site) concept of introducing the role of safety Association (VCI) in Rhinelandapprentices in training and education Palatinate (Germany) ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 107 Membership of networks and initiatives Responsible Care ­Evonik is a signatory to the Responsible Care Global Charter of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). ­Evonik is committed to this initiative. World Business Council for Sustainable Development ­Evonik is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and supports its objectives. This business leadership forum has around 200 member companies who are committed to sustainable development. econsense ­Evonik is a founder member of econsense, an association of leading German companies and organizations that promotes corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainable development. Global Reporting Initiative ­Evonik supports the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as Organizational Stakeholder. GRI is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. ­Evonik has used it as a guideline for its actions since 2009. UN Global Compact ­Evonik joined the UN Global Compact in summer 2009. ­Evonik supports the principles of the Global Compact, which are geared to sustainable and ethical business management. 108 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex About this report E ­ vonik’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 This is Evonik’s fourth full Corporate Responsibility (CR) report and it continues the tradition of reporting introduced by the companies from which it was formed. The reporting period is the 2011 fiscal year (January 1 to December 31, 2011). The report was written to give our customers, employees, owners and the general public insights into the way we run our business and live our values. The CR Report focuses on ecological and societal issues, supplementing the Annual Report for 2011. The next report will be published in 2013. Method In 2011, we continued the systematic analysis of responsible conduct of relevance to ­Evonik that had been started in the previous year and also conducted a stakeholder survey. The results of these activities are incorporated in this report. This report follows the current G.3.1 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and focuses on reporting core indicators. It addresses all standard information and core indicators required by GRI. We have provided background information and verifiable performance indicators where necessary. The GRI has checked the report for adherence to its sustainability reporting guidelines and has confirmed successful application of Level A+ throughout this report. This report also represents the progress report of ­Evonik for the UN Global Compact. Scope of reporting and data capture ­Evonik Industries AG prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Alongside ­Evonik Industries AG, the consolidated financial statements include all material German and foreign subsidiaries that are directly or indirectly controlled by ­Evonik Industries AG. Material associated companies and joint ventures are recognized at equity if ­Evonik is able to exert a significant influence. Initial consolidation or deconsolidation takes place as of the date on which the company gains or loses control. In fiscal 2011, the ­Evonik Group comprised 79 German and 120 foreign companies. The reporting concentrates on continuing operations. In 2011, we compiled relevant data on working hours, employee rights, social benefits, diversity, equal opportunities, and work-life-balance in the continuing operations using the HR Information Collector software from Cundus AG. The ecological data for the core specialty chemicals business in 2011 comprise emissions and consumption data at 99 production sites in 26 countries and thus cover about 95 percent of total output. Occupational safety data include other small production and non-production sites, so the data here cover 139 locations in 35 countries. All data for our core specialty chemicals business are compiled with sustainability reporting software designed for this purpose (SuRe). The reporting segments reflect Group and business unit interests in order to provide a detailed picture of production activities. In some cases, data are reported at plant level to ensure this. All reporting segments are clearly coded to allocate them to organizational and business units and geographical regions. This allows for consolidation at the management and legal-entity level as well as a detailed geographical analysis of the data. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 109 Major acquisitions/divestments of relevance for ESH in 2011 Following the divestment of 51 percent of shares in STEAG to a German municipal utilities consortium effective March 2, 2011, the environmental impact of the ­Evonik Group is now dominated by the emissions and consumption data of its chemicals operations. ­Evonik Carbon Black GmbH was divested effective July 29, 2011, and of the 16 carbon black production sites, only the site in Qingdao (China) remained within the scope of consolidation. ­Evonik and Dalian Kionge Group Co. Ltd. of Dalian (China) signed an agreement on the sale of shares in the subsidiary ­Evonik Lynchem Co. Ltd., Dalian on May 30, 2011. Evonik acquired the hanse chemie Group from a vendor consortium on May 12, 2011. This company supplies products for specialty silicone applications. In the United States, Evonik also acquired SurModics Inc., Eden Prairie (Minnesota) and SurModics Pharmaceuticals Inc., Birmingham (Alabama) on November 17, 2011. With an asset deal effective November 30, 2011, ­Evonik took acquired the hydrogen peroxide business of Kemira Chemicals Canada Inc. of Maitland (Ontario, Canada), through an asset deal. Other changes in the scope of reporting and the remaining portfolio adjustments did not have a significant impact on emissions and consumption data in the ESH report for 2011. Ecological data are updated annually without taking changes in the Group into account. The prioryear figures are not adjusted for changes in the portfolio of companies consolidated. The figures for each company are included in full, without adjustment to reflect the Group’s stake in them. Impact of acquisitions/divestments on the 2011 ESH indicators The environmental impact of the carbon black activities was included in the ­Evonik’s ESH data for 2011 to the time of divestment, i.e. from January to July. As a result, Evonik’s environmental indicators for the period August to December 2011 were proportionately lower than in the same period of 2010. This is evident in many individual indicators. For example, emissions into the air fell significantly compared to the previous year. The emissions and consumption data for hanse chemie and the acquisitions made in the fourth quarter of 2011 will be included in the ESH data for 2012. Occupational safety indicators for some of the business operations acquired were consolidated in 2011. Updated data Our ESH data are constantly checked by numerous internal and external audits. In addition, large amounts of data have to be reported to national authorities. In many cases, the deadlines for submission and approval are far later than the internal deadline for ­Evonik’s ESH data. To enhance efficiency, we endeavor to use a single set of data for both internal and external reporting. Since internal and external audit findings are examined for any possible change in ESH indicators, our databases are naturally subject to ongoing “dynamic” change. The CR Report explains all circumstances in which such adjustments reveal discrepancies of more than 3 percent compared with published data for prior periods (principle of materiality). If the English version of this report differs from the German version, the statements and phrasing of the original German copy shall prevail. External review The sections “Success stories 2011,” and “CR Strategy,” together with selected data in the CR Performance section were subject to a limited assurance engagement by Pricewaterhouse­ Coopers AG (PwC) (labeled with ). The corresponding independent assurance report is included on pages 114–115. 110 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex GRI statement ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 111 GRI index and UN Global Compact More Information about GRI and the UN Global Compact can be found online at www.globalreporting.org and www.globalcompact.org. Global Compact Reporting Principle GRI Indicator Page status Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Foreword by the Chairman of the Executive Board 1–4 Fully 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 29–37 Fully 2.1–2.10 Organizational profile, markets, structures, data and facts 101–108 Fully 3.1–3.4 Report parameters 109, 116 Fully 3.5–3.13 Report content, limitations, verification 30–32, 109–110, 112–115 Fully 4.1–4.7 Corporate Governance 31, 51, Annual Report 2011: 180–195 Fully 4.8–4.13 Obligations and commitment 40–47, 51, 60–62, 96–97, 108, Annual Report 2011: 161–167, 188–191 Fully 4.14–4.17 Stakeholders 33–35, CR–Report 2009: 25–26 Fully Economic Performance Indicators Management Approach 52–60, 94–97, 104–105 Fully EC1 Economic value generated/distributed 54 Fully 7 EC2 Implications of climate change 2–4, 30–34 Fully EC3 Pension plans (defined benefit plans) 68, Annual Report 2011: 136–140 Fully EC4 Government assistance 56 Fully EC6 Business policy/practices 96 Fully 6 EC7 Hiring procedure 64, 74 Fully EC8 Investment for public benefit 94–96 Fully Environmental Performance Indicators Management Approach 44–46, 77–93 Fully 8 EN1 Materials by weight/volume 79 Fully 8, 9 EN2 Recycled inputs Not reported1) 8 EN3–EN4 Energy consumption: direct and indirect 83 Fully 8 EN8 Water withdrawal 88 Fully 8 EN11–EN12 Biodiversity 89–90 Fully 7, 8, 9 EN16–EN20 Emissions 81, 84 Fully 8 EN21 Wastewater 89 Fully 8 EN22 Waste 86–87 Fully 8 EN23 Substance releases 91–93 Fully 7, 8, 9 EN26 Reducing environmental impact 36–37, 77–79 Fully 8, 9 EN27 Reclaimed packaging 87 Fully 8 EN28 Non-compliance with environmental regulations Not reported2) 112 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex Global Compact Reporting Principle GRI Indicator Page status Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach 10–13, 63–76 Fully 6 LA1–LA2 Workforce 64–66, 69 Fully 6 LA15 Return to work and retention rate after parental leave, by gender 72 Fully 1, 3 LA4–LA5 Employee representatives/Collective bargaining agreements 70 Fully 1 LA7–LA8 Occupational safety 75–76 Fully LA10 Training and education 71 Partially3) 1, 6 LA13 Employee structure 51, online: http://corporate.evonik. com/en/company/management/ pages/default.aspx Fully 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary men/women 69 Fully Human Rights Management Approach 36–39, 42–43, 47, 64, 67, 69, 70, 91–93 Fully 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 HR1 Key investment agreements Not reported4) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 HR2 Screening of suppliers/contractors 37–39 Fully 1, 2, 6 HR4 Discrimination 69 Fully 1, 2, 3 HR5 Risk to freedom of association 37–39, 69 Fully 1, 2, 5 HR6 Risks and countermeasures against child labor 37–39, 67 Fully 1, 2, 4 HR7 Risks and countermeasures against forced and compulsory labor 37–39, 64 Fully 1, 2 HR10 Assessment: Percentage of total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments 37–39, 64, 67, 69 Fully 1, 2 HR11 Remediation: Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 37–39, 64, 67, 69 Fully Society Management Approach 44–46, 51–52, 94–97 Fully S01 Impact on communities 96 Fully 1–10 S09 Local Community: Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 51–52, 89–93 Fully 1–10 S010 Local Community: Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on 51–52, 89–93, local communities Annual Report 2011: 63–68 Fully 10 S02 Corruption: business units analyzed 45, 51–52, CR–Report 2010: 31, Annual Report 2011: 66 Fully 10 S03 Corruption: employees trained 52 Fully 10 S04 Corruption: action taken 51 Fully 1–10 S05 Public policy positions 96–97 Fully S08 Legal compliance: fines/sanctions Not reported2) 1) Our intelligent linking of production plants along value-enhancing chains often makes it possible to use by-products from one plant as starting products for another plant. Moreover, many of the raw materials we use are not available as recycled input materials. 2) If there are risks arising from litigation and other claims, these are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in our Annual Report. 3) At the moment our data covers Germany only. We plan to report fully from 2015. 4) As a member of the Global Compact, we strive to contribute to the protection and promotion of human rights within our spheres of influence. The exact number of our investment agreements is confidential business-relevant information which is therefore not reported. ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 113 Independent Assurance Report To ­Evonik Industries AG, Essen PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the chapters “Success stories 2011,” “CR Strategy” and selected information in the chapter “CR Performance” of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 “Responsibility leads to success: how we combine economic, ecological and social action.” and issued an independent assurance report, authoritative in German language, which has been translated by Evonik Industries AG as follows: We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance review on the information in the chapters “Success stories 2011,” “CR Strategy” and selected information in the chapter “CR Performance” of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 “Responsibility leads to success: how we combine economic, ecological and social action.” The selected data is indicated in the report by the symbol . Information that refers to sources outside of the CR Report, or to which there is a link in the report, was not a subject of our engagement. Management’s responsibility The Executive Board of Evonik Industries AG is responsible for the preparation of the CR Report using the criteria set forth in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7–17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): • Materiality, • Stakeholder Inclusiveness, • Sustainability Context, • Completeness, • Balance, • Clarity, • Accuracy, • Timeliness, • Comparability and • Reliability. This responsibility includes, firstly, the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the CR report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual CR disclosures that are reasonable under the circumstances. It also includes the responsibility for designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the CR report. Practitioner’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work as to whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the disclosures in the “Success stories 2011” and “CR Strategy” or the data in the chapter “CR Performance” chapters of the CR report indicated by the symbol have, in any material respects, not been prepared in accordance with the criteria set out in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7–17) of the GRI. We were also engaged to offer recommendations for the further development of CR management and CR reporting on the basis of the results of our limited assurance engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of our profession and that we plan and perform the assurance engagement so as to be able to express our conclusion with limited assurance. In a limited assurance engagement, the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement (for example an audit of annual financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the German Commercial Code (HGB)), so that less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. 114 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries Success stories 2011 CR Strategy CR Performance Annex The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s proper judgment. Within the scope of our engagement, we performed the following procedures among others: • Interviews with the management and employees responsible for reporting CR information and for preparing the CR report as well as employees from individual fields of specialization; • Examination of the processes used for CR management, selecting topics and report preparation; • Examination of the structures and effectiveness of the relevant systems and processes used to gather and analyze the data indicated by the symbol ; • Site visits to the corporate head office in Essen and to Evonik Stockhausen LLC, Greensboro/ USA; Evonik Degussa Corporation, Parsippany/USA; Evonik Industries AG, Rheinfelden/ Germany; Evonik Industries AG, Herne/Germany, as well as location-specific interviews and data collection; • Collection of random samples as selected evidence for the accuracy of the data indicated by the symbol ; • Evaluating the consistency of the statements made in the CR Report with our findings from our work with respect to the areas included in the limited assurance engagement. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance review, no matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the disclosures in the chapters “Success stories 2011” and “CR Strategy” or the data in the chapter “CR Performance” of the CR report indicated by the symbol have, in any material respects, not been prepared in accordance with the criteria set out in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7–17) of the GRI. Additional remarks and recommendations Without qualifying the conclusions from our limited assurance engagement, we express the following recommendations for the further development of CR management and CR reporting: • The long-term quantitative CR targets should continue to be updated. • As further developments of the CR Strategy are completed, they should be discussed in future CR communications. • CR reporting should increasingly respond to stakeholder feedback. • Consideration should be given to the possibility of mid-year data collection to strengthen control and management options. Düsseldorf, April 23, 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Andreas Bröcher ppa. Nicole Kummer German Public Auditor ­Evonik Industries Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 115 Credits Published by ­Evonik Industries AG Rellinghauser Straße 1 – 11 45128 Essen Germany www.evonik.com Contact Issues Management phone +49 201 177-3831 fax +49 201 177-2908 Corporate Responsibility phone +49 201 177-3327 fax +49 201 177-3322 cr@evonik.com Concept, design and production XEO – Energy for Brands, Düsseldorf (Germany) Photographs Dirk Bannert Karsten Bootmann Hartmut Idzko Benno Kraehahn Christian Lord Otto Frank Preuß Markus Schmidt Fotofinder Getty Images istockphoto Mauritius Printing WAZ-Druck GmbH & Co. KG, Duisburg Editorial deadline: February 29, 2012 116 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ­Evonik Industries This report contains forward-looking statements based on the present expectations, assumptions and forecasts made by the Executive Board and the information available to it. These forwardlooking statements do not constitute a guarantee of future developments and earnings expectations. Future performance and developments depend on a wide variety of factors which contain a number of risks and unforeseeable factors and are based on assumptions that may prove incorrect. Production of Evonik’s CR report 2011 This report is printed on environment-friendly FSC paper. The Forest Stewardship Council seal is an assurance that the timber used to produce the paper comes from sustainable forestry. The printing company used by us has its own environmental management system and uses stateof-the-art technology. Printing inks containing heavy metals are not used. To minimize emissions resulting from distribution of this report we utilize efficient transportation logistics. If you no longer need this report, please pass it on to someone else or dispose of it in a paper recycling facility. ­ vonik Industries AG E Rellinghauser Straße 1–11 45128 Essen Germany www.­evonik.com
