Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 2012 PREFACE BY THE CEO At the beginning of 2011, we refocused the Vaillant Group’s strategic sustainability management by launching our comprehensive S.E.E.D.S. programme, setting the Group’s direction for the years to come by formulating clearly defined, Group-wide objectives in four fields of focus: Environment, Employees, Development & Products, and Society. In October 2011, we signed up to the United Nations Global Compact. In the context of our sustainability strategy, this represents a conscious step towards increased transparency and visible corporate responsibility. The initiative, founded by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, aims to strengthen the social commitment of businesses by inviting them to affirm a catalogue of basic values. The Vaillant Group is explicitly committed to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and undertakes to continue fostering and supporting them in its sphere of influence. We will report annually on our progress in implementing the Global Compact in our day-to-day business in the form of a Communication on Progress. Furthermore, we will detail significant developments in the implementation of the Ten Principles in the Vaillant Group Sustainability Report. Remscheid, 23 October 2012 Dr Carsten Voigtländer, CEO ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This document’s purpose is to provide information on the Vaillant Group’s progress with respect to the implementation of the Ten Principles enshrined in the Global Compact in the day-to-day practice of our business. The action we have taken in this field is founded on our expressed corporate principles and our management systems. The reporting period for this Communication on Progress encompasses the Vaillant Group’s first year of Global Compact membership, from 24 October 2011 to 23 October 2012. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 1: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • Written approach made to Support of human rights sustainability programme written commitment to 407 suppliers, representing • Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles 80% of Vaillant Group’s the Global Compact of the Global Compact purchasing volume. By 30 Principle 2: • Supplier management • Implementation of supplier September 2012, 351 Non-complicity in human system (pre-selection of audits suppliers had confirmed rights abuses suppliers, assessment of • Organisation of workshops that they comply with the suppliers, purchasing terms with Group purchasers Global Compact’s and conditions, contractual • Sustainability workshop as principles. conditions) part of the Vaillant Group • Approx. 300 audits • Vaillant Group Social Supplier Day 2012 conducted in the supply Accountability Policy chain. • Workshops on implementation of the Global Compact principles held with Group purchasers. • Supplier Day 2012 with 250 top suppliers in attendance: raising awareness of issues of responsibility in the supply chain and working with attendees to identify and discuss significant success factors in corporate responsibility. • Vaillant Group Social Accountability Policy drawn up LABOUR STANDARDS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 3: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • Written approach made to Upholding freedom of sustainability programme written commitment to 407 suppliers, representing association and recognition • Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles 80% of Vaillant Group’s of the right to collective the Global Compact of the Global Compact purchasing volume. By 30 bargaining • Supplier management • Supplier audits September 2012, 351 system (pre-selection of • Organisation of workshops suppliers had confirmed suppliers, assessment of with Group purchasers that they comply with the Principle 4: suppliers, purchasing terms • Sustainability workshop as Global Compact’s Elimination of forced and and conditions) part of the Vaillant Group principles. compulsory labour Supplier Day 2012 • Approx. 300 audits • At the main sites of the conducted in the supply Vaillant Group, we are chain. Principle 5: bound by collective • Workshops on Abolition of child labour agreements. Where implementation of the minimum wages exist, they Global Compact principles are not undercut by us in held with Group remuneration. purchasers. • The Group has about 70% • Supplier Day 2012 with 250 of employees covered by top suppliers in attendance: collective bargaining raising awareness of issues agreements, in Germany of responsibility in the about 80%. supply chain and working with attendees to identify and discuss significant success factors in corporate responsibility. Principle 6: • Vaillant Group Spirit • In-house campaign on the • Group-wide communication Elimination of discrimination  Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, campaign addressing all entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s employees integrity, passion Group-wide values • HR measures adopted • Vaillant supports the Fair towards implementation of Company initiative, which the Group values requires members to commit to treating interns fairly. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 7: • Multi-site certification • Annual environmental • 4 Vaillant Group sites are Precautionary approach to pursuant to EN ISO 14001 audits part of a multi-site environmental challenges and OHSAS 18001 • Binding environmental certification, while two are • S.E.E.D.S. strategic targets to be agreed being prepared for sustainability programme • All sustainability indicators certification • Vaillant Group to be incorporated into a • 22 system audits Environmental Policy central reporting tool, the conducted • Group-wide sustainability Vaillant Group • Site-specific standards for targets for 2020 in the Sustainability Scorecard reusable packaging defined Environment field of focus: • Waste reduction: Expanded • Realisation of energy 25% reduction in CO₂ use of reusable packaging efficiency projects at a emissions, 20% increase in for production materials range of locations (e.g. energy efficiency, 20% cut • Energy efficiency: New installation of a photovoltaic in water consumption and heating systems in our system on the fleet at waste buildings to be run only on Vaillant Group’s Remscheid • Process integration of highly efficient condensing location; opening of new environmental issues devices, CHPs and administrative offices, built technologies based on to the highest renewable energies. environmental and social Existing systems to be standards, at Vaillant successively modernised. Group’s Belper location; • Sustainability standards to installation of a waste heat be integrated into Vaillant recovery system at Vaillant Group processes. Group’s Trencin location) • Sustainability issues incorporated into the Vaillant Group process map. • Adoption of a Sustainable Building Guideline setting out standards for new buildings • Improvements in key environmental indicators (see key indicators section in the current Sustainability Report) GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 8: Promoting • Group-wide sustainability • Suppliers to provide a • Written approach made to environmental responsibility targets for 2020 in the written commitment to 407 suppliers, representing Environment field of focus: adhere to environmental 80% of Vaillant Group’s 25% reduction in CO₂ standards purchasing volume. By 30 emissions, 20% increase in • Supplier audits September 2012, 351 energy efficiency, 20% cut • Environmental suppliers had confirmed in water consumption and responsibility taken into that they comply with the waste account to a greater extent Global Compact’s • Group Market Process when selecting suppliers principles. • Vaillant Group Corporate and service providers. • Approx. 300 audits Responsibility Framework • Sustainability workshop as conducted in the supply part of the Vaillant Group chain. Supplier Day 2012 • Suppliers contacted and • Sustainability standards to requested to inform Vaillant be incorporated into the Group of product Group Market Process innovations and • Group-wide internal substitutions which improve competition for the environmental S.E.E.D.S. Award performance. • Sustainability to be a • Supplier Day 2012 with 250 compulsory part of top suppliers in attendance: vocational training and of raising awareness of issues Corporate Basics induction of responsibility in the training for new employees supply chain and working • Vaillant Group is involved with attendees to identify in a range of initiatives and and discuss significant networks whose purpose is success factors in to work towards corporate responsibility. responsible management • Brochure “Responsibility as of natural resources. For a principle”, whose purpose example, the company is a is to communicate our partner organisation of commitment to German sustainability sustainability, reissued and conference, “Deutscher distributed via customer Nachhaltigkeitstag”, and is forums, sales partners and a member of the German industry fairs Association of • The first competition for the Environmental S.E.E.D.S. Award attracted Management (B.A.U.M. over 40 applications e.V.) and of the detailing ideas for Sustainability Leadership innovative projects in the GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Forum convened by four fields of focus covered B.A.U.M. e.V. / Centre for by the S.E.E.D.S. Sustainability Management programme. The winners at Leuphana University, were selected by an inLüneburg. house panel consisting of the company’s CEO, the Managing Director Technology and a number of other top managers from the Group. • We have worked with installers to hold workshops on sustainable corporate governance. • Support provided to environmental community projects at a range of company locations (examples: the Fair Future education campaign at the Remscheid location, focusing on the ecological footprint; fitting up-to-theminute heating technology in the SOS Children’s Village in Battonya, Hungary) Principle 9: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Expansion of our portfolio • In 2011, the majority – Development and diffusion sustainability programme of high-efficiency products almost 58% of Vaillant of environmentally-friendly • Vaillant Group product • Training to be provided for Group’s product sales technologies strategy focusing on highinstallers revenues were generated efficiency technologies, with high-efficiency synced-up systems and technologies and renewable energies renewable energy systems. • Group-wide sustainability • Field test of the first walltargets for 2020 in the mounted fuel cell heating Development & Products system. By 2013, Vaillant field of focus: plans to have tested 80% of our sales revenues approximately 120 devices to be generated with highly using this new technology. GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS efficient products; a 15% • Ongoing training on reduction in greenhouse environmentally-friendly gases emitted by our technologies for partner product portfolio; 15% installers. increase in material • The ecoPOWER 1.0 CHP efficiency system has received the • Group Market Process German Sustainability Award for “Germany’s most sustainable product”. ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2011 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 10: • Vaillant Group Corporate • Group-wide training on • 29 training units with 397 Action against corruption Governance Directive compliance and anti-trust participants on compliance, • Vaillant Group Spirit law anti-trust law and data  Our company values • In-house campaign on the protection carried out entrepreneurship, trust, Vaillant Group Spirit, • Vaillant Group Spirit: integrity, passion promoting the company’s Group-wide communication Group-wide values campaign addressing all employees • HR measures adopted towards implementation of the Group values
