Shanghai Vico Precision Mold & Plastics Co.,Ltd. 2012 Communication On Progress About this document All members of the Global Compact are required to issue an annual Communication on Progress (COP), a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and in supporting broad UN development goals. This document is the 2nd COP report of Shanghai Vico. We invite all our stakeholders (employees, clients, suppliers, investors, civil society, governments, local communities…), to read it and learn more about our commitment in favour of human rights, labour rights, environmental stewardship and anti-corruption, Although, we still have lack of more experience in it. As specified in the COP policy, we introduce the document with a statement of continued support, which is signed by our Managing director Nelson Tan. Statement of continued support “Shanghai Vico has endorsed the Global Compact Principles since 2008 – to officially state its commitment regarding human rights, working conditions, environment and corruption. We implemented the 10 Principles in our company. We also reinforced our commitment to share Global Compact Principles with our suppliers. September 27, 2012 Nelson Tan, Managing Director. Shanghai Vico Precision Mold & Plastics Co.,Ltd. General Information In this year, We implement the EICC(Electronic Industry Code of Conduct) system in Shanghai Vico, and published EICC manual(please refer to attached file). This document will conduct our behaviour in all activities of company. EICC manual A0.doc Human Rights Implementation Human rights and labour right are closely related. The description below reflects Shanghai Vico’s approach on the following areas of human rights: right to decent standard of living, right to health, right to education and training, right to family life. The two Global Compact principles on human rights are included: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  We recognize and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. And we write the related right in the employee manual.  Our labour union have a regular meeting with employees, and everyone can express his/her viewpoint freely on this meeting. And we will have a feedback for each suggestion and advice. The meeting will be hold once time per week.  We also have a message board on the intranet, the employee can write any question about human right on it without signature. And we will take action with the questions.  We also have an employee survey every year, aims at reporting employees’ satisfaction and points of concerns.  We continuous imburse the Vico hope-school. We provide the a plenty of stationeries to them, and set a foundation to award the starveling teacher and students in 2012.  We set a foundation to help the employees that he/her meet a accident in 2012. There are 5 people got the help in this year. Shanghai Vico Precision Mold & Plastics Co.,Ltd. Labour rights implementation This chapter, dealing with labour rights, describes Shanghai Vico freedom of association, workforce and non-discrimination. Employee share ownership, social dialogue and relations, headcount (by type of contract, geographical zone and country, gender, professional category, age, seniority, function), hiring, layoffs and resignations, equal employment opportunity (disability, diversity of gender, generation and origin). The four Global Compact principles on labour rights are included: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: Businesses should the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, Principle 5: Businesses should the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  In 2012, there are 3 association were found in Shanghai Vico. And the company give a strong support on it.  We have a formal regulation of recruitment. We check the identification, passport in order to avoid child labour came in. and in this regulation all people have equal right to compete one position. Till now no found any child labour be found in Shanghai Vico.  We never force and compulsory labour. Although, some workers sometimes worked more than the statutory overtime limit to meet demand from the customers, but claimed that all the extra hours were voluntary.  We provide same chance for all employees whatever his/her gender,age,colour and etc. Shanghai Vico Precision Mold & Plastics Co.,Ltd. Environmental stewardship implementation This chapter describes Shanghai Vico’s environmental strategy, actions and outcomes. The three Global Compact principles on environment are included: Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. For principle 7,8 and 9, Shanghai Vico established Environmental management system in march, 2011. We published a policy, and 30 procedures to regulate the company’s behavior in all activities. In these procedures we identify the all environmental factors in our plant and established the related preventive actions or corrective actions. For the important environmental factors, we also have the special procedure to prevent it happened. In 2012, we got the certificate of ISO14001 by SGS. And the environmental key performance have a improvement. Please see below table. Power（standard coal）/10kCNY output 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 Y2011 Y2012 0.00 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Water（ton）/10kCNY output 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 Y2011 Y2012 0.00 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Shanghai Vico Precision Mold & Plastics Co.,Ltd. Anti-corruption implementation This chapter describes Shanghai Vico’s approach and actions against corruption. The Global Compact principle on anti-corruption is: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We identify the following scope of improvement for Shanghai Vico. Risk and impact assessments in the area of anti-corruption. Purchase and sale department guys. We established a regulation that tell our employee how to deal with when the potential corruption appear. There is no any corruption case happened in 2012.
