SAM Communication on Progress (COP) General Period covered: from Mai 1st 2011 to May 1st 2012 Background and Scope of COP: SAM is a specialized investment boutique, focusing exclusively on Sustainability Investing with slightly over 100 employees all based in Zurich Switzerland. Hence, the direct impact of our operation on the environment, social or human right matters is negligible. However, SAM assesses and rates the sustainability of a large number of companies on the basis of information provided by those companies, which revenues sum up to over 10 trillion USD. SAM’s indirect impact is therefore infinitely more significant than its direct impact due to its own operation; hence in the following report we mostly address our indirect impact. SAM has been assessing companies on environmental, social and economic criteria since 1995, 5 years prior to the launch of the global compact. While the output of this assessment process is most widely known as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, SAM also puts together an annual review of the assessment in the SAM Yearbook, also attached to this COP. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Zurich, May 1st, 2012 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm that SAM supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. SAM will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement or to help implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Michael Baldinger Chief Executive Officer Corresponding Contact Marc-Olivier Buffle Senior Analyst marc-olivier.buffle@sam-group.com Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. SAM believes that in general all companies should follow Principle 1 and 2. We also believe that companies that have systems in place which ensure that such issue won’t take place in their own global operations as well as in their supply chain will outperform those of their peers which do not have such systems in place. Hence, we ask all of the 2000 companies which we asses every year if they follow principle 1 and 2. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. As mentioned above companies are asked to answer specific questions about human rights and processes in place and provide document demonstrating their internal human right assessment process. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they try to improve year over year versus their peers. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company. Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. SAM believes that employees are a company’s most important resources, as such it is important to treat its workforce with respect and dignity. Companies which don’t follow recognized international standards will eventually lose their employees to companies which do, thereby underperforming their peers in the long run. Hence, SAM asks question within its assessment to all of the 2000 companies which we assess that are related to labour condition and standards, and specifically refers to ILO standards. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. As mentioned above companies are asked to answer specific questions about labour indicators, rights and processes in place. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they try to improve year over year versus their peers. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection SAM believes that companies which take into consideration global trends in running their businesses will outperform their peers which don’t. SAM believes that climate change, water scarcity, energy scarcity, resources scarcity, pollution of the biosphere and decreasing biodiversity are macrotrends which will have a significant impact on companies going forward. At the same time, companies bringing solutions to these environmental challenges will observe higher growth. Hence, companies which better manage environmental risks and opportunities will outperform their peers in the future. So, SAM assesses companies on their ability to manage such environmental risks and opportunities. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents As mentioned above companies are asked to answer specific questions about environmental KPIs, and processes in place, such as CO2 emissions, energy usage, water usage, water related risks, toxic waste, recycling of product, life cycle analysis, etc. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they try to improve year over year versus their peers. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. Corruption represents high transaction cost for companies and limits fair competition, hence SAM believe that companies should do all it can to combat corruption in their spheres of influence. Processes put in place by companies to minimize corruption are assessed looking at companies’ codes of conducts, educational systems, whistle blowing policy… Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. As mentioned above companies are asked to answer specific questions about corruption, KPIs, and processes in place. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, which they try to improve year over year versus their peers. In cooperation with The Sustainability Yearbook 2011 The Sustainability Yearbook 2011 7. Annex 7. Annex 7.1 SAM Profile SAM is an investment boutique focused exclusively Dow Jones Indexes for the publication and licensing on Sustainability Investing. The firm’s offering comof the globally recognized Dow Jones Sustainability For more information on prises asset management, indexes and private equity. Indexes (DJSI) as well as customized sustainability SAM, refer to www.sam-group.com Its asset management capabilities include a range of benchmarks. Furthermore, SAM is the center of exsingle-theme, multi-theme and core sustainability inpertise for clean tech private equity within Robeco. vestment strategies catering to institutional asset SAM belongs to Robeco, which was established in owners and financial intermediaries in Europe, the 1929 and offers a broad range of investment prodUnited States, Asia-Pacific and the Middle East. ucts and services worldwide. Robeco is a subsidiary of Through its index activities, SAM has partnered with the AAA-rated Rabobank Group. CONTACT SAM Analysts Daniel Wild Elsa Ben Hamou Dassonville Jvan Gaffuri Philipp Mettler Head Research Consumers Technology Consumer Cyclicals SAM Iordanis Chatziprodromou Marc-Olivier Buffle Thomas Guennegues Paulo Morais Josefstrasse 218 Sector Head Analysis & Process Industrials Electric Utilities Sustainability Operations CH-8005 Zurich Gabriela Grab Cécile Churet Junwei Hafner-Cai Andrea Ricci Switzerland Sector Head Consumer Industrials Industrials Chemicals Phone + 41 44 653 10 10 Michael Riley Christophe Churet Ida Karlsson Giorgia Valsesia Fax + 41 44 653 10 80 Sector Head Energy / Technology Basic Materials Sustainability Operations Healthcare info@sam-group.com Diderik Basch Urs Diethelm Julia Kim Alexander Walter www.sam-group.com Food & Beverage Utilities & Water Oil & Gas Database Development 7.2 SAM Academic Activities 2010 In 2010 SAM adopted a more proactive approach institutions such as ETH and IESE. In all cooperato developing its research relationships with acadetions SAM assumes an active role in designing, mia. The purpose of its research collaborations is to leading and actively supervising the projects. confirm SAM’s research leadership position in the • Corporate Sustainability: Theoretical roots, Sustainability Finance industry, capitalize on the design elements and empirical evidence value of SAM’s proprietary database and further Depart. of Business Ethics, IESE Business School develop its cutting edge methodology for integrat• Sponsorship of 2010 oikos PRI Young Scholars ing sustainability into the investment process. UnFinance Academy der this prism, SAM is focusing on extensive collaboration with and sponsorship of selected academic 107
