“ Thinking and acting in a ­sustainable way is simply a must. For ­Franke, the path of sustainability was the right one for the last 100 y­ ears. I am convinced that it will also be the path to success for our c­ ustomers, our employees and Franke in the coming 100 years. Ecological, economical and ­social a­spects shall be considered in ­whatever we do – from office to production floor. Sustainability means fairness towards future generations. Everything we do should be made in a way that all of us can face our children with clear conscience. I trust in all Franke employees to take responsibility and work on ­sustainable solutions for our c­ ustomers. ″ Michael Pieper, Owner and President/CEO of Franke Artemis Group Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 3 foreword Dear stakeholder It is with great pleasure that we publish Franke’s first sustainability report. In the past decades, Franke has become a global company in terms of production, sales, supply chain and employees. This development was surely beneficial for our company. Yet, in order to ensure long term success for our customers, business partners, employees, but also for Franke itself, our growth needs to be sustainable. We believe that it is our moral duty to contribute to a sustainable development which means to meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Also, our stakeholders hold us responsible for caring about social, ecological and economic sustainability. In 2010, Group Management of Franke Artemis Group set the goal of becoming a sustainability leader by systematically and pro-actively addressing sustainability topics that are relevant to our business. Accordingly, we have bundled existing sustainability efforts into a Corporate Sustainability Initiative and built up the organizational structure needed to achieve our ambitious goal. In 2011 – the 100th anniversary of Franke – we signed up to the UN ­Global Compact. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption part of our day-to-day operations. Sustainability for Franke means treating people and natural resources with care and respect; designing products and services towards excellence during the whole life cycle; building lasting relationships with our customers; achieving long term financial stability rather than short term success. We are convinced that our first sustainability report provides a complete and fair picture of our sustainability approach and performance. We are aware of the need to improve data accuracy for making effective and informed decisions and are working on improving the reliability of data. Sustainability is a journey rather than a project. We have started to understand and improve our sustainability performance in key areas that we can influence directly. But we have plans for the coming year(s): extension of activities to all production companies as well as the supply chain, understanding the impact of our products along the life-cycle, including sustainability topics in our communication and interaction with various stakeholders. We hope you find this report useful and welcome any feedback you may have. Yours sincerely Thomas A. Erb Michael Pieper Chairman of the Board of Directors Owner and President/CEO Franke Artemis Group Franke Artemis Group 4 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group Contents 5 About this report 7 Franke ­Artemis Group 8 Group profile 9 2011 in review 11 Sustainability at Franke 11 Sustainability ­organization 11 Stakeholders and memberships 12 Our priorities 13 Sustainability framework 15 Products & services 15 Innovation and impact of products 17 Quality and safety of products 17 Raw materials 17 Customer service and ­satisfaction 19 Production 19 Energy 20 CO2 emissions 21 Water and wastewater 21 Supply chain management 23 Employees 23 Our workforce 24 Workplace health and safety 24 Training and development 25 Our responsibility 26 GRI and UN Global Compact indices About this report This is the first sustainability report of Accuracy of data and quality the industrial activities of the Franke of ­information Artemis Group. The report aims at Franke has been collecting non-financial giving a fair and balanced account of data from its subsidiaries for many years. our sustainability strategy, organization, Yet the current data does not allow for activities, performance and future plans. consolidation on Group level. Our goal is The recommendations of the Global to have consolidated sustainability data Reporting Initiative and the UN Global on Group level through a standardized Compact have guided us in writing this and centralized data collection system report. by 2014. We have selected the content of this The data presented in this report report based on an assessment of the stems from two sources: Financial and materiality of sustainability topics for employee-related data was collected Franke and our stakeholders. Details are with a Group-wide reporting tool. Data presented on page 12 of this report. for energy and water consumption was generated by the facility management The sustainability report is published at organization in Aarburg, Switzerland, the same time as the Franke Artemis and was reviewed by an external expert Group’s Annual Report. The Annual as part of Franke’s agreement with Report is not publicly available. The the Swiss Energy Agency (EnAW). sustainability report therefore contains CO2 emissions were calculated with the the business and financial information emission factors provided by the Swiss needed to put our sustainability activities Government. The factor for electricity and performance in the right context. used in Switzerland (142 g CO2/kWh) was applied. The relative environmental data was calculated by dividing the Reporting period absolute values by the operational sales. The sustainability report covers the financial year 2011 (January 1 – December 31). We also included Assurance information from previous years and We have decided not to seek external from the first months of 2012 when assurance for our first sustainability deemed necessary to give the reader report. We plan to externally assure the a comprehensive picture of our next sustainability report in order to sustainability approach and performance. increase the credibility of the report but We plan to publish our next sustainability also to get suggestions for improving our report, covering the financial year 2012, reporting and sustainability management. in May 2013. The information and data of this report has been carefully checked by different functions. The Franke Sustainability Scope of reporting Steering Committee has reviewed and The report covers the industrial activities approved the report on April 13, 2012. of the Franke Artemis Group. The report therefore covers Franke Kitchen Systems Group and Franke Commercial Systems Group. Information on Franke Artemis Real Estate Group, Franke Artemis Asset Management Group and Feintool Group is not included in this report except for financial data that covers the entire Franke Artemis Group. 6 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group Close to customers worldwide with 81 companies in 37 countries on 4 ­continents. Franke locations Feintool locations Franke Information Center in Aarburg, Switzerland. Franke ­Artemis Group Franke Artemis Group is the world’s leading provider of intelligent systems for domestic kitchens, professional food service, coffee preparation, beverage ­delivery and hygiene solutions. Furthermore, Franke Artemis Group manages an extensive real estate portfolio (Franke Artemis Real Estate Group) in Switzerland and abroad, holds various strategic participations in Swiss listed companies (Franke Artemis Asset Management Group) and is the majority shareholder of Feintool Group. 8 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group Group profile Franke Artemis Group Franke Artemis Franke Kitchen Franke Commercial Franke Artemis Asset Management Feintool Group Systems Group Systems Group Real Estate Group Group Franke Kitchen Systems Franke Foodservice Systems Franke Washroom Systems Franke Coffee Systems Franke Beverage Systems Franke Artemis Group Furthermore, Franke Artemis Real Estate the Finance & Audit, the Acquisition, the Franke Artemis Group combines Frankeʼs Group holds participations in real estate Human Resources and the Information industrial activities with Frankeʼs real companies in Switzerland, Europe and Services Committee. The Board and estate and investment portfolio as well North America. Franke Artemis Asset the standing committees held regular as its major participation in the Feintool Management Group manages liquid funds meetings in 2011. Group. and holds various strategic participations Group Management of Franke Artemis in international companies listed on the The Franke industrial activities include Group is responsible for the operational Swiss stock exchange. Franke Kitchen Systems Group management of the Group and for and Franke Commercial Systems Group. Franke Artemis Group includes also achieving corporate objectives. It is Franke Kitchen Systems Group accounts Feintool Group. As the world market leader composed of the Chief Executive Officer, for over half of net sales as world-leading in fineblanking technology, Feintool is Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information provider of kitchen systems (sinks, taps, the only global supplier to offer the entire Officer, Head of Corporate Services/ waste management systems, ventilation process of fineblanking, from engineering Head of Franke Artemis Real Estate hoods, cooking appliances). Franke through tool design to the mass Group and Head of Franke Artemis ­Commercial Systems Group consists production of fineblanking components. Asset Management Group. The Head of of four divisions: Franke Foodservice Corporate Human Resources became Franke Artemis Group employs Systems (kitchen systems and services a member of Group Management as of around 10,000 staff worldwide and is for quick-service restaurants), Franke April 1, 2012. established in close to 40 countries with Wash­room Systems (washroom and 81 subsidiaries. Franke Artemis Group Franke Kitchen Systems Group and sanitary systems in the public and semigenerated consolidated net sales of Franke Commercial Systems Group are public sectors), Franke Coffee Systems CHF 2.5 bn in 2011. run by a CEO/­President and the four with a wide range of superautomatic, divisions of Franke Commercial Systems professional and semi-professional Governance Group each have a division head. The coffee machines and Franke Beverage The Board of Directors of Franke Artemis competence regulations of Franke Systems (beverage containers). Group is composed of seven members. Artemis Group regulate authorizations The Board’s main duty is to define the Franke Artemis Real Estate Group owns within the Group, the sub-groups and the overall strategy of the Group and to and manages an extensive real estate divisions. oversee its execution. The Board of portfolio in Switzerland and abroad. Directors has four standing committees: Further information on governance: www.franke.com  About us Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 9 Aerial view of Frankeʼs headquarters and industrial plant in Aarburg, Switzerland. Further information on review: www.franke.com  Media 2011 in review The difficult global macro-economic environment in 2011 2010 2011 with weaker demand, volatile exchange rates Net sales Franke Artemis Group 2,509.6 2,419.6 and stainless steel prices has created many challenges in particular for our industrial activities with high Net sales Franke Kitchen Systems Group 1,339.1 1,536.0 building-industry exposure and in the Mediterranean Net sales Franke Commercial Systems 885.2 889.8 region. Despite these difficulties, the Group was able to Group increase its organic growth rate slightly. The demanding thereof Franke Foodservice Systems 508.7 520.2 conditions and some extra costs had a negative impact thereof Franke Washroom Systems 125.0 143.4 on profitability. thereof Franke Coffee Systems 143.5 139.7 Franke Artemis Group reported sales of CHF 2.51 bn thereof Franke Beverage Systems 94.5 79.2 and has overall improved their organic growth rate to 5.9 % compared to 4.1 % in the previous year. A stronger Net Sales Feintool Group* 292.3 n/a Swiss franc had a negative impact of -12.7 % on total EBIT 132.1 184.5 sales. But CHF 292 m of nine-month sales in Feintool Profit after tax 123.5 187.6 Group, consolidated per April 1, pushed nominal sales to Cash flow 239.2 298.1 CHF 2.51 bn exceeding last year’s total Group sales of CHF 2.42 bn by 3.7 %. Income taxes 29.2 32.5 On March 1, 2011, a small business (ConGusto GmbH, Cost of materials 1,327.9 1,251.3 Germany) was acquired to enhance the product range Personnel expenses 587.8 540.9 for our QSR (Quick Service Restaurant) customers. Following a successful take-over bid for the majority of Operational expenses 362.6 346.1 the shares of the publically traded Feintool Group, the Investments 302.3 199.3 world market leader in fine-blanking technology, Franke Artemis Group increased its stake in Feintool from Number of employees 9,720 10,552 33 % to 81 %. In October, Franke Artemis Group bought Number of companies 81 64 37.5 % of Precious Woods Central America, a company active in the reforestation of abandoned pastureland All financial figures in million Swiss francs in conformity with the guidelines of the FSC (Forest * As consolidated 9 months Stewardship Council). Finally, a transaction agreed in July to sell Defy Appliances Ltd, the clear market leader of white goods in South Africa, was closed at the end of November. For 2012, we look for greater stability in the financial markets and the Swiss franc exchange rates. This along with strong market positions will benefit further our industrial activities. 10 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group “ Franke Artemis Group is committed to creating l­asting ­value for its customers, ­ employees, shareholders as well as for society through its ­ambition to become a leader in its market in economic, environmental and social performance. ″ Extract from Franke Artemis Sustainability Principles Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 11 Sustainability at Franke Sustainability ­organization Our commitment Many good practices already exist in various Franke companies. Also, the same sustain­ability challenges Since Franke was founded 100 years apply to many of our operations. Therefore, it is ago, many individual initiatives related imperative to learn from experiences and to share information among Group companies. The Corporate to environmental protection, operatioSustainability Department, the Franke Sustainability nal health & safety or product innovaTeam and the Sustainability Steering Committee closely interact to ensure an efficient and effective sustainability tion were implemented. With the rapid ­management: expansion of Franke in the past years –– The Corporate Sustainability Department coordinates – both in terms of growth and geograactivities across the Group. The main tasks are to define Group-wide standards for different phical spread – the need to coordinate sustainability topics, to share good practices, to existing ­sustainability activities at the liaise with various functions such as environmental or safety managers of Franke companies and to corporate level became obvious. communicate internally and e­ xternally about progress made. In 2010, individual actions taken in the –– The Franke Sustainability Team drives sustainability field of sustainability were centralized and implements the Sustainability Principles across and bundled to form one strategic the Group. The team consists of representatives of all Franke businesses as well as selected corporate initiative. Group Management forfunctions. Team members act as “sustainability mulated the ambition to “achieve a ambassadors” within their businesses, collect and share good sustainability practices, propose ideas leadership position in sustainability in to improve performance and cooperate with the the next years”. At the same time, the Corporate Sustainability Department on various activities and initiatives. organizational structure was imple–– The Sustainability Steering Committee is composed mented to live up to this ambition and of m­ embers of Group Management and all business to become an example for corporate heads. Chaired by the CEO it meets two times per year to review the sustainability roadmap, milestones sustain­ability. The management is well and performance, to approve the sustainability report aware that this is a very ambitious aim and to define future objectives and activities. which cannot be achieved without the Stakeholders and memberships full support of the entire staff. We are aware that business does not act in isolation but is interacting with various stakeholder groups. So The commitment to the UN Global far, dialogue with our stakeholders has been highly Compact and its principles in early decentralized. In 2011, we have defined the following stakeholder groups as most relevant for our business 2011 sent a strong signal to our and plan to formalize interactions with representatives internal and external stakeholders. of these groups in the future: Authorities, regulators, customers, employees, end consumers, local By joining the voluntary initiative we communities, media, potential future employees and demonstrated that we are serious suppliers. about managing our responsibilities as Franke issues no political statements and does not ­involve itself in political lobbying. Yet, Franke and well as the opportunities ­contributing its companies are active in a wide range of industry to a sustainable ­development. associations, initiatives and other organizations such as “Swissmem″ and “North American Association of Food Equipment Manufacturers″. Many of these organizations deal with sustainability topics e.g. define best practice standards or develop product labels. 12 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group –– Human rights Products Production Employees –– Labor rights –– Customer ­service & –– Supply chain –– Development & –– Compliance, business ­satisfaction –– Risk ­Management training ­integrity –– Innovation –– Energy & CO2 –– Workplace safety –– Terms of ­employment –– Quality, safety & –– Water –– Satisfaction high –– Discrimination & diversity impact (energy, water, material) Suppliers and raw Stakeholder concern –– Biodiversity –– Communication ­materials –– Travel to work –– Waste & recycling low –– Volunteering –– Facility management –– Poverty ­reduction –– Logistics low high Impact on Franke Sustainability priorities for Franke (bold topics in the upper right section). Product i­nnovation & development Our priorities Franke considers sustainability to be a social duty as In 2011, we consulted 18 external well as a factor for long-term business success: stakeholders and over 30 internal staff from different regions and functions. 1. Sustainability increases the company’s sales and They have rated sustainability topics profit potential. Production and facilities according to their importance for the 2. Sustainability creates non-monetary values such business success of Franke and the as trust and employee attractiveness. interest of stakeholders. The topics were prioritized according to the principle of 3. Sustainability reduces the company’s business materiality and the results discussed with risks. Group Management. The activities of Franke have an impact along the The materiality matrix shown above value chain. In order to bundle our resources, defines our sustainability priorities for the we will initially focus on segments of the value Packaging, logistics & year 2012. The highlighted topics will be chain that we can strongly influence. We will gear services managed more actively than in the past product development and innovation towards and are central in our communication quality, safety and energy-efficiency. We will invest and reporting. The other topics in the in environmentally friendly production processes. upper right section are managed as in We will continue to provide attractive, healthy and the past and will be briefly addressed safe workplaces. in the report. The topics that are either In the long run, however, we will also intensify our of high concern for our stakeholders work with suppliers to ensure that global workplace (upper left section) or of high relevance and environmental standards are met and we will for the business success of Franke (lower Use of products further reduce the environmental footprint of our right section) are managed in our daily products, services, logistics and transportation. operations but not covered in this report. Disposal of products List of stakeholder groups and memberships: www.franke.com/sustainability  Our Mission Value chain of Frankeʼs activities and products. Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 13 Sustainability framework Group Management has set the goal that all Different sustainability topics are addressed in policy documents key production companies shall have certified and a number of internal guidelines deal with details related to management systems according to the ISO 9001 sustainability and business ethics: (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) and OHSAS 18001 (operational health & safety) norms by 2013. –– Code of Conduct: Non-discrimination and equal opportunity, sexual harassment, physical violence, bribery, gifts and The following initiatives are intended to share best entertainment, misuse of company resources, confidentiality practices within Franke, to standardize processes of information, compliance with competition and tax laws, and to get closer to “Execution Excellence”: reporting of non-compliance. The Code of Conduct will be –– Franke Lean Operating Way (FLOW) develops revised and an external whistle-blowing hotline introduced in people, teams, tools and techniques to remove 2012. inefficiencies from our business system. It enables –– Corporate Policy: Compliance with health & safety regulations, people to find effective and efficient solutions compliance with environmental regulations. to performance problems and capture growth opportunities. –– Corporate Human Resources Policy: Employee development, training and education, attraction and retention of talents, –– Franke Project Management is a tool that supports remuneration, business travel. project managers in structuring projects and controlling tasks while addressing key concepts The Sustainability Principles of Franke were approved by Group such as risk and stakeholder management, project Management in 2010. The principles are our framework for communication or status reporting. activities and clarify how Franke can improve its economic, environmental and social performance. Sustainability Principles: www.franke.com/sustainability  Our Mission (pdf document) While the Corporate Sustainability Department coordinates ­activities across Franke, a number of other functions are ­involved. Internal Audit checks on internal guidelines and standards and Corporate Human Resources manages employment related topics. In accordance with the norm ISO 31000 Corporate Risk Management is at the intersection of all Number of certified production companies at the end of 2011. management systems. All Franke companies are required to Key production companies are of major importance for Franke conduct an annual risk analysis which identifies the key risks. because of size or uniqueness of production processes. In addition, all companies must have a clearly defined crisis ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 organization as well as a Business Continuity Management plan certified certified certified that guarantees a quick and competent reaction in the event Number of key of an emergency. production companies 15 7 5 (22 in total) Number of production companies 29 10 8 (42 in total) Annual risk assessment of Crisis management system Business continuity management ­companies, ­s­­ub-groups and Group The three pillars of risk management at Franke. 14 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group “ As the world’s leading provider of ­intelligent systems for domestic k­ itchens, professional food service, c­ offee preparation, beverage delivery and hygiene solutions, we enable enterprise and a rewarding experience for all concerned. ″ Franke Brand Promise Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 15 Products & Services Products and services Innovation and impact of products Innovation has been a driver for the success In order to communicate the impact of are what our customers of Franke since the company was founded our products to the market, we have pay for. Therefore, we in 1911. We consider sustainability to chosen labels that are credible and be an important source of product and useful. In Europe, for example, we have are constantly challenservice innovation and an attribute that started to label taps with the “Water ging ourselves to ensure is gaining ever more importance for both Efficiency Label” (WELL) in 2011. Other end consumers and business customers. labels that we use for our products that our products and It is therefore imperative to set the are the “Energy Efficiency” label in services provide value corresponding product portfolio and Switzerland or the “Water Efficient research & development priorities and to Product Labelling Scheme” (WEPLS) to our customers. It is extend our thinking along the life-cycle of our in the United Kingdom. In addition to only through ongoing products and services. labelling its products, Franke Aquarotter in Germany supported the awareness innovation and by meeIn 2011, we spent around 27 million Swiss raising campaign “Blue Responsibility″ francs (up from 25 million Swiss francs ting the highest quality of the German sanitary industry. The in 2010) on research & development and campaign informs customers on the and safety standards product inno­vation. A total of 20 patents environmental impact, maintenance and and utility models were filed in 2011 (30 in that we can maintain durability of sanitary products. 2010). our leading position in We also work on matching our product Actions taken portfolio with the criteria of various the market. Each Franke business has people dedicated building standards such as “Leadership to innovation and to make sure that our in Energy and Environmental Design” products evolve over time. Our goal is (LEED), “Minergie” or “Deutsches to anticipate and meet the needs of our Gütesiegel Nachhaltiges Bauen”. customers in design, functionality and quality. Franke Kitchen Systems Group has Future plans different Competence Centers that each We will conduct a first eco-design cover a product range such as stainless workshop in 2012 to gain insight into the steel, granite or tectonite sinks or appliances concept of product life cycle assessment (ovens and hobs). The innovation process (LCA). It is our goal to make LCA part starts from ideas and through various phases of our product development process reaches the production step through which it and to better understand the impact of is made available for the market. our products along the life-cycle, i.e. from raw material extraction through We cooperate with external organizations manufacture, use, maintenance and to access cutting-edge knowledge. In 2011, disposal. We further plan to benchmark we organized an Ideas Lab with researchers our products against industry standards from the Swiss Federal Institute of Techno­ and, where applicable, against logy (ETH) in Zurich. A range of topics were competitors′ products. discussed that are important for Franke and for which the ETH representatives presented new approaches. The interaction resulted in a number of specific proposals for further collaboration, including foam insulation solutions for cooling equipment and alternative cooking methods. In 2011, we have started to better assess the impact of our products. Depending on the product group, key issues are energy consumption (hoods, coffee machines), water consumption (taps, toilets, showers), noise (sinks, hoods) or material use (various products). 16 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group Particularly climate friendly: Propane freezer HFCs (“Hydrofluorocarbons″) are chemicals that are used in refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment. However, HFCs are a threat to the global climate – much more powerful than CO2! In reaction to the request for HFCfree freezers, Franke Foodservice Systems developed a freezer that uses propane instead of HFCs. The innovative product is more energy efficient and therefore helps our Particularly eco-friendly: Hood “Mirror″ customers to position themselves as Faber, a Franke company, has developed sustainable companies as well as to a new 3-phase and brushless engine and save costs for electricity. replaced incandescent lamps with LED lighting in the model “Mirror″. The result is an energy reduction of 40 %. The hood “Mirror″ thus helps customers reduce energy costs while at the same time reducing CO2 emissions. Particularly hygienic and economic: AQUA 3000 open “AQUA 3000 Open Water Management System” from Franke Washroom Systems is a combination of hardand software that reconciles the two conflicting objectives of water management: It ensures highest hygiene standards through prevention of water stagnation; and it conserves water through innovative technology at the same time. In short: “AQUA 3000 Open” is an economic yet safe solution for our customers. Particularly energy e ­ fficient: Coffee ­Machine “Pura″ Franke Coffee Systems is conscious about the reduction of the environmental impact of its products and has been improving the energy efficiency and environmental balance of their coffee machines for years. The coffee machine “Pura″ already meets the requirements for lower environmental pollution according to the European EuP guidelines which will apply as of 2014. Thanks to intelligent energy management the “Pura″ helps saving energy and costs. Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 17 Quality and safety of products Customer service and ­satisfaction Quality and safety of our products are In the past years, we have reduced the Franke companies assess customer of highest importance. They are basic consumption of material with a number satisfaction in different ways. This topic is requirements of our customers which of improvements in our production generally part of the quality management must be met at all times. processes: system and follows clear procedures. Actions taken –– Optimization of oil for the deep drawing Different indicators such as “service call Most of our production plants are process not only saves oil but also rate” or “claims from the market“ are certified according to the ISO 9001 norm makes it easier to wash the metals used to quantify customer satisfaction. (quality management system). All our which results in reduced energy While some companies conduct products comply with technical and other consumption. customer surveys on their own, others standards that are required for a given run third-party administered surveys with –– Paper protection of the coil sheets is product group. standardized questions. Performance collected and re-used as a packing improvement plans are routinely We ensure traceability of our critical material in the logistics department. developed for those questions with products to the first external customer. –– Collaboration with a supplier and our weakest results. This allows us to recall products in own research resulted in an “easy case of serious malfunction. We are Franke Coffee Systems has the “Voice peel” deep drawing foil that increases pleased to report that no product recall of the customer” program in place that the performance of the production was required in the 100 year history of addresses customer satisfaction as well process. Franke! as future portfolio expectations with –– Redesign of the grinding process distributors in Europe. Future plans and the use of bristles made of Sisal We will certify all production companies (natural product) led to a reduction in according to the ISO 9001 norm. Further­grinding material. more, we observe and implement all changes in safety regulation to make sure our products continue to meet these standards. Raw materials Franke uses a wide range of m ­ aterials – from metals to packaging to office ­material – of different quantity and quality. In 2011, we spent a total of 551 million Swiss francs for raw material (excluding buyouts and semi-finished goods). The key material of Franke is chrome-nickel stainless steel which is the main component of many of our products. The stainless steel that we use is made of roughly 70 % recycled material. We mainly source our stainless steel from suppliers such as ThyssenKrupp, Facts about chrome-nickel stainless steel Outokumpu, Acerinox or Aperam that Chrome-nickel stainless steel is a high-alloy steel with chromium and nickel contents. meet high social and environmental Chrome-nickel steel is a very durable material – it is resistant against corrosion and standards. acids as well as mechanical and thermal shocks. Products made of chrome-nickel steel such as sinks or beverage containers are absolutely hygienic and therefore easy to Our challenge with regard to materials is clean. For particularly corrosion-resistant surfaces Franke uses molybdenum-bearing twofold: We aim at using material more stainless steel. efficiently, i.e. using fewer resources to produce the same amount of finished Stainless steel is 100 % recyclable; most sinks are collected and reused for the products and we want to use more manufacturing of new products. Franke uses stainless steel that is made of roughly sustainable material, i.e. material from 70 % recycled material. recycled or renewable resources. 18 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 19 Production No production is Energy Energy-saving is a must for all users experienced that the combination of ­possible without the including companies. Energy costs are a process and technological improvements consumption of resourmajor cost factor of our operations and results in major energy savings. In our will become even more significant in the plant in Raszyn, Poland, 30,000 liters of ces or the generation future due to expected raising energy heating oil can be saved every year by of waste. Yet, we believe prices. Also, the switch from fossil to the recovery of heat from the press lines. renewable energy sources or the nuclear In Falkirk, United Kingdom, the energy that it is our responsibipower phase-out are only possible if required for the moulding of granite lity to reduce the impact the energy efficiency is increased. We composite could be reduced by 20 % per also expect that regulation will become annum with an innovative process called of our operations, tighter for buildings, machines and “Rapid Energy Distribution”. taking into account the transportation in the next years. We work on lowering the fuel commercial viability In Aarburg, Switzerland, the largest consumption of Franke-owned vehicles facility of Franke1, a total of 53,096 GJ (cars and small trucks) by downsizing and the availability of of energy was used in 2011 (excluding their engines but also by changing the environmentally friendly fuel, see table below). The main energy driving style of our staff. Some Franke sources in 2011 were natural gas companies have already started to technology. (606,657 m3, 13 % lower than in 2009), purchase low-consumption vehicles. heating oil extra light (7,020 liters, 93 % Service techni­cians and sales staff from Our activities focus Franke Kitchen Systems and Franke lower than in 2009) and electricity on topics that help us (8,589 MWh, 13 % lower than in 2009). Coffee Systems participated in an ecoThe reduction of the overall energy drive training in Switzerland in 2011. ­reduce costs while at consumption by 17 % compared to We also improved the efficiency of our the same time reducing 2009 is the result of the professional information technology by virtualizing our facility management and the many the environmental imservers and reducing the number of data improvements that have been made centers. pact of production prosince 2004. The energy consumption in relation to turnover (GJ consumed per Future plans cesses. We have identiWe are continuing to reduce our energy million Swiss francs) has decreased by fied the efficient use of 14 % since 2009. consumption by implementing best practices such as more efficient lighting energy, CO2 emissions Actions taken or eco-drive trainings across Franke A major energy saving potential lies and the consumption of in improving the management of companies. Even though we have not yet robust data for the energy consumption water as most relevant our production and office facilities. of all plants, we are convinced that Some Franke companies have already topics. introduced lighting management that there is a significant energy saving potential in improving the management combines technology such as lowof our production and office facilities. A consumption lamps and motion sensors new position of Corporate Real Estate with behavioral change through training Management will be created in 2012 to and awareness raising of employees. tap the saving potential and we aim at Our production processes mainly use reducing our relative energy consumption electricity and natural gas. We have by 10 % by the end of 2013. Energy consumption Unit 2009 2010 2011 Natural gas m3 697,079 668,743 606,657 Heating oil extra light Liter 96,662 49,441 7,020 Electricity MWh 9,837 9,057 8,589 Total energy consumption GJ 64,065 58,543 53,096 Energy consumption at Franke in Aarburg, Switzerland. 1 Around 800 employees in total, headquarters of Franke Artemis Group, production of sinks, assembling of coffee machines, home of Franke Industrial Engineering as well as Franke Tooling. 20 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group 300 14.0 250 12.0 200 10.0 8.0 150 6.0 100 4.0 50 2.0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Relative energy consumption (GJ per million Swiss francs Relative CO2 emissions (tonnes of CO2 per million Swiss francs turnover) at Franke in Aarburg, Switzerland, for 2009-2011. turnover) at Franke in Aarburg, Switzerland, for 2009-2011. CO2 emissions Actions taken sources and as such can be classed as Climate change and carbon emissions Franke Schweiz AG (Switzerland) has being totally carbon neutral. are very high on the international agenda collaborated closely with the Swiss Also, the data center that hosts the and in most countries where Franke Energy Agency (Energie-Agentur der Franke internet sites is fully powered by operates. Even though our contribution Wirtschaft EnAW) to develop federallyhydropower. The carbon emissions of the to greenhouse gas emissions is relatively approved targets to save CO2 emissions service provider are fully compensated. low, we aim at reducing our emissions by and energy, which it already exceeded using less energy (see section on energy) in 2010. Target agreements are part of Future plans and by switching to low-carbon energy the voluntary measures under the Energy In line with our ambition to reduce energy sources. Act as well as the CO2 Act of the Swiss consumption in the next years, we aim at Confederation. Franke Schweiz AG was reducing our relative CO2 emissions by at At Franke in Aarburg, Switzerland, a exempted from the carbon tax. least 10 % by the end of 2013 compared total of 2,451 metric tonnes of CO2 were to the year 2011. emitted in 2011 (excluding fuel, see The Franke production plant in Brunssum, table below). This is a reduction of 20 % Netherlands, was awarded in November compared to the emissions in 2009. The 2011 a nationally recognized certification relative CO2 emissions, i.e. tonnes of CO2 (Netherlands Groencertificaat) that per million Swiss francs turnover, have 100 % of its electricity is from renewable decreased by 16 % since 2009 as shown in the chart above. Absolute CO2 emissions Unit 2009 2010 2011 Scope 1 (gas and oil) tonnes 1,649 1,468 1,232 Scope 2 (electricity) tonnes 1,397 1,286 1,220 Total CO2 emissions tonnes 3,046 2,754 2,451 Absolute CO2 emissions (in metric tons) at Franke in Aarburg, Switzerland. Significant energy savings in Switzerland Rapid Energy Distribution (R.E.D.) in the United Kingdom Franke in Aarburg, Switzerland, has been professionally managing its The traditional process for moulding of granite composite facilities since 2004. Based on the results of a detailed assessment of requires significant amounts of energy and water to heat and energy flows and data, a number of improvements were implemented cool the processes. This combination has been the industry such as separation of the heating networks for offices and the washing standard until Carron Phoenix Ltd. challenged the tradition process in the factories, recycling of heat from our server rooms and and developed an innovative approach that has proven to optimization of ventilation system. The improvements led to a have significant environmental and cost benefits to Franke. significant reduction of energy consumption (both electricity and fossil R.E.D. and closed loop systems for hot and cold water led to fuel). In 2011 the energy consumption could be reduced by 17 % a reduction of energy consumption of 20 % and to a water compared to 2009. In addition to cost savings, Franke in Switzerland reduction of 99 % per annum. was also exempted from paying a tax on CO2 emissions. Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 21 Water and wastewater Supply chain management Water is a local topic which is why Franke Kitchen Systems Egypt started We are in regular discussions with Franke manages water consumption to recycle enamel that is left over in our suppliers to ensure the quality and and wastewater at the plant level. While the spraying cabinets. The overspray is availability of raw materials, compowe do not consume a lot of water our collected in special trolleys and filtered nents and buyouts. Some of our compaoperations may adversely affect the out from the drains. It is then re-milled nies have begun to include wider susquality of water. and sprayed on the backside of the tainability issues such as human and products. The recycling of enamel labour rights or environmental topics Our operations in Aarburg, Switzerland, results in lower costs while at the same in their pre-screening and evaluation consumed a total of 18,023 cubic meters time reducing the pollution of soil and of suppliers. One of our customers of freshwater in 2011. While the absolute sewage. A regular analytical checkup of pre-selects and conducts audits at consumption is 5 % lower compared to the effluent is done to be sure that the significant suppliers. 2009, the relative consumption of water recycling process remains efficient and (m3 of water per million Swiss francs We plan to address environmental and that the total suspended particulates are turnover) has decreased by 1% since social issues more systematically in the within the limits of the law. 2009. future and to give priority to suppliers Future plans that have high standard in these topics. Actions taken It is our goal to reduce the relative All our plants are required to comply with consumption of freshwater by 5 % by environmental laws and no company 2013 (compared to the year 2011). Also, was fined for violating water laws. Risk we will continue to reduce the amount management ensures that hazardous of wastewater and/or the pollution substances are stored safely so they do of wastewater by implementing best not pollute the environment in case of practices such as the substitution of fire or other accidents. phosphate in the washing process across Some companies have taken measures Franke plants. to reduce the amount of wastewater or the level of pollution. Faber in Fabriano, Italy, substituted the phosphate products that are used to clean the metal sheets with less-toxic substances. The results of this measure are impressive: use of less chemical products, increased product quality and 50 % reduction of wastewater. Heat recycling from press line in Poland Remove chemicals to bulk tanks in South Africa The presses at Franke in Poland produce heat that led to Franke Water Heating Systems in South Africa uses polyurethane foam for overheated press lines in past summers. At the same the thermal insulation layer of its products. Polyurethane foam is time, the press and assembly shops were heated with oil produced by mixing two chemicals. Often, an auxiliary blowing agent is during the cold season. Franke in Poland invested in used as a catalyst for this process. In the past, the chemicals to produce environmentally friendly technology that recycles heat the foam were stored in small tanks that were placed on the factory floor. from the press line in the following way: cold water cools In a first step, the company has substituted the blowing agent with the presses; the warm water is then used to heat the ozone-depletion and globalwarming potentials with an environmentpress and assembly shops as well as the warehouse. This friendlier product. The chemicals are now also stored in bulk tanks that solution lowers the consumption of heating oil by 30,000 are located outside the factory which lowers the risks of fire and spillages. liters per year. 22 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group “ We engage and nurture talent, enable the enterprise and ambition of our own people, and create together a culture based on values and ideas, for a rewarding future of shared success. ″ Franke Employer Brand Promise Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 23 Employees The business success of Franke Our workforce The different human resources (HR) functions of is strongly dependent on the daily Franke – Corporate HR, Group HR and company contribution of its workforce. It is HR – recruit and retain qualified employees, provide training and education to promote individual success only with the right combination of and encourage a high level of employee morale skills and motivated employees through recognition, communication and feedback. The Human Resources Committee of the Board of that we can create value for our Directors supervises our HR-related activities. customers and Franke. Yet, the In the past, HR management was decentralized competition for qualified people which makes it difficult to report our performance on Group level. Yet, we have rolled-out a new central becomes stronger which poses tool to manage our human resources in 2010. This new challenges to our human tool provides more detailed data for key topics such as training & development and health & safety. resources management. Franke employed 10,333 people on average in 2011. We have identified training & deLabor conditions for all Franke employees comply with national labor laws with regard to salary, paid velopment and health & safety as holidays, overtime and social welfare. For example, priority topics in order to remain our operations in South Africa comply with the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment codes an attractive employer and to have of good practice. a workforce that lives up to our The Franke Forum (European Works Council) facicore values – bright, energetic and litates the cross-border information and consultation of employees within the European Union and Nordedicated. way. The Franke Forum is a platform for discussions between Group Management and employeesʼ representatives from individual Franke companies. The Forum deals with topics such as business situation of Franke, structural and strategic changes in the group and the current employment situation. 533 288 765 1,465 businesses Franke Kitchen Systems Franke Foodservice Systems Franke Washroom Systems 7,282 Franke Coffee Systems Franke Beverage Systems Average number of employees (full-time equivalents) of Franke in 2011. 24 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group Staff at Franke headquarters in Aarburg, Switzerland. Workplace health and safety and workshops on nutrition, tobacco For the past 10 years, Franke has Protecting the health and safety of our cessation and stress. These activities attempted to fill vacant positions with workforce is not only a moral obligation keep the workforce healthy and allow the qualified internal candidates. Education but is also directly linked to productivity. early detection of employees with serious and training for potential leaders is based Our CEO’s vision is clear and ambitious: conditions which led to significant on the Personal Development Plan, which “safety first”. potential savings in the past years. results from dialogues with the supervisor and HR manager on performance review Safety concerns many aspects of our Future plans and action plan. Potential leaders are business – from fire protection to Despite the already strong performance, prepared for their new assignments in the operating machinery to safe driving. In Group Management has set the goal Corporate Education Programs 1 and 2 – addition, we are confronted with health that all production companies must be fundamental development and leadership issues such as workplace ergonomics, certified according to the Operational trainings focusing on team-building, stress or diseases. Health and Safety Assurance Standards identification with Franke Artemis Group, (OHSAS) 18001 by 2014. Actions taken managerial skills, strategy, finance, We try to continuously improve communication, innovation and personal our performance and to learn from development. Training and development experience by defining best practices for In 2011, the Corporate HR department Franke companies worldwide employ 152 different functions and locations. Training rolled-out a new tool to streamline the apprentices according to national laws. for exposed employees – e.g. safe drive employee appraisal process. A majority In Aarburg, Switzerland, 56 apprentices training for service staff in Gruensfeld, of all Franke employees has reviewed are trained for 3-4 years. Many of them Germany – and communication on their performance in 2011 and defined can be offered a permanent position health and safety issues are important individual goals for 2012 with their within Franke. Up to 10 apprentices per elements of our approach. The Franke supervisor. year seize the opportunity to work for a plant in Peschiera, Italy, has intensively Franke company abroad for 12 months communicated and trained safety issues. Franke supports the professional after finishing the apprenticeship. This focused program brought the plant’s development of its workforce through safety performance (e.g. frequency and vocational trainings and external severity of injuries) down to the level of education. regional peer companies. The Franke companies in Smyrna, USA, Employees Apprentices Fatalities have been following a comprehensive Franke Kitchen Systems Group 7,282 79 0 approach to health management for Franke Commercial Systems Group 3,051 73 0 quite some time. The program includes an on-site medical clinic, a fitness Total 10,333 152 0 center, personalized health analysis Average number of employees, apprentices and work-related fatalities for Franke′s activities in 2011. Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 25 Our responsibility Michael Pieper, Owner and President/CEO of Franke Artemis Group, hands over the donation to Eric Mayer (UNICEF Germany) and Johanna Christine Gehlen (actress). We live up to our wider responsibility Systems has committed itself to give home and work for disabled adult people. and support a number of societal something back to society and has The supervised residential group “Borna″ issues that are not directly related to engaged in a partnership with UNICEF, (www.borna.ch) and the AZB Foundation our core business. The following are with the clear understanding that (www.azb.ch) both provide work for some highlights of Franke’s sponsoring, children are our future. In 2011 we made the assembling and packaging of our donation or volunteering activities: a monetary contribution to UNICEF products. Germany and supported the organisation with coffee machines donated at various Donation to ETH Zurich Foundation locations across the world. Franke Foundation in Switzerland Franke Artemis Group made a major For many decades, the Franke FoundFor the second year, Franke Coffee donation to the ETH Zurich Foundation ation (“Franke-Stiftung”) in Aarburg, Systems supported the Efico Foundation (www.eth-foundation.ch) in 2011. Switzerland, has been supporting (www.eficofoundation.org). With the Two million Swiss francs were cultural, social and educational noncontribution, a development project in given to a strategic fund that also profit organizations and initiatives. The Ethiopia will be supported. supports research projects related to foundation grants donations to mainly sustainability. Another two million Swiss Carron Phoenix, a Franke company in local charitable causes but regional and francs will be used to grant the “Franke – the United Kingdom, was supporting the national donations are also made. The ETH Zurich Excellence Scholarships”. gifting initiative Oxfam Unwrapped, with annual contributions exceed the amount a commitment to purchase the charityʼs of 200,000 Swiss francs. “Safe Water for 10 People″ gifts, with Support of foundations donations generated from every tap sold. and charitable organizations Franke in Aarburg, Switzerland, uses the As part of the 100 year anniversary services of two institutions that provide celebrations of Franke, Franke Coffee Volunteering of apprentices Apprentices from Franke companies in Aarburg, Switzerland, provide volunteer work for one week every year. In fall 2011, 56 apprentices and 6 supervisors spent a week in the Verzasca valley in the canton of Ticino, Switzerland. They worked hard to clean a pasture in a mountain area. At the same time, the group had time to better get to know each other and to foster team work. 26 sustainability report 2011 | Franke Artemis Group GRI and UN Global Compact indices The recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI 3.1) and the UN Global Compact have guided us in writing this report. We self-declare this report to GRI application level “C”, as stated in the table below. This Sustainability Report serves as our ­Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. The report is available on the website: www.unglobalcompact.org GRI indicator UN Global Compact principle Where to find in this report 1 Sustainability strategy and analysis Statement of continued support Foreword (p. 3) Our priorities (p. 12-13) 2 Organizational profile ― Group profile (p. 8-9) 3 Report parameters ― About this report (p. 5) 4 Governance, commitments, and engagement ― Group profile (p. 8) Sustainability at Franke (p. 11) Sustainability framework (p. 13) EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ― 2011 in review (p. 9) EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organization’s 7 Support a precautionary approach Products & Services (p. 15-16) activities due to climate change CO2 emissions (p. 20) EN3 Direct energy consumption 8 Promote environmental responsibility Production (p. 19-20) 9 Environmentally friendly technologies EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 Promote environmental responsibility Production (p. 19-20) 9 Environmentally friendly technologies EN8 Water withdrawal 8 Promote environmental responsibility Water and wastewater (p. 21) EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 7 Support at precautionary approach CO2 emissions (p. 20) 8 Promote environmental responsibility EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 8 Promote environmental responsibility Products & Services (p. 15-16) products and services 9 Environmentally friendly technologies HR2 Suppliers and other business partners that have 2 Complicity in human rights abuses Water and wastewater (p. 21) undergone human rights screening 3 Freedom of association 4 Forced labor 5 Child labor 6 Non-discrimination LA1 Total workforce 1 Respect and support human rights Employees (p. 23) LA7 Accidents, injuries, fatalities 1 Respect and support human rights Workplace health and safety (p. 24) LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and 1 Respect and support human rights Workplace health and safety (p. 24) career development reviews SO5 Public policy positions and lobbying 10 Work against corruption Sustainability at Franke (p. 11) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction ― Quality and safety of products (p. 17) ― 3 Freedom of association Employees (p. 23) ― 6 Non-discrimination Sustainability framework (p. 13) ― 10 Work against corruption Sustainability framework (p. 13) Franke Artemis Group | sustainability report 2011 27 Feedback on or inquires about this report should be directed to: Natascha Widmer, Head of Corporate Communications, Franke Artemis Management AG natascha.widmer@franke.com Oliver Johner, Corporate Sustainability Manager, Franke Artemis Management AG Franke Technology and Trademark Ltd. Franke-Strasse 2 oliver.johner@franke.com 4663 Aarburg Switzerland To order a hard copy of this report please send an email to info@franke.com or call +41 62 787 3131. www.franke.com “ In all that we do or decide not to do, we must always bear in mind that we have to be able to look our grandchildren in the eyes with a clear conscience. ″ Michael Pieper, Owner and President/CEO of Franke Artemis Group
