Sustainable Value Report Basic reporting principles Sustainable Value Report 2010 of the BMW Group This eighth edition of the BMW Group Sustainable Value Report has been published to inform stakeholders in a transparent manner about the company’s sustainability strategy and how sustainability is being integrated into corporate processes. Focusing on present and future challenges in the areas of sustainable management, product responsibility, Group-wide environmental protection, employees and social commitment, the Sustainable Value Report 2010 describes the company’s approaches and specific programmes used to improve its sustainability performance. The “objectives, key facts and figures” section presents key figures for these measures as well as the company’s objectives in the above-mentioned areas. Each chapter starts with a two page overview of the main points, including priority topics with the associated challenges, achievements and objectives as well as the key performance indicators (KPIs) used internally to control and monitor the BMW Group’s sustainability performance. This Sustainable Value Report is published in German and English. Conforms to GRI standards The BMW Group’s Sustainable Value Report has been compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3) guidelines as well as the industry-specific Automotive Sector Supplement (pilot version 1.0). To what extent GRI indicators are met is shown in the GRI Index and where appropriate explanatory notes are www.globalreporting.org ­attached. At GRI level A+(GRI checked), this Sustainable Value Report 2010 meets the maximum requirements detailed in the GRI guidelines. Topics have been selected and weighted in accordance with the findings of ­intensive, ­structured dialogue with stakeholders as well as with the results of in-house workshops in which all relevant BMW Group departments participated (cf. chapter 01.4). The resulting materiality matrix is mapped www.bmwgroup.com/ in chapter 01.1. The specific demands of rating agencies specialising in evaluating corporate sustainability pergri-index-e formance are also taken into consideration. Reporting period As is the case for the Annual Report, the reporting period for the Sustainability Value Report is the calendar year 2010. However, in order to present an up-to-date and complete report, information about activities carried out in 2009 (limited to events that occurred after the editorial deadline of the previous Sustainable Value Report in July 2009) as well as new information obtained by the editorial deadline in July 2011 has also been included. The “objectives, key facts and figures” section maps the figures for 2006 –2010 (with the exception of newly added key figures). The objectives, key facts and figures published in this report refer to the entire BMW Group with its three brands BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce. There are, however, some exceptions concerning site-­ specific topics and local sustainability programmes. Wherever this is the case, the entity the figures apply to is specified accordingly, e.g. BMW AG. The last Sustainable Value Report was published in print in September 2009 and covered financial year 2008. For financial year 2009, “Indicators for Sustainability”, with objectives, key facts and figures was published online only (“Update 2010”). Any targets that were met in 2009 were identified in the update and are not mentioned again in the 2010 Sustain­able Value Report. The key figures and objectives in the “objectives, key facts and figures” section were ­audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers for the first time this year. In addition, indiwww.bmwgroup.com/ cators from the ­areas of e­ nvironmental protection and occupational health and safety were audited by external responsibility auditors and experts in a­ ccordance with ISO 14001, EMAS and OHSAS (see lists of locations with certified health and safety management systems in the chapter “objectives, key facts and figures” and of those with certified environmental ­management systems on the Internet at www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility). UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress report The BMW Group is committed to implement the principles of the UN Global Compact 2001, and in this ­report is www.unglobalcompact.org once again reporting on progress achieved towards complying with these principles. An overview of the ten principles www.globalcompact.de with examples of their implementation is contained in the Progress Report (cf. page 115 et seq.). Further information Please refer to www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility for further in-depth information on the topics covered in the www.bmwgroup.com/ Sustainable Value Report 2010 and the glossary. Internet links to the topics discussed are indicated in the ­report by responsibility www.bmwgroup.com/glossary a specific symbol. Forward-looking statements The BMW Sustainable Value Report contains various forward-looking statements about future developments which are based on the current status of the BMW Group’s assumptions and forecasts. They are thus subject to a variety of predictable and unpredictable risks, uncertainties and other factors, so that the actual outcome, including the company’s financial and assets position, its development or performance could differ considerably. The BMW Group makes no commitment to update such forward-looking statements and to adapt them to future events or developments. Dear Reader, We have a clear vision: we aim to be the world’s leading provider of premium products and services for individual mobility. By acting in a sustainable and ­responsible way in all areas, we are taking a step-by-step approach to ensure this ­vision becomes reality. After all, sustainable action is an investment in our future. We are engaged in dialogue with many diverse groups in society. Today, our stakeholders do not just want to know about the efficiency of our vehicles. They are also asking: How environmentally friendly is the production process for the BMW Group’s vehicles and motorcycles? What alternative mobility concepts are we developing? And: Do we look for sustainability in the supply chain? At the BMW Group, we take a long-term approach in our strategy and actions. We see ourselves as part of society and embrace our responsibilities. This is why we listen to our stakeholders and take their concerns seriously. In this ­Sustainable Value Report, you will learn what challenges we face and what goals we have set for ourselves. We will also report on the specific progress we made last year – transparently and openly. For the first time, we have engaged an independent auditor to certify the “objectives, facts and figures” section of this report. We want to demonstrate that the BMW Group is shaping its future. In doing so, our focus is on all three aspects of sustainability – economic, environmental and social. Our company has signed the Global Compact of the United Nations and is committed to implementing its ten principles at all locations worldwide. Sustainable action starts with a mindset. The entire Board of Management of the BMW Group is represented on our Sustainability Board. Every day, over 96,000 employees worldwide are working to achieve further progress across the entire value chain. This is true for our business and also for our partnerships and our relationships with all stakeholders. D  r. Norbert Reithofer Chairman of the Board of Management Frank-Peter Arndt Zero-emissions production is a goal we continuously strive to fulfil. We have already done a great deal to conserve resources and avoid waste, and clean production is a key component of our sustainability strategy. However, we still have much to do. Our success drives us forward and it is this very success that motivates us to continue to work on innovative solutions in the future. Environmental protection is not a cost factor. On the contrary: efficient, clean production is more competitive in the long term. The use of renewable energy sources in our plants is the next logical step in this process with the production of the BMW i models in Leipzig setting new standards in this regard. For us, sustainable mobility can only be developed within sustainable structures. Nothing less than this will satisfy our premium standards. Dr.-Ing. Herbert Diess Sustainable management makes a difference when it involves the entire value chain. We are working to embed sustainability in all processes as well as with suppliers and partners. The BMW Group aims to be a role model and to encourage other companies to take similar measures. We require our business partners to comply with social and environmental standards. We expect production methods to take environmental protection and conservation of natural resources into account. Our purchasing terms and conditions include binding requirements to this effect. We owe this to our customers. Sustainability in the supply chain is ultimately a joint task for the entire industry. The more companies that participate, the more successful its implementation will be. Dr.-Ing. Klaus Draeger Our route to sustainable mobility is via Efficient ­ ynamics: this concept combines drive technologies, lightweight design, D aerodynamics and optimised energy management in our vehicles. Efficient Dynamics makes it possible to combine dynamic driving with efficiency – now and in the future. We develop innovative solutions that reduce fuel ­consumption and CO2 emissions. We have reached a whole new level of ­efficiency with our revolutionary BMW i3 electric vehicle and the BMW i8 ­hybrid sports car. There is no going back: individual mobility is going to ­become more environmentally friendly. In particular, the all-electric BMW i3 delivers a compelling statement for sustainability. A A  The BMW AG Board of Management at the presentation of the new BMW i sub-brand for B electric vehicles, Frankfurt, Germany B  LED installations representing a megacity at the sub-brand presentation Dr. Friedrich Eichiner Sustainable management means consistently increasing a company’s value. The BMW Group regards steady and appropriate value ­creation as its central responsibility. It seeks to create value through its ­actions – for itself and for others. The economic success of the company is the foundation on which the company can practise environmental and social responsibility. A sense of proportion when dealing with opportunities and risks also plays a key role in value creation. The BMW Group ensures it has sufficient risk coverage and – particularly in the area of financial services – appropriate opportunity and risk management. It is also bound by the code G of conduct for governance and compliance. Sustainable management ­enables the BMW Group to remain competitive and be well prepared to meet future challenges. Harald Krüger The BMW Group is one of the most attractive employers in Germany and worldwide, and for good reason: the company offers excellent working conditions and appropriate remuneration that is aligned with performance. We systematically develop the skills of our employees worldwide so that the company will continue to be competitive in the future. Working relationships in the company are characterised by trust and appreciation. If you value continuity, you must adapt quickly to change. This is why we are already working hard on upcoming changes. We are actively seeking a more diverse workforce and are developing work models with healthy aging in mind. Sustainability means acting with foresight and being future-focused in our human resource management. We want to have the right people in the right places, both now and in the future. Dr. Ian Robertson (HonDSc) Sustainability is part of our brand promise. Today, our customers appreciate the unique combination of efficient and powerful ­vehicles made possible by BMW EfficientDynamics and MINIMALISM by MINI. Tomorrow, we are going a step further. Our sub-brand, BMW i, marks a new approach to sustainable individual mobility. Vehicles with a BMW i badge have been designed from the ground up for electromobility – Born Electric. This means even more fuel-efficient and dynamic vehicles. BMW i also includes a growing set of sustainable mobility services which are already available. These services range from apps, such as My City Way, to our ­car-sharing programme in Munich, DriveNow. This is just the start. You can E be sure the BMW Group will continue bringing the future of sustainable ­individual mobility within reach. C A B F H A  Dr.-Ing. Dr.-Ing. E. h. Norbert Reithofer, ­Chairman of the Board of Management B Harald Krüger, Board Member for Human ­Resources, Industrial Relations Director C  Frank-Peter Arndt, Board Member for Production D  Dr. Ian Robertson (HonDSc), Board Member for Sales and Marketing E  Dr.-Ing. Klaus Draeger, Board Member for ­Development F  Dr. Friedrich Eichiner, Board Member for ­Finance G  Dr.-Ing. Herbert Diess, Board Member for ­Purchasing and Supplier Network D H The BMW i3 Concept (left) and BMW i8 (right) at sub-brand presentation in Frankfurt, Germany ContentS Contents Report Preface and statements by the Board of Management Group profile — 02 01 Sustainable operations — 03 01.1 Strategy and organisation — 06 01.2 Risk management — 10 01.3 Corporate Governance and Compliance — 11 01.4 Stakeholder dialogue — 14 01.5 Sustainability in the supply chain — 16 01.6 The year 2010 — 18 02 Product responsibility — 19 02.1 Product policy and management approach — 22 02.2 Technologies for sustainable mobility — 23 02.3 Vehicle safety — 26 02.4 Traffic management and mobility research — 27 02.5 Saving resources and recycling products — 30 02.6 Premium standards and customer satisfaction — 31 03 Group-wide environmental protection — 33 03.1 Managing resources. Protecting the environment — 36 03.2 Energy consumption and emissions — 38 03.3 Materials use and waste management — 40 03.4 Water and wastewater — 41 03.5 Efficient transport logistics — 44 04 Employees — 45 04.1 Attractive employer — 48 icon caption 04.2 Attractive, performance-based remuneration — 50 04.3 Recruiting and training employees — 51 04.4 Diversity and equal opportunities — 54 04.5 Work-life balance — 55 04.6 Work, health and demographic change — 56 Link to 04.7 Securing jobs and co-determination — 58 website 05 Society — 59 05.1 Management and organisation — 62 05.2 Road safety — 63 Reference to 05.3 Education and intercultural understanding — 66 other publications 05.4 Promoting good health — 67 05.5 Global cultural commitment — 68 05.6 Foundations — 69 Reference to UN Global Compact Objectives, key facts and Figures i Sustainability indicators — 71 Reference to “Sustainability Objectives, key facts and figures regarding the designated topics Indicators” page 71 et seq. can be found in the section “Sustainability Indicators” — 71 Explanatory comments for the “Sustainability Indicators” — 109 Independent audit certificate — 110 Reference to GRI Index — 112 GRI Index UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress — 115 Index — 117 Left column Contacts — 119 Right column 02  Group profile Facts and figures The BMW Group is one of the most successful manufacturers of automobiles and motorcycles and ranks among Germany’s largest industrial companies. It is the only automobile company in the world represented in all relevant prewww.bmwgroup.com mium segments, with the brands of BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce. The BMW Group headquarters are in Munich and the Chairman of the Board of Management is Dr. Norbert Reithofer. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Prof. Joachim Milberg. For the 2010 financial year, the BMW Group achieved a global sales volume of approximately 1.5 million automobiles and approximately 110,000 motorcycles, and generated revenues of euro 60.5 billion. The BMW Group’s EBIT for the 2010 financial year totalled euro 5.1 billion. At the end of December 2010, the company employed a global workforce of more than 95,000. The company’s shares (WKN 519000; ISIN DE0005190003) are listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange’s DAX index. On 31 December 2010, there were 601,995,196 BMW shares of common stock and 53,163,412 shares of preferred stock. This corresponds to a share capital of around euro 655 million. Members of the Quandt family hold 46.7% of the shares of the company’s common stock, while 53.3% of the common stock is held by institutional and private investors. The sales network of the BMW Group consists of 43 company-run sales locations as well as around 3,100 BMW, 1,300 MINI and 80 Rolls-Royce dealerships. National importers provide sales support to over 100 countries. Thus, the BMW Group is represented in over 140 countries on all five continents. History Bayerische Motoren Werke G.m.b.H. came into being in 1917, having been founded in 1916 as Bayerische Flugzeugwerke AG (BFW). It became Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft (BMW AG) in 1918. The company initially focused on the development and production of aircraft engines and from 1923 onwards, also on motorcycles. In 1928, BMW laid the foundation for its success as an automobile manufacturer with the purchase of the Eisenach motor vehicle factory. Brands and objectives The BMW Group brands BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce are three of the strongest premium brands in the automotive industry today. Vehicles built by the BMW Group offer superb product substance in terms of aesthetic appeal, dynamic performance, technology and quality, and underline the company’s leading position in innovation and technology. The BMW Group also occupies a strong market position in the motorcycle segment with the brands of BMW and Husqvarna. BMW Financial Services rounds off the successful business of the BMW Group. The goal of the BMW Group is to achieve profitable growth and above-average returns by focusing on premium segments. The company successfully began its strategic realignment “Strategy Number ONE” in September 2007, with the aim to be the leading provider of premium products and premium services for individual mobility. Sustainability Corporate sustainability is firmly established as a guiding principle of the company’s strategy and culture. The BMW Group complies with the ten principles of the Global Compact and the Cleaner Production Declaration of the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP). In addition, the company also adheres to the agreements of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies and the Business Charter for Sustainable Development issued by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). For six consecutive years the BMW Group has been named as the world’s most sustainable automobile company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. The BMW Group is the only automobile company to have been listed in the top three every year since the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes were founded in 1999. Production and assembly locations The BMW Group is a global operation with more than 25 production and assembly plants in 14 countries. In Germany, production facilities are located in Munich, Dingolfing, Regensburg, Landshut, Leipzig, Berlin, Wackersdorf www.bmwgroup.com/locations and Eisenach; Spartanburg, USA; Rosslyn, South Africa; Oxford, Hams Hall, Swindon, and Goodwood in the UK; Steyr, Austria; Varese, Italy; and Shenyang, China. Assembly plants are located in Kaliningrad, Russia; Cairo, Egypt; Chennai, India; Rayong, Thailand; Kulim, Malaysia; Manaus, Brasilia and Jakarta, Indonesia. These are mainly operated together with external partners. The company also uses Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik AG & Co KG in Graz (Austria) for contract production. 03 Sustainable operations 01.1 01.2 Strategy and organisation 06 Risk management 10 01 01.3 Corporate Governance and Compliance 11 01.4 Stakeholder dialogue 14 01.5 Sustainability in the supply chain 16 01.6 The year 2010 18 Sustainable operations for lasting success 04 Corporate Strategy Number ONE Sustainability strategy 01 Action point Sustainable operations. With its corporate Strategy Number ONE, Areas of focus the BMW Group plans to become the leading producer of premium products Challenges and premium services for individual mobility. In our view, premium includes the idea of sustainability, which is why we are working to establish sustainable Key performance indicators (KPIs) business practices along the entire value chain and throughout all processes. Key elements in our sustainability management are our environmental moniProgress / Forecast toring system, our ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, and the integration of sustainability criteria into every aspect of our corporate development. Areas of Focus Anti-corruption and compliance work Page 11 Corporate governance Page 11 Corporate success Page 18 Environmental and social standards in the supply chain Page 16 Risk management Page 10 Stakeholder dialogue Page 14 Sustainability management Page 07 Challenges Preventing corruption and strengthening compliance controls Environment (e.g. climate change), conflict minerals, human resources issues ( e.g. demographic change), industry sector risks (e.g. fuel price developments, increasingly stringent emissions legislation and targets) Gaining transparency over the supply chain and ensuring every one of our growing number of suppliers adheres to social and environmental standards, in the BRIC states as elsewhere Meeting a wide range of stakeholders’ information needs 05 Sustainable ­operations Key performance indicators (KPIs) Page 72 Revenues Profit before tax euro 60,477 million euro 4,836 million euro 50,681 million in the previous year euro 413 million in the previous year Return on Capital Employed 19.6 %  3.3 % in the previous year Listings in Sustainability Indices Industry leader in Dow Jones Sustainability Index Listed in FTSE4Good and FTSE4Good Environment Index oekom Prime Status: the BMW Group is the third most sustainable company in the DAX 30 index Progress in 2010 Forecast Page 77 et seq. Continued development and further detailing of parts Continued development and implementation of the of sustainability strategy sustainability strategy across all divisions by the end Sustainability as a purchasing criterion in the selection of 2012 of suppliers Establish sustainable business practices along the ­entire value chain by the end of 2012 For a complete overview of key figures, targets fulfilled and new objectives, see “objectives, facts and figures” section on page 71 et seq. 06 01.1 Strategy And Organisation. When it comes to sustainable operations, no other automotive producer can rival the BMW Group. We have established sustainable principles in every area of our business – around the world and along the entire value chain. By the year 2020, the BMW Group will be the world’s Corporate Strategy Number ONE leading provider of premium products and premium BMW Group Annual Report 2010 mobility services. That is the goal we set ourselves back in 2007, when we established Strategy Number ONE, which has undergone continued development ever since. Vision For us, however, premium means more than products and services; premium means being the leader in the development of sustainable solutions for individual mobility Competitive advantage needs. With a sustainable philosophy and sustainable business activities, we have the foundations needed to secure long-term growth, greater profitability, access to new customer segments and access to future technologies. These four pillars are the foundation of our cor­ Growth Shaping Profitability Access to new the future technologies porate strategy: Strategy Number ONE. and customers In line with our Strategy Number ONE, we are systematically establishing sustainability criteria across every area of our company, in all of our target processes and along the entire value chain. They are based on our sustainability strategy, which was approved in the summer Basic principles of 2009 and provides the starting point for the individual divisions of our organisation to devise their own specific goals. ­Efforts to continue integrating the strategy into the individual divisions of our company remain our focus Constant communications with stakeholders benefit our at the moment. company by helping us systematically pick up on impulses that support our sustainable development and enhancAs sustainability becomes more firmly established ing our Sustainability Management. One significant inthroughout our organisation, we are working to strengthen strument for our communications in this area has been our our external networks as well as our communications regular stakeholder surveys (see chapter 01.4, page 14 with relevant stakeholder groups. By participating in et seq.). These reveal what our stakeholders expect from ­numerous conferences, projects and networks, we are us and allow us to balance their views against our own pushing forward the establishment of a set of overall internal considerations. We last discussed our assessprin­ciples for sustainable development in business and ment of sustainability issues in our operations, finances society. Among the projects we are involved in are the and reputation in an in-house workshop in April 2011. Global Compact, econsense and the World Business All the relevant aspects named both in-house and Council for Sustainable Development, which we have ­ex­ternally have now been brought together to form a been part of since 2011. ­Materiality Matrix. BMW Group sustainability strategy and key issues Goal: BMW Group is the most sustainable company in the automotive industry Sustainability management Decision-making based ­ Transparent Environmental radar Consider entire value chain on sustainability communications Key topic areas Environment Business Social Product responsibility Risk management Responsibility for employees Corporate environmental protection Corporate governance and compliance Commitment to social responsibility 07 Sustainable ­operations In 2001, the BMW Group signed a voluntary agreement strategy and the strategy and management of business, to abide by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact environmental and social sustainability. www.unep.fr/scp/cp and the Cleaner Production Declaration of the UN Environwww.unglobalcompact.org www.unglobalcompact.de ment Programme (UNEP). We have also made a clear The long-term direction of our sustainability strategy is www.un.org/millenniumgoals commitment to the UN’s Millennium Development Goals established in our Sustainability Board meeting. Involving www.ilo.org www.oecd.org (MDG), contributing in particular to goals No. 6 “Combat all of our Management Board Members, the Sustain­ www.iccwbo.org HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases” and No. 7 “Ensure ability Board convenes twice a year to assess the com­ environmental sustainability”. pany’s progress. Meanwhile, responsibility for its operative implementation of measures in the individual divisions UN Global Compact In 2005, the BMW Group joined forces with employee of our company lies with our Sustainability Circle. This representatives to draw up its Joint Declaration on Human meets at least twice a year and is chaired by our Sustain­ Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group. In ability and Environment representative. Its responsi­ doing so, it reaffirmed its commitment to adhere to the bilities include the identification and evaluation of risks core labour standards of the International Labour Organ­ and opportunities relevant to sustainability. The Susisation (ILO). We also abide by the OECD’s principles for tainability Board is additionally responsible for the multinational corporations and by the Business Charter ­exchange of ­information and the coordination of relefor Sustainable Development issued by the International vant activities across division boundaries. It also overChamber of Commerce (ICC). sees the continued enhancement of our sustainability strategy. Organising and managing sustainability One important goal of our sustainability strategy is to In 2010, much of the work done by the Sustainability manage the issue of sustainability centrally and establish C ­ ircle and Sustainability Board focused on the continued it as a core strategy within our organisation. For this reaenhancement of our corporate sustainability strategy for son, our Sustainability and Environmental Protection the individual divisions. It also concentrated on the BMW ­department has been directly incorporated into our CorGroup’s position on climate issues, the verification of porate Strategy unit since 2007. Its responsibilities inconcepts for holistic reporting procedures, and oppor­ clude the continued enhancement of our sustainability tunities for the utilisation of renewable energies. Materiality analysis Importance for stakeholders 9 Energy supplies / Climate change renewable energies CO2 emissions Alternative drive train technologies 8 Electromobility LCA products / components Product security Environmental and Sustainability social standards in the 7 management supply chain Product recycling Consumer protection Road safety Health of employees Utilisation of renewable materials Eco-friendly production 6 Mobility concepts Preventing corruption Demographic change Social responsibility 5 Water Diversity within the Work-life balance BMW Group 4 3 Biodiversity 2 1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Importance for the BMW Group 08 Responsibility for sustainability issues in the BMW Group BMW Group is once again the world’s most sustainable automotive producer One of the most important ratings in the world is the Dow Sustainability Board Jones Sustainability Index World and Europe. In 2010, www.sustainability-index.com Comprises the entire Board of Management the BMW Group was able to secure its position as the inChairman: Chairman of the Board of Management dustry leader in this ranking for the sixth time in succesResponsible for strategic alignment sion, meaning external analysts rate us as the most sustainable automotive producer in the world. We have also been listed in the FTSE4Good, another major index for sustainable businesses, for the last ten years and featured www.ftse.com/index.jsp in its sister index, the FTSE4Good Environmental Index, Sustainability Circle since 2007. Moreover, the Munich rating agency oekom Comprises heads of department from all divisions Chairman: BMW Group Sustainability named us as the third most sustainable company listed www.oekom-research.com and Environment Representative in the German DAX 30 index. Its analysis focused on the ­ esponsible for preliminary work to support decision-making R way social and environmental criteria have been integrated into management structures, processes and products. With oekom’s evaluation, the BMW Group now enjoys oekom Prime Status, an accolade conferred only to leading companies in the various industries. Meanwhile, Specialist divisions the annual assessment by the Carbon Disclosure Project Implement measures and processes (CDP) rated the BMW Group third among automotive needed for BMW Group to producers in the Industry Group “Automobiles & Comachieve its goals www.cdproject.net ponents” of the Global 500 in 2009. As well as these ratings, a set of key performance indicators (KPIs) is in place that enables empirical comparisons Since the beginning of 2009, sustainability has become with other companies and allows us to assess our peran established corporate goal in the BMW Group’s balformance. An overview of the relevant KPIs is provided anced scorecard. As a result, every one of our projects in the introductions to each chapter of this Sustainable is assessed with relevant criteria in mind. Today, sustainValue Report. ability criteria are taken into account along the entire value chain. And when it comes to operative implemenConsistent integration of sustainable practices tation, we apply established environmental (ISO 14001 We want to continue developing our leading position in and EMAS), quality assurance (ISO 9001) and occupathe world’s most important sustainability indices. To help tional safety (OHSAS/OHRIS) management systems. In us do so, we have set up a series of measures and criteria addition, with sustainability now forming an ­integral for the individual divisions of our company. We have also part of our division and personal target agreements, made consistent efforts to establish our sustainability ­aspects such as the 30% reduction in resource consumpstrategy in our subsidiaries and across our global dealership tion we are currently working to achieve also influence network in 2010. Moreover, we have approved a project our salary assessment system. package that is designed to promote social sustainability, and with an efficient target system now in place, we can Any interim goals we are aiming for or have achieved as work effectively as we set the direction the company will part of our sustainability strategy are communicated take towards greater sustainability. We have also assessed ­objectively, transparently and continuously, both to our the opportunities available for our facilities around the team in-house and to the external public. Alongside our world to make use of renewable energies. But more than Sustainable Value Report, our performance in the susanything, we have made sure our employees know about tainability rankings of independent agencies contributes our sustainability strategy and involved them in training to our communications in this area. Our goal is to be the courses and events. In total, more than 4,000 members top performer in every ranking published by any of the of our staff attended courses on sustainability during the major rating agencies. reporting period – not including the courses that form 09 Sustainable ­operations The BMW Group’s positions in sustainability rankings. Listings on sustainability indices 2009 – 2010 Sustainability rating agencies Assessment and result  Imug / Ethical Investment Research Services Evaluated (for result see FTSE4Good)  oekom Research Industry focus: Automobile 2010: second place (Status Prime B)  ÖKO-TREND ÖKO-TREND Certificate: Outstanding Corporate Responsibility  (Highest-scoring carmaker) Sustainalytics (formerly Scoris) DAX 30 Sustainability Rating 2009: first place  Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) SAM Sector Leader, SAM Gold Class (see also DJSI)  Vigeo Evaluated (for result see Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices)  Sustainability indices Listing and result  Advanced Sustainable Performance Indices (ASPI) Listed  Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) Listed (2009)  Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World and STOXX Global Supersector Leader of Automobiles & Parts 2009 / 2010  E. Capital Partners International (ECPI) – Index Family Listed  Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Global and Europe Listed  FTSE4Good Index Global and Europe Listed  FTSE4Good Environmental Leaders Listed   Main awards won by the BMW Group in 2009 / 2010 Awards for sustainability reporting  Corporate Register Reporting Award 2010  Best Report: fourth place  Best Carbon Disclosure: second place  IÖW / Future Ranking of Sustainable Value Reports 2009 (large businesses): third place  Carbon Disclosure Project: third place in the Industry Group “Automobiles & Components” of the Global 500 with 78 points; listed in  Carbon Performance Leadership Index  Sustainability awards for individual BMW Group models are listed on page 25. part of our yearly quality, environmental and occupational safety training programme. In addition, some 230 apprentices attended a Sustainability course, and around 1,700 ­managers completed the Managing Business training programme, which includes a module on sustainability. ­Approximately 2,450 associates joined the Sustainability on Tour events that took place between August 2009 and September 2010. In 2011 to 2012, we will focus on continuing our efforts to establish the sustainability strategy at all of our facilities and divisions. Numerous packages of concrete measures are to be approved for specific divisions, such as Sales, Development, Purchasing and Production. (To find out more, see our “objectives, facts and figures” section, which starts on page 71). 10 01.2 Risk management. Responsible risk management and consistent utilisation of the oppor­­tun­ ities available are at the core of our business practice. Our Group-wide risk management system helps us recognise risks early on so that we can take appropriate action to deal with them successfully. In today’s global economy, increasing connectivity and addition, BMW Group Purchasing is currently mapping fiercer competition are multiplying the risk of incalculable areas around the world that are at risk of natural disasters. UN Global Compact chain reactions and knock-on effects. Our established Its findings will help us select the right locations and risk management system enables us to recognise these supply routes. risks early on so that we can tackle them successfully. Comprising a decentralised network of risk representaRisks arising from dwindling natural resources tives working at Group level, our system operates at The increasing scarcity of natural resources makes their every level and in every area of the company to raise efficient use and the search for alternatives essential. awareness of relevant risks and of what can be done to deal Dwindling reserves are also causing industry to make with them in a professional manner. Every risk identified greater use of recycled materials. www.bmwgroup.com/ir by one of our specialist departments is recorded in our Risk Management Circle and, unless critical, evaluated by Personnel risks the Management and Supervisory Boards. Our activities The population in Germany is ageing and shrinking, in this area are controlled centrally by our Finance Div­ with lasting effects on the employment market. Already, ision, with regular internal audits­­ensuring all measures competition for employees with key qualifications is are suitable and effective. growing tougher. Risks arising from environmental issues and resource During the global financial crisis, our risk management consumption are reported by our Sustainability and system proved its worth. Individual functions, such as the BMW Group Annual Report ­Environmental Protection representatives. And with susverification of standard risk costs in financing contracts, 2010. For further details on the risk management system, tainability as a central strategic principle of our comhave now been optimised on the basis of our experience please see pages 63 – 69 pany, every project presented to the Management Board gained during the crisis. We have also integrated several is verified first and foremost for its sustainability, among sustainability risks into the process, including physical other things. The BMW Group’s Risk Management team and regulatory risks to our reputation relating to the pays particular attention to the following developments: ­environmental and social standards of our suppliers. Our Supplier Relationship Management department has idenPolitical, social and economic risks tified and established sustainability as being an equally Political tensions, terrorist activities, natural disasters and important criterion for the supplier selection process (see pandemics can all have a negative impact on economies chapter 01.5). In addition, exchanges with other com­ and capital markets, and consequently on social developpanies, regular training courses, workshops and informament. tion events within our risk management network have enabled us to prepare ourselves and our employees to Industry-specific risks meet new risk requirements. Rising fuel prices and ever more rigorous fuel consumption and emissions standards for automobiles are placing In the future, as our corporate processes become increasincreasingly tough demands on our engine and product ingly complex, we will focus on strengthening the interdevelopment. However, in the context of climate change play between those responsible for our risk management as well as rising energy prices and changing customer reand strategy on the one hand and our partners in society quirements, the BMW Group also identifies opportunities. on the other. Climate risks When choosing a new site for a facility, we analyse the ­effects of climate change in the region and the risk factors associated with it. Supply chain risks When we choose a supplier, our Supplier Relationship Management department verifies not only the company’s viability in terms of business and technology but also its social and environmental credentials. The process is supported and monitored by our Compliance Committee. In 11 Sustainable ­operations 01.3 Corporate Governance and Compliance. Responsible and lawful conduct is fundamental to the success of the BMW Group. This approach is an integral part of our corporate culture and is the reason why customers, shareholders, business partners and the general public place their trust in us. Corporate governance Security. Additional support for staff and the external The BMW Group manages its business in accordance with public can be obtained from the BMW Group Compliance BMW Group Annual Report principles of responsible corporate governance geared Contact. Possible violations of the law can be reported 2010. For further details on corporate governance, please to long-term value creation. In 2002, it confirmed its comanonymously via the BMW Group SpeakUP Line. All ensee pages 140 – 165 mitment to these principles in its own Corporate Governquiries are documented and followed up by the BMW ance Code. Based on the German Corporate Governance Group Compliance Committee Office using an electronic Code (GCGC), this document was updated following the case management system. www.bmwgroup.com publication of the revised GCGC. On top of that, a reporting system has been established Compliance and anti-corruption which enables compliance-relevant issues to be reported The Board of Management and the employees of the to the BMW Group Compliance Committee, both on a BMW Group are obliged to act responsibly and in comregular basis, and on an ad-hoc basis. The first full set of pliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, compliance reporting was completed in 2010. BMW Group Annual Report legal violations can never be ruled out completely. In 2010. For further details on compliance, please ­order to ensure protection against compliance-related The Board of Management consistently keeps track of see pages 140 – 165 risks, the Board of Management created a Compliance and analyses compliance-related developments and Committee in 2007, mandated to establish a worldwide trends. In autumn 2010, the Board of Management deCompliance Organisation throughout the BMW Group. cided to expand the existing range of compliance The establishment was completed in 2009. ­measures. This included additional measures aimed at www.bmwgroup.com/ avoiding corruption, strengthening controls and introcompliance The BMW Group Compliance Committee is responsible ducing regionally structured compliance management. for managing and monitoring the full spectrum of activ­ ities necessary to ensure legal compliance. It is also tasked It is essential that employees are aware of and comply with informing the Board of Management about all comwith applicable regulations. The BMW Group does not pliance-related issues. The BMW Group Compliance tolerate violations of law by its employees. Culpable vioCommittee operates through the BMW Group Compliance lations of law result in employment-contract sanctions Committee Office, which is allocated in organisational and may involve personal liability consequences for terms to the Chairman of the Board of Management. the employee involved. In order to avoid this, the BMW Group’s employees are kept fully informed of the tools The BMW Group Compliance Organisation comprises and measures used by the BMW Group Compliance the entire set of measures taken to ensure that the BMW ­Organisation via various internal channels – the most Group and its staff act in a lawful manner. It is suppleimportant being the Compliance website within the mented by a whole range of internal Policies, Guidelines BMW Group intranet. and Instructions, which in part reflect the applicable law. Compliance is also an important factor in terms of safeThe BMW Group Legal Compliance Code is at the core of guarding the future of the BMW Group’s workforce. With the BMW Group Compliance Organisation and is avail­ this in mind, in 2009 the Board of Management and able for all members of staff to consult. the national and international employee representative ­bodies of the BMW Group signed a set of Joint Principles More than 11,000 managers and staff have received trainfor Lawful Conduct. In doing so, all parties involved ing worldwide in essential compliance matters since the gave a commitment to the principles contained in the introduction of the BMW Group Compliance Organisation, BMW Group Legal Compliance Code and to trustful coin 2008. In addition, in-depth training is also provided operation in all matters relating to compliance. to certain groups of staff. In 2010, for example, a European Union related training programme was prepared (“Compliance Advanced – Competition and Antitrust Law”). In order to avoid legal risks, all members of staff are expected to discuss matters with their managers and with the relevant departments within the BMW Group, in ­particular Legal Affairs, Corporate Audit and Corporate 12 Celebrating the 50th anniversary of the BMW Group’s milestone shareholders’ meeting SOLIDARITY AMONG EMPLOYEES, SHAREHOLDERS AND CORPORATE MANAGEMENT A 50 years ago, something very special came into being. ­Following a severe crisis, a successful campaign to restructure our company resulted in an unprecedented bond ­between employees, shareholders and the executive ­management. This marked the start of two developments: a strong feeling of solidarity on the one hand and a shared sense of responsibility for our corporate autonomy on the other. We look back over 50 years of autonomy and development since Herbert Quandt gained a majority share at the shareholders’ meeting in 1960. 9 December 1959 could be considered a new ­beginning Major shareholder Herbert Quandt was impressed by for the Bayerische Motoren Werke. A deep corporate crisis the company’s will to survive. In close collaborations had swallowed up large parts of the company’s ­finances. with Works Council Chairman Kurt Golda and the comIn an apparently desperate situation, the management pany’s new Board of Management, he worked out a plan could see no alternative but to sell the company to the that would secure the future autonomy of the Bayerische Stuttgart-based producer Daimler-Benz AG. In a turbulent Motoren Werke. Presented to shareholders on 30 Novemshareholders’ meeting on that day, however, small shareber 1960, this concept for the future was to pave the way holders and BMW dealer representatives objected to the for the rapid rise of the BMW brand in the 1960s. This plan, putting an end to the proposed acquisition. new beginning was accompanied by a new-found sense 13 Sustainable ­operations In order to resolve the problem, the management and Works Council developed a groundbreaking working time model. This decoupled machine operating times from personal working times at the BMW plant in Regensburg. Known as “The Common Sense Contract”, the new arrangement represented a major competitive advantage for the BMW Group. The two big tests of the 1970s and 80s led to constructive collaborations between the Board of Management, the Works Council and the company’s major stakeholder, all under the auspices of long-standing Chairman of the Board Eberhard von Kuenheim. To this day, the fairness among these company partners that was established back then continues to characterise collaborations between decision-making bodies at the highest level. B In 1999 to 2000, the competitive position of the Bayerische of solidarity among employees, shareholders and the Motoren Werke was at risk once again, this time due to management – without which the BMW success story the Rover acquisition. The Supervisory Board, the Board would have been unimaginable. of Management and employee representatives set about selling the Rover Group. This allowed the BMW Group Just a few years later, the company faced another challenge. and its employees to realign their business activities The oil crisis of 1973 – 74 caused car sales to plummet be­successfully under the three premium brands BMW, MINI fore soaring again shortly afterwards. Thanks to the strong and Rolls-Royce. sense of identity and flexibility of its employees, the company was able to weather the crisis and usher in a new The company also responded quickly and flexibly to the era of growth. global financial and economic crisis of 2008 –2009. Once again, its Management and Works Council pulled toIn the early 1980s, BMW saw itself confronted with the gether. A spell of short-time work in early 2010 was folsame question as other manufacturers: how to produce lowed by all-time production highs in the fourth quarter economically in a high wage country like Germany? of that year at some of the BMW Group’s plants. With Strategy Number ONE, launched in 2007, the BMW Corporate management Group realigned its business activities to provide suit­ able solutions for the wide-ranging challenges of individual mobility in the future. Its vision is to be the leading provider of premium products and premium services for Employees Success factors individual mobility by the year 2020. Shareholders A On 30 November 2010, celebrations mark the 50 th anniversary of the shareholders’ meeting B BMW Vision EfficientDynamics C In the foreground from left to right: Dr. Norbert Reithofer, Chairman of the Management Board; Prof. Joachim Milberg, Supervisory Board Chairman; Stefan Quandt, shareholder and Supervisory Board Deputy Chairman. In the background: Manfred Schoch, Works Council Chairman and Supervisory Board Deputy Chairman C 14 01.4 Stakeholder dialogue. As a globally active corporation, we are in constant dialogue with a wide range of stakeholders at home and abroad. Our communications with them enable us to identify trends early on, strengthen our commitment to society, and work better to achieve our sustainability goals. Customers, business partners, employees and the media, (November 2009), vehicle technology and traffic safety decision makers from politics and science, NGOs and in(February 2010), environment management and recycling vestors. Together, these groups place significant demands (April 2010), sustainability in the supply chain (Septemon the BMW Group, both on a local and a global level. ber 2010) and the future of mobility (November 2010). Many of our sustainability targets can only be reached via Guests included representatives of parliamentary parties close collaborations with our partners from politics, soin the Bundestag and of the relevant ministries and NGOs. ciety, the sciences and industry. All the while, the capital markets and society at large are developing a growing Further stakeholder dialogues involving BMW Group ­interest in information and in the dialogue about sustainrepresentatives also took place at other locations. These ability. include Berlin, where discussions focused on e-mobility as a driver of the economy, and other places across ­Europe The dialogue we are leading with our stakeholders is onand the USA. Other discussions on issues such as sustaingoing and takes place on a range of different platforms. able mobility and education have involved numerous naWe see it as a constant learning process that helps us to tional and international politicians. recognise relevant trends and shifts and to work together to find solutions. In 2010, investors and analysts were once again keen to find out more about our sustainability strategy. Sustain­ www.bmwgroup.com/ir Our main contact for our stakeholder dialogue regarding ability is now firmly established on the agendas of our issues of sustainability is our Communications department. ­investor relations roadshows and discussions. It has also This collects enquiries to be discussed with experts in the been the subject of conferences on socially responsible relevant specialist departments. In addition, a range of investment and of sustainability conferences and roadcommittees and channels allow specialist divisions of the shows. company to contact relevant stakeholder groups directly. At BMW Group sites around the world, local public In dialogue with neighbours, co-workers and the ­relations representatives communicate with local stake­Internet community holder groups, while the dialogue for inter-site netCommunications departments at our various sites respond works, such as the one between Oxford, Hams Hall and to questions and possible problems of local stakeholders Swindon in the UK, is coordinated either centrally by and provide information on relevant plans, such as a single site or by the regional or national headquarters. ­upcoming construction projects. In Leipzig, for instance, discussions in advance of a proposed wind farm conE-mobility as a subject of the national stakeholder struction project were intense and involved all the rele­dialogue vant parties. In July 2010, 16 experts from the capital markets, NGOs and the BMW Group met for the second BMW Group Many of our plants also take active steps to encourage a Stakeholder Roundtable in Munich. Among the key stronger sense of community. Our facilities in Munich ­issues on the agenda were electromobility and sustain­ and Spartanburg, for example, have made rooms avail­ able mobility concepts for the future. The former had able for neighbourhood projects to use. also been the subject of discussions one year earlier, when experts from BMW North America met with repreOne fundamentally important point in this regard is that sentatives of five of the most influential NGOs. Issues local stakeholder dialogues can focus particularly strongly ­affecting the BMW Group are additionally discussed on on local situations. Whether in Germany, China, India, www.ucsusa.org a quarterly basis in valuable meetings between members South Africa or the USA, no two sets of circumstances are www.pewclimate.org www.sierraclub.org of the Union of Concerned Scientists, PEW Climate, the ever the same, so the local dialogue must meet local rewww.safeclimatecampaign.org Sierra Club, the Safe Climate Campaign and NRDC. quirements. www.nrdc.org On a national level in Germany, we have joined the NaAt the end of March 2010, we launched our Facebook tional Platform for Electromobility (2009 – 2010), which platform called BMW Group View. Unlike the brand-spewww.facebook.com/BMW was established by the German Federal Government. We cific platforms for BMW and MINI, BMW Group View have also taken part in several events relating to young ­addresses a wider audience with an interest in our compeople and exploring issues of education and mobility. In pany. We use it, among other things, to discuss issues of www.bmu.de Berlin, the BMW Group organised a number of so-called sustainability but also to provide a useful source of in­ green tables to discuss issues such as sustainable business formation for many of our stakeholders. By 4 July 2011, 15 Sustainable ­operations more than 40,300 Facebook members had linked up with BMW Group View. Memberships and responsibilities Internally, when it comes to finding out what our emAs an active member of numerous specialist comployees think of their working environment, personal mittees and organisations, we work to promote the development opportunities, corporate culture, and of the philosophy of sustainability in business. BMW Group as an employer, we hold regular employee surveys. The most recent was launched in spring 2011 – Association of the German Economy (vbw) and has already delivered results, which were presented – Confederation of German Employer Organisations www.econsense.de to employees in the early summer of this year. The next (BDA) www.wbcsd.org www.globalcompact.de employee survey is scheduled to take place in the first – econsense – the Forum for Sustainable Developwww.eugt.org half of 2013. ment of German Business www.acea.be www.vda.de – European Research Group on Environment and Dealer, employee and other stakeholder surveys Health in the Transport Sector (EUGT) How does the public view our sustainability activities? – European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association And what reporting methods do our stakeholders prefer? (ACEA) What sustainability trends and topics are relevant for – Federation of German Industry (BDI) the BMW Group? – German Association for the Automotive Industry (vda) Throughout the period covered by this report, questions – German Chamber of Industry and Trade / Chambers like these have been explored in a total of five stakeof Industry and Trade (DIHK / IHK) holder surveys. In autumn 2009 to spring 2011, we held – Gesellschaft zur Altlastensanierung in Bayern an online survey at www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility mbH (GAB) (site remediation company) to which 166 people responded. In November 2010, we – Global Compact Network Germany surveyed 26 BMW Group dealers in seven different coun– Sonderabfall-Entsorgung Bayern GmbH (GSB) tries and found that most of them identified fuel con(special waste disposal company) sumption and product safety as being of primary import­ – World Business Council for Sustainable Developance in the eyes of BMW Group customers. In December ment (WBCSD) 2010, we questioned 16 European investors and analysts (75% of whom had an SRI sustainability focus) to find out their views on the BMW Group sustainability strategy. And between February and April 2011, we interviewed 20 sustainability experts from research, the sciences, the capital markets, NGOs, politics and legislator groups. ­Respondents from Germany, the USA, the UK, India, China, South Africa and Switzerland rated the BMW Group as very good overall. (For more detailed results, Page 76 see page 14.) Of those surveyed, 70% responded positively to the company’s management approach regarding issues of sustainability, and 60% rated our product responsibility as outstanding. Some respondents identified potential for us to improve the way we monitor our corporate social responsibility and to do more in terms of electromobility and CO2 emissions reductions. They also expressed a desire to see more intensive personal communications. During the course of 2011, we will continue to work on meeting their wishes. 16 01.5 Sustainability in the supply chain. Our passion for premium quality and products is one we share with more than 12,000 suppliers around the world. When selecting and verifying who we do business with, sustainability is just as important as innovativeness and cost factors. Our products and services, our leading position in the Within the BMW Group, responsibility for the developPage 77 market and the acceptance we find among our customers ment of a sustainable supply chain lies with our Purchasare not least the result of collaborations with our suppliers ing Division. Other specialist divisions, such as the main around the world. Some 12,000 of them in 70 different department for Sustainability and Environmental Proteccountries make a major contribution to the success of tion and our department for Parts Quality Management the BMW Group. Many of them are our long-standing are supporting the implementation of sustainability cripartners. With all of our suppliers, we work to develop teria along the value chain. In addition, the BMW Group’s a common understanding of product and production Supply Chain Academy has been sensitising our Purquality. Even in the earliest stages of the supplier selection chasing teams to issues such as human rights and environprocess, we make sure new candidates meet the same mental protection as aspects of sustainability since the ­environmental and social standards we have set ourselves fourth quarter of 2010. Managers receive training in the when they become our business partners. subject through our Managing Business training course, which incorporates a module on sustainability. With supply and value chains spanning a multitude of sub-suppliers around the world, ensuring sustainability Our global network of International Purchasing Offices (IPOs) identifies and trains local suppliers to work with the BMW Group. They also support our future partners Security And Human Rights in building up the processes needed for them to fulfil the environmental and social standards we have set. From production materials to vehicle components, our suppliers are contractually bound to comply with Our partnership with our suppliers is characterised by human rights legislation. Moreover, work is currently open dialogue, transparent enquiry and nomination under way to integrate similar obligations into our ­processes, and the most stable, lasting collaborations global terms and conditions for the purchasing of possible, even during periods of crisis. In November services. In countries such as South Africa, local 2010, we held a forum for which we invited 400 of our ­departments’ annual in-house courses on human main suppliers to an information event in Munich. Among rights keep security staff up-to-date. the issues on the agenda was a stronger focus on aspects of sustainability in the BMW Group’s supply chain. represents a major challenge – especially in view of the 1. Supplier selection process takes sustainability limited opportunities available to influence second and into account third tier suppliers. Any contact we have with them is Since 2008, we have urged our suppliers to provide inforpurely indirect, via our first tier suppliers. But new vehicle mation on how they fulfil sustainability criteria. In 2010, https://b2b.bmw.com and production concepts such as those being established the catalogue of questions we had been using was exunder our BMW i sub-brand are opening up new opportended to include small businesses and service providers. tunities in the supply chain, which we must recognise In total, 27 questions explore conditions at specific, inand capitalise on. At the same time, we continue to strive dividual production facilities of our first tier suppliers, to make our supply chain the most efficient and sustaindelivering information about ISO 14001 environmental able in the automotive industry. In 2010, we began to management systems, recyclability in product develop­increase our focus on integrating this topic into selecting, ment, and waste disposal concepts. By June 2011, around monitoring and training our suppliers. Over the longer 1,000 suppliers had voluntarily provided the information term, we aim to work only with partners that comply with we asked for. www.ilo.org the same principles as we do, namely those of the ILO, www.unglobalcompact.org www.unep.fr/scp/cp the UN Global Compact, UNEP Cleaner Production When selecting our suppliers and making final nomin­ www.oecd.org Declaration, OECD Guidelines and the ICC Charter. ations, we consider only those companies that have prowww.iccwbo.org vided the full and complete set of sustainability infor­ Outside the BMW Group, we are implementing our commation and have not breached any of the BMW Group’s mitment to sustainability with econsense, the forum for exclusion criteria, which relate to aspects such as child www.econsense.de sustainable development of the German economy. As ­labour. Under this system, we are making sustainability a leading member of the Supply Chain project group, we as much of a priority as the “classic” supplier requireare working on a systematic method for verifying supplier ments, such as reliability, innovativeness and economical sustainability across all sectors of industry. value. 17 Sustainable ­operations One visible sign of the increasing importance of sustainability in the supply chain is the BMW Group Supplier Holistic carbon accounting for the BMW i3 Innovation Award, which we will award to outstanding For its forthcoming megacity vehicle, the BMW Group Supply Chain Management  has for the first time established a set of example ­environmental accounting criteria along the entire Award 2010 value chain (see also page 08). In total, around BMW Motorrad has developed an award-winning supplier risk management system. As part of its more general integrated, 70 suppliers will be delivering components for the ­consistent and collaborative supplier management system, this electrically powered vehicle, which will be the result risk management aspect earned it the recognition of the inter­ of a completely new production process. More national business consultancy PRTM Management Consultants, the specialist logistics journal LOGISTIK HEUTE and Supply Chain than 50 % of the aluminium incorporated into the Management Institute (SMI) of the European Business School. BMW i3 is “environmentally friendly” aluminium, which has been obtained largely from recyclates using carbon-neutral hydroelectric power. suppliers for the first time in November 2011. Among the selection criteria for prizewinners will be social, environmental and business performance. enable us to monitor the sustainability of their activities consistently. We will also formalise the feedback we gain 2. Voluntary agreement and monitoring during supplier visits and from working with individual Sustainability requirements have been an established suppliers. To help us to make continuous improvements component in our general purchasing conditions since to our own in-house requirements, we will integrate sus2003. Requirements are based largely on recognised tainability criteria into training courses at the M Purchas­national and international conventions. When signing a ing Academy in 2011. contract with the BMW Group, each supplier is making a binding agreement to abide by these criteria and undertake everything possible to ensure that they are adhered to along the upstream value chain. Material optimisation along the value chain As part of our supplier requalification process, we carry out sustainability checks on around 200 suppliers every How environmentally compatible are the materials year. We also visit our major suppliers two to three times a we use to make our cars? How can we make them year, as we carry out their Supplier Performance Review. more easily recyclable? What environmental standards To ensure our monitoring system delivers quantifiable are there? And what will future legislation specify? ­results, we approved a series of KPIs that will be applied These and other questions are among the issues the as of 2011. These indicate the degree to which a supplier BMW Group seeks to resolve along its value chain. is implementing our criteria. They also quantify risk and As early as the component development stage, we incidents of serious deviations from our standards. refer our suppliers to the requirements set out in http://ec.europa.eu/ REACH, the EU regulation on chemicals. With the environment/chemicals/reach/ reach_intro.htm 3. Escalation and supplier training help of a certified process, we use virtual cars to If a supplier breaches any sustainability criteria, we initiate ­simulate the recyclability of components. Auxiliary a standardised three-stage escalation process. This begins and process materials such as paint and adhesives with a request to the supplier to issue a statement and also undergo rigorous verification processes. This ­refer to the BMW Group’s Terms and Conditions of Purenables us to ensure that the materials and com­ chasing and ends, in the worst case, with the termination ponents we deploy along the value chain are eco­ of our partnership with the offending supplier. However, logically sound. we do provide a wide range of training and assistance for our suppliers. Forecast In 2011, we will link the findings of our sustainability surveys with the supplier evaluation systems we use to assess suppliers of direct and indirect materials. This will 18 01.6 The year 2010. After the global financial crisis of 2009, the year 2010 turned out to be an extremely positive year for the BMW Group. Revenues and profits reached record levels, and in Asia and the USA in particular demand for our premium vehicles increased significantly. Around the world, we sold 1,461,166 units, marking a 13.6 % rise year-on-year. Motorcycle sales rose by 9.7 % to a total of 110,113 units. Our Financial Services business volume also continued In Tiexi, China, not far from Shenyang, June 2010 saw Page 72 et seq. to grow, totalling euro 66,233 million (+ 8.2% compared the start of construction work for a new plant. The product with the previous year). This was enabled by the attracrange of this new facility will include the BMW X1. In tive range on offer and by the global economic recovery. choosing Tiexi, we attached great importance to ecological On 31 December 2010, our Financial Services division and social criteria (see page 42). From 2012 onwards, our was administrating 3,190,353 leasing and financing conproduction capacity in the dynamic market of China will BMW Group tracts with dealers and retail customers. total 150,000 units. In addition to this, we have enhanced Annual Report 2010 our sales network across China and other burgeoning BMW Group revenues rose to euro 60,477 million from BRIC markets by establishing a further 100 dealerships. euro 50,681 million in the previous year. Our profit before financial result climbed to euro 5,094 million from Meanwhile, our German plants benefited from investeuro 289 million the previous year. Profit before tax toments totalling euro 1.5 billion in 2009 and 2010. talled euro 4,836 million compared with euro 413 million ­November 2010 saw construction work commence to one year earlier. Net value added increased by 42.7% to prepare our plant in Leipzig for production of our mega­ stand at euro 14,902 million, the bulk of which (48.8%) city vehicle. By 2013, the BMW Group will invest some is applied to employees. Gross value added reached euro euro 400 million in buildings and equipment for large21,580 million (+ 21.7%). scale series production of vehicles that we will launch onto the market under our new sub-brand, BMW i (see Last year’s success is attributable in part to the recovery page 28). of the global economy, but another important factor has been our Strategy Number ONE. This comprises a number of initiatives to increase profitability as well as additional measures for our Efficient Dynamics package. The BMW Group’s robust financial position has earned it the recognition of rating agencies of international repute. Our good creditworthiness is reflected in the firstclass ratings we have achieved. On 22 July 2011 the ­rating agency Moody’s announced that it would be raising BMW AG’s rating from A3 to A2. This changes our shortterm P-2 rating to P-1, the highest short-term rating possible. The outlook remains stable. Standard & Poor’s short-term rating for the BMW Group is A-2, the longterm rating is A–, with a stable outlook. Global impulses for growth During the course of last year, we were also able to improve our competitive position. Investment volumes ­totalled euro 3,263 million, marking a slight drop on f­ igures for the previous year. However, research and ­development expenditure rose to euro 2,773 million, ­compared with euro 2,448 million the previous year. One of our most important investments last year was in the expansion of our US plant in Spartanburg. Here, production capacity is set to total 1,000 units per day, or up to 240,000 vehicles a year. With these investments worth US dollar 750 million and the launch of BMW X3 production in Spartanburg, natural hedging will offer us greater protection from exchange rate fluctuations. 19 Product responsibility 02.1 02.2 Product policy and management approach 22 Technologies for sustainable mobility 23 02 02.3 Vehicle safety 26 02.4 Traffic management and mobility research 27 02.5 Saving resources and recycling products 30 02.6 Premium standards and customer satisfaction 31 Shaping tomorrow’s mobility today 20 Corporate Strategy Number ONE Sustainability strategy 02 Action point PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY. We are realising our commitment to product Areas of focus ­responsibility in a wide range of ways: making our production network inChallenges creasingly resource-efficient, implementing holistic recycling c ­ oncepts and a sustainability strategy that encompasses every one of our sales organ­ Key performance indicators (KPIs) isations around the world. And as we work to enhance Efficient Dynamics even further, new technologies make our vehicles s­ afer with consistently Progress / Forecast positive effects on accident statistics. Our collaborations with r­ esearch partners and metropolises around the world are bringing forth new concepts to make tomorrow’s transport more efficient and eco-friendly. Areas of Focus Alternative drive train technologies (electromobility) Page 23 Compliance with emissions standards Page 23 Customer information and customer satisfaction Page 31 Innovative mobility concepts Page 27 Product and component life cycle assessments Page 22 Product recycling Page 30 Reducing fuel consumption Page 24 Reducing noise emissions from vehicles Page 26 Reducing vehicle CO2 emissions Page 23 Utilisation of renewable raw materials Page 30 Vehicle safety Page 26 Waste disposal in service garages Page 30 Challenges Taking vehicles with alternative drive systems to series production and integrating the electric drive train into the overall vehicle Identifying and reducing our environmental impact and closing material cycles across the vehicle life cycle Demographic change and the spread of hybrid and electrically powered vehicles are placing new requirements on active and passive vehicle safety. We are continuing work on protecting drivers and other road users As economic, environmental and social conditions and infrastructures change, we are working towards the global and regional mobility requirements of the future 21 Product ­responsibility Key performance indicators (KPIs) Page 80 et seq. Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group vehicles in Europe (Index: 1995 = 100; Basis: fleet consumption of newly registered vehicles in Europe (EU-15) measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance GRI Indicator A7 with the ACEA self-commitment) (Sector Supplement) 105  100  95  90  85  80  75  70   95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09* 10  100.0 101.0 102.4 101.0 98.6 96.7 96.7 92.9 92.9 94.8 90.0 88.6 80.0 73.3 71.4 70.0  * measured only on EU-27 basis with effect from 2009 CO2 emissions of BMW Group vehicles (EU-27) 148 g / km 150 g / km in the previous year Progress in 2010 Forecast Page 84 et seq. 30 % reduction in CO2 emissions from our new R educe CO2 emissions from our global fleet of new ­vehicles in Europe (EU-27) by 2010 (as compared ­vehicles by at least 25 % by 2020 (as compared with with 1995) 2008) M  INI E test fleet has been successful, with 600 ve­ Launch BMW ActiveE hicles clocking up more than 15 million kilometres in D  evelop BMW i3 (MCV) and BMW i8 to market ­standard Europe, the USA and Asia since mid-2009. by 2013 Develop new mobility services. One million DriveNow users by 2020 D  evelop car-to-car communications to reduce ­congestion and emissions by 2011 / 2012 For a complete overview of key figures, targets fulfilled and new objectives, see “objectives, facts and figures” section on page 71 et seq. 22 02.1 Product policy and management approach. As an increasingly important factor in p ­ remium mobility, sustainability is in our view about integrating product responsibility into every facet of our work. One clear example is the BMW i3, which we developed in line with sustainability targets along the entire value chain – right from the start. More performance. Lower fuel consumption. Lower –  We are increasing resource efficiency across our producPage 80 emissions. The story of our products and their manu­ tion network and continuing to pursue our successful facture is one of continuous improvement and the most Clean Production Strategy ­efficient use of resources possible. Today, these efforts – We are working consistently to enhance our Efficient have given us Efficient Dynamics, the world’s most effecDynamics Strategy, optimise our conventional drive UN Global Compact tive concept for long-term individual mobility based concepts and develop revolutionary new drive train on consistent reductions in fuel consumption and emissolutions sions. But we are also working to develop forward-look– We are bringing innovations to traffic management and ing ­responses to questions concerning the quality, imresearching mobility concepts for the future www.bmwgroup.com/ pact and ­future of our products – throughout their life – We are enhancing our supply chain, for example by sustainablemobility cycles, across our BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce brands, making sustainability one of our purchasing requireand spanning our motorcycle range. ments and by surveying suppliers accordingly – We recycle on a broad scale and close material cycles at All of this is integral to the way we understand product the end of a product’s life cycle responsibility. This starts when development work begins on fuel-efficient vehicles that are safe for drivers and BMW i3: the first fully emissions-free vehicle other road users. It continues throughout ­development Our goal is to manage the sustainability of our products and production, which are designed to have minimal along the entire value chain. The electrically powered ­impact on resources and on the environment. And it exBMW i3 is the BMW Group’s first project to incorporate tends to our comprehensive customer care, which is of sustainability targets from its earliest strategy and conthe highest quality. Moreover, our recycling concepts cept phases onwards. From materials and parts pur­ ­ensure our cars have minimum impact on the environchasing to the sale of the finished vehicle, sustainability ment even after they reach the end of their life cycle. criteria will be under the spotlight. The first assessment began with the development division, where we reHolistic accounting methods for products and ­processes corded the BMW i3’s greenhouse gas potential (CO2 e) In December 2009, the Sustainability Board approved a as a concrete, measurable target across its life cycle. This motion to introduce holistic accounting methods to asCO2 e figure now appears alongside other, more estabsess the sustainability of our processes and products lished, performance indicators, such as vehicle weight across their entire life cycles – in line with our sustain­ and vehicle costs. In the years ahead, sustainability along ability strategy. With values ascertained on the basis of the value chain and its measurement and management environmental, business and social sustainability indicathrough holistic accounting will play an even stronger tors, this new procedure complements our long-standing role at the BMW Group. Moreover, efforts are under way Life Cycle Assessment system (ISO 14040/14044), which to gradually integrate the practices we introduced for has given us transparency over our consumption of reproject i across all our other vehicle projects as well. sources, emissions and our potential environmental impact. Our new holistic accounting method provides a truly Designworks – MOBILITY at its best comprehensive view of the impact our products and production processes are having. Most of all, however, Around three-quarters of a product’s future environit enables us to ensure from the development stage onmental impact will already have been decided during wards that we combine maximum resource efficiency development. This is why DesignworksUSA, a 100 % with minimum environmental impact. Sustainability, subsidiary of the BMW Group working on several of therefore, is a key factor in every product development our vehicle development projects, takes the longer decision. In realising its commitment to product responview. Taking into account the complete life cycle of a sibility, the BMW Group is working to make efficient use product from the outset, it draws on strategic design of resources and minimise emissions across the life cycle consultancy services, innovations and input from of its products and employing a wide range of strategies a wide range of branches, industries and markets. and measures: In doing so, it is able to form new connections and ideas ­delivering the kind of innovative potential cus– We are using innovative materials and construction tomers can find in all our vehicles. techniques as raw materials become less readily ­available 23 Product ­responsibility 02.2 Technologies for sustainable mobility. Fewer emissions, more driving pleasure. When it comes to implementing this principle, no other car company can match the success of the BMW Group. With our new, efficiency-enhancing technologies and our revolutionary vehicle concepts, we are set to continue shaping resource-friendly mobility well into the future. The world has a clear goal. As resources dwindle and implementation of fuel-saving, low emissions technoloPage 80 et seq. ­climate change continues unabated, all of us must strive gies is coordinated by the Complete Vehicle Architecture to reduce our global carbon emissions and improve our unit in our dedicated main department for Efficient energy efficiency. We must also look to regenerative ­Dynamics. sources to supply our energy needs as we pursue a goal www.ipcc.ch that has united consumers, governments and producers Three steps towards zero-emissions mobility around the world. The overarching strategy underpinning these developments is our Efficient Dynamics Development Strategy. The BMW Group is currently the world leader for sustainApproved in the year 2000, this sets the long-term ability in the premium segment. With Efficient Dynamics, ­direction for the BMW Group Production Strategy to www.bmwgroup.com/ we have integrated a highly effective package of efficiencyachieve zero-emissions individual mobility. New vehicle sustainablemobility www.bmw.de/ enhancing measures across our entire product range. technologies and revolutionary new solutions will gradefficientdynamics ­Between 1995 and 2010, the technology package brought ually take us closer to this goal. CO2 emissions from new BMW Group vehicles sold in the EU-15 states down by 30%. Today, our European fleet In 2009, we incorporated the Efficient Dynamics Develophas an average fuel consumption of 5.4 l diesel or 6.6 l ment Strategy into our brand values, making the conwww.acea.be petrol per 100 km. Its average CO2 emissions stand at 148 g sistent reduction of CO2 and other emissions an estabper kilometre. lished part of our corporate target management system. In May 2009, our Board of Management agreed that The leading force in efficient, high-performance mobility ­Efficient Dynamics technologies would be rolled out in We view these successes as encouraging. But at the every market around the world and across all three BMW same time, we realise that they represent no more than a Group automobile brands. first step in our comprehensive strategy to reduce fuel In an initial stage, the Efficient Dynamics Strategy set out Efficient Dynamics  to integrate innovative, efficiency-enhancing technoloBetween 1995 and 2010, we brought CO2 emissions from new gies into all BMW Group models. In a next step, we are BMW Group vehicles sold in Europe down by 30 %. further improving fuel efficiency by gradually electrifying drive trains and producing comprehensive hybrid solutions, such as the BMW ActiveHybrid X6. From 2013 consumption and emissions. We are investing continu­onwards, we will add to our portfolio with electrically ously in new, fuel-efficient, low emissions technologies powered cars such as the BMW i3 (see page 28 et seq.). that will benefit our customers as well as our environMeanwhile, we are also working towards solutions that ment. And all the while, our work in this area is one step will use regeneratively produced hydrogen. According ahead of regulations for the automotive industry. Alto our calculations, between 5 and 15% of all new ready, more than 90% of the vehicles we sell around the ­vehicles registered will be either fully or partially elec­ world are covered by CO2, fuel consumption and tax trically powered by the year 2020. legislation. However, different target values for different regions and varying measurement cycles and methods So that we can play an active role in this growing market represent a major challenge for automotive producers. and offer customised solutions for wide-ranging mobility requirements, we are consciously focusing our efforts When we develop a new vehicle or enhance our product on building up a broad technology base – because in our portfolio, we make every effort to anticipate these diverview, the road to zero-emissions mobility will take in not gent requirements and integrate them into our work. only evolutionary technologies but also radical new soBy the year 2012, we want to achieve the fleet target set lutions. In other words, it will follow the exact route that by EU legislators, and by 2015 we want our European fleet we have set out in our Efficient Dynamics Strategy. to emit less than 140 g CO2 / km. Step one: Efficient technologies for all new vehicles These ambitious CO2 reduction targets are being transOur Efficient Dynamics Strategy is based on innovative lated directly into target specifications for each product technologies, such as the Auto Start Stop function, brake line and each new vehicle project. A special CO2 Strategy energy regeneration, tyres with reduced rolling resistance unit directly affiliated with the Board of Management and air flap control. Together, these innovations are is responsible for monitoring progress and advancing gradually reducing both fuel consumption and emissions improvements in this area, while the development and levels – but without compromising the comfort and 24 ­ ynamism of our cars. Efficient Dynamics represents a d Active Coasting genuine paradigm shift: first of all, it means our customers Active Coasting is an innovative function for automatic www.bmwgroup.com/science need not sacrifice performance or dynamism for the vehicles and available for the very first time exclusively sake of improving efficiency. And secondly, for us at the in combination with the ECO Mode. The principle inBMW Group efficiency is not a privilege for niche or volved is extremely simple: by releasing pressure on the ­special models but a standard component that has been accelerator, the driver automatically disconnects the incorporated into every new vehicle. e­ ngine from the gearbox. The new technology is par­ ticularly effective for drivers who have a predictive driving This added value benefits both our environment and our style of the kind enabled by the Proactive Driving customers, because vehicles with Efficient Dynamics ­Assistant. technologies cost less to run and achieve higher resale prices. This is just one of the reasons a number of major Proactive Driving Assistant corporate customers, including auditing companies, The Proactive Driving Assistant uses data from the the local governments of numerous German federal states ­navigation system to tell the driver about speed limits, and the Austrian government, have recently switched to tight bends and turns ahead. By signalling them in the BMW Group models for their vehicle fleets. Since 2007, ­instrument panel and the Head-Up Display, it allows we have sent more than 3.5 million Efficient Dynamics the driver to switch to Active Coasting at just the right vehicles out onto the roads. moment, allowing the maximum possible saving in fuel. Efficient Dynamics opens up further promising potential Proactive Energy Management in combination with BMW ConnectedDrive – a package Currently under development, Proactive Energy Managewww.bmwgroup.com/ of intelligent technologies that interconnect the driver, ment uses navigation data to adapt vehicle operations connecteddrive vehicle occupants, the vehicle itself and the environment. ­according to the route ahead. When a hybrid automobile BMW ConnectedDrive is already adding significantly to approaches a longer downhill stretch of road, for examsafety, infotainment and comfort, and data from its senple, the on-board computer is informed accordingly and sors and navigation system can also help reduce fuel con­decouples the generator in advance so that the battery is sumption and emissions considerably. While some of ready to be charged via engine braking as the car rolls these applications are already available today, others are down the hill. This enables the vehicle to use its charging still undergoing development and testing. Here are a few potential to the full. examples: Step two: Drive train electrification The Green Driving Assistant Another milestone in our Efficient Dynamics Strategy lies www.bmw.com/cleanenergy When conventional navigation systems plan a route, they in the gradual electrification of drive trains. A range of primarily offer the driver information about the distance ­hybrid solutions will eventually enable us to make maxiand duration of the journey ahead. The Green Driving mum use of fuel-saving potential. The first two products Assistant also tells drivers about fuel consumption on incorporating such solutions are the BMW ActiveHybrid X6 ­alternative routes, allowing them to decide whether a and the BMW ActiveHybrid 7, both of which reached possible saving on fuel may be worth a little extra time ­series maturity in 2009. They use up to 20% less fuel than on the road. their combustion-powered equivalents. ECO Mode Step three: Alternative drive train concepts ECO Mode represents an additional, efficient option to the The future of individual mobility is already here. Since usual spectrum of driving alternatives. As well as having 2007, our project i has been developing completely new the choice between “sporty” or “comfortable” driving concepts for individual mobility, vehicle architecture, www.bmw-i.de styles, BMW drivers can opt for an especially efficient drive. and vehicle production and integrating sustainable soluThe push of a button reconfigures the drive train, display tions along the entire value chain (see page 28). Already, concept and interior comfort features to enable fuel BMW Group vehicles have impressively demonstrated ­savings of up to 10%. In combination with the Proactive their credentials as electrically powered auto­mobiles for Driving Assistant and Active Coasting, ECO Mode allows day-to-day driving, and development work on our first fuel savings of up to 15%. series electrically powered car, the BMW i3, is forging ahead. 25 Product ­responsibility Since the middle of 2009, more than 1,000 customers across Europe, Asia and the USA have been putting LOW EMISSIONS MOBILITY www.bmwgroup.com/ day-to-day electromobility to the test. As part of our sustainablemobility MINI E field test campaign, they took more than 600 As well as reducing the carbon emissions of our cars, MINI E vehicles out onto the roads, clocking up more we are working to bring down other emissions. All than 15 million kilometres in total and delivering in­ BMW Group vehicles available in the European marvaluable ­insights into the challenges and most of all ket since 1 September 2010 meet EURO 5 emisinto the ­opportunities of electromobility. 90% of field sions standards. Seven models of our bestselling test par­ticipants did not feel restricted by the range or BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series and BMW 7 Series lines charging times required for the car and – as the most are also available with BMW BluePerformance technology, which brings NOx in emissions down much Electromobility  further than legally required. These BluePerformance Starting in 2013, our customers will be able to purchase our first models comply with EURO 6 standards and, deelectrically powered series vehicle BMW i3. pending on the model, take-rates are currently as high as 10 %. i­ mportant finding of the study – it would seem that a range of 150 kilometres and more space inside the vehicle would be enough to cover the needs of most urban drivers Technology awards for sustainable mobility ­using a megacity vehicle of this kind. ADAC Eco Test 2010 5 stars for the Some of the requirements identified by the MINI E field BMW 320d EfficientDynamics Edition trials have now been met with the second generation of Green Cars Award 2010 of in the categories the Environmental Transport Large family car, Off-road car and Luxury car electric test vehicle, the BMW ActiveE. With four seats Association (UK) and a full-sized luggage compartment, it offers a range of ÖkoGlobe 2009 for the MINI E in the category www.bmw.de/ActiveE some 160 kilometres. During the course of 2011 and Electric and hybrid drive trains 2012, a good 1,000 of these vehicles will be handed over to customers so that we can gain even deeper insights into the way these new technologies are used on a dayto-day basis. Our first electrically powered series model will finally be available to customers from 2013 onwards. Purpose-built as an all-electric vehicle, the BMW i3 incorporates the revolutionary LifeDrive architecture that will also form the basis of the BMW i8. Set to reach the markets shortly afterwards, the plug-in hybrid BMW i8 will combine the driving performance of a sports car with the fuel efficiency of a compact. Both the BMW i3 and the BMW i8 will be produced at our plant in Leipzig. They represent the first in a whole series of revolutionary vehicle concepts that will reach the markets under our new sub-brand, BMW i. Launched last February, the new brand will also encompass visionary models and innovative mobility services. 26 02.3 Vehicle safety. Our concern for the safety of our customers and other road users is fundamental to our sense of product responsibility. We take these responsibilities seriously, doing all we can to prevent accidents or reduce their consequences to a minimum. Our integral approach to safety research is standard for system switches the car to autonomous driving mode the BMW Group. We analyse the entire process chain, and brings it safely to a standstill. Another research profrom accident prevention to post-crash applications such ject is exploring options around Active Hazard Braking. as the unique Advanced Emergency Call system that In risky situations even at high speeds, this function could forms part of our ConnectedDrive system. In pursuit of start braking the car in order to avoid a serious accident. our goal, we are implementing technologies to promote And the prototype Lateral Collision Avoidance system www.bmwgroup.com/ both active and passive safety and mitigate the consewe presented in 2010 is already preventing collisions beconnecteddrive quences of accidents. One of the most effective tools at tween cars automatically. our disposal is our knowledge. For more than 30 years, we have been doing systematic research into the causes of Already, numerous sensors and assistance systems in accidents and the most effective methods of preventing BMW Group vehicles and motorcycles are working all the them. time to analyse the current situation and vehicle data. The information they provide can also benefit other We have equipped our vehicles with energy-absorbing road users. Car-to-car communications, for example, use crumple zones, safe passenger cells, restraint systems, mobile WLAN networks to transmit data to all the ve­ airbags and a host of other passive safety features to prohicles in the area, meaning a car up ahead can warn motortect the lives and health of drivers on a day-to-day basis. ists following it in good time of congestion, severe storms Launched by the BMW Group as the first of its kind in or sudden icy patches on the roads. Forward-looking ­series production, the side head airbag has dramatically traffic information of this kind can contribute enormously reduced the number and severity of head injuries in side to safer driving. It can also be used as a basis for adaptive impact collisions. Meanwhile, active safety features, cruise control, consequently enabling a better overall such as chassis control and driver assistance systems, are flow of traffic. major contributors to accident prevention. It is exactly this potential that we are currently exploring In our search for further solutions, we are currently inin conjunction with other companies in a joint project volved in numerous projects designed to make road traffic entitled Safe Intelligent Mobility – Test Area Germany. www.iis.fraunhofer.de flow faster and more safely. In research projects such as Field trials for this project are currently running in the www.kofas.de AMULETT and Ko-TAG, for example, we have been reFrankfurt area and expected to end in 2012. searching transponder-based systems that may some day warn drivers of pedestrians or cyclists crossing the road. Some such warnings are already possible, thanks to our Outstanding vehicle safety BMW Night Vision system. Launched in 2003, it is currently undergoing enhancement so that it can handle the MINI Countryman EuroNCAP 5 stars highly complex dangers of urban traffic. Top Safety Pick (TSP) IIHS BMW 5 Series EuroNCAP 5 stars At the same time, we are already responding today to the Top Safety Pick (TSP) IIHS challenges that lie ahead in the more distant future. These USNCAP 5 stars include safety issues arising from the increasing numAustralian NCAP 5 stars bers of hybrid and electrically powered vehicles joining EuroNCAP Advanced Award for BMW Assist Advanced eCall (Advance Automatic Emergency Call) the traffic on our roads. The low-noise drive system of BMW X1 EuroNCAP 5 stars an electric car, for instance, will take some getting used to, and may represent a hazard for road users who deAwards presented to BMW Group vehicles July 2009 – May 2011 pend on their hearing. One possible solution could be a special, additional noise for e-mobiles. Another relevant trend we are working to meet is demographic change and the growing number of older road users resulting from it. Even for those of us without restricted cognitive or physical capabilities, assistant technologies can help make driving on our roads safer. The intelligent vehicle One example of just such a technology is the BMW Emergency Stop Assistant. In a medical emergency, this 27 Product ­responsibility 02.4 Traffic management and mobility research. Forward-looking vehicle concepts are ­ nly one aspect. We always work hard on strategies involving all road users. And the solutions o we find will enable us to make the mobility of tomorrow efficient and easy on resources. With each model cycle, our cars have more performance, under the DriveNow brand, it is the first car-sharing conmore efficiency and intelligence – which is why each cept to build exclusively on efficient premium vehicles UN Global Compact new development represents another significant step and comprehensive service. Cars can be picked up and ­towards tomorrow’s individual mobility. But what about left wherever the customer wishes within certain city the traffic these vehicles will be moving in? What might limits. a mobility concept for an entire society look like, given www.drive-now.com that people around the world are growing older and older Against the backdrop of all this research, however, one www.ifmo.de all the time and living in increasingly densely populated thing is clear: the amount of traffic on the roads in Gerurban areas and megacities? What infrastructures, techmany’s urban areas will continue to increase in the nologies and traffic management concepts do we need to ­medium term. That, at least, is the result of a study by make individual mobility climate-friendly and easy on the Institute for Mobility Research (ifmo), a research resources? In other words, how will we move about in a ­organisation founded in 2010 as part of the BMW Group. future world where time, space and resources are in ever shorter supply? From 2008 to the middle of 2010, ifmo carried out scen­ ario studies to explore how the transportation of people The BMW Group’s mobility experts and traffic researchers and goods is expected to develop towards the end of are working hard on exactly these issues. The Inzell the next decade. Involving 80 experts from the sciences, ­Initiative, founded in 1995, represents a forum for research www.inzell-initiative.de work being carried out in conjunction with the city of drivenow  Munich on new mobility concepts for the Bavarian capital. Since 2011, the BMW Group and Sixt AG have been running The latest example of its work is the Intermodal Route an especially innovative car-sharing scheme under the DriveNow Planner (IMRP) for Munich, a pilot project designed to brand. enable simple, convenient door-to-door trip planning. The system allows users to plan the fastest route to their destination by car, train, bus or bicycle (or indeed a comadministration and business as well as specialists from bination of all four). Free parking spaces near the destithe German railway company Deutsche Bahn AG, nation, Park + Ride stations along the route and nearby ­Luft­hansa AG and MAN AG, the study drew up three charging stations for electric vehicles can be displayed con­sistent future scenarios for mobility in Germany. The and up-to-the-minute timetable information accessed for ­results of their study will flow into the BMW Group’s the next stage of the journey on public transport. In ­further strategy. ifmo researchers are currently looking other words, IMRP works with a range of aspects to help into mobility trends among young people. As the road users reach their destination as fast as possible. users of tomorrow, they will have a major influence on future mobility. As part of the MINI E Powered by Vattenfall project that has been running since the middle of 2010, the BMW Meanwhile, the project Mobility Cultures in the World’s www.vattenfall.de/de/ Group has been gaining new insights into the intermodal Megacities takes a broader view that extends beyond mini-e-berlin.htm mobility assistant. This iPhone application is currently the borders of Europe, with ifmo researchers analysing undergoing testing and being further enhanced as part the challenges of individual mobility in megacities like of the Inzell Initiative. Its purpose is to provide people London, Beijing, Hong Kong and Mumbai. The study, with intermodal route information via a range of differwhich covers a variety of transport types, also takes into ent media. This will enable them to plan their journeys account pedestrians and cyclists and is expected to reach in advance or find answers to questions while they are completion by mid-2012. on the move. Work is under way to enable the seamless transitions needed between PCs, mobile device-based Data analyses from the BMW Group’s MINI E field test Web services and in-car navigation systems in order for have also delivered realistic insights into mobility in the the system to work. megacity of New York. Information relating to residual ranges, individual speeds and the positions of eight elecIn the second project being run by the Inzell Association, trically powered MINI E automobiles has been examined traffic researchers are examining how flexible car-sharing in detail and made available to the city of New York to models without fixed collection and return points could support better traffic management in the metropolis on help relieve congestion in urban areas. the Hudson River. Since 2011, the BMW Group and Sixt AG have been offering a unique and innovative car-sharing service. Running 28 In 2011, the BMW Group is presenting two groundbreaking vehicle concepts under its new sub-brand BMW i The BMW i3 is the answer for the ­ megacities of tomorrow A With its electrically powered megacity vehicle, the BMW i3, the BMW Group is redefining premium mobility and automotive production. The future of mankind lies in the cities of this world, with launched as part of the corporate Strategy Number ONE, more than 280 million people already living in one of the BMW Group designers, engineers, strategists and assem30 megacities across the globe. When it comes to mobilbly specialists are developing completely new concepts ity and environmental impact, these urban agglomer­ for sustainable premium mobility. Since 2009, MINI E ations have their very own challenges to rise to. The city field tests have delivered invaluable insights into electroof Shanghai is just one example: with 19 million inhabitmobility in a day-to-day context. In 2011 a second test ants and 2.5 million cars, buses and motorcycles on its fleet of electric vehicles is set to take to the roads, this roads, emissions are producing a microclimate that puts time BMW ActiveE cars. Any findings they deliver will rethe health of the population at risk. And yet UN foreturn to the roads starting in 2013 in the shape of standard casts predict that by the year 2030 around 60% of the features in the first model to be issued under the new world’s population will be living in major cities around sub-brand, BMW i. the world. By the middle of the century, more than twothirds of people will be urban dwellers. But the future of The BMW i3, known until now as the megacity vehicle, individual mobility in megacities around the world is unwill be the BMW Group’s first all-electric series model certain, as the question of whether or not it will work at and will enable noiseand emissions-free driving. The all still remains unanswered. BMW i8, in contrast, is based on the BMW Vision EfficientDynamics concept study and unites a plug-in hybrid An unusual response to these challenges is currently bedrive train and the dynamism of a high-performance ing developed at the BMW plant in Munich. As part of sports car with the fuel consumption and emissions levels project i, probably the most ambitious project to be of a compact. Both models are based on the revolutionary 29 Product ­responsibility A Traffic hub in Shanghai B The BMW i8 has a CFRP passenger cell C CFRP component production at the BMW plant in Landshut, Germany D The MINI E in field testing B C More than 50% fewer emissions are emitted across the lifecycle of a lightweight electric vehicle than over that of a conventional vehicle* LifeDrive architecture, which combines an aluminium The BMW Group’s new sub-brand, BMW i, is shaping chassis with a passenger cell made from carbon fibre re­future mobility not only with its groundbreaking vehicles inforced plastic (CFRP). but also with its customised mobility services. As well as developing and offering its own service range, the BMW Measuring just one-seventh of the width of a human hair, Group is embarking on a number of collaborations and carbon fibre is microscopic – but these filaments are a strategic investments with partners. With up to US dollar major factor in the BMW Group’s leading position in the 100 million in capital, its specially established holding comfield of electromobility. As the material of the future, pany, BMW i Ventures, has already signed its first strategic CFRP has been used in series vehicles at the BMW Group partnership with My City Way, whose mobile app ­offers since 2003. As well as being flexible and easy to shape, it information about public transport, availability of parking is as firm and rigid as steel but weighs less than half as spaces and leisure activities in major cities. This represents much. And, of course, the lighter an electrically powered just one of many fascinating options that could lead the car is, the further it will drive. CFRP gives us a significant way to the sustainable premium mobility of tomorrow. head start in the field of electromobility. But project i is about more than new vehicle concepts; D it is also about new production methods. At present, the production chain for BMW i vehicles stretches from ­Moses Lake in the USA, where carbon fibres are refined using 100% regenerative energy, via our facilities in Wackersdorf and Landshut, to our BMW production plant in Leipzig. Here, some €400 million have been invested to develop the BMW Group’s competence centre for electric car assembly. Overall, BMW i3 assembly is ­expected to use 50% less energy and 70% less water than the BMW Group’s production facilities have on average until now. * Applies when the vehicle is charged using energy from renewable sources. 30 02.5 Saving resources and recycling products. Intelligent design and the use of secondary raw materials enable us to use fewer valuable resources in building and servicing our vehicles. Our tried and tested systems enable us to make the best possible use of reclaimed materials. For many years now, the BMW Group’s eco-efficient Closed material cycles for polymers Page 82 et seq. ­processes have supported the implementation of ecoSecondary raw materials are finding more and more logically and economically optimised systems to allow ­applications in our vehicles. Already, up to 15% of the used vehicles, components and materials to be reused. thermoplastic materials in our automobiles are made from Nonferrous metals, used operating materials and presecondary materials. Our four-cylinder diesel engine UN Global Compact sales packaging are just some of the items that we reuse, cover, which is just one example, is made completely with carbon fibre to be added to the list in the future. ­Initially implemented in German and European markets, Renewable materials  the BMW Group’s recycling systems are gradually beEach 7 Series we produce contains 13 kg of natural materials. Current BMW Group glossary ing rolled out internationally across some 60 different on vehicle recycling countries and are undergoing continuous optimisation. from recycled materials. To ascertain the share of recyclates European dealers are contractually obliged to meet BMW in each complete vehicle, we use the same certified dataretail standards for old parts recycling. This, along with base system as we do for legal declarations relating to type our global network for returning used components, approval. is helping us protect resources and make more efficient use of raw materials. Old catalytic converters are just one The use of recyclates in our vehicles enables us to offset ­example of the kind of parts concerned, with thermo­ the rising prices of raw materials (for plastic components electric generators set to represent another example in made from mineral oil, for instance). But it is also helping the future. us meet increasingly stringent legal recycling requirements. In addition to this, we have established an integrated management system in our German BMW Group dealer13 kilograms of natural materials in each BMW 7 Series ships. Covering a range of issues relating to the environWherever it makes technical, business and environmenment, health and safety, energy management and cost tal sense, we replace artificial materials with natural, management, this EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) ­renewable materials. Strong, light and tensile, these system is currently being implemented at 50 sites across ­represent particularly attractive alternatives to artificial Germany as well as other BMW facilities around the ­materials like fibreglass, especially when used in comworld, such as the UK and Poland. pounds. At present, every BMW 7 Series we create contains 13 kg of natural fibres. This figure is set to rise Design for recycling ­significantly in the future when we make far greater use For us, dealing intelligently with resources and raw of bio-based raw materials. ­materials begins way before the time comes to dispose of www.bmwgroup.com/ them. Even in the early stages of vehicle development, Sustainability in sales and service recycling www.bmw.de/recycling the decisions our designers and engineers make will deWe want BMW Group customers to be able to experience www.mini.de/recycling termine the reusability of our vehicles decades into the directly our philosophy of sustainability. One way of future. In line with our principle of Design for Recycling, ­enabling them to do so is by housing selected dealerships we create our vehicles in such a way that their compoin so-called green buildings that use less energy, are nents can be reused or recycled with the least possible highly efficient, and rely as far as possible on natural impact on the environment once the vehicle reaches the light and air conditioning. These structures allow our cusend of its life cycle. At the same time, our Recycling and tomers to feel our principles at work. And in terms of Dismantling Centre (RDZ) in Munich is working con­ our products, our principle of sustainability manifests ittinuously to come up with new solutions for vehicle self through our BMW i brand, which offers products and ­recycling which we make accessible to external recycling services for sustainable premium mobility. businesses. The RDZ is currently trialling recycling concepts for the new vehicle components found in hybrid and electric models. Batteries from vehicles of this kind can either be passed on to existing networks of recycling businesses or they can be used to produce photovoltaic systems. 31 Product ­responsibility 02.6 Premium standards and customer satisfaction. Premium is at the heart of everything we do. And Customer Focus is one of the basic principles that underpin our business activities. By analysing our customers’ needs continuously and improving our premium products and services accordingly, we work to ensure customer satisfaction and loyalty. How do our customers experience our products, service Meanwhile, our efforts to gain a deeper understanding range and brands? How satisfied are they with the way of our customer’s wishes continue. In 2010, we surveyed our dealers and dealerships look after them? Which around 1.5 million customers in 75 markets around the products and services from our range do they value most? world to find out about their wishes and experiences. And most importantly: from the customer’s perspective, Complying with local data protection legislation to guarwhat could we do to be even better than we are? antee the privacy of individual customers, we were able to gain insights that helped us take concrete action to Questions like these are consistently the focus not only ­optimise our products and services. Feedback on the new of our attention but also of a wide range of studies and BMW 5 Series, BMW 7 Series and BMW X3 was extremely customer interviews that we carry out at locations around positive and showed clearly that optimisations comthe world. Our strategic goal is to be top in our market pared with previous models on the basis of customer sursegment in terms of customer satisfaction with our vehicle veys are successful. concepts and reliability, and with the sales and service experience we offer. We want our customers to have a CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND QUALITY  premium experience every time they are in contact with 83 % of BMW customers and 85 % of MINI customers in the USA the BMW Group and its brands. would definitely recommend their vehicle to a friend. We are satisfied with our progress in achieving this goal. In 2010 and 2011, the BMW Group received numerous During the reporting period, we have set up specific awards for its high levels of customer satisfaction and ­projects to optimise our dealership network and service quality. 83% of BMW customers and 85% of MINI cusrange in particular. tomers in the USA would definitely recommend their car to a friend, the J. D. Power survey on vehicle quality in the USA revealed. BMW Group’s position in customer satisfaction and quality rankings in 2009 – 2010 www.jdpower.com J. D. Power SSI (Sales Satisfaction Index) US 2010 1st place MINI brand www.adac.de in the relevant category www.dekra.de J. D. Power CSI (Customer Service Index) US 2011 1st place MINI brand in the relevant category ADAC Breakdown Statistics 2010 1st place BMW X3 2nd place BMW X5 1st place MINI 2nd place BMW 3 Series 3rd place BMW 1 Series in the relevant category ADAC Yellow Angel 2010 2nd place BMW X3 in the Quality category J. D. Power IQS (Initial Quality Study) China 2010 2nd place BMW brand 1st place BMW 5 Series in the Upper Class category VOSS Deutschland 2010 2nd place BMW brand 1st place BMW X5 in the relevant category DEKRA-Report 2011 2nd place BMW 3 Series in the Best of all Classes category 2nd place BMW 5 Series in the Upper Class category  32 Customer Focus Programme for BMW and MINI dealers Forecast In 2010, we set about achieving transparency over cusWhat strategic goals has the BMW Group set itself in terms tomer feedback in our first few markets by enabling cusof customer satisfaction? And what measures is it looking tomers in these locations to see how other clients had to implement over the short and medium term? rated the dealership they were interested in. For us, transparency of this kind provides additional motivation to –  BMW Group management will continue to strengthen further improve Customer Focus in the future. But we its focus on customer satisfaction by aligning and have also introduced an explicit performance and quality ­implementing measures and processes across the compromise into our dealerships in the shape of a customer pany to meet customers’ needs. charter. Its step-by-step introduction has been underway – We will focus our efforts on dealers that show potensince 2010, and we are making constant use of customer tial for improvement and provide effective, appropriate surveys to monitor our progress in this area. and targeted support through coaching and other methods. Effective Retail Performance Management – By improving our service processes across the board, Our Retail Performance Management programme has we will ensure that customer contact is always of provided individual training for some 700 dealers around the highest quality. Our customers will have positive the world – with measurable success: organisations that experiences at dealerships as well as with any direct had received coaching performed 14% better than others contact of the BMW Group. in terms of new car sales. In 2011, we will be working to strengthen our focus on customer satisfaction. Country-specific monitoring Since 2010, our top management have received sixmonthly updates on how customer satisfaction and ­improvements are progressing in major markets, such as the USA, China, Germany and Italy. Retail Performance Management  Our Retail Performance Management programme has provided individual training for some 700 dealers around the world. Improved parts management As part of Strategy Number ONE, our global aftersales services have seen significant improvements. In order to provide our service garages with the spare parts they need as quickly as possible, we are currently building up a network of 43 Dealer Metro Distribution Centres ­(DMDCs). These deliver parts to local dealers up to four times a day, shortening customers’ waiting times significantly. Fewer recalls Although we have sold significantly more model variants over the last five years than we did previously, quality has improved, meaning fewer so-called technical campaigns were needed. In 2010 as always, the BMW Group took prompt and consistent action wherever it was required by launching technical campaigns when needed or useful to the customer. Vehicles were recalled and ­defects eliminated well before any symptoms became obvious to their owners. 33 Group-wide environmental Protection 03.1 Managing resources. Protecting the environment 36 03.2 Energy consumption and emissions 38 03 03.3 Materials use and waste management 40 03.4 Water and wastewater 41 03.5 Efficient transport logistics 44 Setting benchmarks for the most sustainable production worldwide 34 Corporate Strategy Number ONE Sustainability strategy 03 Action point Group-wide environmental protection. Can any carmaker run a Areas of focus completely “clean” operation? We are well on the way to doing so. With our Challenges “Clean Production” programme and integrated environmental management, we are continually reducing our use of natural resources and the environKey performance indicators (KPIs) mental impact of all production processes within the BMW Group worldwide. By 2012, our use of resources will have dropped by 30 % compared with Progress / Forecast 2006 – and we will have moved a good deal closer to fulfilling our ultimate goal of zero-emissions vehicle production. Areas of Focus Biodiversity / Nature conservation in plant locations Page 37 Business travel and staff mobility Page 44 CO2 reduction Page 38 Energy supply / Use of renewables Page 38 Environmental management Page 36 Other emissions (VOC etc.) Page 38 Product cycle Page 38 Transport logistics Page 44 Use of materials / Waste management Page 40 Water / Wastewater Page 41 Challenges Involving all collaborative partners (dealers and joint venture partners) and suppliers in our efforts to implement environmental and social standards Increasing the energy efficiency of our production Optimising transport logistics with an integrated approach to efficiency, flexibility, speed and environmental impact 35 Group-wide environmental protection Key performance indicators (KPIs) Page 87 et seq. Energy consumed per vehicle produced Water consumption per vehicle produced 2.75 MWh / vehicle 2.31 m3 / vehicle – 4.8 % over the previous year – 9.8 % over the previous year Process wastewater per vehicle produced Waste for disposal per vehicle produced 0.58 m3 / vehicle 10.09  kg / vehicle – 6.5 % over the previous year – 5.1 % over the previous year Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced 1.60 kg / vehicle – 9.6 % over the previous year Progress in 2010 Forecast Page 94 et seq. T  he target of a 5 % reduction was achieved for four A  chieving our target of 30 % less energy, VOCs, water, out of five key performance indicators. In the case process wastewater and waste per vehicle produced in of energy consumption, the 4.8 % drop was not quite the period 2006 to 2012 (5 % decline per annum) on target, due to lower production volumes in the first few months of 2010 and renovation of some production facilities For a complete overview of key figures, targets fulfilled and new objectives, see “objectives, facts and figures” section on page 71 et seq. 36 03.1 MANAGING RESOURCES. PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT. Across its global production network, the BMW Group is working systematically to use resources more efficiently. Already, our resource ­efficiency is unmatched by any other carmaker in the world, as numerous comparisons between ­different producers have proved. By 2012, our use of resources and emissions levels will see a 30 % drop compared with levels in 2006. In order to achieve this goal, the BMW Group is pursuing key figures). Every one of our facilities has committed to Page 86 et seq. a policy of consistent, Group-wide environmental manmeet these ambitious goals, which will also raise efficiency agement. As well as integrating environmental considby an average of 5% per year. For some indicators, target erations into all our major investment decisions, we are figures may vary due to production launches and phaseimplementing a clearly focused best-practice approach outs or variations in production volume. However, the UN Global Compact within the company and observing and monitoring all the relevant indicators. Environmental management is an inEnvironmental Efficiency Index: 0.74  tegral part of sustainability management (see chapter 01). Sustainability management is made up of the Sustainabil26 % reduction Between 2006 and 2010, we reduced our use of resources and ity Board, the Sustainability Circle and the departments. emissions levels per vehicle produced by 26 %. This figure exceeds The Sustainability and Environmental Protection departthe target set for 2010. ment is the steering committee of the environmental protection network, which is headed up by the Group Representative for Sustainability and Environmental Proenvironmental efficiency index* will allow us to verify tection. Individual operators are defined for each location whether we have achieved the agreed reductions for all and are responsible for mastering environmental impact key indicators. This is supported by the environmental (environmental management). information system “ecofacts”, which records all the relevant indicators at all of our facilities around the world Our activities in this area are based on the guiding prinevery month. ciple of preventive action to protect the environment and UN Global Compact its resources. This approach is fundamental to all our Follow-up targets for the years 2013 to 2020 are currently processes, and in line with our Clean Production philosounder development by our sustainability strategy and phy, we are designing our manufacturing processes Production Planning teams and will be approved in due around the world to have minimum, or ideally zero, envicourse. www.bmwgroup.com/ ronmental impact. In 2001, the BMW Group committed cleanproduction www.bmwgroup.com/ to achieve this goal when it signed the Cleaner Production From best-practice to reference system production Declaration of the United Nations’ Environment ProA comparison of the achievements of individual facilities www.bmwgroup.com/ guidelines gramme. Moreover, we established our own environmenreveals that a number of environmental measures have tal guidelines back in 1993 based on the ICC Charter for been implemented to particularly great effect. Activities sustainable development and Agenda 21. and improvements that have been successful at one site are analysed to ascertain how they could be implemented www.unep.fr/scp/cp Environmental management systems elsewhere. Our six competence centres (for water, waste, Environmental management systems are in place in all of energy, emissions, training and environmental manageour production facilities worldwide as well as in our cenment systems) are staffed by environmental experts tral planning departments, with ISO 14001 certification from the different plants and by specialists from Corporate throughout. Our German and Austrian sites have underEnvironmental Protection. Together, they discuss the gone additional external audits and meet European Ecobest-practice solutions and develop reference systems on Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) standards. which to base future planning and process improvements. As part of our risk management strategy and in line with Since 2007, these reference systems and other tried and more general concerns relating to potential climate change, tested best-practice solutions that help plants plan and we are continuously observing, analysing and evaluating review their structures can now be accessed in real-time risk factors at every one of our facilities. from around the world via the “Planner Portal for Occupational Safety, Fire Prevention and Environmental Pro5 % fewer resources, 5 % fewer emissions – every year tection”. In addition, our planners receive regular training For the BMW Group, classic environmental management around issues such as environment legislation, solvent systems are not enough, so five years ago we established reduction and saving water. This gives them all the in­ our own system for controlling our emissions and our use formation they need to plan and realise structures for the of resources as consistently as we control our finances. future that will have minimum impact on the environBetween 2006 and the end of 2012, our goal for each * In 2006, the values for energy, CO2, water, solvents and wastewater per vehicle pro­vehicle we produce is to achieve a 30% decrease in energy duced were standardised and set to 1 for the environmental efficiency index. Then they were added up and divided by the number of resources. Thus, the initial environand water consumption, solvent and CO2 emissions, and mental efficiency index figure was 1.00 when it was launched in 2006. In 2010, the levels of waste and process wastewater (environmental environmental efficiency index reached 0.74, in line with the agreed targets. 37 Group-wide environmental protection ment and resources from the outset. With this system in ment system is in place in their facilities, where approplace, the BMW Group’s production network effectively priate. Tools and measures that the BMW Group uses to has a turbo-charged improvement system with self-­ help dealers reduce their environmental impact include sustaining momentum. This will keep us one step ahead the following: of the predicted and inevitable rise in resources and emissions costs in the future. – energy advice on facility management (aiming for Green Building) and technology for the dealer organ­ Think ahead today. Benefit tomorrow isations In order to recognise efficiency potential early on and – templates (in German and English) on the EHS manual avoid the expense of renewing equipment, we incorporate and tools to introduce and certify the EHS management environmental considerations into all our investment system ­decisions from the outset. By evaluating any positive or – an international sustainability training concept which negative effects on the environment or resources in the includes an “Environmental Training” module is being early stages of our development and structure projects, developed for January 2012 we can explore ecologically better alternatives wherever – facility disposal via new/joint disposal service prothe need arises. viders (e.g. in Germany, Switzerland, Czech Republic, United Kingdom, Italy) Monitoring technologies in place at individual facilities allow us to identify those that are particularly effective We are also collaborating with our joint venture partners and determine whether they would be suitable for im­ SGL Carbon and BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd (BBA) plementation across our entire production network. The to improve our environmental performance and plan integrated paint process at our plant in Spartanburg, for ­efficient processes. At Moses Lake, for example, we have example (see chapter 03.2), is now set to be rolled out at been working with SGL Automotive Carbon Fibers to other facilities, thanks to its increased productivity and power carbon fibre production with renewable hydro­ lower energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Spartanelectric energy. Best Practice in Tiexi  As well as implementing these environmental standards, Best practice from the entire production network was implethe BMW Group takes special care to monitor the effects mented at the new plant in China. More than 60 sustainability of its activities on plants and wildlife at all its sites. measures ensure that the Tiexi plant will rank among the top three in the production network when it comes to low consumpUN Global Compact tion of energy, water, process wastewater, waste for disposal First efficiency goals have been achieved and solvent emissions. Our Group-wide environmental protection activities involve a major effort on the part of the BMW Group as well as its employees. But already the figures show that burg has also cut electricity consumption and CO2 emisour hard work is paying off. sions in final assembly by introducing forklifts, tractor vehicles and retrieval machines powered by hydrogen and In spite of a steep rise in output in 2010, the BMW Group fuel cells. was able to reduce its energy consumption for the year by approximately 380 GWh. Further reductions for other A number of our best-practice solutions will also be imkey indicators, such as water consumption, process plemented in our new facility in China, where the Tiexi wastewater and waste reduction, enabled cost savings of plant will go on-stream in 2012 (see page 42). Tiexi will some euro 0.7 million. In 2010, quantities of waste for be one of the BMW Group’s top three plants in terms of disposal, solvents emissions and water used per vehicle sustainability. New standards will also apply to megacity produced dropped significantly compared with the pre­ vehicle production, which is due to start at the Leipzig vious year. Overall, our environmental efficiency index plant in 2013 (see page 28). shows that our efforts to use resources more efficiently have resulted in figures within our agreed target range. As well as organising our own production standards, we are looking to incorporate environmental considerations into our relations with suppliers and dealers (see chapter 01.5). We are calling on all of our suppliers to provide confirmation that the ISO 14001 environmental manage38 03.2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS. We are working continuously to significantly reduce emissions and energy consumption per vehicle produced – even though our output is rising. Our vision is to cover all our energy needs from regenerative sources in the future. The BMW Group is using systematic e ­ nergy management to reduce energy consumption per vehicle produced by 30 % by the year 2012 compared with levels in 2006. As part of our Group-wide energy project, which has been duction association already has many of the resources we Page 86 et seq. underway since the middle of 2006, we have set ourselves need. the following goals: In order to implement its Energy Strategy, the BMW Group – The systematic reduction of energy consumption per has established four fields of action: vehicle produced – Efficient use of energy and energy regeneration – Verification and optimisation of operations ­wherever possible (for example through combined – Manager and employee training and motivation heat and power (CHP) and rotating heat exchangers) – Planning new facilities, systems and technologies – Increased use of regenerative energies – Utilisation of renewable sources of energy Every kilowatt-hour of electricity and every cubic metre The success of our improvements has mainly been due of natural gas we can save by improving production proto the fact that we are now implementing a worldwide cesses pays off – many times over. With energy costs set reference system for the energy efficiency of buildings UN Global Compact to continue spiralling, every bit we save adds value for and production processes. our company. And given the CO2 emissions entailed in conventional energy production, every kilowatt-hour This means our planners will be able to draw on an we save is also helping to save our atmosphere from the ­appropriate set of tried and tested best-practice solutions effects of this greenhouse gas. every time they construct a new building or optimise a process. In line with our roadmap for the coming years, As well as working to source more energy from regenerathese technologies will be rolled out around the world tive sources, our goal is to reduce the amount of energy and be subject to continuous enhancement (see chapter we use per vehicle produced. We have a vision of com03.1). Groups of specialists from different areas of propletely CO2-free vehicle production. And at the same time, duction (paint shop, body shop, etc.) will help, while we are making every effort to reduce noise pollution and ­Facility Management is responsible for Group-wide VOC emissions. ­energy manage­ment, including the analysis of potential, cost estimates and best-practice transfer. 30 % less energy per vehicle produced Lower emissions Integrated Paint Process  Since 2006, we have been using less and less energy for The new process increases paint shop productivity by 40 % in each vehicle we produce. By 2012, we want to reduce Spartanburg / USA. Page 94 our energy consumption by 30%. This will automatically reduce what is known as specific CO2 emissions, i.e. the amount of CO2 emitted per vehicle produced. During the reporting period, we have made noticeable progress in a number of areas: UN Global Compact The only way we can fulfil this goal is by working continuously to improve our energy efficiency, making – In line with our On-Site Strategy, we are producing ­creative use of new production processes, and drawing pressed parts directly on plant premises ready to be more of our energy from regenerative sources. As well taken straight into body production. This allows us as the environment and society at large, the BMW Group to avoid transporting parts between facilities. The first also stands to benefit: the European Emissions Trading such press shop went on stream in Regensburg in Scheme means carbon dioxide output costs us money. In 2009, saving at least 2 million kilometres of truck transPage 90 the second period of the scheme (2008 –2012), the perportation. Moreover, around 90% of the press shop’s mits we were allocated more than covered our needs, heating needs are covered by heat regeneration. thanks to our efficient energy centres. Starting in 2013, – At our BMW plant in Landshut, 2010 saw production however, permits will be available in increasingly restart at the first foundry in the world to operate withstricted numbers and at a higher cost. As a result, reout producing environmentally damaging emissions. ducing CO2 emissions is not just an environmental conInstead of using organic binding agents, this facility sideration; it is a fundamental business indicator. uses only inorganic binders, reducing combustion ­residues. This means casting tools no longer need to Systematic improvements, Group-wide learning be cleaned, which in turn enables energy savings. The significant reduction in energy and CO2 we are aimMost of all, however, this innovative process minimises ing to achieve is extremely ambitious. Our global proemissions from combustion residues by 98%. 39 Group-wide environmental protection – The integrated paint process that has been in operaof the energy it needs to produce the fibres for CFRP tion in Spartanburg since 2010 has increased paint from hydroelectric power stations on the Columbia River www.bmwgroup.com/ shop productivity. At the same, time, this innovative (see page 28). Extremely lightweight yet highly robust, production www.bmw-werk-regensburg.de process has reduced energy consumption and conseCFRP will be fundamental to the structure of the electriwww.bmw-werk-landshut.de quently CO2 emissions. Emissions of volatile organic cally powered BMW i3. www.bmwplant.co.za www.bmw-werk-leipzig.de compounds (VOCs) have also fallen. And with 1.6 kg www.bmwusfactory.com VOCs per vehicle produced, the BMW Group average across all facilities is more than 50% lower than Germany’s rigorous limits allow. Increase in efficiency from 2009 to 2010 Page 87 et seq. Energy consumption down by 4.8 % from 2.89 to 2.75 MWh / vehicle CO2 emissions per vehicle produced down by 5.5 % from 0.91 to 0.86 t / vehicle VOC emissions down by 9.6 % from 1.77 to 1.6 kg / vehicle Wind power in Leipzig. Methane power in Rosslyn Our efforts to draw 100% of our energy from regenerative sources have raised the following question: Can we gain greater independence from fluctuating energy prices, the CO2 problem and ­regulators’ legislations by making more use of local energy sources? In 2010, we delivered our response to these questions in the shape of a renew­ able energy development plan. Designed to assess the potential of each individual BMW Group site, the plan has already delivered its first results. Test drilling near our plant in Rosslyn, South Africa, has revealed that emissions from a local household refuse site could be used to produce energy in the same way as they do in Spartanburg. Moreover, approval is currently being sought from the environment agency in Leipzig for plans to erect four wind turbines on the plant premises. The rotors of each one will deliver 2.5 MW, generating enough electricity to enable carbon-neutral production of the BMW i3. A prime example of carbon-free production is our US plant in Spartanburg. This draws approximately 50% of the energy it needs from a combined heat and power ­system run on methane gas from a nearby refuse site. Its eco-friendly energy supply has earned it fourth position in the Green Power Partners ranking of the US Environmental Protection Authority, EPA. Meanwhile, the new plant in Moses Lake, US, represents a real milestone in carbon-neutral production. Currently under construction by the BMW Group and its joint venture partner SGL Group, this new facility will draw 100% 40 03.3 MATERIALS USE AND WASTE MANAGEMENT. Years ago, waste was considered something that needed to be disposed of. Nowadays, we know that what looks like refuse actually harbours a multitude of resources that we should be using intelligently. The BMW Group is looking to reduce its solvent emissions and waste for disposal by 5 % per vehicle produced per year – in much the same way as it is cutting energy consumption, as described in 3.2 above. In economical as well as ecological terms, the “best” waste As well as making for a better surface quality, this techPage 91 is the waste that never happens. That is why we try to nique improves processes and capacity and produces less avoid producing waste wherever we can. Any (as yet) paint slurry. unavoidable by-products we do happen to generate are first tested to see if they are reusable or recyclable or Less than 100 grams  ­harbour any energy potential. We would rather reuse waste than dispose of it – as a matter of principle – even of waste for disposal Today, the Munich and Leipzig plants produce just 30 g and 70 g if it means higher costs. of waste for disposal respectively per vehicle produced. The small amount of waste we produce that cannot be ­reused or recycled is classified as “waste for disposal”. The Every positive step we make is the subject of discussions quantities we generate are a good indicator of how sucat least three times a year, when waste management cessful we have been in achieving our goal of avoiding or ­officers from all the plants worldwide explore ways of reusing waste wherever possible. With 10.09 kg of disimplementing measures like these at other facilities. posable waste per vehicle produced in 2010, figures are down by 5.1% compared with the previous year. The process of recording and reusing the waste we produce is managed by our own BMW waste information UN Global Compact Zero waste. A vision is almost reality system, ABIS, which is now set for gradual launch across Materials use and waste management are two areas in all non-German facilities as well. Already implemented which we have been applying best-practice solutions that in our plant in Chennai, India, it is due to be rolled out we have gradually rolled out across our production netin Goodwood (UK) and Rayong (Thailand) during the www.bmwgroup.com/ work. In particular, we are focusing our efforts on those course of 2011. cleanproduction www.bmw-werk-muenchen.de sites that are close to turning our vision of zero waste for www.bmw-werk-leipzig.de disposal per vehicle produced into a reality. Our facility in Munich, for example, produces just 30 g per vehicle produced. Leipzig still produces 70 g as it now uses paint shop residues (or paint slurry) to produce solvents and solid heating material rather than disposing of them. As a fossil fuel replacement, these heating materials can be used in the cement industry. This step forward is just one of the results of Leipzig’s new tender for waste disposal services, which placed a strong focus on criteria for sustainability. Since awarding the waste disposal services contract to a new partner, the Leipzig plant has been benefiting from shorter waste transportation routes. Moreover, with smaller quantities of waste meaning lower transport requirements, our CO2 emissions are down as well. The 5% overall reduction in residual waste in 2010 that we describe above also stems from two additional projects: unlike years ago, the BMW Group no longer waxes its vehicles before dispatching them for long transportation. Instead of the wax, which had to be removed and disposed of before the vehicle could be handed over to a customer, the BMW Group now protects its vehicles by transporting them in enclosed freight cars or covering them with protective foil. At our plant in Munich, only 5% of vehicles are foil-wrapped, and any protective foil we use can subsequently be reused, unlike the wax we pre­ viously employed. Another valuable reference ­process has been established in Berlin, where our motorcycles are painted electrostatically. 41 Group-wide environmental protection 03.4 Water and wastewater. Water is an extremely limited resource. Some 40 % of the world’s population live in countries where it is in short supply. As a result, careful use of this natural ­resource is set to become ever more important in the future. The BMW Group is aiming to institute almost wastewater-free production processes – by closing cycles and avoiding using water wherever possible. Even in areas of the world with plentiful supplies, water – Thanks to treatment systems incorporating the soPage 87 et seq. usage and the disposal of wastewater is expensive. As a called snow cleaning process, our plant in Landshut no result, the BMW Group is seeking consistent reductions longer needs fresh water to cleanse plastic exterior comin both water usage and wastewater production. These ponents. Instead, impurities are removed using CO2 two items are among the five things for which we hope snow. The CO2 is sourced from fertiliser production, to bring about a 30% reduction by 2012 compared with where it is generated as a by-product. In addition, levels for 2006. Landshut’s light metal foundry applies separating agents as concentrates rather than in watery solutions, which Potential for optimisation in the paint shop also saves large quantities of water and wastewater. In a first step, we launched a survey to find out which parts of the company use the most water. With the paint shop Across the BMW Group production network, our plants as the main consumer, we have already established several are working to minimise the amount of wastewater they strategic approaches towards greater resource efficiency (see page 42). We have also set up a study to ascertain the Snow cleaning at the Landshut plant  feasibility of virtually wastewater-free paint shop oper­ The Landshut plant no longer requires any water to clean certain ations. This will form part of our reference system and is components. Dirt is loosened by applying CO2 snow. gradually being assessed for implementation. As a matter of principle, we are pursuing a strategy of produce and close their water cycles. We continue to work ­removing only as much water from natural cycles as can towards wastewater-free production by applying bestbe replaced by natural means. In addition, we want our practice solutions and implementation the right measures wastewater to contain only as many substances as can to suit local needs. Our team in South Africa, for example, be broken down naturally. For all of our plants, we have is fighting water shortages and leakages in drinking w ­ ater introduced our own, BMW specific wastewater norms, pipes. In Berlin, meanwhile, where the team has all the which exceed local regulations in many cases. resources it needs, rising water and wastewater prices are the issue. As our improvements go into implementation, Saving water by closing cycles viability is just one essential factor we consider. With water usage totalling 3.4 million m3, our consumption figures were 7.2% lower in 2010 than they had been In the period under report, no water sources were imbefore the global financial crisis in 2008 – even though pacted by water removal by the BMW Group (e.g. due to output was up. We were able to reduce water consumphigh volumes drawn or volumes drawn from sensitive tion per vehicle produced by 9.8% and bring process waters). In Berlin, the public water provider draws water wastewater levels down by 6.5%. All of this has been made exclusively from groundwater, so since July 2009 no repossible by a whole series of measures implemented at gional water sources have been significantly impacted by various sites across the BMW production network. water removal by the BMW Group. – In Regensburg, we have been working continuously to improve our existing systems and introduce alter­ www.bmw-werk-regensburg.de natives for treating and recycling water used in the www.bmw-werk-steyr.at www.bmw-werk-muenchen.de paint shop. Our goal is to achieve the zero wastewater www.bmw-werk-landshut.de paint shop. Moreover, thanks to biological water treatment, 90% of water used in the Regensburg car wash can also be reused. – We have incorporated a closed cooling cycle in the cooling system of the hardening furnace in our wastewater-free production system at our plant in Steyr. – At our plant in Munich, sprinklers and construction sites are supplied with industrial water. Longer periods of inactivity in rinsing baths mean water consumption is down by some 300 m3 per year. Improved cascade overflows in pretreatment reduced freshwater requirements as well as the amount of wastewater produced. 42 Best practice sustainable production at the new Tiexi plant World-class in China A With its new joint venture plant in the Chinese location of Tiexi / Shenyang, the BMW Group is setting new ­standards for ­resource-efficient vehicle production. When it goes on-stream in 2012, it will be one of the production network’s top three plants in terms of sustainability. Construction work is still underway in Tiexi, the bulldozers the production network will continually set new benchare still at work and the future contours of the plant are marks – and also upgrade its existing facilities. still hard to discern at the construction site. But when ­serial production begins in 2012, the Tiexi plant will not More than sixty individual sustainability measures will only be the newest but also one of the best in the BMW ensure the Tiexi plant ranks among the top three in Group production network in terms of sustainability. It the production network, due to its low consumption of will set standards for the sector, on a global scale. ­energy, water, process wastewater, waste for disposal and solvent emissions. Valuable experience will be gained The 2.07-million-square-metre plant the BMW Group is in the use of efficient technologies, from which the probuilding for a total investment of euro 560 million with duction network as a whole will benefit. its Chinese joint venture partner Brilliance is the result of a wealth of experience and innovations in other plants The revolutionary integrated paint process for instance, within the company’s global production network. At which was first applied at our Oxford plant, has since bethe same time, a whole series of new, groundbreaking come the “benchmark” which will be successively rolled technologies will come on stream within the production out at other production facilities. line and building architecture of the Tiexi plant, and all the other locations within the production network will The paint shop of the Tiexi plant, for instance, will be benefit from the piloting of such innovations. In this way, the most sustainable painting facility in the automobile 43 Group-wide environmental protection industry. For one thing, the integrated paint process will be applied there, making the previously required filler coat superfluous. This will reduce energy consumption, CO2 and solvent emissions and simultaneously improve processing times and productivity by a significant margin. In addition, the painting line will use a “dry separation” system, which minimises water consumption and recycles 90% of the process air. B The energy consumption of the Tiexi plant, where ­temperatures range from – 35 °C in winter to + 40 °C in The desired minimisation of CO2 emissions has been dif­summer, will reach record low levels. ficult to achieve up until now. Hardly any energy derived from renewables is available on the Chinese energy marNaturally ventilated cooling towers and a groundwater ket, which is heavily dependent on electricity generated cooling plant will offset any extreme heat in summer, by coal-fired power plants. “But even here,” says Hans-­ while thermal wheels, a district heating system and the Peter Lutz, project manager in Tiexi, “we are currently in waste heat of welding tongs will supply energy-efficient discussions with the Chinese authorities.” heat in the winter. This also eliminates the need for the usual, energy-intensive process of pre-warming the And that is precisely how many of the features seen as process air. revolutionary in Tiexi right now will soon become standard practice within the efficient production network of the A further innovation is the fact that all production proBMW Group. cesses will be housed in one building with such a highly effective thermal insulation system that it even surpasses the strict minimum thresholds of German energy-saving regulations. Amongst other options, robots that can be switched on or off during the production process and a particularly efficient server cooling system, will all help keep the plant’s energy consumption low. A The BMW 5 Series Sedan long wheelbase, specifically produced for the Chinese market B Groundbreaking ceremony for the new Tiexi plant in August 2010 C This facility is 2.07 million square metres in area … D … and will start production in 2012. C D 44 03.5 Efficient transport logistics. As a globally active premium provider of mobility services, the BMW Group moves significant numbers of goods and people around the world – and it is ­doing so with ever increasing efficiency. In 2010, our transport capacity totalled 18.9 billion ton-­ kilometres, resulting in carbon emissions of 466,000 tons*. Getting supplies to our global network of plants and Meanwhile, we continue to work on managing our transPage 92 et seq. dealers and distributing our vehicles across the globe is a port capacity more efficiently. As part of our Network highly complex business. In coming up with solutions, Strategy, our worldwide Logistics Strategy will undergo our Transport Logistics team is designing and establishing further enhancement from 2012 onwards, taking us increasingly sustainable processes. In order to continue one step closer to our goal of becoming the market leader www.bmwgroup.com/logistics reducing our CO2 emissions, we make sure we transport in logistics in the premium sector. full loads wherever possible. We are also turning more and more to rail and sea freight as alternative transport Employee mobility options. Optimised material mileage and higher quality Staff commuting is a major concern on the BMW Group’s www.bmw-werk-muenchen.de standards to prevent damage in transit are just some of l­ ogistics balance sheet. Since 1992, we have been looking www.bmw-werk-regensburg.de www.bmw-werk-dingolfing.de the goals we are pursuing. into how our employees travel to and from work at most of our sites in Germany and working to minimise the Transport logistics is a question of environmental as well ­environmental impact of their commuting. Among the as business factors. With cargo space and driver capacity measures that are now in place are our works buses, 80 in short supply and fuel prices on the rise, transport cap­ of which operated every day in Munich in 2010. Another acity has become a valuable commodity. But our Assembly 72 provided services in Regensburg and 301 in Dingolfing. and Logistics Strategy, by which our plants receive supWe also have an intranet travel portal and subsidise the plies, also have goals to pursue: our so-called Inbound purchase of the “job ticket” for local public transport by as Transport Logistics is working to supply components much as 90%. In Germany alone, 49% of our associates to plants just-in-sequence and reduce component invencame to work by works bus or public transport in 2010. tories. For those who prefer to (or have to) continue making their journey by car, we have launched a campaign for more Higher capacity utilisation. More rail transport carbon-friendly cars. In 2010, our employees had a carThe BMW Group has implemented a number of measures bon footprint of 4.5 kg per day for their journeys to and to ensure competitive prices for the transportation of from work. components and vehicles to our plants and dealers around the world: – As part of our Network Strategy project, we are going to make further improvements to our transport logistics in the future. These will include better management of empty containers and the launch of what we call concentrated deliveries to reduce the number of unladen journeys. These plans will increase capacity utilisation significantly. – In 2010, the BMW Group was able to increase the proportion of vehicles it transports by rail from 47.0% (previous year) to 49.5% (excluding Rolls-Royce autoUN Global Compact mobiles). During the same period, the share of vehicles transported by road dropped from 15.8% to 13.3%. By using weekly trains devoted entirely to the BMW Group, we were able to send a smaller proportion of trucks out onto the roads. In 2010, we also managed to increase the proportion of spare parts transported by rail by approximately 4%. – In optimising the supply concept for our worldwide production network, we made a conscious effort to make increased use of rail and sea freight as transport options. This has enabled us to ensure a lasting reduction in the amount of material reaching our plants by air. * as calculated by Tremod. www.tremod.de 45 Employees 04.1 04.2 Attractive employer 48 Attractive, performance-based remuneration 50 04 04.3 Recruiting and training employees 51 04.4 Diversity and equal opportunities 54 04.5 Work-life balance 55 04.6 Work, health and demographic change 56 04.7 Securing jobs and co-determination 58 Diversity and equal opportunities in a global working world 46 Corporate Strategy Number ONE Sustainability strategy 04 Action point Employees. We support our employees with a wide range of services and Areas of focus offers – positioning the BMW Group as the most attractive employer in the Challenges automotive industry. We make every effort to attract the best people to join us and offer the greatest possible job security. Our increasingly diverse workKey performance indicators (KPIs) force is motivated, competent and highly effective – and a major contributor to the future success of the BMW Group. Progress / Forecast Areas of Focus Attracting and training employees Page 51 Competence management Page 51 Continuing education, training, life-long learning Page 51 Demographic change Page 56 Diversity and equal opportunities Page 54 Employee remuneration Page 50 Employee satisfaction Page 49 Future working environment Page 57 Health management Page 56 Human rights Page 49 Job security Page 58 Occupational health and safety Page 56 Social benefits and profit sharing Page 50 Workforce co-determination Page 58 Work-life balance Page 55 Challenges Creating age-appropriate working conditions as the average age of the workforce rises at major BMW Group locations Securing young talent in key skill areas, in particular against a backdrop of demographic change, technological advances and changing customer needs Competing successfully for qualified individuals: when it comes to attracting qualified people to work on future drive technologies, the BMW Group is competing with other automotive manufacturers for qualified IT and financial services staff; competition is tough across all industries Continuing globalisation: securing competencies to meet local customer needs within global networks 47 Employees Key performance indicators (KPIs) Page 96 et seq. BMW Group employees at end of year Share of women in the total workforce of BMW Group* 95,453 employees 15.2 % * Previous year: 96,230 employees  he share of women in the overall workforce can only T be determined for the BMW Group from 2010. Employee attrition rate BMW AG Average days of further training per BMW Group employee 2.74 %  2.4 days  Previous year: 4.59 % Previous year: 1.6 days Accident frequency (per one million hours worked) 3.6  Previous year: 3.1 Progress in 2010 Forecast Page 104 et seq. “Today for Tomorrow” pilot project for age-appropriate R emain an attractive employer and expand globally working conditions introduced into regular production Continuing and updating long-term management operations training by including topics relevant to the future Large number of flexitime models offered G roup-wide roll-out of “Today for Tomorrow” E mployer Brand developed and integrated into ­human pro­duc­tion system for age-appropriate working conresources marketing strategy ditions in production and administration New young talent retention programmes launched Group-wide roll-out of Health Management 2020 (graduate internship, bachelor and doctoral candidate ­programme programmes) Extend childcare L aunch the new young talent retention programme for graduate students in 2012 Continued development of global vocational training For a complete overview of key figures, targets fulfilled and new objectives, see “objectives, facts and figures” section on page 71 et seq. 48 04.1 Attractive employer. Motivated and competent employees are more important now than e ­ ver before in ensuring a company’s success. By supporting our employees with services and ­initiatives, we are consolidating the BMW Group’s position as one of the most attractive employers in the global automotive industry. In many of today’s markets, skilled employees such as ­expertise to our company. In 2011 alone, we will recruit engineers, economists and IT specialists are in strong over 2,000 new employees. About half of these will be in demand – and the BMW Group an employer of choice. Germany, producing the BMW i3 electric vehicle and the This gives us a huge competitive advantage, because in BMW i8 hybrid sports car in Leipzig, for example. order to be the leading provider of premium products and services for individual mobility we need the best and Rising volatility most motivated employees the market has to offer. We Today, market developments vary both from region to are securing the future of the BMW Group by attracting ­region as well as over time. When sales collapsed in 2008 trained employees, continuously developing their skills, to 2009, production cutbacks and short-time work enand building their loyalty to the company through a wide sued, only to be followed by another sales boom with range of initiatives and services. ­unexpected growth rates. Clearly, ongoing change and highly volatile markets are a new constant, and every comIn the future, this task will become increasingly import­ pany seeking success must deal with them accordingly. ant – but also more and more difficult. There are several reasons for this, some of which are interlinked and amBMW Group: the most attractive employer in the plify each other: ­automotive industry As key strategic tasks, human resources strategy and Increased competition for skilled employees management are becoming ever more important. The In Germany as in other industrialised countries, the BMW overall success of a company is increasingly determined www.bmwgroup.com/ Group is in tough competition with other companies from by its ability to attract people with the right skills, deresponsibility the automotive and supplier industries that have stepped velop them and take a flexible approach to ensure their up their human resources marketing activities. In the IT skills are applied in the right places. Flexible human and software development sector, we are competing with ­resources structures, employment models and flexitime systems consultants and IT providers, and in the finansystems all play a key role here, as does our ability to cial arena we are up against banks and autitors to gain the ­ensure good-quality leadership and develop our concept people best suited to our company. of leadership continuously. Together, these aspects will consolidate our position as an attractive employer. Dwindling supplies of candidates Competition for skilled workers is particularly challenging In 2009, BMW Group Human Resources was restructured UN Global Compact in Europe, where graduate numbers are falling. In Gerto comply with the objectives of Strategy Number ONE www.unglobalcompact.org many alone, the labour market is expected to shrink by (see page 52). Today, the department sees itself as an in6.5 million by 2025 – and already candidates with the novative, effective and efficient network that shapes and right key qualifications are scarce. gives direction to our Human Resources worldwide while at the same time fulfilling the Strategy Number ONE obGeographic focus jective of positioning the BMW Group as the most attracAs a vehicle brand, BMW is well known and has a positive tive employer in the automotive industry worldwide. image around the world. We aim to transfer this attractiveness to the “Employer Brand” internationally, in order Measures that will help us achieve our goals include … to gain the most suitable people for our company world… offering attractive conditions and training programmes wide. In India or China, we are competing with local to prepare young, skilled employees for their future work www.bmwgroup.com/career ­employers as well as multinationals to win high potential and ensuring that we retain employees with key skills for candidates. the long term. … analysing individual competencies and focusing on New technologies developing them through our competency and talent New developments sometimes necessitate entirely new management programmes. skills, for example, the electric vehicles that we will pro… showing our appreciation for our employees’ dedicaduce under our sub-brand BMW i (see page 28), which tion – for example, through competitive remuneration we founded in 2011. Equipped with highly complex and a range of additional benefits. We are also continuing electric systems, these vehicles will involve learning to our long-standing constructive cooperation with emdeal with high-voltage technology and new drive systems. ployee representatives and providing motivating leaderThey also mean we must move fast to attract the right ship. 49 Employees … promoting the mental and physical health of our emThey also felt that corporate culture required more work ployees and providing them with secure, healthy jobs. (to promote a culture of peformance, dissent and innoUN Global Compact … supporting collaborations within the company between vation). Decision-making processes and interface ownerwww.unglobalcompact.org people of different cultural backgrounds, age groups ship require clearer defin­ition. All in all, the employee and genders and with different lifestyles – for example survey provides valuable ­information as to how we can with employment models that help individuals better and should enhance our profile as an employer. This will combine their work and private lives. strengthen and raise the profile of our employer brand. … designing our Human Resources structures and workGreater awareness of the company as an employer coning time systems in such a way that we can react to market tinues to gain significance in the recruitment of new changes flexibly while at the same time offering our em­employees. ployees job security. … complying with all the relevant standards and declar­ UN Global Compact ations at all times (Global Compact, ILO, OECD, ICC www.unglobalcompact.org Business Charter for Sustainable Development, Joint Employer awards Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions). 2010 www.ilo.org Employees identify strongly with the BMW Group – Most Popular Employer in Business Administration www.oecd.org www.iccwbo.org The success of our efforts can be measured by a variety (Young Professional Survey) of external and internal means. A number of external – Best Career Portal (Top 3), Harvard Business studies confirm that the BMW Group is an attractive em­Manager ployer (see box on the right). Our balanced scorecard, – Best Career Website (1st place), Trendence Award www.harvardbusinessmanager.de which is our main instrument for measuring and monitor– Most Attractive Carmaker and Most Attractive ing target fulfilment, also covers the topics of employer G­ erman Company Worldwide in the global Top 50 reputation and employee satisfaction. ­(Universum’s survey in the major industrialised www.universumeurope.com nations)­ Employee surveys have revealed exactly how satisfied – Most Attractive Carmaker and Most Attractive our employees are with their workplaces and with the German Company in the European rating for www.trendence.com BMW Group as an employer. They also tell us where ­Engineers and Business Management (Trendence there is potential for improvement and enable us to study) ­evaluate a central factor that makes the BMW Group best in class: m ­ otivated, satisfied employees. 2011 – Universum Student Survey 2011: the BMW Group In February 2011, some 78,000 employees (around 85% moved up the scale in terms of percentages and of the workforce) participated in the last Group-wide ranking: in engineering and business, it moved from ­survey. 82% of respondents said they were satisfied overthe top 3 to number 2, in IT from the top 11 to 10. all with the BMW Group, the same high percentage as in – “Deutsches Absolventenbarometer” = German 2007. “Attractiveness as an employer”, which achieved graduate study 2011 (Trendence): in 2011, the satisfaction rates of 84%, was also on the same high level BMW Group gained percentage points and retained as in 2007, along with satisfaction with additional social its good rankings: Engineers – Top 2; Business – benefits (79.6%) and safety at the workplace (81%). Top 2; IT – Top 9 – Most Admired Companies in the World (Fortune These results show that our employees and managers Ranking): the BMW Group moved from 22nd to 19th support and shape the company’s Strategy Number ONE. place in this ranking and is the only German comIt confirms that they identify very strongly with the pany in the Top 20. The BMW Group is number BMW Group and that they are dedicated to the company one among carmakers and in the overall European with a strong desire to perform and a keen customer regional ranking. ­focus. Their feedback does, however, indicate that there is some room for improvement. Some respondents ­suggested that leadership could be improved (in particular role modelling, appreciation of employees as a success factor, motivation and employee development). 50 04.2 Attractive, performance-based remuneration. We reward above-average p­ erformance of our employees appropriately – with above-average remuneration. Additional s­ ocial benefits and a new, Group-wide profit-sharing model enhance this approach. The BMW Group’s record performance last year was en­ When profits fell during the economic crisis of 2008 and abled first and foremost by the exceptional commitment 2009, BMW AG employees received no profit share at all. of its employees. We reward their dedication and per­ But after contributing to the Group’s crisis management formance with fair remuneration that is attractive, comand economic recovery through their above-average petitive and transparent. ­performance, they were able to take home a profit share equivalent to almost 1.6 months’ salary in 2010 – the To the BMW Group, intrinsically motivated employees who highest in the history of the company. For most employees enjoy their work and are efficient as a matter of course on collective agreements, profit-related bonuses and Page 101 are essential, especially in the face of the increasingly Christmas bonuses exceeding the collectively agreed tough competition companies like ours are facing around amount totalled an average of euro 7,490 per head. The the world. An efficient workforce means higher profits – Board of Management had also rewarded employees for one of the core objectives of our Strategy Number ONE. their dedication in July 2010, with a one-off special payRather than considering our attractive remuneration ment averaging euro 1,060 for employees on collective as an incentive, we prefer to see it as an expression of our agreements. In addition, the collectively agreed wage inwww.unglobalcompact.org appreciation for work well-done. crease was brought forward from April to February 2011. At the BMW Group, remuneration is linked to each emMore than just excellent remuneration ployee’s annual performance assessment, both in GerAs well as financial compensation, the BMW Group offers many and abroad wherever collective agreements or its employees a variety of social benefits designed to the ­legislation allow. Managers are remunerated on the basis needs of employees in the different markets. In the UK of performance-related premiums, which account for and the USA, for example, employees can opt for a higher ­between 10% (management level 1) and 60% (senior than average company pension. Additional comprehenmanagement) of their pay. We also take into account the sive health insurance is available to our employees in the social and economic sustainability goals of our long-term USA. Those at our subsidiary in India, where the health corporate planning when calculating these remuner­ insurance network is still being developed, can benefit ation packages. from our health insurance offer to obtain cover not just for themselves, but also for their families and a parent. In As a rule, the total remuneration package of our employees South Africa, our BMW Caring Together Project supports is aligned with the top third of the respective market. healthcare for BMW Group employees and their families. Valid for all BMW Group subsidiaries around the world, So far, more than 5,300 employees, family members and this principle guarantees consistent, fair and attractive neighbours have had health checks through the project – ­remuneration for all associates. and have a much better chance of staying fit as a result. Part-time employees enjoy benefits such as profit-sharing, Christmas bonuses above the collectively agreed amount, and personal bonuses aligned with their working hours. Generally, they also receive as payment in full any benefits that cannot be broken down into smaller parts, such as subsidised meals at the company canteen. Agency workers with BMW AG in Germany receive the same ­collectively agreed basic salary as our permanently employed staff. Transparent participation in the company’s success Individual remuneration packages are complemented by a standardised profit-based component for all of our employees. Calculated on the basis of dividends, Group profit after tax and Group return on sales after tax, this bonus tracks the profitable, sustainable growth of the company. With a consistent calculation method across all hierarchical levels right up to the Board of Management, our profitsharing system is unique both in the automotive industry and in the DAX 30. In financial year 2011, it was implemented in all BMW Group subsidiaries worldwide. 51 Employees 04.3 Recruiting and training employees. As the leading premium provider in the automotive i­ndustry, we aim to play a decisive role in shaping change in our industry over the coming years. In order to do so, we are developing the competencies and talents of our highly skilled and ­motivated staff through targeted, future-focused continuing education and training programmes. When the revolutionary BMW i3 and BMW i8 take to the “Leading Yourself” as part of the leadership role roads in 2013, they will be among the first of a whole When it comes to Leading Yourself, managers have a key new generation of all-electric and hybrid vehicles that will role to play. By developing their skills continuously and bring lasting change to road transport and the automoensuring they have an understanding of leadership that is tive industry in the coming years. Already, a number of in keeping with our times, we are establishing some of the megatrends are under way, such as dwindling resources, essential prerequisites for gaining, retaining and developthe regulation of mobility, burgeoning cities and a notice­ ing good people for our company. In line with our cor­ able change in consumer values. Completely new vehicle porate strategy and our self-understanding, we began to and mobility concepts are needed to tackle them. If we redesign our leadership training programme completely want to be a leading force in developing these concepts, in 2010, extending it significantly. In the future, this will we must also lead the way in gaining and developing enable us to offer all managers a three-year cycle of practithe competencies we need – a challenge we are tackling cal leadership training programmes (the first cycle began with a two-pronged approach: as well as strengthening in 2010). This same training initiative will also see a threeour strategic competency and talent management, we are fold i­ ncrease in our leadership training budget compared stepping up our programmes to gain, train and develop with 2009 and a more international training programme. our employees. Early 2010 saw the launch of this Corporate Leadership With this in mind, we invested euro 179 million in educaProgramme for new and current managers. German and tion and training in 2010. Each employee received an international managers on all hierarchical levels discuss Page 100 ­average of 2.4 days of training that year, up from 1.6 days and learn about leadership and how we understand it. the year before. BMW Group managers completed a ­Incorporating the new principles of our leadership ap­total of 16,475 days of training – nearly three times as proach, the course covers the key concepts of Managing many as in the previous year. Business and Leading People, as well as Leading Yourself. One area in which we are taking a targeted approach to Our managers discuss these issues not only among competency building is electric vehicles. With this market themselves (see page 52 et seq.) but also with staff and www.bmwgroup.jobs segment set to account for 5 to 15% of new cars by 2020, peers from around the world. we are working to develop all the necessary skills. In 2010, we added a new training module to our training Recruiting the best people for the company www.facebook.com/ programme for motor vehicle mechatronics specialists. Wherever internal programmes do not suffice to provide bmwkarriere This will train employees to specialise in carrying out our company with the skills it needs, we take a targeted specific electric work on the hybrid vehicles. Meanwhile, approach to recruiting skilled workers and employees in Landshut, where we will produce CFRP (carbon fibre from outside. In doing so, we make every effort to ensure reinforced plastic) bodywork for our BMW i brand ve­ a heterogeneous workforce (see page 54). To help us hicles, and Leipzig, where these models will be assembled, ­attract the best candidates, we redeveloped the BMW we have extended our process engineering courses for Group’s Employer Brand in 2009 and designed a new and ­fibre composites. BMW Group employees can also benefit highly focused communications campaign in 2010. In from the opportunity to take part-time Bachelor’s or Masaddition, we are working with carefully selected German ter’s degree courses in electromobility at the Ingolstadt and international universities to increase undergraduates’ www.bmwgroup.com/career University of Applied Sciences. With these activities up awareness of the BMW Group through research projects, and running, we now offer an integrated range of qualievents and exchange platforms advertising our internfications for the electric vehicle market of the future. ships and job vacancies. In mid-2010, we also launched From skilled workers to university graduates, we are sea Facebook ­career page. In combination with our comcuring access to key competencies and developing them mitment as a sponsor of the Formula Student programme, continuously. this will help us position ourselves as an attractive employer among target groups we are addressing. The Together with our employees, we foster a culture of lifeBMW Group offers attractive entry-level opportunities long learning. This approach is becoming increasingly to target groups such as pupils, students, graduates and critical for our success, especially in the face of ageing people with job experience. The central elements here workforces, rapidly changing demands, declining numbers are vocational training and development programmes. www.bmwgroup.com/career of graduates and a lack of skilled workers in the foreseeable future. Our goal is to be able to have the right people with the right key competencies in the right places at all times. 52 Communicating Strategy Number ONE across the BMW Group BRINGING our STRATEGY TO LIFE A Introducing an ambitious corporate strategy is all well and good, but the actual challenge lies in implementing it. The BMW Group holds a series of events worldwide to encourage employees to become ambassadors of our ­corporate strategy, Strategy Number ONE. What direction is the company taking? What exactly are Developed in-house, the event concept was at least as our objectives? And what do they mean for me and my ambitious as the corporate strategy itself. Its one-day work? Most importantly: what can I do to ensure that workshops were prepared not by external professional both I and other associates become more familiar with the facilitators or strategy experts but by BMW Group company’s vision? ­managers and executives. The workshops were then ­presented to teams of associates from across divisions In 2007, the BMW Group defined its new Strategy and hierarchical levels. Among the main topics they Number ONE, with the aim of becoming the leading ­addressed were the sustainability strategy and activities global premium provider of individual mobility. This of the BMW Group. Other aspects, such as project i, strategy enabled the company to master the severe CFRP as a material for the future, and sustainable global financial crisis of 2008 to 2009 and start on a new ­approaches to vehicle production, were presented and road to success. Between November 2009 and December ­discussed as an integral part of the future of premium 2010, a series of events called Number ONE on Tour mobility. gave a total of 15,000 employees around the world clear objectives and a clear sense of direction. During this de­ After 75 workshops in Munich, the roadshow moved on cisive period, our joint efforts and commitment ensured to Singapore, Spartanburg (USA), Rosslyn (South Africa) we were able to master the financial crisis together. and 30 other locations worldwide, empowering our 53 Employees Taking the lead As the legendary management coach Peter F. Drucker once said, not many managers accept that, ultimately, they only need to lead one person: themselves. In June 2010, the BMW Group launched its Leadership Platform at the Munich headquarters, creating a ­forum for managers to learn more about its approach to leadership and to further develop their insights and achieve a joint understanding of the concept. Each one-day workshop comprised ten “stations” designed to encourage managers to reflect with their peers on their role. Since it began, the Leadership Platform has generated considerable interest and is B already fully booked out for the whole of 2011. e­ mployees to be ambassadors of our corporate strategy. Number ONE Participants’ feedback and ideas were systematically ­captured, assessed and presented to the management, In 2007, the BMW Group launched a far-reaching making the strategy roadshow itself a valuable tool for and comprehensive corporate strategy, Strategy involving all employees in deciding the future developNumber ONE. In combination with the “O” in “ONE”, ment of the company. the letter “N” stands for “New Opportunities”. In conjunction with the “E”, it indicates “New Efficiency”. Together, these two elements will help us achieve an ambitious vision: to make the BMW Group the leading producer of premium products and premium services for individual mobility by 2020. As we strive to achieve our vision, we will focus consistently on growth, profitability, working actively to shape the Oxford ­future, and on access to new technologies and cusMunich tomers. These core areas of action form the four pillars Paris of Strategy Number ONE. Spartanburg Singapore Rosslyn A National and international managers lead an intensive dialogue on the strategy B Employees test alternative drive concepts with the help of interactive exhibits C Dialogue-focused formats enable deeper discussions of content D “Number ONE on Tour” offers insights into development projects at an unusually early stage. C D 54 04.4 Diversity and equal opportunities. In all their diversity, our employees enjoy the same ­levels of appreciation, respect and opportunities. We have established concrete goals to make our workforce even more diverse. With a presence in more than 140 countries around the providing special training programmes for employees world, the BMW Group is active in numerous different with disabilities, ACI applicants (i.e. African, Coloured UN Global Compact market segments. As a result, we deal with hugely diverse and Indians) receive preferential treatment when the www.unglobalcompact.org groups of potential customers every day. In order to gain BMW Group advertises vacancies. a better understanding of these customers and their needs so that we can come up with perfectly customised prodFirst diversity target ranges defined ucts, we need to ensure we employ people from a wide As a technology-based company, one major task for the range of personal backgrounds. A diverse workforce will BMW Group consists of gaining and promoting female also enable us to remain highly efficient and effective, employees and managers. In November 2010, the Board even when the employability of individuals changes as of Management approved several target ranges for demographics and values shift. BMW AG relating to gender and now also to age/ex­ perience and cultural background. Gender targets will be For this reason, our Diversity Management programme integrated into our corporate target system by 2012. rests on a broad base with a holistic concept of dealing with diversity among people. Derived from our corporate We are also working on a wide range of measures to instrategy, Strategy Number ONE, it picks up on our fun­ crease the share of women in our workforce. Activities damental principle of equal rights and opportunities for range from promoting female students in technical vocaall of our associates, regardless of gender, origins, age or tional subjects and increasing the number of women in beliefs. This principle is firmly established in our staff and commercial-technical training to providing support for management guidelines, our long-term Human Resources females in management positions. As well as our Girls’ policy and our Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Day, which attracted 550 school-age girls in 2010, we have www.bmwgroup.com/ Working Conditions at the BMW Group. developed part-time and teleworking models that will responsibility enable our staff to reconcile their working and private Every employee working for the BMW Group has the right lives more easily (see sections 04.5 and 04.6). As they to report any incident of suspected unequal treatment move into management positions, women at BMW AG www.girls-day.de to the appropriate complaints offices. In the reporting benefit from the support of our 100-day coaching pro­period, BMW AG recorded two incidents of suspected gramme. This is designed to provide helpful tips to support discrimination in Germany. One involved discrimination women as they rise through the ranks in an environment against a woman when filling a higher-level vacancy, that is still largely dominated by men. Female employees the other discrimination on the grounds of ethnic origin. have also initiated a network called Female Managers in Dialogue. This now has 90 female managers as members Diversity targets at the BMW Group  and has been complemented with a network for other “We want to gain the knowledge we need to serve our existing ­female staff on collective agreements. markets as best we can by employing a diverse range of staff. Greater variety will also help us access new markets for sales ­purposes and remain competitive when labour market structures change.” Female employees at the BMW Group Page 97 This diversity goal was established by the BMW Group In 2010, women accounted for 13.2 % of the overall Strategy department and has been validated by our interworkforce at BMW AG (compared with 13.1 % in national sites around the world. The different countries 2009). Across the BMW Group they accounted for and markets are taking a range of approaches to fulfilling 15.2 %. In administrative and staff units in the dif­ it, as each one is starting from a different situation. One ferent divisions, women account for a far larger share internal inventory carried out in 2010 revealed that diverof the workforce, 38.9 %. Meanwhile, 27.7 % of staff sity work in Europe is focusing particularly strongly on in our finance division are females, as are 34.6 % women and mixed-age teams. Outside Europe, the focus of those in Human Resources. Between 2005 and is on promoting ethnic minorities. 2010, the share of female managers at BMW AG rose from 7.4 to 8.8 %. For the BMW Group as a whole, In South Africa, for example, the Broad-Based Black Emfigures totalled 11.1%. This represents a rise of almost powerment law stipulates that the promotion of previ20 %. On our Supervisory Board, 15 % of members ously disadvantaged ethnic groups must be reflected in are women. There are no females on the BMW Board an Employment Equity Plan. In 2009, BMW South Africa of Management. had performed far better than competitors. As well as 55 Employees 04.5 Work-life balance. We are helping our employees reconcile their professional and private lives by responding to their working-time requirements and to the care needs of their children and families with a wide range of options. In today’s world, working and private lives are becoming Similar programmes are currently being prepared for increasingly interlinked. Ideally, the two should comother management levels. plement each other, but in reality they sometimes do the opposite. To help our employees achieve a healthy workOur health programmes are also being expanded at our life balance, we have devised a number of different international locations. As part of the expansion of the working time models and care options for their families BMW plant in Spartanburg (South Carolina, USA), an and children. As a family-friendly company, we want our “­Associate Family Health Center” is being built, a US dollar staff to benefit from the right conditions for a harmonious 5 million investment in the health of employees and work-life balance – at any stage of their careers or lives. their families. The Health Center will have a pharmacy As BMW Group facilities around the world work to meet and will provide medical and primary health care services the needs of their employees, country-specific conditions as well as vision, dental, physical therapy and occupational play a fundamental role in their efforts to develop approhealth services. priate solutions. In Munich, Dingolfing and Regensburg, childcare facilities Flexible working times and working time models are available to parents with small children. Organised When it comes to ensuring the competitiveness of the by parents themselves and supported by the BMW Group, BMW Group, flexible working times that can be adjusted these facilities have particularly work-friendly opening Page 99 to suit demand for our products and tailored to meet times and can accommodate up to 140 children. In changing economic conditions are essential. But variable ­Leipzig, a facility near the plant has offered childcare for working time models and individual working time ac30 children of BMW Group employees since 2010. Similar counts are also essential to our employees, who benefit arrangements are in place in Berlin, with childcare serconsiderably from the greater leeway they offer. In prinvices in Munich due to be extended in 2012. Since 1992, ciple, every BMW Group employee has a range of partthe BMW Group has also been providing a Family Sertime options to choose from – and more and more of them vice for employees. This offers advice and provides useful are making the most of them. contacts relating to all aspects of families and children. Our Fulltime Select working time model, for example, When it comes to caring for elderly or disabled relatives, ­allows employees in Germany and Austria to take 20 staff at our facilities in Munich have benefited from the ­additional days of leave each year with corresponding support of the Eldercare service. This is financed by BMW ­adjustments to their salaries. Meanwhile, BMW Group AG and run by an external provider. A similar service is employees in Germany, Austria, the USA and the UK can offered by the Bavarian Employers’ Association for the also take sabbaticals of up to six months (this initiative metal and electrical industries. Since September 2010, this is open to our managers in the UK). We have further exhas been supporting employees within the catchment tended our partial retirement programme in Germany, area who care for elderly or disabled relatives or require and employees at many of our overseas facilities can take childcare assistance. early partial or full retirement based on their personal early retirement model. At BMW Group facilities around the world, childcare services meet local and regional requirements. In China and Healthcare and childcare the Netherlands, for example, arrangements are in place Every employee at our German sites is entitled to use our to accommodate threeto six-year-olds. In the UK, emcompany-owned Back Up Centres and join the fitness ployees receive care vouchers for children up to the age and training programmes on offer at these facilities. of 15. For children with a disability, the vouchers are valid We also provide a variety of preventive healthcare proup to the age of 16. In South Africa, our Rosslyn plant grammes at or near the workplace, ranging from pre­ runs its own preschool, which provides the best tuition cautionary checks for bowel cancer to footcare proin the region for 60 children aged between three and six. grammes. Moreover, a healthy work-life balance and This Early Learning Centre offers all-day childcare for general wellbeing are key components in some of our children of BMW employees. management training programmes as well as at our Leadership Platform (see Taking the lead, page 53). ­Upper management staff benefit from individually ­tailored health programmes and the opportunity to ­attend several courses a year involving high-profile guest speakers. Refresher courses are available every six months. 56 04.6 Work, health and demographic change. Integrated health management, working i­nitiatives to suit an ageing workforce and a high degree of job security are three factors that are helping our staff maintain high-performance levels at the workplace. Our goal is to have the healthiest workforce in the automotive industry. Success is actually quite simple. For a company to remain Health and Safety Committees. At present, OHRIS and productive over the longer term, its workforce must be OHSAS-certified occupational health and safety managewilling and able to perform and measures must be implement systems are in place at 11 of our 22 production www.ohsas-18001mented to promote health and motivation in the workplants. Eight further facilities work with other systems occupational-health-andsafety.com place. For this reason, the BMW Group’s Health Managethat meet national standards. Our sites in the UK, the ment programme has set itself a goal: by the year 2020, USA and Thailand are due to receive OHSAS certification we want our employees to be the healthiest and most efin 2012, meaning all BMW Group production workers will ficient in the industry. We support staff in maintaining their be integrated into our Occupational Health and Safety Page 102 physical and mental capacity to perform and encourage Management systems. them to adopt healthy lifestyles throughout their working lives. Safe, ergonomic workplaces and accident prevention Stay healthy at work are among the factors that will help us ensure employees Staying healthy is essential – not only for the company stay healthy. Ageing staff and employees who are no but also for each and every one of our employees. But an longer able to carry out the work they once did now equally important point is prevention. This is why the benefit from individually tailored workplaces wherever BMW Group is offering a range of measures to encourage we can offer them. This ultimately allows us to retain their individual staff members to make a personal commitskills and manpower to the benefit of the BMW Group. ment to look after their health. Under our preventive healthcare programmes, staff members can benefit from In most Western industrialised nations, but also in counannual preventive bowel cancer checks, campaigns for tries like Japan, South Korea and Russia, demographic healthier backs, back training, and advice on dietary and development is causing the labour market to shrink. At psychological issues. Incentives such as those offered the same time, the average age of the working populaby our company health insurance scheme, BMW BKK, tion – including the workforce of the BMW Group – is encourage staff to take part in the programmes on ­offer. set to see a noticeable increase. Between 2010 and 2020, Special training programmes are also available for trainees we expect the number of BMW Group employees aged and managers (to find out more, see chapter 04.3 on 50 years or over to double. page 51). Already, our innovative, long-term Health ­Ambassador concept has won multiple awards for helpAs well as representing one element in the range of ading specially trained staff members disseminate infor­ ditional benefits we offer our employees, health managemation throughout the company about the health proment is fundamental in keeping the BMW Group comgrammes we provide. petitive in the race to win skilled workers and young talent. After all, a company’s ability to maintain and proFor employees who are restricted in their capacity to work, mote the health of its staff and the efforts it makes in we have established a reintegration process. As shown this regard will have an increasingly strong influence on in the diagram below, this is based on a series of steps to its competitiveness as well as its attractiveness as an employer. Reintegration process for employees with restricted Our goal for 2020: to have the healthiest and most work capabilities ­efficient workforce in the industry With the help of our Health Management programme, Verify options available for ­deployment in plant or location Integration we are working to offer our employees greater job security. Stage 5 team We are also establishing working systems that will keep them healthy, motivated, and willing and able to perform Verify options available for deployment in the appropriate plant technology unit and innovate throughout their working lives. Stage 4 As it works to put the right measures in place, the BMW Verify options available for deployment Working in the relevant department Group Health Management 2020 programme is looking Stage 3 Groups for Technologies to the future. After being piloted at various German sites in 2011, it will be rolled out at all of our facilities around Verify options available for deployment in the relevant group the world. Stage 2 Works Councils and Occupational Health and Safety repVerify options available for deployment in the maintenance section resentatives currently represent BMW Group employees Stage 1 across Germany on all the legally required Occupational  57 Employees verify the options available for suitable alternative emaccompanied by documentation that meets legal requireployment. Wherever reasonable and possible, we adjust ments. Meanwhile, our worldwide assessments of the workplaces to meet the ergonomic requirements of our risks posed by hazardous substances and psychological staff. stress are based on the ZEUS and ABATech systems. The latter forms the basis for any modifications to systems Since 2006, employees planning a rehabilitation proor machines on a local level. In addition, a new planning gramme after a long illness have been able to benefit from tool is helping our planners adhere to legal requirements our Netzwerk Reha. Enabled by collaborations between in their work. BMW Group Health Management, our company health insurance BMW BKK and the German pension insurance For the last five years, BMW AG has not seen a single fatal system, Netzwerk Reha allows close dialogue between accident. However, the number of accident-induced sick company and rehabilitation doctors during rehabilitadays at BMW AG (excluding dealerships) rose from 13,727 Page 103 tion so that workplaces can be adjusted appropriately. in 2009 to 17,343 in 2010. (8,957 of these were due to This significantly increases the chances of successful re­occupational accidents and 8,386 resulted from accidents integration. on the way to or from work.) This rise in numbers is attributable in part to the number of accidents occurring on Meanwhile, our Today for Tomorrow project has demonthe way to or from work during the long period of severe strated successfully that working systems in automotive winter weather at the beginning of 2010. plants can be adjusted to suit an ageing workforce. One component of this project has been an employee rotation In 2010, accident rates at BMW Group stood at 3.6 report­designed to balance out the physical strains employees able accidents per one million working hours (compared are subjected to. Other elements have included age and with 3.1 in 2009). In the same year, BMW AG employees health-based shift models. The findings of the Today for (excluding those working in dealerships) had a total of Tomorrow project have been put into practice in Dingol­ 4,458 occupational accidents (compared with 4,619 in fing, where they had a formative influence on the com2009). We are now working to bring rates down to below plete concept for a new axle transmission production line. 2.5 incidents per 1 million working hours. After investing euro 20 million, the BMW Group now has the automotive industry’s first component production system worldwide that is specially designed to meet the needs of older workers. Today for Tomorrow is now to be Award-winning health rolled out across other BMW Group sites as well. and demographic management www.lzg-bayern.de/ Safety first with future technologies – Third prize in the Bavarian Awards for Health Progesundheitsförderungs-undpraeventionspreis.html As well as maintaining the health of our employees by motion and Preventive Healthcare for the BMW offering them suitable jobs, we are working first and Group’s Intercultural Occupational Health Manageforemost to ensure workplace safety at our company. As ment project (09 / 2009) electric drive systems become firmly established in auto– dfg Award for Outstanding Management and www.dfg-online.de motive production and maintenance, questions as to Health Management for BMW BKK’s Health Conhow to handle high-voltage technologies safely are gaintroller project (05 / 2010) ing importance. The BMW Group has been a leading force – German Corporate Health Awards special Fit for in initiating a training concept for electrical specialists, the Future prize for the BMW Group’s company www.deutscherwhich it developed further in conjunction with other carHealth Management (12 / 2010) unternehmenspreisgesundheit.de makers and the technical committee for elec­trical en­ – AARP International Innovative Employer Award gineering of the German statutory accident insurance. 2009 for Best Practice in Age Management for the The resulting guideline paper, entitled BerufsgenossenBMW Group’s Today for Tomorrow project schaftliche Information 8686 (Information from the Em– Factory of the Year Awards’ Future Prize for work www.aarpinternational.org ployers’ Mutual Insurance Association), is now a binding by the BMW plant in Dingolfing on initiatives to document for all educational institutions. We have also create workplaces that are suited to the needs of been working with other German carmakers to draw up older staff (03 / 2011) and implement a safety concept for the verification of www.fabrik-des-jahres.de lithium batteries in drive systems. In 2010, we produced a safety tool for use in machine and system purchasing. This is now ready for use with and 58 04.7 Securing jobs and co-determination. The history of the BMW Group is one of success – of fruitful collaborations between our employees, management and shareholders. Their con­ solidated, constructive efforts are fundamental to our profitability and to our ability to secure a­ ttractive jobs. The global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 showed more Our employees have a direct influence on the developPage 101 clearly than any other event that had gone before that ment of the BMW Group due to regular exchange of the days of calculable, unhurried growth cycles are over. ­information between staff and management and to our Nowadays, changes in markets, quantum leaps in techemployee suggestion scheme. In 2010, the improvenology, fluctuations on the capital markets or a combiments they proposed helped us save euro 67. 43 million nation of these factors can have a drastic impact on sales (compared with euro 56.8 million the previous year). and liquidity – within a short space of time and on a global level. More than ever before, a company’s ability to One essential element in the way we involve our emsurvive and succeed depends on its capacity to respond ployees in the company is co-determination. The BMW swiftly and clearly to change. Group has a long and successful tradition in this respect, and in Germany co-determination by employees is UN Global Compact The BMW Group’s extremely positive experiences in this ­regulated by law. In other markets, we act in line with www.unglobalcompact.org respect come largely as a consequence of unusually ­local conditions. trusting relations between its shareholders, management and employees. Without the solidarity that has grown Staff at our Chinese sites, for example, are represented between them, we would not have survived an existennot only by a classic workers’ union but also by an intial crisis we faced half a century ago (see page 12). Longcompany Assembly of Staff Representatives. These are standing, constructive collaborations were also fundaelected by all the employees working at these sites and mental to our ability to offset the drop in sales caused by play an active role in shaping company agreements, dethe global financial crisis and return to record levels of veloping training and education programmes and in makproduction, sales and profits shortly afterwards. ing decisions that relate to the workforce as a whole. Mobile, flexible and willing to perform, our employees are a significant factor in the BMW Group’s ability to Page 96 et seq. ­secure attractive jobs over the longer term. For this reason, BMW AG employees in 2010 our work in this area has a clear goal that is firmly established in our company agreement on BMW Group workHeadcount on 31st of December 2010: ing time accounts. 69,518 employees (BMW Group: 95,453) Zero redundancies during the global economic crisis New employees taken on: As a means of enabling increased flexibility, the BMW 509 within BMW AG, Germany Group’s working time account system proved invaluable in securing jobs during the global financial crisis in Employee attrition rate at BMW AG: 2009. Moreover, in combination with short-time work, 2.74 % (compared with 4.59 % the previous year) it enabled us to offset 4.55 million lost working hours (the equivalent of around 3,200 man-years). Along with Number of employees on unlimited employment measures to restructure Human Resources within the contracts leaving the company in 2010: company and collective leave arrangements, this enabled 1,753 (compared with 3,009 the previous year) the BMW Group to weather the financial crisis without any redundancies. Employment contract terminations by BMW AG in 2010: At the same time, our skills management and wide53 (compared with 55 the previous year) ranging training and education programmes are helping our employees to continuously develop their skills to Number of employees taking voluntary redundancy ­enhance their employability. When we left the world of or terminating their employment contracts in 2010: ­Formula 1, for example, we were able to offer more than 970 (compared with 1,763 the previous year) 350 staff members alternative employment in other ­areas of the company. In addition, almost 100 engine asNumber of employees leaving the company due to sembly staff based in our plant in Munich found similar retirement, partial retirement or death in 2010: or better employment opportunities within the company 730 (compared with 1,191 the previous year) between 2008 and 2009. 59 Society 05.1 05.2 Management and organisation 62 Road safety 63 05 05.3 Education and intercultural understanding 66 05.4 Promoting good health 67 05.5 Global cultural commitment 68 05.6 Foundations 69 Expertise through ­intercultural dialogue 60 Corporate Strategy Number ONE Sustainability strategy 05 Action point CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Wherever in the world the BMW Areas of focus Group is active, it is committed to help resolve social challenges. The main Challenges focus of our efforts in this area is on community relations, intercultural understanding, culture, education, road safety and health. In all of these areas, Key performance indicators (KPIs) our core competencies enable us to add measurable value for society as well as for the company. Our activities mesh effectively with those of BMW AG’s Progress / Forecast independent foundations. Areas of Focus Activities of our foundations Page 69 Corporate volunteering Page 62 Cultural commitment Page 68 Education and intercultural understanding Page 66 Local commitment Page 62, 68 Monitoring and evaluation Page 62 Promoting good health Page 67 Road safety projects Page 63 Challenges Rising levels of child poverty and inadequate education/intercultural diversity ––> social conflicts Road safety worldwide and new mobility concepts Increasing numbers of natural disasters ––> provision of immediate aid and establishment of long-term projects in the regions affected Interconnecting corporate and staff CSR activities Multidisciplinary dialogue on the future of megacities around the world Demographic change 61 Society Key performance indicators (KPIs) Page 106 BMW Group donations worldwide in 2010 Amount of expenditure on social commitment euro 10.2 million euro 26.6 million 200  cultural and social commitment projects 150,000 children over more than 40 years per week are cared for by the Magic Bus in India 170,000 people 39 million  have attended the “State Opera for All” safe routes to school per year in Berlin in Munich Progress in 2010 Forecast Page 107 et seq. Continued enhancement of communities at inter­ Promote cross-sector activities (collaborations with national sites through the BMW Group’s core comUN Alliance planned until 2013 as part of the petencies (improving education opportunities in BMW Group Awards) communities in Chennai, India) Stronger consolidation of international activities BMW AG Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation until 2011 has extended its project work to bring its experience I mprove measurability of results that are relevant to to further areas of society in which changes are the company and which arise from its socio-political needed ­involvement until 2011 Successful launch of the new BMW Group Award for BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt is to extend its Intercultural Commitment i­nternational Young Leaders’ Programme on a global level to promote cross-sector social responsibility among business leaders until 2012 For a complete overview of key figures, targets fulfilled and new objectives, see “objectives, facts and figures” section on page 71 et seq. 62 05.1 Management and organisation. Social responsibility has always been integral to our corporate image. We draw on a wide range of resources from within the company to promote a dialogue ­between the BMW Group and society at large. Our employees are also becoming more involved in our CSR activities. As a responsible corporate citizen, the BMW Group has always risen to the social challenges in the regions and Local commitment www.bmwgroup.com/ communities in which it is active. Our efforts in this area socialcommitment focus on education, intercultural understanding, road With 25 production facilities, 43 sales offices and safety, health promotion, community relations and cultural a distribution network encompassing more than issues – areas that are relevant not only to the company but 140 national offices, the BMW Group is a corporate also to society at large. This is where we can contribute citizen on a global level. While our local commitwith many of our core competencies. We focus on longments generally follow strategic guidelines, we also term solutions that are internationally transferable and offer immediate assistance when major disasters work on the principle of “helping people help themselves”. ­occur. In March 2011, for example, we donated euro 1,000,000 to victims of the earthquake in ­Japan As megatrends such as demographic change and growing via the Japanese Red Cross and Save The Children. social diversity pose ever greater challenges, our efforts After devastating floods hit Pakistan in the summer are becoming increasingly important. In 2010, we worked of 2010, we donated euro 200,000 to CARE to supwith the responsible committees from Strategy, Corpor­ port the reconstruction of schools. ate Communications and Policy, Human Resources and our BMW Group foundations to review the alignment Our disaster relief activities have sometimes evolved of our social responsibility activities, and we gained apinto longer-term commitments as well. In China, for proval from the Sustainability Board. example, our joint venture partners BMW China and Brilliance Automotive established the BMW Warm Our work delivered a key finding: we want to strengthen Heart Fund. This continues to promote development our direct exchanges with society by closely coordi­n­ projects in the province of Sichuan, where a dev­ www.bmw.com.cn/fund ating activities with our independent foundations and astating earthquake claimed 80,000 lives and left strategically expanding our corporate volunteering activ­ 400,000 people injured in May 2008. ities. This will bring measurable added value for everybody concerned. With start-up capital of euro 930,000 provided by the BMW Group, the BMW Warm Heart Fund in ­China The job of controlling our social responsibility work lies went on to collect donations totalling almost euro 1.7 with central Corporate Communications. Local initiatives million up to the end of July 2010. This money has are taken care of by local production and sales organisabeen used to finance a number of projects, including tions, although the focus of this is agreed with the Group the Lightening up Hope programme. As well as proheadquarters. We are also active in corporate networks, viding further training for teachers from the 100 or such as UPJ (the German national network of engaged so schools in the earthquake region, the programme businesses and non-profit intermediary organisations) supports 140 students with their studies. A mentorwww.upj.de and WIE (Wirtschaft. Initiative. Engagement – Business. ing programme is also providing support for almost www.cccdeutschland.org/ de/wie Initiative. Commitment), where we are committed to pro300 children from the affected area for a period of moting cross-sector collaborations. Since 2010, we have one year. been measuring the results of our socio-political activ­ ities using the so-called iooi method. Developed in cooperation with other DAX-listed corporations in a working group established by the Bertelsmann Foundation, this has delivered important insights and indicators as to the effectiveness of our activities. We continue to work on the further development of clearly measurable, valid indicators. Part of our social responsibility consists of providing ­direct financial support. In 2010, the BMW Group’s charPage 106 itable donations totalled euro 10,241,748. 63 Society 05.2 Road safety. For the BMW Group, it is not only vehicle safety that matters but also the safety of all road users. We are committed to increasing safety levels around the world through numerous social initiatives. Our road safety initiatives are managed by our Social Policy In the Arab Emirates, work has been under way since department in conjunction with in-house and external 2009 to encourage greater use of safety belts and chilwww.bmwgroup.com/ road safety experts. Research and development also play dren’s seats. Running under the motto “Stay Alert. Stay roadsafety a significant role, and we also cooperate actively with Alive”, this far-reaching campaign has included a range professionals whose daily work relates directly to road of activities. Print and radio commercials, public awaresafety – medical experts and the police, for example. We ness days at BMW dealerships and campaigns in schools concentrate our efforts on challenges such as the launch of and kindergartens have all helped us succeed in in­ new mobility concepts but also focus on social developcreasing safety awareness. In total, we have distributed ments such as the age at which young drivers can obtain 3,600 booster seats for children, broadcasted commera licence. Depending on local conditions, our activities have different focuses in different countries of the world. 39 million School routes  are made safer by way of School Route Maps for young pupils in Lessons in road safety for young road users Munich. Since 1984, the BMW Group has helped make 39 million walks to and from school safer every year by issuing the majority of Munich’s year one schoolchildren with School cials worth euro 263,000, and welcomed 5,000 visitors to Route Maps. These show children where there is a risk our public awareness days. The Middle East PR Associ­ of danger and chart alternative routes to help them get to ation presented us with the award for the Best Corporate school safely. Social Responsibility Campaign in the region, and even the United Arab Emirates government was full of praise Another positive effect of the maps has been a drop in the for our efforts. amount of traffic, as more children go to school on foot. Over the years, 130 schools in Munich and 226 in Berlin The BMW Group has teamed up with various driving have joined our campaign, which we established in ­instructors’ associations to develop a forward-looking ­conjunction with our road safety partners. The results are tool for increasing road safety: the My Virtual Driving impressive: since the School Route Maps were first isCoach app. This will be supporting instructors as they sued, accident statistics for participating schools have seen plan their lessons starting in autumn 2011 and will be a dramatic drop. one way of gaining better access to young drivers, who are best reached via digital or mobile media. Another comprehensive programme to promote road safety for young road users has been launched on the other Safety for people with restricted mobility side of the planet, in China. With more than 70 children Returning to the wheel after a long illness or with a involved in road accidents every day, work has been physical disability can represent a challenge, even for ­under way to bring about a noticeable increase in safety experienced motorists. To help support people in this consciousness across the country through theme parks ­position, the BMW Group is piloting a Medical Car at the in primary schools, books and training camps. Between Enzensberg Rehabilitation Clinic in Bavaria. With the 2005 and the end of 2010, we reached out to more than help of specially developed software and a driving simu320,000 children. We have also issued some 120,000 lator, motorists with a driving licence who are under­ ­copies of the BMW Traffic Safety Textbook for Schoolgoing rehabilitation can work with therapists to learn children to young people. new ways of dealing with the vehicle. Numerous test ­situations give them a realistic impression of their own Meanwhile, in the UK, efforts have focused on the Internet. driving abilities and help them rejoin road traffic with Our Safe on the Street programme has provided a desig­renewed confidence. Safe transport is of the essence in nated website for children, parents and teachers since other extreme situations: in July 2011, the BMW Group the year 2001. With almost 400,000 visitors in 2010, the donated a BMW X3 xDrive 20d to the Munich ambulance portal received the International Visual Communications service for children. It was specially fitted for use in emerGold Award for its innovative and user-friendly approach. gency cases. In the USA, the Teen Driving School that we established in cooperation with dealers across the country has taught more than 3,000 young drivers about safety on the roads. 2011 saw the launch of an additional campaign called DON’T TXT & DRIVE. This uses a range of media channels to warn young people of the dangers of distractions at the wheel. 64 BMW Group Award for Intercultural Commitment NEW DRIVE FOR INTERCULTURAL DIALOGUE A The BMW Group’s global Award for Intercultural Commitment supports initiatives and individuals working for a ­better understanding between different social, cultural and religious backgrounds. Our support in this area benefits award winners and society – as well as the company. Robin Sclafani, director of the Belgian organisation CEJI – backgrounds. By the end of 2012, more than 250 educators A Jewish Contribution to an Inclusive Europe, came to are expected to take part in Belieforama’s Religious Munich for five days. She stepped back onto the plane to ­Diversity and Anti-Discrimination seminar and spread Brussels with a host of new ideas in her luggage. During its message subsequently. It is an ambitious goal, but her time in Munich, she and her colleague, Stephanie the BMW Group is offering active support and learning Lescesne, had been working hard with BMW Group a lot itself. H­ uman Resources development and marketing specialists and with brand and corporate strategy experts. Together, Belieforama was among the winners of the BMW Group they had discussed and created completely new de­ Award for Intercultural Commitment 2010. Introduced velopment perspectives for her intercultural project enas an addition to the BMW Group Award for Intercultural titled Belieforama. “Belieforama – a Panoramic Approach Learning, which has been presented since 1997, this to Issues of Religion and Belief” works to reduce tennew accolade represents a fundamental building block in sions in multicultural institutions and to promote the the BMW Group’s social responsibility programme. It ­acknowledgement of other cultures and religions. Its networks the company with initiatives around the world wide range of training courses supports educators working that are working to promote social diversity and underto establish the right conditions in their institutions for standing. In 2010, prizewinners were chosen by an in­ people to develop, irrespective of their social and religious terdisciplinary, independent jury of international experts. 65 Society Questions like these are just as relevant for a non-profit organisation looking to survive and develop as they are for a global corporation that is home to several brands. For this reason, the year-long support the BMW Group offers its prizewinners is invaluable. “It was a crash course in business unlike anything else we could have attended in any educational institution. The support we got was both encouraging and practical and has been a tremendous help in our continued development,” Robin Sclafani explains. Alongside Belieforama, the Gartenpolylog project from Vienna was another winning entry. Its intercultural ­community gardens bring people from various cultural backgrounds together. Third prize went to the Israeli ­organisation Hand in Hand, which promotes equal eduB cational opportunities for Arabs and Jews. Just as with Belieforama and Gartenpolylog, it was the transferability of the Hand in Hand concept that won over the jury. The Award for Intercultural Commitment is having a ­lasting effect on these winning organisations – but the As well as receiving a total of euro 25,000 in prize money, BMW Group is also benefiting from the exchange. “The successful candidates will benefit from public recogniBMW Group’s support represents a rare opportunity for tion. But most of all, they will profit from an active know­ a direct and intensive dialogue between the non-governledge transfer involving BMW Group specialists. The mental organisations and a major corporation,” says award also opens up a completely new network for them. Robin Sclafani. So, how do we establish a brand? How can we develop In 2011, the BMW Group will intensify activities and exour business model further? How can we open up new tend its award in cooperation with the Alliance of Civilizatarget groups? And how can we reach even those people tions, an initiative by the General Secretary of the United who are not particularly interested in what we have Nations. to say? 2011 300 organisations from 40 countries Participant development 1997 40 organisations from 26 countries A The winners of the BMW Group Award 2010 B Jean-Christophe Bas, Senior Advisor, United Nations – Alliance of Civilizations C BMW AG Human Resources Director Harald Krüger at the award ceremony D Award winner Robin Sclafani speaking to BMW Group experts C D 66 05.3 Education and intercultural understanding. The BMW Group is promoting educational issues and intercultural exchanges with a wide range of initiatives – to the benefit of everybody ­involved. According to calculations by US economist and Nobel schoolchildren benefit from laboratory experimentation Prizewinner James Heckman, every euro invested in good schemes, training courses and excursions for a period education delivers a return of up to 17% per year*. Edu­ of three years. The main focus of the programme is on cation, then, is one possible field of investment offering scientific subjects around the issue of sustainability. It long-term returns for the benefit of individuals, the econhas been financed in part by contributions from BMW omy and society alike. dealers totalling US dollar 165,000. The BMW Group is among those investing in the future In South Korea, BMW dealers, the local sales organisation through its educational initiatives. As a provider of indiand customers are adopting a different approach: with vidual mobility, we thrive on a passion for knowledge euro 1.3 million at its disposal, the BMW Korea Future and technology and promote scientific, technical and soFund is working among other things to promote initiacial skills. tives for eco-friendly mobility and academic exchange. Meanwhile, India’s Magic Bus project offers children the In the BMW Group Junior Campus, for example, 5to 13opportunity to discover their potential through play, www.magicbusindia.org year-olds are introduced to issues such as sustainable helping to lift them out of poverty. production or alternative drive systems. Similarly, the BMW Museum in Munich offers creative workshops for At its corporate headquarters, the BMW Group is supits younger visitors. Sustainability and society are also porting the Technical University of Munich with euro the subject of our Learning from the Olympic Games 2 million as it sets up its Institute for Advanced Studies. teaching materials, which were published to coincide with Munich’s application to host the Olympics in 2018. Learning with and from others In 2010 to 2011, the BMW Group is also supporting an The second pillar of our commitment to education lies in exhibition around the issue of mobility at the Children promoting exchanges between different cultures and and Young People’s Museum in Munich. The title of ­sections of society. Our activities in this area include the the exhibition is Weg vom Fleck! Erforsche das Gehen, LIFE Concept for intercultural learning and the BMW Fahren und Fliegen. Group Award for Intercultural Commitment (see page 64). www.bmwgroup.com/award-life In addition, the BMW Group’s long-standing commitAt its corporate headquarters, the BMW Group is also ment to the Jerusalem Foundation has earned the comsupporting the Technical University of Munich, contributpany the Teddy Kollek Award. www.jerusalemfoundation.org ing euro 2 million as it sets up its Institute for Advanced Studies. 65 %  of our donations go to Education and Science. But science, technical and social skills are not the only ­areas we are concentrating on. Intercultural understanding and improving social mobility for young people are In 2010, we reviewed our corporate volunteering strategy among the other focal points of our activities. Significant in a bid to help us strengthen the exchange between demand for teaching materials, such as the LIFE mate­r­ businesses and social initiatives. As part of our strategy, ials (last updated in 2010), show that demand in this segBMW Group experts will support the winners of the ment remains unbroken. Award for Intercultural Commitment for a period of one year by providing input and expertise where it is needed. International education The BMW Group is also encouraging its employees in So do investments in education really pay off? The ExCanada to become involved in social initiatives. Each emcellence Project for the Advancement of Science, Math­ ployee is entitled to one day of paid leave per year, which ematics and Technology in South Africa provides imthey can devote to project work. In 2010, 41.6% of our pressive evidence of the fact that they do. As part of this staff in the country took up the offer. project, the BMW Group is currently supporting pupils at 28 schools as they learn more about the field of science. Since 2010, social teamwork has also formed an integral The results so far are impressive: in the schools we have part of our trainee programme, which sees each BMW supported, grades for mathematics and science were 22% Group trainee invest between five and seven working better than average. days in a social project. The scheme was presented with the Generali European Employee Award in 2011. Our inWith a slightly different focus, the EkoTek project in tercultural commitment was also acknowledged by the ­Detroit, launched in March 2010, will see disadvantaged Intercultural Dialogue Centre e.V. in Munich, which awarded it the IDIZEM dialogue prize in November 2010. * Source: http://www.brandeins.de/archiv/magazin/auf-sicht/artikel/gute-frage-washaben-kleinkinder-und-lastwagenfahrer-gemeinsam.html www.idizem.de 67 Society 05.4 Promoting good health. Another important action point for the BMW Group is health. Here, our activities focus in particular on preventive measures and on illnesses that pose a threat to society and consequently also to our company. One example is HIV /AIDS in South Africa. South Africa has been the home of one of our production 2005. This offers a range of facilities including an HIV/ facilities since 1975. But it is also a place where one in AIDS advice service and a health service with six con­ five people live with HIV (by way of comparison, the sulting rooms, where up to 5,000 patients are treated ­average infection rate worldwide stands at 1% of the every month. Meanwhile, the LoveLife Centre in the www.bmwgroup.com/ population). AIDS, then, is more than just a personal Western Cape, which we also helped set up, is working to aidsprogram tragedy for many individuals; it is a threat to social coheprevent the spread of HIV among teenagers. In an area sion and to South Africa’s national economy. In villages with hardly any opportunities for young people to engage and towns across the country, the pandemic is leaving in leisure activities, the LoveLife Centre offers education large numbers of seriously ill people and orphans in its and sports programmes as well as specially tailored adwww.bmw.co.za wake. Businesses are losing colleagues, staff and expertise. vice on HIV/AIDS prevention to suit young people’s needs. www.lovelife.org.za Our workplace programme against HIV/AIDS in South Our commitment to the fight against HIV/AIDS is not Africa is run by our Human Resources department. As ­restricted to South Africa. In Thailand, for example, we with all CSR activities that extend beyond the limits of support the Baan Gerda Children’s Village, which gives our own facilities, communications are coordinated and HIV-infected children a home. And in Italy, we are offermanaged by our central Corporate Communications ing joint financing with the University Institute San ­department. ­Raffaele to support a major biotechnology research centre. Stem cell research of the kind currently being carried As a member of the Global Business Coalition on HIV/ out in San Raffaele promises valuable insights for the AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria (GBC), we support the therapeutic treatment of illnesses such as AIDS or Parkinwww.gbcimpact.org global fight against illness and participate in exchanges son’s disease. In 2010, the BMW Group Italy once again www.sabcoha.org with other organisations. The BMW Group South Africa supported the San Raffaele Institute with euro 150,000. is also active in the South African Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS (SABCOHA). Our local health service is Each year, significant amounts of money for the fight managed by Doctor Natalie Mayet, who is also president against HIV/AIDS are raised by the Vienna Life Ball. As of SABCOHA. one of the largest charity events in Europe, the Vienna Life Ball is working to beat the pandemic. Every year since Committed on a number of levels 2000, the BMW Group has donated a special MINI to Last year, the BMW Group supported SABCOHA’s replacethe event created by a renowned designer. The adorned ment school programme. This reached out to around vehicle is auctioned for charity after the ball is over. In 1,600 schoolchildren aged between six and 13 years when 2010, the Life Ball’s Jubilee year, the BMW Group even many schools closed during the football World Cup. donated three cars. Over the years, the vehicles have been ­SABCOHA worked with the support of the BMW Group decorated by renowned artists including Missoni, Versace to offer alternative day camps for schoolchildren. Known and Ferré and helped raise more than euro 600,000 to as Camp I Am, these temporary schools offered young support institutions committed to the fight against HIV/ people a safe place to be and opportunities to do sport, AIDS. improve their social and life skills, and learn more about HIV/AIDS. One programme that remains active to this day is the workplace programme of the BMW Group, which has been providing advice, medical help and preventive medicine for staff and their families since 2001. It also offers a voluntary individual test programme, which 87% of our South African employees took part in last year. Infected employees who are insured under our works health ­insurance plan receive free medication. We also enable them to undergo comprehensive therapy and reintegration programmes so that they can lead as normal a working and day-to-day life as possible. Another project we have been involved in is a multifunctional community centre in Soshanguve, not far from the Rosslyn plant, which we have been supporting since 68 05.5 Global cultural commitment. As a partner and sponsor, we support a number of cultural projects at BMW Group sites around the world, ranging from music and art to architecture and ­design. Over the last 40 years, we have supported more than the likes of David Hockney, Andy Warhol, Jenny Holzer 100 projects around the world, making the promotion of and Olafur Eliasson. www.bmwgroup.com/kultur culture an essential component of the BMW Group’s ­social responsibility. Our focus in this area is on contemAnnounced in October 2010, the Guggenheim Lab porary and modern art, classical music and jazz as well ­represents a collaborative project that is due to last six as architecture and design. The projects we support are years. The forward-looking initiative by the Solomon R. selected and mentored by our central Corporate CommuGuggenheim Foundation and Museum and the BMW nications department, although individual BMW Group Group will forge new ideas and serve as a mobile rewww.guggenheim.org/ sites and plants provide additional sponsorship for local search laboratory. As a platform for multidisciplinary exbmwguggenheimlab cultural events. changes, it will attract a new generation of experts from the worlds of architecture, art, the sciences, design, techRather than seeing ourselves as a sponsor, we consider nology and education. The first mobile Guggenheim ourselves a reliable partner and long-term patron helping Lab has opened to the public in August 2011 in New York. to develop cultural potential in the local area with lasting effect. In our view, this is the only way we can fulfil the The Jazz Award and Opera for All cultural responsibility we carry as a corporate citizen. With Another project spanning a similar duration is the BMW this approach, we offer our partners planning security Welt Jazz Award, which we established in 2009. The comand guaranteed curatorial integrity. They also benefit from petition runs under a different slogan each year, with a the ability to unfold their creative potential freely. At the jury of renowned musicians and journalists awarding the same time, our activities serve to strengthen our dialogue prize. As well as receiving an award, successful acts are with opinion makers and media and convey our corpor­ given extra support through our constructive involvement ate values authentically. Our commitment in this area in jazz festivals and concerts in cities across Europe, South is having a noticeable effect, as evidenced by customer America and Africa. surveys, feedback questionnaires, Customer Relations Management, media reports and scientific studies. Meanwhile, the award-winning Opera for All format has been offering the Munich public a very special musical www.staatsoper.de/operfueralle Young contemporary art, Art Cars experience since 1997, with a similar format established www.staatsoper-berlin.de/ staatsoperfueralle One exemplary project we have been promoting is the in Berlin in 2007. These open-air events are organised National Gallery Prize for young art. Established 11 years in conjunction with the Bavarian State Opera in Munich ago by the Friends of the Berlin National Gallery, the and the Berlin State Opera Unter den Linden, which prize is awarded every two years to young contemporary put on performances in public spaces for an audience of www.freunde-derartists and is now considered a major national accolade people who would probably never otherwise have access nationalgalerie.de to opera. BMW Guggenheim Lab as A  Rounding off our package of musical commitments is THINK TANK the Pavilion 21 MINI Opera Space at the Marstallplatz in Since August 2011 the lab offers a platform for multi­disciplinary dialogue between a new generation of experts from the worlds of Munich. This mobile pavilion, which was designed by www.minispace.com/projects/ architecture, art, science, design, technology and education. ­architects Coop Himmelb(l)au, accommodates up to pavillon-21 300 people. It was first opened as part of the city’s Opera Festival in 2010, and in 2011 the structure will be used in this field. In 2009, the jury of renowned art experts as an urban backdrop for experimental musical theatre, awarded euro 50,000 in prize money to the Israeli video helping us spread enthusiasm for creative intercultural artist Omer Fast. dialogue. For evidence of the way the fine arts and automotive ­design can work together to achieve mutual enhancement, one need look no further than the BMW Art Cars. Designed by renowned artists since 1975, the most recent example was a BMW M3 GT2 adorned by Jeff Koons. It was unveiled in June 2010 at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, which had previously provided the backdrop for the unveiling of the BMW 320i by Roy Lichtenstein in 1977. The BMW Art Car Collection now consists of 17 works by 69 Society 05.6 Foundations. The BMW Group is promoting social innovation and change with two ­independent foundations. When children in India can discover new things in life was clearly illustrated by a Young Leaders’ group in April just by playing regular games; when young professionals 2010, which involved Matthew Spacie, founder of the from Asia and Europe work together on a social chalnon-profit organisation Magic Bus in India. Wherever lenge; when children learn to understand sustainability; the Magic Bus is active, children living in poverty have the www.magicbusindia.org and young people without apprenticeships still receive opportunity to move around as they should at this young an opportunity to join the job market – that’s when the age and discover their potential. With more than 2,500 importance of our charitable foundations for society at voluntary mentors, the project is currently reaching out large becomes really clear. to 150,000 children and young people every week. It has also been incorporated into the development programme As legally and practically independent institutions, the of the Indian government. Young Leaders from the BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt and the BMW AG BMW Foundation are helping promote the Magic Bus with Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation are active in areas their expertise and personal network. Starting in 2011, www.bmw-stiftung.de of society the BMW Group itself cannot reach. They the BMW Group will be supporting the Magic Bus with a plan and manage their projects completely independ­ donation of euro 150,000 per year. ently, although partial cooperations with the BMW Group serve to make their commitments more effective. Service provider for social development www.kuenheim-stiftung.de Founded in the year 2000, the BMW AG Eberhard von Social responsibility of managers Kuenheim Foundation sees itself as a service provider The BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt was established for initiatives that are important to society. As an incuin 1970 and has funds amounting to euro 50,000,000. In bator for the seeds of social initiatives, it works under 2010, it was able to devote euro 3.4 million gained from the motto Freude am neu:wagen to bring together figures interest, BMW AG donations and other sources to profrom business, science, politics and the non-profit sector grammes and projects benefiting the community. Its to build up forward-looking pilot projects. work is devoted to international dialogue and collabor­ In 2007, the Foundation launched its Joblinge project in 150,000 children and young People  conjunction with the Boston Consulting Group. This www.joblinge.de in India are reached by the Magic Bus each week. ­offers young people without training or employment the opportunity to participate in a six-month programme of individual mentoring and practical work. Designed to ations between politics, business, the sciences and citizens. help them towards a normal working life, the programme One of its central themes is the role of managers in adhas so far supported almost 400 Joblinge, or young jobvancing society. seekers, 70% of whom have succeeded in finding jobs. The BMW AG Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation is curWith this focus, the BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt rently working to transfer the Joblinge into a social franpromotes not only successfully established organisations chise system. but also innovative approaches to problem resolution – for example through social entrepreneurs. In collaboration Among the other activities being carried out by the Founwith Munich Universities, it has built up the Social Entredation are two educational projects. The first, Tatfunk, preneurship Academy, which aims to promote individenables young school-age people to produce their own www.tatfunk.de ual businesses working for the benefit of society and imradio programme using project management funding. The prove the infrastructures they need. second, Lernen vor Ort (Learning on Location), works to strengthen local education management. In terms of Suswww.lernen-vor-ort.info The Foundation’s Young Leaders’ Forums are a living tainable Activities, the BMW AG Eberhard von Kuenheim ­example of how managers can put social responsibility Foundation has developed several projects, including into action. Supporting exchanges and a commitment Junge Vor!Denker – Kinder philosophieren über Nachto society among upcoming managers since 1995, these haltigkeit (Children Philosophise on Sustainability) and ­forums are currently concentrating their activities on the Verantwortung Unternehmen (A Responsible Busithe BRIC nations. The German-Russian Young Leaders’ ness) initiative, which deals with issues of sustainable Programme and the Europe-Asia Young Leaders’ Forum, commercial activity. In 2010, the Foundation generated which focuses particularly on China, are just two ex­ an income of euro 1.1 million f­ rom interest, BMW AG amples. In 2008, the BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt donations and other sources for use in its projects. The presented its first BMW Foundation Young Leaders’ Award BMW AG Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation continues for managers charting new, socially relevant territory. to seek further funding as well as pro bono services to The extent of the contributions these individuals can make help it implement its projects. Objectives, Key facts and figures 01 Sustainable Management — 72 Objectives — 77 02 Product responsibility — 80 Objectives — 84 03 Group-wide environmental protection — 86 Objectives — 94 04 Employees — 96 Objectives — 104 05 Society — 106 Objectives — 107 Explanatory comments for the Indicators for Sustainability — 109 Independent audit certificate — 110 GRI Index — 112 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress — 115 72 01 Sustainable Management Financial figures in euro million GRI G3 Indicator EC1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Change in % Revenues 48,999 56,018 53,197 50,681 60,477 19.3 Capital expenditure 4,313 4,267 4,204 3,471 3,263 – 6.0 Depreciation and amortisation 3,272 3,683 3,670 3,600 3,682 2.3 Operating cash flow * 5,373 6,246 4,471 4,921 8,150 65.6 Profit before financial result 4,050 4,212 921 289 5,094 – Profit before tax 4,124 3,873 351 413 4,836 – Net profit 2,874 3,134 330 210 3,234 – * Reported in the cash flow statement up to 2006 as cash inflow from operating activities of Industrial Operations and from 2007 as cash inflow from operating activities of the ­Automobiles segment. BMW Group revenues rose by 19.3% in 2010 compared to the pre­ motive markets and the corresponding sharp increase in vehicle sales vious year, in the Automobiles segment by almost a quarter (+ 23.8%). volumes. Accordingly, the profit before financial result showed a posi­ This strong growth is due to the stabilisation of the international auto­ tive trend, rising from euro 289 million in 2009 to euro 5,094 million. BMW Group value added 2010 in % GRI G3 Indicator EC1 48.8 Employees Cost of materials Net value added 24.3 Cost of materials 52.4 Depreciation and amortisation 10.9 Net value added Other expenses 12.4 15.9 Providers of finance 13.6 Government / public sector 5.7 Shareholders 15.9 Group Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation 0.1 Other shareholders  Net value added by the BMW Group in 2010 increased by 42.7% to markets. The government /public sector (including deferred tax ex­ euro 14,902 million, reflecting the fact that the value of work performed pense) accounted for 13.6%. The proportion of net value added ap­ rose significantly faster than the value of work bought in. plied to shareholders, at 5.7%, was higher than in the previous year. The majority of the net value added (48.8%) is applied to employees. Other shareholders take a 0.1% share of net value added. The remain­ The proportion applied to providers of finance declined to 15.9%, ing proportion of net value added (15.9%) will be retained in the mainly due to the further easing of pressure on international capital Group to finance future operations. Return on capital employed GRI G3 Indicator EC1 Earnings for Capital Return on ROCE purposes employed capital employed in euro million in euro million in % 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 BMW Group 5,203 922 26,555 27,923 19.6 3.3 Automobiles 4,355 – 265 10,839 13,143 40.2 – Motorcycles 71 19 394 405 18.0 4.7 Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) of the Automobiles and Motor­ capital as a minimum rate of return and comparisons with competitive cycles segments is measured on the basis of the profit before financial market returns, the target ROCE for the Automobiles and Motorcycles result and the average level of capital employed. Based on the cost of segments has been set at a minimum of 26%. 73 Sustainable management Current tax expense Pension provisions in euro million in euro million GRI G3 Indicator EC1 1,500  5,000  (chart on the left) 1,200  4,000  GRI G3 Indicator EC3 (chart on the right) 900  3,000  600  2,000  300  1,000    06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10   993 1,002 75 338 1,430 5,017 4,627 3,314 2,972 1,563   Due to the Group’s good profit situation, current tax expenses rose to Pension provisions decreased by 47.4% in the period under report. euro 1,430 million in 2010 (2009: euro 338 million). This is mainly due to the externalisation of a further tranche of pen­ sion obligations. The fluctuation in pension provisions is primarily due to changes in the parameters used for actuarial computation, in particular the discount rates, which in their turn are based on current market interest rates. Research and development expenditure Contract portfolio of Financial Services segment in euro million and in euro per employee in 1,000 units 3,000  3,500  2,400  3,000  1,800  2,500  1,200  2,000  600  1,500   1,000  08 09 10   06 07 08 09 10 in euro million 2,864 2,448 2,773  in euro per employee* 29,927 26,974 31,181 2,271 2,630 3,032 3,086 3,190   * Based on the average number of people employed during the financial year (not including apprentices and students gaining work experience). The international capital markets showed signs of stabilisation in the period under report. The financial services business of the BMW Group In 2010, the BMW Group employed over 9,000 people in its research also benefited from this. Overall, the Financial Services segment had and innovation network, at 11 sites in five countries. Expenditure 3.4% more credit financing and lease contracts in place with dealers on research and development was 13.3% higher than in 2009. How­ and retail customers than in 2009. The financial services business is a ever, the research and development ratio of 4.6% was 0.2 percentage partner to the dealer organisation in over 50 countries. points lower than in the previous year. 74 01 Sustainable Management Public sector grants: public subsidies in the form of Public sector grants: allowances from public sector reduced taxes on assets and consumption-based taxes institutions GRI G3 Indicator EC4 in euro million in euro million 40  50  32  40  24  30  16  20  8  10    06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10   11 16 23 27 36 32 36 32 14 30   Public subsidies in the form of reduced taxes on assets and consump­ Allowances from public sector institutions rose sharply in 2010, re­ tion-based taxes rose by 33% in 2010 compared to the previous year. turning approximately to the 2008 level. Vehicle production of the BMW Group by plant in 2010 in 1,000 units GRI G3 Indicator EC9 Assembly plants Graz 2 Dingolfing 287.4 Rosslyn 49.0 Shenyang1 Goodwood Dingolfing Regensburg 244.0 Goodwood 3.2 Rosslyn Oxford 216.3 Shenyang1 55.6 Spartanburg Munich 205.7 Graz (Magna Steyr) 2 54.9 Leipzig 186.8 Assembly plants 19.1 Regensburg Spartanburg 159.3 Leipzig Munich Oxford  1 2 Joint venture Contract production The process of internationalising the BMW Group production net­ 1.5 billion in its German plants. At Dingolfing, BMW’s strongest pro­ work continued in 2010 with plant expansions in the USA and China. duction plant, manufacture of the new BMW 5 Series Sedan started at In ­addition, in 2009 and 2010, the company invested a total of euro the b­ eginning of 2010, followed by the BMW 5 Series Touring in June. Sales volume of the BMW Group by vehicle GRI Indicator A4 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Sector Supplement) Sales volume – Automobiles BMW 1,185,088 1,276,793 1,202,239 1,068,770 1,224,280 MINI 188,077 222,875 232,425 216,538 234,175 Rolls-Royce 805 1,010 1,212 1,002 2,711 Total 1,373,970 1,500,678 1,435,876 1,286,310 1,461,166 Sales volume – Motorcycles BMW 100,064 102,467 101,685 87,306 98,047 Husqvarna – – 13,511 13,052 12,066 Total 100,064 102,467 115,196 100,358 110,113 Sales volume of all three car brands – BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce – sales, with 2,711 vehicles sold (2009: 1,002). The Motorcycles segment rose in 2010. Sales of the BMW brand increased by 14.6%, that of also saw an increase of 9.7%. MINI by 8.1%. Rolls-Royce even managed to more than double its 75 Sustainable management BMW Group sales volume of vehicles by region and market in 1,000 units GRI Indicator A4 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Sector Supplement) Rest of Europe 375.0 443.6 432.2 357.3 369.3 North America 337.4 364.0 331.8 271.0 298.3 Asia 142.2 159.5 165.7 183.1 286.3 Germany 285.3 280.9 280.9 267.5 267.2 United Kingdom 154.1 173.8 151.5 137.1 154.8 Other markets 80.0 78.9 73.8 70.3 85.3 Total 1,374.0 1,500.7 1,435.9 1,286.3 1,461.2 In Asia in particular, markets grew very dynamically in 2010. BMW largest contribution. Sales volume in Europe remained stable (+ 3.9%), Group sales volume in this region increased year-on-year by 56.3%, while it rose by 10.1% in the US. with the Chinese markets (China, Hong Kong, Taiwan) making the Sales volume of BMW diesel automobiles worldwide in 1,000 units and as a percentage of total volume GRI Indicator A4 550  (Sector Supplement) 500  450  400  350  300   06 07 08 09 10  units 472.7 525.9 511.2 464.2 538.2 as a percentage of total volume 39.9 41.2 42.5 43.4 44.0  The number of diesel-powered vehicles sold increased by 16% world­ wide in 2010, accounting for 44% of total sales volume. The propor­ tion was particularly high in Europe, for example reaching 97.1% in Portugal, 95.0% in France and 92.9% in Italy. In Germany the share was 68.6% (+ 6.1 percentage points). 76 01 Sustainable Management BMW Group stakeholder dialogue – stakeholder survey 2010 (experts) Evaluation of the relevance of sustainability topics for the BMW Group CO2 emissions / carbon footprint Climate change Electromobility Alternative drive technologies Live cycle assessment of products and components Environmental and social standards in the supply chain Product safety Sustainability management Traffic safety Product recycling Mobility concepts for megacities Environmentally friendly production Consumer protection Employee health Use of renewable raw materials Demographic change Anti-corruption measures and compliance Water Corporate Citizenship Combining family and career Diversity programmes within the company Biodiversity  very important important less important not important no comment In early 2011, a telephone survey was carried out with 20 stakeholders in eight countries. 77 Sustainable management Sustainability in the supply chain Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes 2010 Total number of suppliers* in %, basis: production material number GRI G3 Indicator EC6 15,000  (chart on the left) 12,500  GRI G3 Indicator HR2 Africa Germany 47 (chart on the right) Asia / Australia 10,000  Rest of Western Europe 20 NAFTA 7,500  Central and 5,000  Eastern Europe 13 Central and 2,500  NAFTA 12 Eastern Europe  Asia / Australia 5 09 10 Africa 3  Rest of Western Europe Germany 10,223 12,159   * Figures refer to goods and services suppliers. As a global company, the BMW Group continued to develop and ex­ pand its international relations with suppliers. In the BRIC nations in Sustainability aspects form a key part of the supplier management particular (plus Turkey and South Korea), new supplier contacts were process at the BMW Group. For example, the information suppliers are made. When selecting suppliers, focus was placed on minimising the obliged to disclose on their sustainability status is integrated into the logistics of parts supply. At the same time, measures were taken to supplier selection and nomination process. In addition, the supplier’s qualify new local suppliers to fulfil sustainability requirements. sustainability status is also continuously monitored in the existing supplier evaluation systems and is tracked as a permanent criterion of supplier assessment. Status of objectives in the area of sustainable management Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Strategy and organisation  Further development Integrate sustainability 2010  Development continued on the sustainability strategy approved by the of BMW Group Sustain­ strategy in subsidiaries Board of Management in 2009. ability management and dealer organisations The Sustainability Board (full Board of Management) derived and apworldwide proved the sustainability strategy for the Sales and Marketing division. Main focus was on work, environmental and health management ­systems at dealers, dealer training courses as well as the procedure for Green Building. Implementation in 2011 / 2012. Involve all employees in 2010 / 2011  Integration of sustainability topic in standard manager development. ­implementing the sustain­ Around 1,700 of 4,000 managers received training in 2010. ability strategy Between autumn 2009 and summer 2011, some 2,450 employees took part in sustainability-specific training (Sustainability on Tour). Sustainability was also integrated into vocational training. The qualification programme “sustainable from the start” was developed for ­apprentices and has been in use since 2009. In addition, the BMW Group holds regular internal large-scale group events with renowned sustainability experts. Extend the risk manage2010  Environmental and social risks were integrated into the standard proment system to include cess. The main environmental and social risks are thus captured in ecological and social the ongoing reporting process and the level of risk to the company ­factors as a going concern is reported to the Board of Management. Last year, the focus was on physical, regulatory and reputational risks in the area of climate change as well as environmental and social standards. This also included risk protection in the supplier chains. Health care was another issue addressed. Top listings in external annually  Done (see breakdown on page 09). ­sustainability ratings   100 % 75 % 50 % 78 01 Sustainable Management Status of objectives in the area of sustainable management Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Profit / profitability and long term value added  Most successful Sales target set down 2012  1.46 million units in 2010; Outlook 2011: more than 1.6 million units ­premium manufacturer by Strategy N ­ umber ONE Savings of euro 4 billion in 2012  Due to the efficiency programme within the context of the Group’s material costs * Strategy Number ONE, material cost reduction by 2012 will significantly exceed the euro 4 billion planned. Return on capital employed 2012  2010: EBIT margin in Automobiles segment = 8.0 %; ROCE in Autoof at least 26 % as well mobiles segment = 40.2% as an EBIT margin of 8 % We are optimistic that an earnings corridor of 8 % to 10 % in the Autoto 10 % in the Automobiles mobiles segment is also possible in the long run, i. e. beyond 2012. segment To achieve this target, stable development in the global economic ­cycle as well as in the economic and political prevailing conditions is a prerequisite. Stakeholder dialogue  Continuation of stakeHost further Stakeholder 2009 / 2010  First Stakeholder Round Table on sustainable mobility and resource holder dialogue Round Tables in 2009 and conservation hosted in 2009 in Munich. Second Stakeholder Round 2010 Table on the subject of electromobility held in 2010. Sustainability in the supply chain  Efficient supply chain Establish assessment 2010 ff.  Target met. Sustainability requirements integrated and binding part of that applies the same ­processes at suppliers’ purchasing terms and conditions. ambitious sustainability ­locations and take sustainIn case of deficit, verification of direct suppliers’ sustainability status standards worldwide ability aspects into con­ is also established as part of the requalification process for quality and at all steps of value sideration at all steps of ­assurance. creation ­value creation in the concept phase of new vehicle projects Raise awareness among 2010 ff.  Awareness among purchasers for the importance of ecological and purchasers for the import­ social standards was raised. Qualification measures have begun. ance of ecological and ­social standards and validate supplier partners   100 % 75 % 50 % * Reference year 2008 New objectives in the area of sustainable management Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline   Management of sustainability / sustainability strategy  Further development and implementation of Based on the Group sustainability strategy approved by the Board of Management in 2009, the sustainability strategy in all divisions following divisional strategies are developed on an ongoing basis: Sales division: Implementation process for sales sustainability strategy to begin in 2011 /2012. 2011 / 2012  Development division: Approval of the (development) sustainability package with areas of action, 2011  targets, measures and responsibilities. Purchasing division: Sustainability management to be integrated along the entire value creation 2011 / 2012  chain. Focus on operational implementation, monitoring and standardisation of areas of action and measures (see next page for details). HR division: Implementation of areas of action. Focus on roll-out of Web-based sustainability 2012  training for employees, dealers and suppliers as well as on the demography project “Today for ­tomorrow”. Production division: Review of (production) sustainability package 2011, integration of objectives 2011  for 2011 in the objective management process for plants and planning. Further review to define objectives beyond 2012. Overarching: Implementation of guidelines for sustainable building planned, construction of new 2015  buildings and subsequent performance monitoring. International expansion of external sustain­ Further networking with internationally relevant sustainability networks such as the WBCSD. ­Active 2012  ability network participation in conferences and projects aiming to develop solutions for sustainable m ­ obility across sectors and internationally.  79 Sustainable management New objectives in the area of sustainable management Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline   Risk management  Identify and assess main economic, environIdentify (twice yearly), assess and pursue measures via a BMW Group network structure across Ongoing  mental and social risks to the continuing all departments. Report to Board. ­existence of the BMW Group: derive and pursue measures to reduce, avoid and transfer risk Compliance and anti-corruption  Avoidance of corruption In October 2010, the Board of Management commissioned a range of measures with a focus on 2011  anti-corruption within its “­ Compliance 2.0”. The individual measures were as follows: –  Implement Group-wide compliance risk assessment (Risk Matrix) – Deploy compliance managers responsible for the regions and based at headquarters – Set up worldwide BMW Group SpeakUP Line for in-house reporting of potential breaches of compliance in the BMW Group – Use a database for criminal offenders in business to verify the integrity of potential business partners Reinforcement of compliance controls In October 2010, the Board of Management commissioned a range of measures with a focus on 2011  control reinforcement within its “Compliance 2.0”. The individual measures were as follows: – Realign cooperation of BMW Group Compliance Committee with Group Internal Audit department – Carry out Compliance Spot Checks, focusing on corruption avoidance – Carry out compliance scenario analyses Stakeholder management  Increase information efficiency on sustain­ Hold intensive and continuous dialogue both with SRI and with mainstream analysts / investors 2011  ability issues between BMW Group and capital about the long-term prospects of the company; provide timely information on the current busimarket ness trend with a focus on sustainability Intensify stakeholder commitment via national – Update the BMW Group Stakeholder Map to account for future relevant topics 2012  and international target-group-oriented – Identify relevant formats for target-group-oriented stakeholder commitment ­formats – Carry out regular Stakeholder Round Tables in 2011 on sustainable production, renewable ­energy sources and BMW i – Derive measures from the results of stakeholder commitment Sustainability in the supply chain  Integrate sustainable management along the –  In the system, technically link the results of the sustainability survey with the supplier assess2011 / 2012  entire value creation chain. Focus on oper­ ment systems of the BMW Group (supplier performance and competence management ational implementation, monitoring and stand­(LPKM) as well as supplier assessment system (LBS)). This renders the supplier’s sustainability ardisation of areas of action and measures performance part of the “classical” supplier assessment and it is mapped as an individual assessment criterion. – Continuously monitor the sustainability status of suppliers: each enquiry is linked to an update of the supplier disclosure via the sustainability survey. This information automatically flows into the supplier assessment and is accounted for by the purchaser in the contracting process. – Also monitor the sustainability status of suppliers by way of the existing quality assurance process. Integrate the sustainability requirements in the training courses of the purchasing academy. Web-based training on sustainability is made available by employees of the purchasing organ­ isation, not only to internal purchasers but also to the suppliers. – Environmental footprint data on purchased parts and self-manufactured parts is to be provided upon request by the BMW Group. The ability to supply such data is set down as a requirement in the purchasing terms and conditions.  80 02 Product Responsibility Degree of coverage of production sites with quality management systems GRI Indicator PR MA in % of workforce at production sites 100  80  60  40  20   08 09 10  100 100 100  Development of CO2 emissions of BMW Group vehicles in Europe (Index: 1995 = 100; basis: fleet consumption of newly registered vehicles in Europe (EU-15) measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance GRI Indicator A7 with the ACEA self-commitment) (Sector Supplement) 105  100  95  90  85  80  75  70   95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09* 10  100.0 101.0 102.4 101.0 98.6 96.7 96.7 92.9 92.9 94.8 90.0 88.6 80.0 73.3 71.4 70.0  * Measured only on EU-27 basis with effect from 2009. The main guiding principle behind the BMW Group’s Efficient and 2010, thereby more than fulfilling the commitment given by the ­Dynamics Strategy is greater dynamism, less fuel consumption and European automotive industry to reduce average CO2 emissions by fewer emissions. This strategy has enabled BMW to reduce the CO2 25% for new fleets of cars between 1995 and 2008 (ACEA self-commit­ emissions of newly sold cars in Europe (EU-15) by 30% between 1995 ment). 81 Product ­responsibility Fuel savings of BMW Group vehicles sold in the US (according to CAFE 1) in mpg 2 GRI Indicator A6 29  (Sector Supplement) 28  27  26  25  24  23  22  21  20  19  18   2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010  Fleet average of vehicles sold Fleet average of light trucks sold  1 2 CAFE: Corporate Average Fuel Economy mpg: miles per gallon The Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) value represents the standards by 2016. The BMW Group exceeded this performance sales-weighted fuel economy of a manufacturer’s fleet of vehicles standard and as a result paid no penalties. weighing less than approximately 3,850 kilograms (10,000 pounds), The BMW Group’s Efficient Dynamics Strategy calls for fuel economy manufactured for sale in the USA. If a manufacturer falls below the technologies to be made available to all customers as rapidly as specified lower limit, penalties must be paid to the government. ­pos­sible in order to comply with standards outside Europe as well. In 2009, the US government decided to impose stricter performance CO2 emissions of BMW Group vehicles (EU-27) Average noise emissions of Fleet consumption of newly registered vehicles in Europe (EU-27) BMW Group vehicles* GRI Indicator A7 in the New European Driving Cycle Share of models in % of vehicles sold in EU-27 in 2010 (Sector Supplement) in g / km (chart on the left) 170  70  GRI Indicator A8 (Sector Supplement) 160  60  (chart on the right) 150  50  140  40  130  30  120  20  110  10    07 08 09 10 15 < 71 dB 71 dB to 74 dB > 74 dB   168 156 150 148 < 140* in % 37 55 8    * *  he target is based on long-term production planning. The target for the introductory T Weighted model average for noise emissions (logarithmic average) for noise produced period 2012 to 2014 is to meet the EU’s CO2 emissions performance standards for by accelerating while passing (values of type evaluation; in accordance with EU Directive passenger cars. 92 / 97 / EG). In 2010, the BMW Group fleet achieved an average fuel consumption of 5.4 litres of diesel / 100 km, 6.6 litres of petrol / 100 km and average emissions of 148 g / km of CO2 in Europe (EU-27). We also lead the field among German manufacturers with CO2 emissions of approxi­ mately 154g / km. Our goal is to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of our cars between 2008 and 2020 by at least a further 25%. 82 02 Product Responsibility Fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions of the most efficient and best-selling models in 20101 GRI Indicators A6, A7 Combined CO2 emissions (Sector Supplement) in l / 100 km in grams CO2 / km Most efficient model worldwide: MINI ONE D 2 3.8 (–) 99 (–) Best-selling models in Germany: 3 1st BMW 116i 6.1 (6.6) 143 (154) 2nd BMW 320d Touring 4.8 (5.4) 128 (142) Best-selling models in the EU : 3 1st BMW 118d 4.5 (5.3) 119 (140) 2nd MINI ONE 2 5.4 (6.4) 127 (150) 1 2 Values measured in accordance with the New European Driving Cycle (EU Directive Manual transmission. 3 80 / 1268 / EEC in the relevant applicable version). Valid for vehicles with a European Figures in brackets refer to automatic transmission. country specification, with the exception of the “Most efficient model worldwide”. In contrast with earlier reports, the SVR 2010 shows the most efficient cited here rather than the MINI Cooper D (2009: 3.9 l / 100 km and model worldwide, not just in Europe. Therefore, the MINI ONE D is 104 grams CO2 / km). Ratio of plastic recyclates in vehicles* in % GRI Indicator EN2 25  20  15  10  5   08 09 10  15 15 15  * Thermoplastic resins are used for most plastic vehicle parts (except for elastomer and foamed parts). This is also where the use of recyclates as an alternative to new material is most likely to be possible. The thermoplastic ratio has therefore been used here as the basis for calculating the recyclate rate. In the area of polymers in particular, importance is placed on developing closed material cycles. For thermoplastic resins, for example, up to 15% of the materials used come from secondary sources. The ratio of polymers used in vehicle production has in fact increased considerably in recent years (from 8% to 12%) and, with it, the absolute quantity of recyclates deployed. It is important to note that in parallel with this d ­ evelopment, many components incorporating recyclates have actually been eliminated over the years thanks to appropriate design measures. This means that not only were recyclates dispensed with, but the quan­ tity of materials deployed has also been reduced overall (avoidance of materials use). 83 Product ­responsibility Average distribution of materials in BMW Group vehicles in % of total vehicle weight GRI G3 Indicators EN1, EN2 Other GRI Indicator A10 Textiles and other composites Steel and iron 50 (Sector Supplement) Duroplastic resins Elastomers Non-ferrous metals 25 Thermoplastic resins 12 Thermoplastic resins Elastomers * 4 Steel and iron Duroplastic resins 2 Textiles and other composites 2 Other 5 Non-ferrous metals  * Such as tyres, seals. Steel and iron still make up the largest proportion by weight of materials used in BMW Group vehicles. The overall material mix has changed l­ ittle since 2009. Cooperation among all stakeholders within the integrated approach GRI G3 Indicator SO5 Automobile Petroleum Politics / Customer manufacturers industry infraand suppliers structure Further develop efficient vehicle technologies and increase market share Increase percentage of alternative fuels (blending) Implement driver assistance systems, e. g. gear shift and efficiency indicators Improve fuel efficiency Enhance reduced rolling resistance tyres and increase market share Tyre pressure control systems Guarantee consistent legislation Improve traffic infrastructure / management Support research and development of new technologies Support CO2-based motor vehicle tax and CO2 labelling  Responsibility Support / cooperation 84 02 Product Responsibility Status of objectives in the area of product responsibility Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Innovative technologies  Compliance with the EU’s CO2 Further develop Efficient Dynamics 2012  As part of the innovation process, additional emissions performance standtechnologies such as reduction of Efficient Dynamics measures are constantly ards (average CO2 emissions ­driving resistance, more efficient drive being developed; development of more than of new vehicles sold in the EU train, optimised energy and heat 30 new measures authorised for 2011 alone. of max. 140 grams CO2 / km) for ­management The focus of future measures will be on re2015 ducing driving resistance, in particular in the areas of aerodynamics and weight, as well as on energy and heat management and electrification. Reduce fuel consumption by up to 20 % 2010  The first HEVs are on the market (BMW 7 Ser­ compared to vehicles with combustion ies, BMW X6). Others will follow at the end engines by applying hybrid technology. of 2011 (BMW 5 Series) and mid-2012 (BMW 3 Series). Roll-out of further hybridised models currently being planned. Start-up of PHEV (Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle) models is planned for late 2013. Advance alternative drive Develop a series-produced electric car, 2013 *  A sustainability-focused sub-brand, BMW i, ­technologies the megacity vehicle, in the context of was launched in February 2011. The mega­ ­project i city vehicle (BMW i3) will come to market in 2013, to be followed by the BMW i8, a plugin hybrid vehicle based on the BMW Vision ­EfficientDynamics study. Develop hydrogen infrastructure Partnerships on global introduction of ongoing  Hydrogen is still regarded as a long-term hydrogen for use on the roads: ­option. Therefore, the BMW Group is not only – Initiatives to promote creation of an involved in its further technological developH2 infrastructure ment, but is also active in the associated – Continued participation in the Clean ­initiatives. Energy Partnership (CEP) project in Berlin Life cycle assessment  Reduce products’ environmental Develop methods for a streamlined life 2009  A life cycle assessment was made for a refimpact at each stage of their life cycle assessment approach, i. e. comerence car as basis for comparison for future cycle prehensively assess material groups for vehicle concepts. The objective has thus been a more efficient and faster accounting of achieved. We also conducted further electroentire vehicles mobility assessments for entire vehicles in 2010. Product safety  Increase vehicle safety by inteDevelop preventive measures, particu2015  Work is ongoing to develop preventive measgrating active and passive safety larly for passenger, partner and pedestrian ures to enhance vehicle safety, e. g. as part systems protection of the vFSS – Preventive Frontal Protection Systems working group of automobile ­manufacturers, the German Federal Highway ­Research Institute (BASt), and insurance companies, chaired by DEKRA. The research themes Emergency Stop Assistant, Adaptive Brake Assist and transponder-based pedestrian protection systems were presented at a press day in October 2010.   100 % 75 % 50 % * A more detailed description than the one given in the 2010 online update of the Indicators for Sustainability, p. 84 (First half of this decade) 85 Product ­responsibility New objectives in the area of product responsibility Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline   Innovative technologies and business models  Reduce CO2 emissions by at least Further develop Efficient Dynamics technologies, with a focus on reducing driving resistance, 2020  25 % for our worldwide fleet of new in particular on aerodynamics and weight, as well as on energy and heat management and vehicles by 2020 (reference year electrification 2008) Advance alternative drive Develop the world’s first series-produced electric car with a carbon passenger compartment 2013  ­technologies (BMW i3) Develop mobility services Establish the car-sharing service DriveNow. Goal: 1 million users by 2020 2020  Life cycle assessment  Life cycle engineering in the product – Agree on sustainability targets over the entire added-value chain in vehicle projects 2013  development process to ensure – Integrate ecological sustainability in accordance with ISO TR 14062 (Design for ­sustainability over the entire life cycle ­Environment) of the vehicle – Deploy entire-vehicle assessment with life cycle analysis as instrument for measurement and control in 100 % of product lines Product safety  Further develop car-to-car commuTest and evaluate the communication system already in the prototype phase (in accordance 2011 / 2012  nication to avoid road congestion with IEEE 802.11p) and reduce emissions Traffic management and mobility research  Reduce the environmental impact of Cooperative developments with cities, municipalities and districts with the goal of incor2013: initial prototypes motorised private transport urban porating traffic light alerts in the vehicle to enable more economic driving through driver expected 2015: anticipated areas (reduction of CO2 emissions in ­information / speed advice as well as automatic interventions in engine control ­series release city traffic) Sustainable mobility of the future Develop and implement services for the mobility assistance of the future: intermodal routing, 2011: CarSharing launch in parking services, e-ticketing Munich, other cities to follow Product recycling  Recycling solution for carbon fibre Implement closed-cycle concept to enable recycling of waste material and energy in the 2012  reinforced plastic production of carbon fibre reinforced plastic (CFRP) Second life use of HV storage Develop a concept for second life use of HV storage in the photovoltaic application (PV), 2012  storage of photovoltaic energy Ensure supply of raw materials Develop a concept by closing materials cycles in order to ensure the availability of raw ma­ 2011  terials (e. g. rare earths)  86 03 Gprotection roup-wide environmental BMW Group input / output assessment 2010 GRI G3 Indicators EN1, Input Output EN3, EN4, EN8, EN16, EN20, EN21, EN22 Raw materials Vehicles Steel 1,763,577 t BMW Group vehicles produced 1,481,253 Plastics 346,452 t Motorcycles* 112,271 Aluminium 325,555 t Waste 564,117 t Magnesium 5,445 t thereof recyclable 549,175 t 3 Water 3,418,816 m thereof non-recyclable 14,943 t 3 Energy 4,072,217 MWh Total wastewater 2,427,754 m CO2 emissions 1,857,485 t Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 2,374 t NO X 457 t CO 243 t SO X 8t Particulates, dust 25 t  The BMW Group aims to reduce the environmental impact of produc­ and emissions levels per vehicle produced by 30% compared with 2006. tion to the greatest extent possible. Items measured in this context Using an environmental efficiency figure as an indicator, changes in ­include energy and water consumption, process wastewater, solvent resource consumption and emissions are analysed across all items emissions and waste for disposal – expressed per ­vehicle produced. measured. The environmental efficiency figure improved by six percent­ Carbon dioxide emissions caused by energy consumption are also age points in 2010. The improvement since 2006 is 26%, surpassing measured. the original target of 20% set for 2010. A breakdown of supplies is Due to the increase in vehicle production in 2010, total use of raw planned for inclusion in the input / output assessment of the 2012 re­ ­materials rose. The target is, by 2012, to reduce resource consumption port. Precise figures will be captured in 2011 for this purpose. Energy consumption in detail in MWh GRI G3 Indicators EN3, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EN4, EN5 Total energy consumption 3,959,908 4,283,922 4,034,442 3,635,755 4,072,217 Electricity (external source) 1,667,122 1,853,961 1,700,828 1,491,182 1,654,956 Electricity (produced in-house) 125,414 125,182 136,963 152,578 177,671 Community heating 295,245 328,998 320,645 294,696 319,270 Share of electricity (external source) from renewable energy sources in %1 14.40 % 14.85 % 16.15 % 18.12 % Fossil fuels Fuel oil 2 14,364 56,012 67,949 37,403 43,828 Natural gas 1,983,177 1,722,337 1,601,342 1,533,764 1,765,760 Coal 0 0 0 0 0 Mineral oil 0 0 0 0 0 Non-fossil fuels Biogas (landfill gas) 322,610 343,675 278,706 288,402 Regenerative fuels Solar energy (photovoltaics) 4 4 4 3 1 2 Conservative calculation based on country-specific shares. Basis for data expanded in 2007 from ten to 17 locations (see explanation of Sustainability Indicators). Increased vehicle production in 2010 led to a rise of 12% in overall consumption per vehicle produced from 2.89 MWh / vehicle to e­ nergy consumption. Innovative production technologies such as the 2.75 MWh / vehicle (– 4.8%). In addition, the company was able to Integrated Paint Process (IPP) in Oxford and Spartanburg, as well as ­increase its use of renewable energy by 12%. the on-site press tool in Regensburg have resulted in a drop in energy 87 Group-wide environmental protection Energy consumed per vehicle produced Water consumption1 per vehicle produced in MWh / vehicle in m3 / vehicle GRI G3 Indicator EN3 3.40  3.20  (chart on the left) 3.20  3.00  GRI G3 Indicator EN8 (chart on the right) 3.00  2.80  2.80  2.60  2.60  2.40  2.40  2.20    06 * 07 08 09 10 06 2 07 08 09 10   3.28 2.78 2.80 2.89 2.75 2.99 2.61 2.56 2.56 2.31   * 1 Value extrapolated for 17 locations. Actual reporting covered ten locations. The indicators for water consumption refer to the production sites of the BMW Group. The water consumption includes the process water input for the production as well as Aided by improved capacity use of equipment, energy consumption the general water consumption e. g. for sanitation facilities. 2 per vehicle produced was reduced to 2.75 MWh / vehicle, a decrease Value extrapolated for 17 locations. Actual reporting covered ten locations. of 4.8%. Water consumption per vehicle produced was reduced by 9.8%. A whole range of specific local measures suitable for the respective processes at various BMW production network sites was responsible for this drop, one example being the snow cleaning process at the BMW Landshut plant. Water* GRI G3 Indicator EN8 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water consumption in m 3 3,500,197 4,017,541 3,682,420 3,222,376 3,418,816 of which groundwater in % 9 of which surface water in % 0 of which rainwater in % 0 * Water consumption includes the process water input for the production as well as the general water consumption, e. g. for sanitation facilities. Our consumption of fresh water was 3.4 million m3, that is 7.2% below the 2008 level. 88 03 Group-wide environmental protection BMW Group CO2 footprint in t CO2 GRI G3 Indicators EN16, EN18 2008 2009 2010 Total emissions 1,645,759 1,542,653 1,857,485 Emissions / employee 16.5 16.0 19.5 Emissions / million euro revenues 30.9 30.4 30.7 Scope 1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions 375,426 357,793 409,911 Emissions of company-owned production sites 308,605 291,562 340,131 Company vehicles 63,324 63,109 65,974 Company-owned planes 3,497 3,122 3,806 Scope 2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions 875,036 847,500 933,097 Electricity and district heat purchased 875,036 847,500 933,097 Scope 3 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions 395,297 337,360 514,477 Logistics 360,000 307,000 466,027 Business trips 35,297 30,360 48,450 According to the GHG protocol, further emissions in CO2 equivalent (e. g. CH4, N2O, SF6, PFCs, HFCs) account for <1 % of total CO2 equivalent emissions and are therefore not listed. The increase in energy consumption due to the rise in vehicle pro­ emissions-free cleaning process at the Landshut plant resulted in a duction after the years 2008 and 2009 also led to higher overall levels drop in overall CO2 emissions per vehicle produced from 0.91 t / of CO2 emissions (+ 20%). However, at the same time, specific vehicle to 0.86 t / vehicle (– 5.5%); this was in line with the objective ­savings measures and innovative production processes such as the of ­improving energy efficiency in 2012 by 30% compared to 2006. Greenhouse gas emissions per site* in t CO2 2010 Dingolfing site 279,353 Munich site 165,329 Spartanburg site (USA) 136,303 * Frame of reference is Scope 1 and Scope 2 in accordance with GHG protocol based on production. According to the GHG protocol, further emissions in CO2 equivalent (e. g. CH4, N2O, SF6, PFCs, HFCs) account for <1 % of total CO2 equivalent emissions and are therefore not listed. Dingolfing, Munich and Spartanburg (USA) emit 580,985 t CO2, or around 30% of total BMW Group CO2 emissions. This key figure is mapped in the SVR 2010 for the first time. 89 Group-wide environmental protection Emissions in t GRI G3 Indicators EN20 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) 586 756 491 420 457 Particulates, dust * 35 38 27 39 25 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 9 10 10 10 8 Carbon monoxide (CO) 561 608 428 278 243 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 2,783 3,634 2,827 2,230 2,374 * Calculated based on the VDA’s emissions factors, including dust from external power generation. CO2 emissions per vehicle produced Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced in t / vehicle in kg / vehicle GRI G3 Indicators EN16, 1.00  2.50  EN18 (chart on the left) 0.95  2.25  GRI G3 Indicator EN20 0.90  2.00  (chart on the right) 0.85  1.75  0.80  1.50  0.75  1.25    06 * 07 08 09 10 06 * 07 08 09 10   0.96 0.84 0.82 0.91 0.86 2.30 2.36 1.96 1.77 1.60   * * Value Value extrapolated for 17 locations. Actual reporting covered ten locations. extrapolated for 17 locations. Actual reporting covered ten locations. At 0.86 tons of CO2 per vehicle produced, emissions were cut by 5.5%. Solvent emissions (VOC) per vehicle produced decreased by 9.6% in Rigorous implementation of savings measures is bringing the BMW 2010 compared to 2009. This reduction was partly achieved through Group ever closer to its objective of improving energy efficiency by the use of low-solvent and solvent-free rinsing and cleaning processes 30% between 2006 and 2012, as planned. in painting pretreatment as well as the reduction in the number of cleaning steps required due to optimised colour-change cycles in the paint shop. Solvent emissions have been reduced by more than 30% since 2006, the breakthrough target set for 2012 has thus already been achieved. 90 03 Group-wide environmental protection Number of CO2 emissions allowances allocated by the EU CO2 emissions of locations participating in the EU Emissions Trading System Emissions Trading System in t in t 300,000  300,000  250,000  250,000  200,000  200,000  150,000  150,000  100,000  100,000  50,000  50,000    06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10   216,741 216,741 267,789 271,599 271,599 206,179 145,854 185,284 132,009 134,582   The increase in the number of emissions allowances from 2007 to 2008 is a result of the new application procedure introduced due to the period change (1st period from 2005 to 2007, 2nd period from 2008 to 2012). Wastewater1 GRI G3 Indicator EN21 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total wastewater in m3 2,271,729 2,649,640 2,454,760 2,130,771 2,427,754 Process wastewater in m3 911,386 992,845 924,558 778,371 854,013 Total heavy metals and heavy metal compounds in kg 354 370 279 314 322 CSB 2 in kg 1,209,741 1,210,919 1,108,934 1,442,109 AOX 3 in kg 95 80 57 69 1 2 The key performance indicator “Process wastewater” is measured by the wastewater CSB = chemical oxygen demand 3 treatment in BMW Group plants. Together with the wastewater from sanitary facilities AOX = adsorbable organic halides in water at the plants, this is the figure for total wastewater. Due to factors such as evaporation, the water input does not correspond to total wastewater. Materials input into wastewater should be limited to volumes that will are subject to BMW Group specific wastewater standards, some of not overtax natural decomposition processes. All production plants which are significantly higher than local regulations stipulate. Process wastewater per vehicle produced in m3 / vehicle GRI G3 Indicator EN21 0.90  0.80  0.70  0.60  0.50  0.40   06 * 07 08 09 10  0.75 0.64 0.64 0.62 0.58  The key figures on process wastewater refer to production wastewater. * Value extrapolated for 17 locations. Actual reporting covered ten locations. The innovative technologies used to optimise water consumption have led to a reduction in process wastewater per vehicle produced. In 2010 this figure was 6.5% lower than in the previous year. 91 Group-wide environmental protection Waste in t GRI G3 Indicator EN22 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total waste 469,691 580,010 519,353 450,513 564,117 Materials for recycling 450,165 555,087 497,988 437,139 549,175 Scrap 383,301 408,755 433,580 377,700 428,175 Waste for disposal 19,526 24,923 21,365 13,374 14,943 The BMW Group aims to avoid waste. Unavoidable waste by-­ in cases where recycling is more expensive. Within two years, the products are tested for reuse, material recycling and energy produc­ BMW Group was able to reduce non-recyclable waste by one-third. tion. Recycling of waste is always preferred to waste disposal, even Total waste per vehicle produced Waste for disposal per vehicle produced * in kg / vehicle in kg / vehicle GRI G3 Indicator EN22 400  17.5  375  15.0  350  12.5  325  10.0  300  7.5  275  5.0    06 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10   344 376 361 358 381 16.17 14.84 10.63 10.09   * “ Waste for disposal per vehicle produced” became a performance indicator in 2007 In 2010, total waste per vehicle produced increased from 358 kg / vehicle and has been reported since then. to 381 kg / vehicle (+ 6.4%). This is due to the increase in production of larger and higher-value vehicles. Non-recyclable waste per vehicle produced was reduced by 5.1% in spite of the increase in production. This is in line with the annual ­target of 5% reduction in non-recyclable waste per vehicle. This was made possible through rigorous implementation of recycling meas­ ures and efficient use of materials. Land development 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 Land development * in % 24.7 17.6 17.4 17.8 18.8 Size of property in m 2 15,278,584 27,505,189 28,500,467 29,075,131 28,524,493 * Percentage of developed and undeveloped space; reported annually since 2007 (before: every two years). Until 2005, only production sites recorded; since 2007, entire BMW Group recorded. 92 03 Group-wide environmental protection Carriers and CO2 emissions* GRI G3 Indicators EN16, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EN29 GRI Indicator A9 (Sector Supplement) Inbound (material provision of the plants in Germany, UK, South Africa, US) Transport capacity (in million tkm) 3,710 3,927 3,586 2,673 3,810 CO2 emissions (in t) 248,312 285,283 232,818 201,376 320,526 Outbound Transport capacity (in million tkm) 10,005 12,766 12,163 9,942 15,088 CO2 emissions (in t) 101,780 142,228 126,712 106,040 145,501 Total (inbound and outbound) Transport capacity (in million tkm) 13,715 16,693 15,749 12,615 18,898 CO2 emissions (in t) 350,092 427,511 359,530 307,416 466,027 Total (inbound and outbound) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 in % tkm CO2 tkm CO2 tkm CO2 tkm CO2 tkm CO2 Sea 76.9 13.1 76.8 13.1 79.1 15.1 78.0 14.0 79.9 14.1 Road 15.7 73.3 16.1 72.8 14.5 71.9 15.8 73.4 13.3 61.2 Rail 7.2 8.4 6.9 7.9 6.3 7.9 6.0 7.1 6.3 7.3 Air 0.2 5.2 0.2 6.2 0.1 5.1 0.2 5.5 0.5 17.4 * Figures refer to BMW and MINI, excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. Conversion factor for CO2 emissions according to Tremod, conversion factor for CO2 emissions from sea freight is based on CO2 emissions from oil tankers. This factor is being recalculated, which can lead to an increase in the future. Transportation and the resulting CO2 emissions were higher than in of goods transported by each mode. Sea freight increased from 78.0% the previous year due to increased sales on the Chinese market. This to 79.9%. However, at the same time a weak (overseas) supplier situ­ regional shift in sales volume resulted in changes in the proportion ation led to a rise in air freight and thus in air freight transport. Share of vehicles shipped by rail from BMW Group plants* in % GRI G3 Indicator EN29 60  GRI Indicator A9 (Sector Supplement) 50  40  30  20  10   06 07 08 09 10  55.4 54.8 50.3 47.0 49.5  * Excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. The increase from 2009 to 2010 is due to shifts in sales on markets that can receive deliveries by rail. In total, the share of rail transport in 2010 rose slightly to 6.3% (2009: 6.0%). 93 Group-wide environmental protection Means of transport used by BMW Group employees and indirect CO2 emissions from employees’ commuter traffic GRI G3 Indicators EN7, 20081 2009 2 2010 3 EN17, EN29 GRI Indicator A9 in % in t CO2 in % in t CO2 in % in t CO2 (Sector Supplement) Cars 43 46,086 43 40,984 45 43,414 Public transport 17 5,113 16 4,827 16 4,816 Plant bus 37 14,793 36 13,028 33 13,049 Bicycle / on foot 3 0 5 0 6 0 Total 100 65,992 100 58,839 100 61,279 The figures include trips to and from destinations. of short working weeks at the plants. In the car consumption figures the general 1 Research and Innovation Centre Munich as well as Munich, Dingolfing and Regens­reduction trend was accounted for. 3 burg plants account for some 59 % of employees of BMW Group. Headquarters, including Research and Innovation Centre Munich, the Munich, 2 Headquarters, including Research and Innovation Centre Munich, the Munich, ­Dingolfing, Regensburg and Berlin plants account for 59 % of employees of BMW ­Dingolfing and Regensburg plants account for some 58 % of employees of BMW Group and 81 % of employees in Germany. Group and 78 % of employees in Germany. CO2 emissions dropped as a result The CO2 figure is higher than in 2009 due to the inclusion of the Berlin more fuel-efficient vehicles. The choice of method of transport did not plant. In spite of the increase in production and workforce, CO2 emis­ change significantly. sions at the other plants did not rise, as the workforce was driving much Ongoing expenditure on environmental protection Investment in environmental protection in euro million in euro million GRI G3 Indicator EN30 55  40  50  35  45  30  40  25  35  20  30  15    06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10   43.1 49.7 50.8 48.6 54.8 20.7 27.8 33.8 15.4 21.7   Figures for German production sites. Information refers to German production sites of BMW AG. Expenditure on environmental protection increased by 12.8% in 2010. Compared to the previous year, investment in environmental protec­ tion rose by 41%. The low level in 2009 was due to the impact of the economic crisis. 94 03 Group-wide environmental protection Status of objectives in the area of Group-wide environmental protection Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Management of resources and environmental protection  Breakthrough goal of a 30 % 2012  From 2009 to 2010, the yearly figures developed as reduction in energy consump­follows: tion as well as VOC, water, – Energy consumption: reduced by 4.8 % from 2.89 to ­process wastewater and waste 2.75 MWh / vehicle per vehicle produced between – VOC emissions: reduced by 9.6 % from 1.77 to 2006 and 2012 (5 % per year) 1.6 kg / vehicle – Water consumption: reduced by 9.8 % from 2.56 to 2.31 m3 / vehicle – Process wastewater: reduced by 6.5 % from 0.62 to 0.58 m3 / vehicle – Waste for disposal: reduced by 5.1 % from 10.63 to 10.09 kg / vehicle The energy efficiency indicator shows that overall resource efficiency enhancements are within the agreed target range (approximately 5 % p. a.). Further measures to raise 2010  Continuous improvement measures with corresponding ­employee awareness of energy communication to employees, e. g. introduction of saving potential multiple socket outlets that can switched on and off by hand or in some cases even automatically, minimising the standby base load electricity for computers etc. in office areas at night and at weekends. Further examples: Energy Day held in Berlin plant, e-mail campaign to supervisors on opportunities to save energy during production downtime over Christmas 2010. Fully implement odour-free foundry 2010  Foundry successfully rendered “odour-free”. Reduction at the Landshut plant by 2010 with in odour emissions by 98 % and CO2 emissions by the subsequent further reduction in 83 %. In 2010, the Landshut plant’s light metal foundry VOC emissions won the category “Excellent overall system” of the ­renowned ­Automotive Lean Production Award. Nature conservation and Develop a biodiversity indicator for 2011  Biodiversity indicator has been developed. ­biodiversity the entire BMW Group production network Energy consumption and emissions  Increase application of renewEvaluate and promote the option of 2010  Around 80 % of production plants were assessed for able energies using wind and geothermal power their technical / physical potential and opportunities at various locations for use of ­local renewable energy sources. An application was submitted to the responsible authorities for planning permission to set up four wind energy plants, each with over 2 MW capacity, on the premises of the BMW plant in L ­ eipzig. Materials use and waste management  Introduce waste management Introduce ABIS at the plants in 2011  The plant in Chennai, India introduced the BMW Group’s worldwide Goodwood (UK), Rayong (Thailand) waste information system ABIS in 2008. ABIS scheduled and Chennai (India) for launch at the Goodwood (UK) in 2011. ABIS launch in Rayong (Thailand) was postponed in favour of installation in Chennai (India). Plans are ongoing for launch in Rayong.   100 % 75 % 50 % 95 Group-wide environmental protection Status of objectives in the area of Group-wide environmental protection Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Efficient transport logistics  Reduce environmental impact Convert vehicle distribution to ex2008  As of 2010, wax is no longer applied to vehicles as of surface protection materials clude surface protection (by the ­surface protection. for new vehicle transport start of 2008, 95 % of BMW Group Foil protection will be applied to the horizontal surfaces vehicles were to be delivered with– bonnet, roof and luggage compartment door – of a reout extra surface protection) sidual percentage of around 10 % of vehicles destined for “risk markets” (e. g. importer markets such as UAE, Vietnam or Africa). Increase percentage of lowDevelop supply concepts from 2009  New tenders will give preference to rail as a mode of emissions transport used global procurement sources to transport, all other economic factors being equal. BMW Group production sites, For example, 50 % of new vehicles from the Leipzig ­taking account of sustainable, en­ plant will be transported by rail in 2011. vironmentally friendly transport concepts Optimise transport volumes Develop concepts on traffic reduc2009  In transport logistics, rail will be given preference as a tion (capacity utilisation) and reallocarrier where possible. Rail transport increased from cate traffic to more environmentally 6.0 % to 6.3 % in financial year 2010. Further traffic friendly carriers avoidance concepts are in development.   100 % 75 % 50 % New objectives in the area of Group-wide environmental protection Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline   Management of resources and environmental protection  Develop and implement a new Provide advice and support in creating and implementing the environmental management / 2011  ­integrated environmental managewaste management system, particularly at the German branches and in the Polish and UK ment / waste management system markets in selected markets and branches Energy consumption and emissions  Develop a strategy to increase the – Use of locally available renewable energy sources 2015  share of renewable energy used – Purchase renewable energy at BMW plants, the vision being 100 % renewable energy supply at the locations Efficient transport logistics  Optimise the transport volume Improve empty container management 2013  Increase the share of low-emissions Use low-carbon modes of transport 2013  modes of transport Increase capacity utilisation in Increase capacity utilisation by pooling transport flows in individual countries 2013  ­shipping finished vehicles  96 04 Employees BMW Group Employees at end of year * BMW Group Apprentices at 31 December GRI G3 Indicator LA1 120,000  5,000  100,000  4,500  80,000  4,000  60,000  3,500  40,000  3,000  20,000  2,500    06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10   106,575 107,539 100,041 96,230 95,453 4,359 4,281 4,102 3,915 3,798   employees in Germany employees abroad * Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the non-work Of the 1,124 apprentices who joined the BMW Group in 2010, 1,080 phases of pre-retirement arrangements and low income earners. began their training in Germany. The BMW Group offers a wide range of programmes tailored to various interest groups, from qualifying for At the end of the 2010 financial year, the BMW Group’s headcount entry into university, to training as a skilled worker, and also including had decreased slightly to 95,453, or 777 less than the previous year the opportunity for under-achieving school leavers to obtain a “starter (– 0.8%), due to natural attrition, partial retirement and mutual termi­ qualification”, preparing them for subsequent entry into vocational nation agreements. training. BMW Group Employees GRI G3 Indicator LA1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Workforce according to segment Automobiles 98,505 98,548 92,924 89,457 88,468 Motorcycles 2,782 2,989 2,917 2,796 2,814 Financial Services 3,478 4,097 4,077 3,882 4,053 Other 1,810 1,905 123 1 95 118 Ratio of employees with fixed-term contracts 2 in % 1.5 1.8 1.3 1.4 1.9 1 Reduction in staff numbers due to the sale of the majority interest in the IT consulting company Cirquent. 2 Excluding apprentices, interns, students and doctoral candidates. Share of employees per country with production site(s) in 2010 BMW AG employees according to age group* in % in % GRI G3 Indicator LA1 Other countries China 2008 2009 2010 (chart on the left) Thailand GRI G3 Indicator LA13 India Germany 74.4 (chart on the right) Italy South Africa UK 6.6 < 30 years 11.9 10.7 9.6 Austria USA 6.2 30 – 50 years 69.7 69.8 68.8 USA Austria 3.0 > 50 years 18.4 19.5 21.6 UK South Africa 2.4 * Employees with permanent contracts. Italy 1.2 India 0.4 Demographic change in society is also reflected in the age structure Thailand 0.2 of the BMW AG workforce. The share of those under 30 years of age has been decreasing since 2008, while by contrast the proportion of Germany China 0.1 employees aged 50 and over has increased in the past two years from Other countries 5.5 18.4% (2008) to 21.6% (2010). The company is responding to this de­  velopment by adapting the working environment to accommodate the changing age structure as well by offering attractive entry and per­ Nearly three-quarters of employees at BMW Group production sites sonal development opportunities. work in Germany. This is followed by the United Kingdom with 6.6%. The distribution between the other countries listed has largely re­ mained the same as the previous year. 97 Employees Share of women in the total workforce of Share of women in management positions at BMW AG / BMW Group* BMW AG / BMW Group* GRI G3 Indicator LA13 in % in % 15  2008 2009 2010 14  13  Supervisory Board 15 15 15 12  Board of Management 0 0 0 11  10  Non-tariff employees  BMW AG 8.4 8.4 8.8 06 07 08 09 10 BMW Group 11.1  * Figures are only available from 2010 for the share of women in management positions BMW AG 13.4 13.5 13.2 13.1 13.2 (non-tariff employees) of the BMW Group worldwide. BMW Group 15.2  The term “non-tariff employees” primarily includes managers, which * The share of women in the overall workforce can only be determined for the is why it is listed here as the third category of management positions. BMW Group from 2010. Achieving social diversity within the workforce is essential to ensure future competitiveness. With this in mind, the BMW Group’s Diversity Concept has an important part to play in the company’s strategic ­direction, in which providing opportunities for women is one of the three dimensions of diversity (along with an international workforce and a mixture of ages). Between 2005 and 2010 the number of ­female non-tariff employees rose from 7.4% to 8.8%. Share of local employees in management positions at Share of employees with disabilities at BMW AG major company locations1 in % GRI G3 Indicator EC7 6  in % (chart on the left) GRI G3 Indicator LA13 2008 2009 2010 5  (chart on the right) 4  Munich site 99.2 99.5 99.5 3  Dingolfing site 99.2 99.1 99.6 2  Berlin site 100.0 100.0 100.0 1  Landshut site 100.0 100.0 100.0  Leipzig site 100.0 100.0 100.0 06 07 08 09 10 Regensburg site 99.3 99.3 100.0  UK 91.1 4.2 3.9 4.6 5.4 6.0 USA 88.3  Italy 90.3 Figures refer to all full-time employees including apprentices and there­ Austria 90.8 fore not only to direct staff. In 2010 the BMW Group awarded contracts South Africa 89.7 amounting to euro 7.2 million to workshops for the severely disabled. China 2 43.0 India 45.0 Thailand 65.2 1 Figures for the share of local employees in management positions at foreign sites are only available from 2010. 2 Including employees of joint ventures not consolidated in the BMW Group. “Local” refers to managers with local contracts. Persons sent to work at the location who do not have a local employment contract are not in­ cluded. Such persons are reflected in the difference from 100% in each case. 98 04 employees Employee fluctuation ratio BMW AG1 Total number of employees leaving BMW AG, by reason for as a percentage of the workforce leaving* GRI G3 Indicator LA2 6  Number 5  5,000  4  4,000  3  3,000  2  2,000  1  1,000    06 07 08 09 10 08 09 10   2.68 2.66 5.85 2 4.59 2 2.74 3,955 3,009 1,753    1 Number of employees on unlimited employment contracts leaving the company. dismissed by employer 2 After implementation of announced HR measures (voluntary termination agreements). voluntarily left company (termination or suspension of employment contract by ­employee) At 2.74%, the attrition rate was much lower in 2010 than in 2009 pension, death, pre-retirement part-time working arrangements * (4.59%). This can be attributed both to the general economic recovery Figures refer to employees with permanent contracts. and to the proven programmes and measures undertaken by the BMW Group to position itself as an attractive employer. With a total of 1,753 employees leaving BMW AG in 2010, the num­ ber declined by around 42% compared to the previous year. Only 53 of these instances, the lowest number, were due to dismissal by the employer (2009: 55). The number of employees leaving the company voluntarily decreased to 970 (– 45%), the number leaving due to ­retirement, pre-retirement part-time working arrangements or death sank to 730 (– 38%). Share of employees represented by a trade union or falling under collective agreements1 in % GRI G3 Indicator LA4 2008 2009 2010 Germany 2 100 100 100 UK 75 China (plant) 100 Austria 2 100 100 100 South Africa 46 USA (no collective agreements exist) 0 0 0 1 2 Figures for the United Kingdom, China and South Africa only available from 2010. Excludes executives. In the BMW Group, institutionalised operational co-determination is the employees. In China and South Africa, employees are represented implemented Group-wide according to the applicable national regula­ by local workers’ representatives, while at the company locations in tions. In all BMW AG plants and branches as well as in Austria and the the USA no collective agreements exist. United Kingdom, elected works councils observe co-determination for 99 Employees Average weekly working time by country* in hours 2008 2009 2010 Germany Industry-wide collective agreement for the Bavarian metal and electronics industries 35 35 35 Industry-wide collective agreement for commercial workers and employees of the Saxony metal and electronics industries 38 38 38 Non-tariff employees 40 40 40 Steyr plant 38.5 38.5 38.5 Spartanburg plant 40 40 40 Oxford plant 37 37 37 Rosslyn plant 40 40 40 * Usual weekly working time according to employment contract, without part-time work. The average weekly working time in Germany is 40 hours for non-­ to the provisions of collective agreements there. At BMW Group tariff employees, and up to five hours less in Bavaria and Saxony due plants abroad the weekly working time is similar to Germany. Alternative work forms at BMW AG* GRI G3 Indicator LA1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Part-time employees 3,059 3,159 2,794 3,133 3,709 in % of total number of employees 4.0 4.2 3.9 4.5 5.3 Teleworking positions 4,836 6,149 7,702 7,636 9,209 in % of total number of employees 6.4 8.1 10.8 10.9 13.2 Sabbaticals 1,401 1,033 1,366 704 498 in % of total number of employees 1.8 1.4 1.9 1.0 0.7 Parental leave 393 523 1,062 1,313 1,600 in % of total number of employees 0.5 0.7 1.5 1.9 2.3 * Figures reflect both fixed-term and permanent employment contracts (previous reporting reflected permanent contracts only). The figures for the previous year were adjusted ­retroactively to reflect the new calculation basis. Due to the topicality of the issue of parental leave and its increasing actively. The substantial increase in employees taking advantage of social relevance for this report, this category has now been added this option reflects the importance of this trend. to the calculation and the figures for previous years determined retro­ 100 04 employees Average days of further training per Average training hours at the BMW AG Academy, by employee BMW Group employee category* GRI G3 Indicator LA10 Quantity Hours / employee 2.4  2008 2009 2010 2.2  2.0  Non-tariff employees 13.4 11.6 19.2 1.8  “Meister” 1.6  (master craftsmen) 18.6 11.3 19.0 1.4  Tariff employees (w / o “meister”)  + apprentices + other 8.3 5.0 8.1 06 07 08 09 10  Days of further training for managers in the BMW Group 1.8 1.9 1.6 1.6 2.4  Days 1,935 6,317 16,475 In 2010, the BMW Group increased expenditure on further education * 2008: BMW AG Performance Centres. and training by about one-quarter compared to the previous year, to euro 179 million (+ 25.2%). The average days of further training per The BMW Academy founded in 2009 unites vocational training and employee thus went up from 1.6 (2009) to 2.4. further training for all company locations in Germany and the United Kingdom under one roof. This facilitates the coordination of training courses and generates synergies through the use of shared resources. The 2010 figures for the Academy shown here represent approximately 40% of overall further training activities at the company worldwide. In observance of its Strategy Number ONE, the BMW Group did not neglect to invest in further training for executives even during the ­crisis years. It was therefore possible during the economic recovery phase in 2010 to significantly increase the number of Group-wide days of further training for managers compared to 2009. Investment in further education and training1 at BMW Group BMW Group personnel costs per employee* in euro million in euro GRI G3 Indicator EC1 225  85,000  (chart on the right) 200  80,000  175  75,000  150  70,000  125  65,000  100  60,000    06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10   184 181 154 143 2 179 76,621 76,704 75,612 72,349 83,141   1 * BMW Group investments are dependent on the current need for further education and Figures exclude suspended employment contracts, employees in non-work phases of training, which may lead to fluctuations compared year-on-year. pre-retirement part-time arrangements, apprentices, students and low i­ncome earn2 In difficult economic conditions, training programmes focused on select target groups ers. and priority topics during the 2009 financial year. Maintaining a competitive level of personnel expense plays a major Expenditure on basic and further training was intentionally increased role in the success of the BMW Group. In addition to focusing on cost, by more than one-quarter in 2010. The BMW Group sees targeted the aim is also to increase efficiency at all levels of the business. The ­employee training as an investment in the future. At the same time, high degree of motivation amongst employees and the positive cor­ building up and maintaining skills expertise within the Group’s work­ porate approach towards staff are maintained and underscored by a force are key aspects of strategic corporate governance. combination of rewards determined individually on the basis of per­ formance and success. 101 Employees Profit-sharing scheme at BMW AG by year of payment1 Share of performance-related compensation in BMW AG in % of monthly salary / in % of personal base value (from 2011) s ­ alaries, by employee category 175  in % of salary group 150  2008 2009 2010 125  100  Upper management 55 – 62 54 – 63 55 – 66 75  Middle management 39 – 42 38 – 42 38 – 42  Senior management 07 08 09 10 11 (below board level) 11 – 12 11 – 12 10 – 11 156.3 156.3 none none 98 2  Due to the significant decline in profit in 2009 and 2010, BMW AG employees did not receive any bonuses for 2008 and 2009. 1 New employees receive full bonuses after four years of employment. 2 New bonus system from 2011 based on personal base value. As of the 2010 financial year (payout in 2011) bonuses at BMW AG will be determined according to a uniform system across all hierarchy levels. Starting in the 2011 financial year (payout in 2012) this system will also be introduced for employees worldwide as a standardised corporate success component in nearly all BMW Group companies. The consistency of this component is thus ensured both hierarchi­ cally (from production worker to board member) and geographically (worldwide). This portion of the bonus depends on the earnings per­ formance of the BMW Group and is accordingly calculated according to these three parameters: Group earnings after tax, after-tax return on sales, and dividends. Including the post-tax return on sales in the calculation of bonuses (including for the Board of Management and the upper executives) in particular ensures an orientation towards the profitable, and hence sustainable, growth of the BMW Group. Employee satisfaction at BMW Group* Savings for BMW Group resulting from suggestions HPO index for improvement 1 (agree completely / very satisfied)  in euro million 2  70  3  65  4  60  5 (don’t agree at all / unsatisfied)  55   50  10 45    2.47 06 07 08 09 10   * Due to the introduction of the HPO index in 2010, data are only available from 2010. 63.0 67.2 60.9 56.8 67.4 An employee survey was conducted in February 2011 using the  High Performance Organisation Index for the first time. This index Group-wide idea management led to savings of euro 67.4 million in represents a median value resulting from a series of questions on 2010 resulting from suggestions for improvement. This represents an the dimensions strategy, processes, team, management and culture at increase of 19% over the previous year. A new concept is currently the BMW Group. A total of 85% of employees took part in the survey. ­being developed for the staff suggestions scheme in order to make the creation of ideas even more attractive for employees. 102 04 employees Occupational health and safety management systems at BMW Group sites GRI G3 Indicator LA8 Site Occupational health and safety management system Year of certification Berlin plant OHSAS 18001 2010 Dingolfing plant OHRIS 2009 Eisenach plant OHSAS 18001 meets standard, not certified 1 Goodwood plant, UK HS(G) 65 2 introduced OHSAS 18001 planned 2012 Hams Hall plant, UK HS(G) 65 2 introduced OHSAS 18001 planned 2012 Landshut plant OHRIS 2009 Leipzig plant OHRIS 2008 Munich plant OHRIS 2009 Oxford plant, UK HS(G) 65 2 introduced OHSAS 18001 planned 2012 Regensburg plant OHRIS 2009 Rosslyn plant, South Africa OHSAS 18001 2008 BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang, China OHSAS 18001 2008 Spartanburg plant, USA OHSAS 18001 planned 2012 Steyr plant, Austria OHSAS 18001 2010 Swindon plant, UK HS(G) 65 2 introduced OHSAS 18001 planned 2012 Wackersdorf plant 3 OHRIS 2009 Husqvarna Motorcycles S. r. l., Cassinetta di Biandronno, Italy national standard introduced CKD production Chennai, India OHSAS 18001 2009 CKD production Jakarta, Indonesia national standard introduced CKD production Kaliningrad, Russia national standard introduced CKD production Kulim, Malaysia OHSAS 18001 introduced CKD production Rayong, Thailand OHSAS 18001 planned 2012  2 National standards do not require certification. HS(G) 65, successful health and safety management, British government guidelines 1 OHRIS is used as occupational safety management system; however, the site is not on safety at the workplace. Does not require certification. 3 ­certified. jointly certified with BMW Regensburg plant. The BMW Group currently has certified occupational health and with national standards at four further sites. OHSAS certification of safety management systems in accordance with OHRIS and OHSAS in the sites in the United Kingdom, USA and Thailand are to follow by place at 11 of its 22 sites, and corresponding systems in accordance 2012. Occupational safety at BMW AG1 GRI G3 Indicators LA7, LA8 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total accidents Quantity 4,692 4,602 4,636 4,619 4,458 Reportable accidents Quantity 304 284 255 303 348 Accident frequency 2 3.0 2.9 2.6 3.2 3.7 Fatal accidents Quantity 0 0 0 0 0 Safety courses with the No. of participants 1,604 1,741 2,325 2,098 1,419 occupational safety association Risk assessments 3 Quantity 13,368 not specified 14,014 16,891 19,967 1 3 Figures for BMW AG without branches. The figures for the previous years were adjusted Safety assessments of workplaces, including with regard to possible ergonomic retroactively in accordance with the new calculation basis. and health strains (ABATech method). Figures are cumulative and apply to the BMW 2 Number of reportable industrial accidents per one million hours worked. Group. There have been no fatal accidents at the BMW Group for the last five years can be attributed to the decline in personnel during the eco­ years. The measures taken to ensure a safe workplace have thus nomic and financial crisis. Training courses are taken primarily by proven effective. The reduction in safety courses over the last three those new to the company. 103 Employees Sickness frequency at BMW AG Accident frequency at BMW Group in % per one million hours worked GRI G3 Indicator LA7 5.0  4.0 (chart on the right) 4.5  3.5 4.0  3.0 3.5  2.5 3.0  2.0 2.5  1.5   08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10   4.1 4.3 4.6 3.3 3.1 2.7 3.1 3.6   Definition of industrial accident in accordance with the German Social Code: Industrial accidents are accidents involving insured individuals and resulting from the pursuit of their insured activity on the industrial site. Accidents are events of limited duration that impact the body externally, leading to damage to health or death. * For system-related reasons, these data cover approximately 78 % of BMW Group ­employees. Occupational safety takes absolute priority at the BMW Group and is firmly anchored in all work processes in production. Despite compre­ hensive occupational safety management, accident frequency has in­ creased from 3.1 (2009) to 3.6 (2010) per 1 million hours worked. The BMW Group has set itself the goal for 2011 of achieving an accident frequency of under 2.5. Total days of work missed at BMW AG* Quantity GRI G3 Indicator LA7 18,000  15,000  12,000  9,000  6,000  3,000   06 07 08 09 10  12,344 12,477 12,227 13,727 16,620  due to a notifiable work accident due to a notifiable accident on the way to or from work * Figures apply to BMW AG without branches. The performance indicator of days of work missed is new in this report and has been divided between the categories work accident or accident on the way to or from work. The number of days of work missed due to work accidents was 7,956 in 2010. This rate has remained more or less constant for many years in spite of continuously increasing produc­ tion volumes. The sharp rise in the number of days of work missed due to accidents on the way to or from work in 2010 results primarily from the long and severe winter weather conditions early in the year. 104 04 employees Status of objectives in the area of employees Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Attractive employer  Further develop the Measure excellent management 2010  The HPO Index measure planned for fulfilment by 2011 ­management model by means of High Performance was to determine the actual values by means of a survey. Organisation Index (HPO Index) This has been done and was used as basis for establishing target values for the HPO index. Their achievement will be evaluated in 2013. Employee recruitment and training  Adapt training to meet new Expand the training contents to post Technological challenges during the reporting period ­technical requirements ­include future technologies (keyponed to ­involved the fields of hybrid and high-voltage technology word: project i) 2012 and vehicle construction with carbon fibre reinforced ­plastic (CFRP). Hybrid training programmes rolled out at all German plants. Training programmes for high-voltage technology are ­likewise in progress. A training centre at the BMW Academy was opened for this purpose on 1 May 2011. The training programmes for vehicle construction using carbon fibre reinforced plastic (CFRP) for apprentices are still in the concept phase. Roll-out is planned for the ­apprentice year 2012 (beginning 1 September 2012). Maintain and further develop Establish systematic from  2009 Competence management serves to train employees in a skills in the company in a ­competence management goal-oriented manner to ensure they have the skills required target-oriented manner to master future challenges. The focus in 2009 / 2010 was on establishing systematic competence management in the area of Development. This step has now been achieved. Projects have likewise been launched and completed in further areas (Purchasing, Sales Germany, Logistics). A set of mandatory basic elements was resolved to this end in 2011. Diversity and equal opportunities  Promote diversity at the company Develop strategic areas of action 2010  Three areas of action on the theme of diversity were de(also other aspects of diversity and targets in the area of diversity fined: gender, age/experience and cultural background. In apart from the advancement of November 2010 the Board of Management resolved tarwomen) get corridors for the “gender” field of action. Formulating the targets for the other two areas of action is in progress until the end of 2011. Raise awareness at the company 2010  The following measures were defined and implemented for diversity issues for 2010: Half-yearly management memo on diversity issues in­ cluded in the newsletter “P Aktuell” (Personal-Aktuell) – Introduction of the diversity communication concept in the Group Works Council – Statements by company representatives in external communications in the form of interviews – Newsletter on BMW AG’s Diversity Concept for all nontariff employees in December 2010 – Draft concept for a diversity training course for all Human Resources employees Occupational health and safety protection and promotion  Company-wide coverage by Introduce occupational safety 2010  The BMW Group currently has occupational health and ­occupational safety managemanagement systems at all safety management systems in accordance with OHRIS ment systems BMW Group sites and OHSAS in place at 14 of its 24 sites, and corresponding systems at four further sites in accordance with national standards. The expansion to additional sites is planned for 2011 / 2012. Introduce occupational safety post OHSAS certification is planned for: management systems in accordponed to Goodwood (UK) in 2012 ance with OHSAS at UK, US and 2012 Oxford (UK) in 2012 Thai sites Swindon (UK) in 2012 Spartanburg (USA) in 2012 Rayong (Thailand) in 3rd quarter 2011   100 % 75 % 50 % 105 Employees Status of objectives in the area of employees Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Occupational health and safety protection and promotion  Increase and maintain the proDevelop standards for the creation 2010  Target fulfilled. Roll-out concept developed building on ductivity and employability of of age-appropriate work systems the standard. First steps already undertaken to spread BMW Group employees and enin production these standards. By now, every German production site able flexible, demand-oriented (plus Steyr) can demonstrate concrete examples of the retirement implementation of the demographics project “Today for Tomorrow”.   100 % 75 % 50 % New objectives in the area of employees Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline   Attractive employer  Remain an attractive employer: Create newly aligned recruitment measures to alert candidates to attractive entry oppor­ 2011  Top 3 amongst engineers and tunities and acquire important skills for the company early on, measurable according to the economists ­following parameters: Top 7 amongst computer scientists Evaluation of objective based on annual measurement of employer attractiveness as part of a published study by the two agencies Trendence and Universum for the target groups of students and (young) professionals. Uniform remuneration philosophy Implement worldwide remuneration guidelines and international bonus system in all Group 2011  and systems worldwide, reflecting companies. the principle of performance and ­reward Employee recruitment and training  Manager training to develop leaderBased on the complete redesign of the executive qualification scheme already implemented, 2012  ship personalities who will shape the a significant long-term step-up of the training programme has been achieved (tripling the company in a way that creates value budget since 2008). Roll-out: Two-thirds of managers should be trained by the end of 2011, while it remains aware of its social 100 % by the end of 2012. responsibility Internationalisation of training Increase training in the fields of automotive technology and production technology as well 2011  ­offerings as qualification projects compared to 2009. The focus of internationalisation is the Chinese site Shenyang. Another focus is on the development of new educational offerings as well as more communication and marketing of educational measures at the company (i. e. “Academy dialogue” at the plants, participation in HR Days). Implement corporate volunteering – Work out further details of the corporate volunteering concept approved in 4th quarter 2011  2010 and begin implementation. – For 2011, at least one pilot site for establishing corporate volunteering activities should be chosen. Life balance  Further develop “women and family Review new national and international concepts/programmes, and evaluate and further 2011  policies” for “balancing work and ­develop existing measures – e. g. specific mentoring programmes for women, 100-day private life” coaching for advancement in a technology-dominated environment, alternative work ­schedule models and childcare options for working parents. Develop measures portfolio that also takes diversity aspects into account, tailored to the ­defined area of action “gender”. Occupational health and safety protection and promotion / demographic change  Lower accident frequency per 1 milDevelop individualised measures for the sites and document them at every production 2011  lion hours worked to under 2.5 plant and at the Research and Innovation Centre (FIZ) in Munich in the target agreement processes at the plants. SOS inspections are already taking place worldwide. Maintain and preserve the long-term Introduce and implement the integrated approach “Health Management 2020”. A test is 2012 / 2013  employability of employees planned for a pilot area in 2012. After evaluation, roll-out of the approach is scheduled for the following year.  106 05 Society BMW Group donations worldwide in 2010* Donations in the field of politics in %, total sum: euro 10,241,748 in euro GRI G3 Indicators EC1, SO6 600,000  Sport Science / Education  64 (chart on the left) Environment / Sustainability Society / Community  18 500,000  GRI G3 Indicator SO6 Politics (chart on the right) Culture  6 400,000  Culture Politics  6 300,000  Environment / Sustainability  5 200,000  Society / Sport  1 100,000  Community  08 09 10 Science / Education  530,431 565,274 603,145   * The sum indicated here does not include either cause-related marketing or sponsorship and does not contain the projects and activities carried out in the context of the The BMW Group supports the work of the democratic parties CDU, ­company’s social and cultural commitment. CSU, SPD, FDP and Bündnis 90/Grüne (the Green Party). All BMW Group donations for each year are published by name in the accounts The focus of the BMW Group’s donating activities is the field of included in the party financing report of the President of the German ­science / education, involving targeted support of projects connected Federal Parliament. Mainly, BMW donates vehicles for use free of with the company’s core competencies and activities. Donations charge. The parties provide BMW with confirmation of receipt of a do­ made by the BMW Group in 2010 were approximately 34% higher nation by stating the corresponding value or rental rate. In addition, than in 2009 (2009: euro 7,618,609). BMW donates money in exceptional cases. Vehicle donations in 2010 amounted to a value of euro 402,609 (CSU: euro 142,332, CDU: euro 56,129, FDP: euro 65,129, SPD euro 95,338 and the Green Party: euro 43,681). The largest political parties each receive equal budgets for the use of vehicles. The FDP and the Green Party each receive equivalent (lower) budgets. The budgets have remained on the same level for the past three years. However, not all political parties make use of this budget to the same extent, so that over time different donation totals for each party may be stated in the published information to the Presi­ dent of the German Federal Parliament. In addition to the above-men­ tioned vehicle transfer, a cash donation of euro 36,000 was made in 2010 for work on women’s policy by the CSU Frauenunion (women’s union) in Bavaria as well as a donation of euro 250 to a CSU district as­ sociation. International political donations by the BMW Group are only made in clearly defined and exceptional cases which are subject to the respective legal framework conditions. Expenditure on inter­ national political donations in 2010 amounted to around 5% of total expenditure on international donations. Amount of expenditure on social commitment, by type of Share of expenditure on social commitment, by type of ­activity or donation activity or donation GRI G3 Indicator EC1 in euro thousand in % of total expenditures 24,000  120  20,000  100  16,000  80  12,000  60  8,000  40  4,000  20    08 09 10 08 09 10   5,707 7,619 26,591 41.1 20.1 99.9*   monetary donations and donations in kind community investment donations community investment commercial activities * commercial activities Due to rounding-off, the total is not equal to100 %. The activities of the BMW Group in the area of social commitment are ships, corporate volunteering (e. g. as part of the BMW Group Award for divided into three main areas. Donations: monetary donations and Intercultural Engagement). Commercial activities: sponsorships, Cus­ donations in kind (primarily vehicles). Community investment: project tomer Relationship Management. Data on community investment and initiatives conceived in-house, cooperative endeavours and partner­ commercial activities were measured as such for the first time in 2010. 107 Society Status of objectives in the area of society Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline  Status June 2011  Status of  performance  Social commitment  Further develop communities at Improve educational oppor2010  Target fulfilled. The plan for this measure was to increase the international locations using tunities in the communities at engagement in India in 2010. BMW Group core competencies the Indian plant in Chennai Local activities were carried out (e. g. computers donated to schools at the Chennai site and 375 sponsorships ­assumed). A project in cooperation with the Indian children’s aid ­organisation Magic Bus – planned for a several-year ­period in Delhi and Chennai – was initiated in 2010 and begins in 2011. Road safety projects  Internationalisation International road safety and 2010 /  Target fulfilled. The portal was adapted to fit international, mobility portal for road users 2011 country-specific needs and activities. Plans for 2010 were of all ages to extend successfully established projects and promote local initiatives. Currently the BMW Group is engaged in particular in the United Arab Emirates, China and the USA with initiatives including “Stay Alert” – safety measures for drivers and passengers in Dubai; “Slow down for children” in China; “Don’t Text and Drive” in the USA. Education and intercultural understanding  Implement the new concept Combine the company’s 2009 /  Target fulfilled. The award was conferred for the first time for the BMW Group Award for ­experience and its award2010 in 2010 according to the new concept. Besides prize ­Intercultural Engagement winning projects with a money, award winners also receive a year’s support from ­corporate volunteering BMW Group staff (e. g. in drafting a communications ­programme plan and budget or in the form of technical know-how). The form of support provided by the staff is geared to the ­project’s specific needs. BMW Group staff have been ­assisting award winners since January 2011. Health promotion  Expand activities to fight Transfer specific elements of Ongoing:  Target fulfilled (a new target is currently being agreed on). HIV / Aids to other sites the programme from South wherever No workplace measures were required during the reportAfrica e. g. to China, Russia there is a ing period. The reinforcement of smaller local activities in and Thailand need for Thailand and Russia was planned for 2010 – for example ­workplace Baan Gerda in Thailand to help Aids orphans. measures Expand HIV / Aids programme 2011  The Dealer HIV / Aids project in South Africa continues to Not quantifiable from BMW South Africa to lay the foundation for HIV programmes in the vicinity of ­include local dealerships BMW dealerships through social network mapping. S ­ everal dealerships have adopted the programme in full or in part. Programmes are constantly updated (for instance, in ­connection with the 2010 football World Cup) and social groups affected or at risk integrated. Foundations  Expand project work and transBMW AG Eberhard von 2009 / 2010  Target achieved. For 2010 it was planned to expand the fer experiences to other areas in Kuenheim Foundation Joblinge project in progress in Zwiesel, Munich and Berlin need of social action Focus on new concepts for to include Frankfurt / Main as well. 200 volunteer mentors education management. and approximately 450 partner companies are involved in Constructive integration of this project. community involvement into specific projects   100 % 75 % 50 % 108 05 Society New objectives in the area of society Strategic objectives  Measures  Deadline   Social commitment  Better measurement of results achieved Structured review and effectiveness analysis of socio-political activities within the BMW 2012  on company-relevant themes in the area of Group. This is made possible by applying the iooi method (income-output-outcome-imsocial ­commitment pact). Developed with the help of the BMW Group in connection with a project conducted by the Bertelsmann Foundation, this method makes the results of corporate social commitment more budgetable and measurable. Cooperation on the Bertelsmann Foundation project is to continue until at least 2012. Education and intercultural understanding  Promote cooperative projects with other Expand cooperative endeavours and networks in order to heighten the impact and focus 2011  companies and NGOs on the themes of of social commitment: education and intercultural understanding – Joint project of BMW Group and Alliance of Civilizations ( AOC ), an initiative of the UN Secretary-general. I­nitiation of a joint award to encourage and recognise exemplary ­initiatives for intercultural understanding. 1st award conferred in 2011. – Guggenheim Lab: Initiative of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and Museum in association with the BMW Group. The project is conceived as idea incubator and mobile research lab and aims to provide a platform for multidisciplinary exchange amongst a new generation of experts from the fields of architecture, art, science, design, technology and education. The goal is to identify practical solutions for issues and problems posed by life in big cities. The first mobile lab has opened in August 2011 in New York. – Cooperative project with the German Museum of Technology (Deutsches Technikmuseum) in Berlin starting autumn 2011: integration of the BMW World Junior Campus sustainability concept into the exhibition “Man on the move” to introduce children to the themes of mobility, science and sustainability. Foundations  BMW AG Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation Transfer foundation projects to the educational – In the area of “sustainable action”: The experiences from the pilot project “Junge 2011  system Vor!Denker – Kinder philosophieren über Nachhaltigkeit” (“Young thinkers to the fore – children philosophise about sustainability”) will be compiled in a textbook and made available to all educators and teachers. – In the area of “education”: The school project “Tatfunk – unternehmerisch Handeln mit Mikro und Mischpult” (“Action radio – entrepreneurs with microphone and mixing desk”) will be handed on to cooperation partners, anchoring it on the regional level. Pilot projects for concepts dealing with current – In the area of “sustainable action”: The initiative “Verantwortung nehmen – eine Unter­ 2011  social issues nehmenskooperation für nachhaltiges Wirtschaften” (“Taking responsibility – corporate cooperation for sustainable business”) will be implemented. – In the area of “education”: The project “Lehr:werkstatt – neue Wege in der Lehrerbildung” (“Teaching workshop – new methods for teacher education”) will go into its pilot phase in cooperation with Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich. BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt Go global with the international Young Leaders – Biannual World Young Leaders Forum in 2011 2012  Programmes to promote the transfer of respon– E  xtend Young Leaders Forums to Africa and Latin America in 2011 sibility to managers in the area of social and – Expand alumni programmes to improve long-term participation of managers in non-profit cross-sectoral responsibility. Motivate and organisations at international level 2011 / 2012 bindingly commit more international man­agers to shape and take on responsibility in non-­ profit organisations, social organisations and cross-sector partnerships at national and ­international level Intensify research projects in the area of – International series of publications Poiesis projects on social “infrastructures” 2011 / 2012 2012  ­social change and expand the topic of social – Foundation report “Social Sustainability” 2011 / 2012 innovation by enhancing cross-sector and – Expand national and international promotion of Social Entrepreneurship as a tool for solving ­international partnerships and reinforcing social challenges 2011 / 2012 ­solution-oriented cooperation  109 Explanatory comments for the Sustainability Indicators The presentation of the Sustainability Indicators in the Sustainable Value Report (SVR) 2010 has been optimised as follows based on stakeholder feedback. New indicators were added. A three-year trend is shown for these indicators. For the indicators already published in the past, figures for the last five years are shown, as always. Other indicators from the Sustainable Value Report 2008 whose significance has been reduced by developments over the last two years, or which are no longer relevant, have been omitted. These are “Information on environmental compatibility of components”, “Fuel efficiency enhancing technologies incorporated into BMW Group vehicles in ­Europe”, “BMW Group energy strategy” and “Share of vehicles delivered without surface protection”. The indicators “Consumption and emissions data of BMW Group vehicles” and “Environmental management systems at BMW Group sites” will in future be published only on the BMW Group website. In this Sustainable Value Report we have, moreover, decided not to repeat performance indicators shown in charts in the form of tables as well. This eliminates redundancies and saves space. For example, the figures for “Amount of raw materials used” are not listed in a separate table, but rather presented in “BMW Group input /output assessment 2010”. The indicators are arranged according to the chapter structure of the main section of the report (Sustainable manage­ ment, Product responsibility, Group-wide environmental protection, Employees and Society). Within the chapters the topics are no longer organised by sub-headings. The order in which the indicators are presented is largely based on the GRI. New this year are brief explanatory texts on the key figures, including background information on any significant ­variances. At the conclusion of each chapter, the sustainability objectives are shown, with the degree to which each has been achieved to date. The status of these objectives can be compared with that in the Online Update 2010 for the Sustain­ ability Indicators. Following this target-performance comparison is a list of new strategic objectives and accompanying www.bmwgroup.com/ measures. svr-archive The last Sustainable Value Report was published in September 2009 as a printed report and covers the 2008 financial year. For the 2009 financial year, the chapter “Indicators for sustainability with key facts and figures” was published ­exclusively online (Update 2010). Where targets were achieved in 2009, this is noted in the update but no longer mentioned in the SVR 2010. BMW Group key figures include the following production sites worldwide: Dingolfing, Landshut, Leipzig, Munich, Regensburg, Rosslyn (South Africa), Spartanburg (USA), Steyr (Austria); since 2002 Oxford (UK); since 2003 Hams Hall (UK); since 2007 Berlin (brake disc production), Eisenach, Swindon (UK), Goodwood (UK), Rayong assembly plant (Thailand), Chennai assembly plant (India) and BMW Brilliance Shenyang (China). 110 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT * To BMW AG, Munich We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on the part “objectives, key facts and figures” of the Sustainable Value Report for the financial year 2010 of BMW Group. Management’s Responsibility The management board of BMW AG is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainable Value Report in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7 –17) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): – Materiality, – Stakeholder Inclusiveness, – Sustainability Context, – Completeness, – Balance, – Clarity, – Accuracy, – Timeliness, – Comparability and – Reliability. This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainable Value Report and the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Sustainable Value Report. Practitioner’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the key facts and figures part of the Sustainable Value Report for the financial year 2010 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. We also have been engaged to make recommendations for the further development of sustainability management and sustainability reporting based on the results of our assurance engagement. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement under consideration of materiality to express our conclusion with limited assurance. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement (for example, an audit of financial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”), and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance ­engagement.  * Our engagement applied to the German version of the key facts and figures part of the Sustainable Value Report for the financial year 2010. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language – the German text is authoritative. 111 The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following procedures: – Inquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation of the Sustainable Value Report regarding the process to pre­ pare the Sustainable Value Report and the underlying internal control system; – Inspection of documents regarding the sustainability strategy as well as understanding the sustainability manage­ ment structure, the stakeholder dialogue and development process of BMW Group’s sustainability program; – Inquiries of personnel in the corporate functions that are responsible for the chapters Sustainable management, Product responsibility, Group-wide environmental protection, Employees and Society; – Inspection and testing of the systems and processes for collection, analysis, plausibility checks and aggregation of sustainability data and their documentation on a sample basis; – Site visits as part of the inspection of processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating the selected data: – in the corporate headquarters, – on production plant in Munich, – on production plant in Leipzig, – on production plant in Steyr (Austria), – on production plant in Spartanburg (USA); – Analytical procedures on selected sustainability data; – Comparison of selected data with corresponding data in the BMW Group Annual Report for the financial year 2010; – Inspection on a sample basis of internal documents, contracts and invoices/reports of external service providers. Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the part “objectives, key facts and figures” of the Sustainable Value Report for the financial year 2010 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7 –17) of the GRI. Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of sustainability management and sustainability reporting: – Further formalization of the internal controls system for sustainability data; – Harmonization of worldwide reporting systems to facilitate sustainability data collection. Munich, June 29, 2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Michael Werner ppa. Hendrik Fink Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) 112 Gri Index The following GRI Index is an abbreviated version. Please go to www.bmwgroup.com/gri-index-e to access the complete GRI Index including comments in the version that was referred to by GRI for auditing purposes. Profile Reported1 Reference  1. Strategy and Analysis  1.1 Statement from the Board of Management P 1.2 Impacts of operational activity, key risks and opportunities 04 –10, 20 – 21, 34 – 35, 46 – 47, 60 – 61, AR 63 – 69, 124 –127, C 2. Organisational Profile  2.1 Name of the organisation 02, AR 140 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 02 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 02, AR 129 –130, 168 –169 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 02 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 02, AR 168 –169 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form 02, AR 44 – 46 2.7 Markets served 75, AR 40, 168 –169 2.8 Scale of the organisation 02, 72, 96, AR 04 – 05, 166 –167 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership C 2.10 Awards 08 – 09, 17, 25, 26 3. Report Parameters  3.1 Reporting period Cov. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Cov. 3.3 Reporting cycle Cov., C 3.4 Contact persons for questions regarding the report 119 3.5 Process for defining report content Cov., 06 – 07, 14 –15 3.6 Boundary of the report Cov. 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Cov. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures Cov. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations C 3.10 Restatements of information C 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods Cov. 3.12 GRI Content Index 112 –114 3.13 External assurance for the report Cov., 110 –111 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement  4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 10 –11, AR 140 –153 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board AR 140 –153 4.3 Number of independent members in the highest governance body AR 143 –146 4.4 Co-determination right of employees and shareholders 12 –13, 58 AR 44 – 45, 144 –145, 149, 162 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation and achievement of sustainability goals 08, 50, AR 154 –161 4.6 Process in place to avoid conflicts of interest 11 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the highest governance body regarding economic, environmental and social topics P, 06 – 09, AR 144 –146, 153, C 4.8 Values, mission statements, principles and codes of conduct of the organisation relevant to sustainability 02, 07, 11, 16, 36, AR 162 –165, C 4.9 Oversight of the sustainability performance and relevant risks by the Board of Management C 4.10 Assessment of the performance of the Board of Management regarding sustainability 06 – 09 4.11 Precautionary approach 06 – 09, 10, 22, 26, 30, 36 – 37 4.12 Support for external economic, environmental and social activities 07, 15, 49, 67, 115 –116 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations 06,15 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 14 –15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Cov., 14 –15, C 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Cov., 06, 14 –15, AR 43 4.17 Key stakeholder topics Cov., 07, 14 –15, C Indicator Reported1 Reference  Economic  Management approach 04 – 05, 06, 07 – 08, 10, 11, 72 – 75, 77 – 78 EC1 Direct economic value generated 56, 72 – 73, 96, 100 –101, 106, AR 04 – 05 EC2 Financial implications due to climate change 10, 23 – 25, C EC3 Organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations 73, AR 107 –112 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 74, AR 84, 89 – 90, 116 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level compared to local minimum wage 50, C  113 Indicator Reported1 Reference  EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of locally based suppliers 16 –17 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and local senior management 54, 97, C EC8 Impact of infrastructure investments and services 62 – 63, 66 – 67, 69 EC9 Indirect economic impacts 18, AR CP: 56 – 57, 59, 80 – 81 Environment  Management approach 07 – 08, 10, 11, 20 – 23, 30, 34 – 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 80 – 83, 84 – 85, 86 – 93, 94 – 95, C EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 40, 83, 86 EN2 Percentage of used materials that are recycled materials 30, 82, C EN3 Direct energy consumption 38 – 39, 86 – 87 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 38 – 39, 86 EN5 Energy savings 38 – 39, 42 – 44, 86 – 87 EN6 Energy-efficient products and services 22 – 25, 81 – 82 EN7 Reduction of indirect energy consumption 38 – 39, 44, 93 EN8 Total water withdrawal 41, 87 EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water 41 EN10 Percentage of water recycled and reused 41, C EN11 Production plants in protected areas C EN12 Significant impacts upon biodiversity in protected areas 37, C EN13 Habitats protected and restored 37, C EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity 37, 94, C EN15 Endangered species in areas affected by operations of the organisation C EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 38 – 39, 44, 88 – 89, 92, C EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 44, 88, 92 – 93 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 38 – 39, 44, 88 – 89, 92 – 93 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances C EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant emissions 89 EN21 Total water discharge 41, 90, C EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 40, 91 EN23 Significant spills C EN24 Cross-border transport or treatment of hazardous waste C EN25 Areas impacted by the organisation’s discharges of water and runoff 41, C EN26 Initiatives to mitigate harmful environmental impacts of products 22, 23 – 25, 27 – 29, 30, 84, C EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 40, 44, C EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws C EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, materials and members of the workforce 44, 92 – 93 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 36 – 37, 93 Employees  Management approach 07, 10, 12 –13, 46 – 48, 49, 50, 54, 56, 57, 58, 96 –103, 104 –105, AR 163 LA1 Breakdown of workforce by employment type, contract and region 96 – 97, 99, C LA2 Number and rate of employee turnover 58, 98, 101, C LA3 Benefits provided only to full-time employees 50, C LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 58, 98 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes C LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in occupational health and safety committees 56, C LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, working days lost, absentee rate and work-related fatalities 102 –103, C LA8 Preventive healthcare, counselling and training regarding serious diseases 56 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions C LA10 Education and further training measures 51, 100, C LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 51, AR 28 – 29 LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews 50 LA13 Diversity in senior management and employee structure 54, 96 – 97, C LA14 Ratio of basic salary of male and female employees 50, C  1 This indicator is reported in full This indicator is partially reported / This indicator is not reported 2 GRI Sector Supplement Automotive Sector, Pilot Version 1.0, 2004 AR stands for the BMW Group Annual Report 2010 (pdf version), available online at www.bmwgroup.com/ir – divided into the financial section (abbreviated as AR) and the company presentation (abbreviated as AR CP) P Preface and statements by the Board of Management C Comments on this indicator may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability Cov. Cover in the front All core indicators are printed in bold. 114 GRI-INDEX Indicator Reported1 Reference  Human Rights  Management approach 07, 16 –17, 54, 58, 98, 104 –105, AR 163, C HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses 16 –17, 77, C HR2 Percentage of suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights 16 –17, 77, C HR3 Employee training on human rights 16 –17, C HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 06 – 07, 54, C HR5 Operations with significant risk concerning the freedom of association and collective bargaining 16 –17, C HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour 16 –17, 102, C HR7 Operations with significant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour 16 –17, 102, C HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained on aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations 16 HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people C Society  Management approach 04 – 05, 08, 10, 11, 60 – 61, 62, 68 – 69, 78 – 79, 83, 106 –108, AR 34 SO1 Impacts of operations on local communities and regions 14 –16, 62, 66 – 67 SO2 Number of business units analysed for corruption-related risks 11, 79, AR 163 –165 SO3 Employee training regarding anti-corruption 11 SO4 Anti-corruption measures C SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 24, 83, C SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties and politicians 106, C SO7 Number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour AR 65, 67 – 68 SO8 Number of fines for non-compliance with laws AR 68 Product Responsibility  Management approach 10, 20 – 21, 22 – 23, 24 – 32, 80 – 85 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed 21 – 32 PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and of safety of products C PR3 Principles and measures related to product and service information and labelling 22 – 26, 30, C PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information and labelling C PR5 Customer satisfaction 31 – 32 PR6 Programmes for compliance with laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications C PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing communications C PR8 Number of substantiated customer data protection complaints 31, C PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products / C Sector Supplement 2  A1 Stipulated work hours per week and average hours worked overtime in production 99 A2 Percentage of employees not managed with overtime compensation schemes C A3 Percentage of major first tier supplier facilities with independent trade union organisations C A4 Numbers of vehicles sold, broken down by type, fuels, power train technologies and region 74 – 75, AR 18 – 21, 24 A5 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined emissions standards 23, 25 A6 Average fuel economy by type of vehicle 82, AR CP Cover in the back A7 Average carbon dioxide emissions by type of vehicle 80 – 82, AR CP Cover in the back A8 Compliance of vehicles sold with the respective existing and next defined noise standard 81, C A9 EN29 – relevant indicator for automotive sector 44, 92 – 93 A10 Weight of vehicle and percentage breakdown of generic, recyclate and renewable material of a best-selling vehicle 30, 82, C  1 This indicator is reported in full This indicator is partially reported / This indicator is not reported 2 GRI Sector Supplement Automotive Sector, Pilot Version 1.0, 2004 AR stands for the BMW Group Annual Report 2010 (pdf version), available online atwww.bmwgroup.com/ir – divided into the financial section (abbreviated as AR) and the company presentation (abbreviated as AR CP) P Preface and statements by the Board of Management C Comments on this indicator may be found in the GRI Index online at www.bmwgroup.com/sustainability Cov. Cover in the front All core indicators are printed in bold. 115 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) Communication on Progress (COP): implementation of UN Global Compact Principles 2011 The BMW Group has been committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact since July 2001, and is continuously working on integrating sustainability ­criteria into all corporate processes. The company actively promotes compliance with internationally adopted standards and regulations in the fields of human rights, ­occupational standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. The BMW Group also requires its suppliers to adhere to the same standards. This Sustainable Value Report 2010 is also the company’s COP on the UN Global Compact. The following chart lists examples of established BMW Group guidelines and management systems that support compliance with the ten principles as well as progress made during the reporting period (July 2010 – July 2011). Company guidelines and  Substantial progress made  References  GRI (G3)  management systems  Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  BMW Group: BMW Group: 07, 10 –11, 16 –17, EC5 – Human Resources and Social Policies – Continued development of Human Resources and Social Policies and thus also per47, 48 – 49, 50, LA4 – Joint Declaration on Human Rights sonnel work in keeping with Strategy Number ONE 54 – 58, 77–79, LA6 – 9 and Working Conditions – Set up of compliance hotline “SpeakUP” 97 –103, 104 –105 LA13 –14 Supply chain: – Focused raising of awareness for sustainability aspects among purchasing employees Further docuHR1– 9 – Purchasing conditions in “Supply Chain Academy” ments: 1, 2 SO5 – Supplier management Supply chain: PR1– 2 – Questionnaire for supplier selection revised and extended to apply to small enterPR8 prises and service providers – Sustainability implemented as a criterion in supplier selection by purchasing via ­direct integration of the results of the sustainability questionnaire into the performance evaluation of the suppliers – Implementation of a monitoring system and escalation process – First time introduction of “Supplier Innovation Awards”, in which social, environmental and economic performance of suppliers also play a role Principle 2: Make sure there is no complicity in human rights abuses  BMW Group: see Principle 1 07, 10 –11, 16 –17, HR1– 9 – see Principle 1 46 – 50, 54 – 58, SO5 Supply chain: 77–79, 97–105 – see Principle 1 Further documents: 1, 2 Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining  BMW Group: see Principle 1 07, 10 –11, 16 –17, LA4 – 5 Joint Declaration on Human Rights and 48 – 49, 58, 98 HR1– 3 Working Conditions Further docuHR5 Supply chain: ments: 1 SO5 – Purchasing conditions – Supplier management Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour  see Principle 3 see Principle 1 07, 10 –11, 16 –17, HR1– 3 48 – 49 HR7 Further docuSO5 ments: 1 Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour  see Principle 3 see Principle 1 07, 10 –11, 16 –17, HR1– 3 48 – 49 HR6 Further docuSO5 ments: 1 Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation  BMW Group: BMW Group: 10 –11, 16 –17, EC7 – see Principle 1 – Continued development of Human Resources and Social Policies and thus also per48 – 49, 50, LA2 – Diversity management sonnel work in keeping with Strategy Number ONE 54 – 55, 96 – 97, LA13 –14 – Legal compliance code (LCC) – Awareness raised within the company of the topic of diversity, target corridors specified 104 –105 HR1– 4 Supply chain: for the dimension “gender”, targets currently being set for the aspects “age / experience” Further docuSO5 – see Principle 1 and “cultural background” ments: 1, 2, 3  Further documents: 1 Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group – www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines 2 Value-oriented Human Resources Policy: The 8 guidelines of the personnel policy of the BMW Group – www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines 3 BMW Group Legal Compliance Code – www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines, www.bmwgroup.com/compliance 116 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) Company guidelines and  Substantial progress made  References  GRI (G3)  management systems  Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  BMW Group: – Determination of environmental goal: to reach a 30 % reduction in energy Preface and EC2 – Sustainability management ­consumption as well as water, wastewater, waste and solvents per vehicle pro­statements by EN18 – Environmental management in accordance duced between 2006 and 2012. The environmental efficiency index used to the Board of EN26 with ISO 14001 and EMAS ­analyse all of these parameters improved by another 6 percentage points in 2010. Management, EN30 – Clean production philosophy Thus, the BMW Group has improved by 26 % compared to the 2006 level and 04 – 09, SO5 – Environmental guidelines has exceeded the 20 % target set for 2010 10 –11, – Legal compliance code (LCC) – Since 1 September 2010, all BMW Group vehicles on the European market comply 16 –17, – Life cycle assessments with the requirements set down in the Euro 5 standard 20 – 25, – Sustainability aspects considered in product – Establishment of an integrated management system at the German BMW Group 27, 30, ­design phase branches, which includes the topics environment, occupational health and safety 34 – 37, – Design for Recycling and energyand cost management 77–79, – Consistent development of environmentally 84 – 85, friendly technologies 86, 94 – 95 Supply chain: Further docu– Purchasing conditions ments: 3, 4, 5 – Supplier management Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  see Principle 7 BMW Group: 04 – 09, EN1– 30 – Improving environmental protection and recycling in service (return system for 16 –17, SO5 used vehicles and parts) 20 – 25, 27, PR3 – 4 – Worldwide implementation of a reference system for energy efficient buildings 30, 34 – 44, and production processes 77–79, – Location-specific initiatives to reduce energy consumption, fuel consumption 80 – 85, and emissions 86 – 95 – Ongoing implementation of the ABIS waste information system Further docu– Wax no longer applied to vehicle surfaces ments: 3, 4, 5 – New tenders place more focus on rail as a mode of transport – Implementation of “DriveNow” car sharing model – Integration of sustainability measures and environmentally friendly technologies in the production and building architecture of the Tiexi plant in China – Commissioning of world’s first foundry that produces without generating environmentally damaging emissions, at the BMW plant in Landshut – Application of “Integrated Paint Process” at the Spartanburg plant – Conversion of textiles to CFRP at new plant in Moses Lake, USA powered 100 % by hydro-electric energy Supply chain: – Stronger integration of sustainability aspects into selection, monitoring and training of suppliers Principle 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  see Principle 7 – Further reduction of the fleet’s carbon emissions due to Efficient Dynamics (to 04 – 09, EN2 30 % less CO2 than in 1995) 20 – 25, 30, EN5 – 7 – Worldwide rollout of Efficient Dynamics technologies in all markets and across all 34 – 44, EN10 BMW Group models 80 – 85, EN18 – Road test with 600 electric-drive Mini E cars as part of project i – so far, these 86 – 95 EN26 – 27 ­vehicles have covered a total of over 1.4 million kilometres Further docuEN30 – Development of electric-drive series vehicles; as of 2013, the BMW i3 will be the ments: 3, 4, 5 SO5 first series model with electric drive to go to market – Implementation of a development plan for renewable energy which evaluates the potential of each production location Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery  – Legal compliance code (LCC) – Since the BMW Group Compliance Organisation began to be introduced in 2008: 04 –11, 77, SO2 – 6 – Corporate Governance Code training of 11,000 managers and employees Group-wide as well as participation by 79 – BMW Group Compliance Committee and BMW further employees via web-based training on the principles of compliance Annual ­Report Group Compliance Committee Office – Worldwide reporting, in which all company divisions inform the BMW Group Further docu– BMW Group Principle “Personal Behaviour” Compliance Committee about compliance-relevant topics ments: 3, 6 – BMW Group Principle “Business Trips” – Expansion of existing compliance instrument to include additional measures to – BMW Group Principle “Purchasing” avoid corruption, to intensify monitoring and to introduce regionally structured – BMW Group Principle “Memberships and Compliance Management ­Donations” – BMW Group Principle “Signatures and Approval Processes” – Risk management  Further documents: 3  BMW Group Legal Compliance Code – www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines, www.bmwgroup.com/compliance 4  BMW Group Efficient Dynamics strategy www.bmwgroup.com/efficient-dynamics-e 5  BMW Group environmental guidelines – www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines 6 BMW Group Corporate Governance Code – www.bmwgroup.com/guidelines 117 Index The glossary of this report can be found at www.bmwgroup.com/glossary. A EMAS (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) C, 08, 36, 116 Accident frequency 47, 57, 102 et seq., 105 Emissions performance standards 23, 81, 84, 116 ACEA (European Automobile Manufacturers’) Emissions B, 04, 07, 10, 15, 23 et seq., 28, 34 et seq., 42, 44, ­Association 15, 21, 23, 80 76, 80 et seq., 85 et seq., 88 et seq., 92 et seq., 109, 113 et seq., Active safety 26, 84 116, 119 Alternative drive concepts 20, 22 et seq., 28 et seq., 48, 53, Emissions trading 38, 90 57, 66, 76, 84 et seq. Employees B, C, 02, 06 et seq., 08 et seq., 18, 37 et seq., Anti-discrimination 64 44 et seq., 62, 66 et seq., 72 et seq., 76 et seq., 88, 93 et seq., Appreciation B, 48 et seq., 54 96 et seq., 109, 112 et seq. Attractive employer 47 et seq., 98, 104 et seq. Employee satisfaction 49, 101 Audit C, 79 Employee survey 15, 49, 101 Awards 09, 17, 25 et seq., 49, 57, 112 Energy consumption 30, 35, 37 et seq., 40, 43, 86 et seq., 94 et seq., 113, 116 B Energy management B, 24, 30, 38 Balanced Scorecard 08, 49 Energy strategy 38, 109 Basic principles 06, 31 Environmental guidelines 36, 116 Best-practice 36 et seq., 40 et seq., 57 Environmental management C, 16, 34, 36 et seq., 95, 116 Biodiversity 07, 37, 76, 94, 113 Environmental protection B, C, 06 et seq., 10, 16, 34, BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt 61, 69, 108 36 et seq., 39, 86 et seq., 109, 111, 113, 115 et seq. BMW i B, 16 et seq., 21 et seq., 25, 28 et seq., 39, 48, 51, 79, Equal opportunities 54, 104 84 et seq. Brands C, 13, 22 et seq., 31, 64 et seq., 74, 112 F BRIC 04, 18, 69, 77 Family 02, 07, 25, 50, 54 et seq., 76, 105 Fleet consumption 21, 23, 80 et seq., 116 C Fuel consumption 10, 15, 22 et seq., 28, 80 et seq., 84 Certification C, 17, 30, 36 et seq., 56, 102, 104 Further education 47, 51, 58, 62, 100, 104 et seq., 113 Challenges B, C, 04, 13, 16, 20, 23, 25 et seq., 34, 41, 46, 60, 62 et seq., 69, 104, 108 G Clean Production B, 02, 07, 16, 22, 34, 36 Global Compact B, C, 02, 06 et seq., 15, 49, 115 et seq. CO2 emissions B, 07, 15, 21 et seq., 29, 37 et seq., 43 et seq., Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) C, 110, 112 et seq. 76, 80 et seq., 84 et seq., 88, 90, 92 et seq., 114, 116 Co-determination 58, 98, 112 H Combined heat and power generation 38 et seq. Health C, 07, 15, 26, 28, 30, 47 et seq., 50, 55 et seq., 60, 62, Commitment C, 06 et seq., 14 et seq., 48, 50 et seq., 67, 76 et seq., 102 et seq., 107, 113 et seq. 60 et seq., 76, 79, 106 et seq., 112 HIV/Aids 07, 67, 107 Compliance B, 04, 06, 10 et seq., 76, 79, 115 et seq. Human Resources and Social Policies 48 et seq., 115 Corporate governance B, 06, 11, 112 Hybrid B, 20, 23 et seq., 28, 30, 48, 51, 84, 104 Corporate strategy 02, 04, 06, 28, 48, 50 et seq., 78 Hydrogen 23, 37, 84 Corruption 04, 07, 11, 76, 79, 116 Customer satisfaction 31 et seq., 114 I ifmo (Institute for Mobility Research) 27 D Indices 02, 05, 08 et seq. Data protection 31, 114 International Labour Organization (ILO) 02, 07, 16, 49 Dealerships 02, 12, 18, 30 et seq., 34, 37, 44, 63, 66, Intercultural understanding 60 et seq., 64 et seq., 68, 77 et seq., 107 106 et seq. Demographic change 04, 07, 20, 26, 46, 54, 56 et seq., 60, Investment 18, 23, 29, 36 et seq., 42, 51, 57, 66, 72, 74, 93, 62, 76, 78, 96, 105 100, 106, 113 et seq. Design for Recycling 30, 116 Inzell Initiative 27 Diesel 23, 30, 75, 81 ISO 14001 C, 08, 16, 36 et seq., 116 Diversity 07, 54, 64, 76, 97, 104 et seq. Donations 62 et seq., 66, 69, 106 et seq., 116 J Dow Jones Sustainability Index 02, 05, 08 et seq. Job security 46, 58 DriveNow B, 21, 27, 85, 116 K E Key performance indicators (KPI) C, 05, 08, 17, 21, 35, 47, Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation 61, 69, 107 et seq. 61 Education 14, 48, 51, 54, 60 et seq., 66 et seq., 77, 96, 100, 104 et seq., 113 L Efficient Dynamics B, 13, 18, 20, 22 et seq., 28, 80 et seq., Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) 07, 20, 22, 76, 84 et seq. 84 et seq., 116 Lightweight construction B, 29, 39, 51, 104 118 Locations B, C, 02, 08, 10, 14, 29 et seq., 36 et seq., Risk management B, 06, 10, 17, 36, 77, 79, 116 40 et seq., 44, 51 et seq., 58, 64, 68, 73, 80, 86, 90, 93 et seq., Road safety 07, 14, 60, 62 et seq., 76, 107 100, 102, 104 et seq., 107, 109, 113 Road safety, lessons in 63 Logistics 34, 44, 88, 95, 104 Rolls-Royce C, 02, 13, 22, 44, 74, 92 M S Materiality analysis C, 06 et seq., 110 Science 14 et seq., 27, 66, 68 et seq., 106, 108 Millenium Development Goals 07 Service B, 27, 29 et seq., 37, 55, 67, 116 MINI B, C, 02, 13 et seq., 21 et seq., 24 et seq., 31 et seq., Share of women 47, 54, 97 67 et seq., 74, 82, 92, 116 Skilled personnel 48, 51, 56 et seq. Mobility B, 02, 04, 06 et seq., 13 et seq., 20 et seq., 34, 44, Skills 46, 48, 51, 56, 58, 66 et seq., 100, 104 et seq. 48, 51 et seq., 60, 63, 66, 76, 78, 84 et seq., 107 et seq. Social responsibility 06 et seq., 15, 60 et seq., 64, 68 et seq., Mobility research 27, 85 105 Mobility services B, 06, 21, 25, 29, 44, 85 Social standards 04, 07, 10, 16, 34, 76 et seq., 115 Monitoring 11, 15 et seq., 23, 32, 36, 78 et seq. Society B, 06, 10, 14, 27, 38, 60 et seq., 96, 106 et seq., 114 Motorcycles B, 02, 17 et seq., 22, 26, 28, 40, 72, 74, 86, 96, Solvents 36 et seq., 40, 42 et seq., 86, 89, 116 102 Stakeholder B, C, 06 et seq., 14 et seq., 76, 78 et seq., 83, 109 et seq. N Stakeholder dialogue C, 04, 14 et seq., 76, 78, 111 NGOs 14 et seq., 108 Strategy Number ONE 02, 04, 06, 13, 18, 28, 32, 48 et seq., Nitrogen oxides (NOX) 25, 86, 89, 113 52 et seq., 78, 100, 115 Number ONE (strategy) 02, 04, 06, 13, 18, 28, 32, 48 et seq., Supervisory board 02, 10, 13, 54, 97, 112 50, 52 et seq., 78, 100, 115 Suppliers 04 et seq., 10, 16 et seq., 22, 34, 37, 48, 77 et seq., 83, 115 et seq. O Supply chain B, 04, 07, 10, 14, 16 et seq., 22, 34, 37, Occupational health and safety C, 8 et seq., 36, 56, 76 et seq., 113 et seq. 102 et seq., 113 Surface protection 95, 109 Occupational health and safety management C, 8, 56, 102, Sustainability criteria 04, 06, 08, 10, 16 et seq., 22, 40, 104 115 et seq. OECD 02, 07, 16, 49 Sustainability rating 09 OHSAS/OHRIS C, 08, 56, 102, 104 Sustainability strategy B, C, 05 et seq., 14 et seq., 20, 22, 36, 52, 77 et seq., 111 P Sustainable mobility B, 14, 25, 78, 85 Paint shop 37 et seq., 89 Passive safety 20, 26, 84 T Personnel costs 100 Teleworking 54, 99 Plastics 29 et seq., 41, 51, 82 et seq., 85 et seq., 104 Traffic management 22, 27, 85 Production B, 2, 7, 9, 13, 16 et seq., 20, 22 et seq., 29, Transport logistics 34, 44, 95 34 et seq., 47 et seq., 52, 56, 58, 62, 66 et seq., 74, 76 et seq., 86 et seq., 90 et seq., 93 et seq., 100 et seq., 105, 109, 111, U 113 et seq., 116 UN Global Compact B, C, 02, 06 et seq., 15, 49, 115 et seq. Product responsibility C, 6, 15, 20, 22, 26, 84 et seq., 109, United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) 02, 07, 111, 114 16 Purchasing conditions B, 05, 16 et seq., 22, 79, 88, 115 et seq. V Value added 18, 72, 78 Q Value chain B, 04 et seq., 08, 16 et seq., 22, 24, 78 et seq., 85 Quality management 08, 16, 80 Vehicle safety 07, 15, 20, 24, 26, 63, 84 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 35, 38 et seq., 86, 89, 94 R Ranking 08 et seq., 39, 49 W Ratings C, 08 et seq., 18, 77 Waste 35, 37, 40, 42, 86, 91, 94 et seq., 113, 116 Raw materials 07, 22, 30, 76, 85 et seq., 109 Waste management 40, 94 et seq. Recyclates 17, 30, 82, 114 Wastewater 35 et seq., 41 et seq., 86, 90, 94, 113, 116 Recycling 07, 14, 16 et seq., 20, 22, 30, 40, 76, 85 et seq., 91, Water consumption 35, 37, 41, 43, 86 et seq., 90, 94, 116 113, 116 Working time 13, 49, 55, 99, 105, 114 Remuneration B, 08, 48, 50, 101, 105, 112 Works council 12 et seq., 56, 98, 104 Renewable energy B, 23, 29, 37 et seq., 43, 79, 86, 94 et seq. Research and Innovation Centre (FIZ) 93, 105  Resources B, 08, 10, 22 et seq., 27, 30, 34, 36 et seq., B = Preface and statements by the Board of Management 40 et seq., 51, 62, 78, 86, 94 et seq., 100 C = Cover in the front Contacts Your BMW Group contacts  Kai Zöbelein Communications Sustainability Telephone + 49 89 382-2 11 70 Fax + 49 89 382-1 08 81 E-mail Kai.Zoebelein@bmwgroup.de Konstanze Carreras Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Telephone + 49 89 382-5 28 94 Fax + 49 89 382-1 08 81 E-mail Konstanze.Carreras@bmwgroup.de Ralph Huber Technology Communications Telephone + 49 89 382-6 87 78 Fax + 49 89 382-2 39 27 E-mail Ralph.Huber@bmwgroup.de The BMW Group on the Internet  www.bmwgroup.com The BMW Group brands on the Internet  www.bmw.com www.mini.com www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com www.husqvarna-motorcycles.com Further information and publications are available at  www.bmwgroup.com/responsibility A further contribution towards preserving resources BMW Group Sustainable Value Report 2010 awarded the Blue Angel eco-label. The paper used (Enviro Top) was produced, climate-neutrally and without optical brighteners and ­chlorine bleach, from recycled waste paper. All other production materials used also comply with the requirements of the Blue Angel eco-label (RAL-UZ 14). The Blue Angel is con­sidered to be one of the most stringent eco-labels in the world. The CO2 emissions generated through print and production were neutralised by the BMW Group. To this end, the corresponding amount of emissions allowances was erased, with the transaction identification DE-871505 on 3 August 2011. Published by Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft 80788 Munich Germany Tel. +49 89 382-0
