Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company Slovenija, www.coca-colahellenic.si, infoslo@cchellenic.com As a part of Coca-Cola Hellenic Group we are happy to confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. By joining Global Compact we committed to implement and promote core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Every employee of Coca-Cola Hellenic has a role to play in making our business and communities more sustainable. We therefore train and equip our people so that they can fulfil their responsibilities. Practical actions taken by our group in the last year are summarized in our Communication on Progress, and more detailed in our 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility report ‘Sustainable values. Sustainable living’. Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Respecting the basic rights of people in our workforce, supply chain and communities is fundamental to be a good employer and to lead a responsible business. Our Human Rights policy, Equal Opportunity policy and Occupational Health and Safety policy uphold these rights. In Supply Chain Supplier Guiding Principles policy uphold this rights. Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. During 2011, there were no breaches of our Human Rights policy or related legislation. Human rights are also important part of our Management system and training and regularly approved by third party audits. Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Approximately half (52%) of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and 25% belong to independent trade unions. Formal communications protocols with all trade unions and works councils are designed to ensure regular and open dialogue and consultation. In Slovenia 25% of employees are members of the union. Union representatives actively participate at regular meetings with top management of the company, which take place every quarter. Principle 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; All suppliers to our business must comply with our Supplier Guiding Principles. These outline the workplace conditions we expect our suppliers to provide their employees. Child labour and forced labour are clearly prohibited. Principle 5. the effective abolition of child labour; On behalf of our business system, our company formally endorsed the new UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. The company also participates in the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights. Principle 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We seek to provide equal opportunities for all our employees and will not discriminate in any aspect of employment on the grounds of race, religion, colour, ethnic or national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, political opinion, gender or marital status. It is our policy to comply with all local labour legislation. We are committed to developing local leaders and we also incourage experienced or future leaders from other countries in our system, to participate in our operations for their business and personal growth. In 2011, women represented 37% of workforce in Slovenia and the pay for entry level positions is significantly above minimum wage. Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; We are taking decisive action to address the risks and opportunities presented by climate change. Our strategy focuses on increasing the energy efficiency of our operations, switching to cleaner energy sources, reducing emissions in our value chain, championing low-carbon technologies, promoting awareness and action, adapting to climate change. Group Hellenic strictly respects our policies on water stewardship, climate change and packaging. We have also set up 20 national recovery organisations across Europe, including Slopak in Slovenia. Principle 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; We promote climate action, showcasing our low-carbon technologies with customers, governments, employees and others. Increasingly, we communicate directly with consumers about climate change. In 2011, we met our longstanding goal to ensure that all Company wastewater is treated to levels that support aquatic life. Since wastewater infrastructure is inadequate in many countries of operation, we had to construct 44 on-site treatment plants. We also lead community water programmes in 26 countries, including You Are My River project in Slovenia. Principle 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies; All production processes across Hellenic countries comply to EU regulations, that ensure environmentally friendly acting. We are up to date with the newest changes in production technologies and processes and by 2012, all bottling plants will be certified to internationally recognised management system standards. These include standards for quality (ISO 9001), environment (ISO 14001), health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and food safety (ISO 22000 and FSSC 22000). To reduce the impact of our 1.5 million coolers, we are increasing the energy efficiency of new and existing equipment. New coolers are up to 63% more energy-efficient than in 2004. Over the past seven years, we have reduced relative emissions from fleet and bottling plants by 38%. In 2011, absolute emissions have decreased by 9% as production volume declined by 2%. Most products are delivered by road and our fleet comprises almost 19,000 vehicles. Since 2007, we have worked to reduce our transportation footprint. In 2011, fleet emissions fell by 41,000 tonnes. In Slovenia we replaced entire fleet of employee cars with new, more ecological vehicles. In total we replaced 109 vehicles, consequently fuel consumption decreased by 105.2 litres per 100 kilometres and CO2 emissions lowered by 1466 grams per kilometre. In addition to that, we regularly organise safe and eco driving courses for employees. Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Code of Business Conduct defines how employees are expected to do business. The Code has been reviewed and updated to take into account the new UK Anti-Bribery Act. In addition to mandatory training on every two years, each employee receives an annual letter from our CEO underlining our zero-tolerance approach to corruption. In Slovenia we signed the Declaration of fair cooperation in 2011 as a member of the network Global Compact Slovenia within the project Ethos. Thus, we have committed ourselves to continue to work transparently and fairly, to avoid or decline any corrupt activity including blackmail and bribery, and to preserve the integrity of the company or organization. Signing the declaration is not only an exemplary act of the company but also a moral commitment for each employee for achieving excellent business results transparently and fairly.
