Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 About this Report Editorial policy Sysmex publishes the annual “Sysmex Sustainability Report” in the hopes of communicating our approaches and activities concerning corporate social responsibility (CSR) to our stakeholders and facilitating dialogs with them. In this sixth issue, we prepared two versions of the report: a digest version focused only on activities of high importance and a full version with more detailed information. We also regularly disclose policy, system and other CSR information on our website. In this way, we enable the reader to select the report format most appropriate to their level of specialization and interest. Scope of this Report Period reported Fiscal 2011 (from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012). Some activities conducted outside of this period are also included. Organizations covered Sysmex Group (Sysmex Corporation and its subsidiaries both in Japan and abroad). For the purpose of this report, “Sysmex” refers to the Sysmex Group and “Sysmex Corporation” refers to the Sysmex Corporation on a non-consolidated basis. Guidelines referenced · The Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 ed.) · The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 Date of publication September 2012 Inquiries about this report CSR Promotion Department, CSR Division Sysmex Corporation 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe, Hyogo, 651-0073, Japan Tel: +81-78-265-0500, Fax: +81-78-265-1884 Cautionary statements This report contains both forward-looking statements and facts regarding the past about Sysmex Corporation and its group companies (the Sysmex Group). These forward-looking statements are based on the current judgments and assumptions of the Sysmex Group in light of the information currently available to it. Uncertainties inherent in such judgments and assumptions, the future course of our business operations, and future events may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially diﬀerent from any future results, performance, or achievements either expressed or implied within such forward-looking statements. 1 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 Contents 3 Sysmex at a Glance 11 Organizational Governance 15 Human Rights / Labor Practices 5 Message from the President 19 The Environment 7 Highlight Development of Hematology 25 Fair Operating Practices Analyzers Contributing to 27 Consumer Issues Usability and the Environment 30 Community Involvement and Development 9 Highlight Independent Opinion 34 Contributing to a Healthy Society through Sports 35 Corporate Data Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 2 Sysmex at a Glance Contributing to the Realization of a Healthy Society through Healthcare Testing There are two kinds of healthcare testing received at regular health checkups and hospitals. One is in-vivo diagnosis, such as X-rays, performed directly on the body. The other is in-vitro diagnostics, which examines a patient’s blood, urine and cells. Based on an integrated system, from research and development, to production, sales, after-sales support, Sysmex provides all devices, reagents and software necessary for in-vitro diagnostics. Through providing these products, we contribute to the early detection of disease, optimal disease management selection and the prevention of disease. Sysmex Business Process Main Products Creating valuable healthcare testing and diagnostic technologies Research and We strive to create valuable healthcare Development testing and diagnostic technologies for a wide spectrum of ailments, including blood/immunity diseases, infectious diseases, cancer and chronic disorders. Automated hematology analyzer Ensuring high quality and stable product supply Production Our quality control system is Coagulation analyzer extensive and thorough. We have also established a global production system to ensure the stable supply of reagents. Providing products and services to more Gene ampliﬁcation detector than 170 countries Sales Through our global sales network, we provide high-quality products and services to healthcare facilities in more than 170 countries around the world. Self-Medication support software Responding accurately to each and every After-Sales inquiry Support We take special eﬀort to respond accurately to inquiries received through our call center and over the network. We also provide extensive Ampliﬁcation reagent LYNOAMP® BC academic support. 3 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 Hospitals Animal Hospitals Blood tests are always Just like humans, health performed at regular and maintenance is physical examinations. indispensible for Irregularities or changes in animals to stay healthy. organs and systems in the Hematology tests are body show up easily in blood useful for the health components, resulting in the maintenance of dogs, cats early detection and treatment and other pets, aquarium of disease. dolphins and zoo animals. Pharmacies Sports Provides information related Used for daily training to health on an individual programs and nutritional basis by conducting data maintenance to regularly analysis on results of simple check the hemoglobin anthropometric measurements levels of sports gym, high such as body fat percentage school and college track and blood pressure conducted teams and other athletes. in-store and answers to lifestyle and diet questions. Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 4 Message from the President We aim to build trust and conﬁdence among our stakeholders through the creation of valuable healthcare testing technologies. Contributing to the “Advancement of populations, and individual values for healthcare are increasingly Healthcare” through Testing diversifying. Sysmex is responding to these changes and Ever since its founding in 1968, Sysmex has created a wide striving to create innovative values with the aim of contributing spectrum of products and services in the diagnostics ﬁeld to the advancement of healthcare. We want to respond to based on advanced technologies. Diagnostics play a vital role the desire of people across the globe: “to stay healthy”. in healthcare by enabling the early detection of disease, the In ﬁscal 2011, we launched a new product, the XN-Series, determination of treatment and the prevention of illness. in our mainstay hematology ﬁeld. Compared with conventional Presently, Sysmex’s products are being used at healthcare instruments, the XN-Series features improved functionality, facilities in over 170 countries around the world. performance and operability. In addition, the series oﬀers new The healthcare environment is currently undergoing functions, such as providing a reportable parameter that assists dramatic changes due to shifting social structures. In emerging clinicians in the diagnosis of thrombocytopenia, thereby countries, economic development and population growth are adding new value that contributes to clinical site. The XN-Series rapidly increasing healthcare needs. On the other hand, oﬀers various innovations that help reduce the workload advanced countries are facing declining birthrates and aging on medical technologists and to prevent misdiagnosis. At the same time, extensive network-based and preventive maintenance are available as online services. The user-friendly design has earned high marks, winning the series the Good Design Gold Award 2011. The XN-Series is environmentally conscious, as well. Its use of concentrated reagents helps to reduce waste and substantially reduces product lifecycle CO2 emissions, compared with conventional models. 5 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 “Shaping the advancement of healthcare” is Sysmex’s mission. In accordance with this aﬃrmation, we aim to create Corporate Philosophy valuable healthcare testing technologies that contribute to the quality of life (QOL) of people and reduce the burden on healthcare facilities. Building Trust and Conﬁdence among Our Stakeholders Shaping the advancement of healthcare. We aim to build trust and conﬁdence among our stakeholders in accordance with our corporate philosophy, the “Sysmex Way.” In ﬁscal 2011, we commenced the full-ﬂedged use of We continue to create unique and innovative values, silkworms to develop proteins, with the goal of providing while building trust and conﬁdence. products to engender even higher levels of conﬁdence among our customers. Some of the diagnostic reagents that Sysmex provides are derived from animals including cattle, With passion and ﬂexibility, we demonstrate our rabbits and other mammals, but in recent years the risk of individual competence and unsurpassed teamwork. procuring such ingredients has grown in line with the growth of emerging markets and concerns about bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Furthermore, individual diﬀerences in the Kobe Marathon 2011, staged by Kobe City. Based on can arise from such animal-derived ingredients, making it the theme of “thanks and friendship,” the Kobe Marathon diﬃcult to ensure the stable quality of ingredients supplied aims to express gratitude to everyone who supported the to us. To resolve these issues, we are reinforcing our design region’s recovery after the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake. and mass-production technologies for proteins to produce In addition to sponsoring the race based on its standing as reagents that do not rely on such animal-derived ingredients. a Kobe-based company, by operating in the healthcare sector Creating a protein development system using silkworms is Sysmex is well acquainted with the link between sports and one aspect of these eﬀorts. health. Numerous employee volunteers participated, and assisting in event operations. Contributing to a Healthy Society through Sports In February 2011, Sysmex joined the United Nations Sysmex is devoted to corporate citizenship activities and Global Compact, committing to uphold 10 principles in the philanthropy that center on health and healthcare. In addition areas of human rights, labor, the environment and to our ongoing support of the Kobe Medical Industry anti-corruption. By joining the compact, we aim to move Development Project, we provide scientiﬁc support, encourage forward proactively with corporate social responsibility (CSR) the standardization of testing, promote organizations activities beﬁtting a global company. committed to eliminating cancer and take part globally in Sysmex will continue working to achieve sustainable corporate citizenship activities and philanthropy designed development of the Group and the global community. We to meet regional needs. would like to ask our stakeholders for their continued support During ﬁscal 2011, we participated as a special sponsor and understanding of all our endeavors. Hisashi Ietsugu President and CEO Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 6 Highlight Development of Hematology Analyzers Contributing to Usability and the Environment In May 2011, Sysmex launched its new XN-Series of products on global scale. Pursuing the provision of comfortable healthcare sites, we designed the user-friendly analyzer from the user’s point of view, focusing eﬀorts on improving environmental performance, speciﬁcally reductions in waste and CO2. Development of Analyzers Equipped with New Technologies In May 2011, Sysmex launched its XN-Series analyzers for the global market. This product is a hematology analyzer that checks patient’s health by measuring and analyzing blood samples to determine the number, types and sizes of red and white blood cells and platelets and other elements. The XN-Series signiﬁcantly improves measurement accuracy for low platelet counts, useful for the diagnosis of diseases such as thrombocytopenia and is equipped with a body ﬂuid measurement mode, helpful for the indication of meningitis antimicrobial treatment. In addition to its functions and performance, usability and eco-friendliness are the most prominent features of the XN-Series. Supporting Accurate Test Data with Design Contributing to the Prevention of Misdiagnosis and Improved User-Friendliness The XN-Series attempts to improve usability in an aim to prevent misdiagnosis, lessen the workload of medical technologists and improve the laboratory site. The human-centered design takes operator motion into account, resulting in signiﬁcant improvements in operability, including the simpliﬁcation of operating panels. The design concept uniﬁes analyzer, operating panel and disposable reagents with the aim of realizing a quick and accurate analyzer. The XN-Series also features further enhancements in online service. The device and reagents can be monitored remotely, enabling data from device sensors to be analyzed via a connection to the Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS), Sysmex’s online system. (See page 28 for details.) This enables the detection of problems and preventative maintenance before failure occurs to avoid sudden malfunctions in support of stable device operation. Contributing to the Reduction of Waste and CO2 Emissions with Concentrated Reagents The XN-Series employs concentrated reagent CELLPACK DST, which is 25 times more concentrated than conventional reagent CELLPACK (II). CELLPACK DST is diluted and used in conjunction with reagent preparation unit RU-20. Using this 7 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 New Technologies Improving Usability XN-Series Multiparameter Automated Hematology Analyzers Equipped with touch panel that is Installed operation buttons in easy easy to read and operate to push location in consideration of operator motion Conventional Cartridge reagents reagents Cartridge-type reagent enables Received Good Design Gold Award 2011 for design recognized as ID tags appended to agent one-touch replacement contributing to enhanced usability by healthcare facilities simplify reagent management and prevent improper connections concentrated reagent enables facilities that process high emissions throughout the product lifecycle. CO2 emitted during volumes of tests each day to reduce the frequency of reagent transportation accounted for 40% of CO2 emitted throughout the changes to one ﬁfth that usually required in one day. entire product lifecycle of conventional products, from manufacture Concentration also makes reagents compact, which to shipment, use and disposal. Concentrated reagents are designed contributes to resource conservation by reducing container to be lightweight and compact, signiﬁcantly improving and packaging materials, enabling a signiﬁcant decrease in transportation eﬃciency with decreased weight and volume. We waste generated by laboratories. Furthermore, switching from calculate this enables around 50% reduction of CO2 throughout the polyethylene to paper reagent containers is helpful for entire product lifecycle compared to conventional products. conserving petroleum resources. Going forward, Sysmex will continue eﬀorts to create valuable Concentrated reagents also contribute to the reduction of CO2 healthcare testing technologies by providing new products and services able to meet increased demand and diverse testing XN-Series reagents are 25 times more concentrated needs that contribute to the evolution of clinical development. than conventional reagents Reagent capacity (L) CO2 Emissions of XN-Series + Concentrated Reagent and 100 Conventional Instrument + Reagent 20L 1/25 CO2 emissions volume (Tons) 10.00 20L Approximately 50% 50 20L reduction in CO2 emissions volume 20L 5.00 20L 4L 0 20L×5 4L 0.00 Conventional instrument + XN-Series + conventional reagents concentrated reagents Conventional reagent Concentrated reagent CELLPACK (II) CELLPACK DST Words from a Customer The XN-Series significantly improves the measurement accuracy of low white blood cell and platelet counts, offering hope for the support of new testing knowledge based on this reliability and contributions to healthcare research. In addition, reducing the weight and number of exchanging times the reagent needs to be changed reduces our workload and contributes to the reduction of waste after usage, making it an instrument that is gentle on people and the environment. I hope Sysmex continues listening to customers and developing good products that incorporate user needs. Shuichi Shiga, Qualified Class 1 Laboratory Technologist, Manager, Department of Clinical Laboratory, Kyoto University Hospital Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 8 Highlight Contributing to a Healthy Society through Sports As a healthcare company, Sysmex supports the realization of a healthy society through sports. In addition to continued management of the Sysmex Women’s Track & Field Team, in ﬁscal 2011 we were a special sponsor of the ﬁrst citizen marathon ever held in our hometown of Kobe. Special Sponsor of the First Kobe Marathon, In addition to providing the bibs worn by the 20,000 Run by 20,000 Participants participants during the race, we exhibited the ASTRIM at the The ﬁrst Kobe Marathon (sponsored by Hyogo Prefectural Kobe Marathon EXPO event held prior to the marathon, Government, Kobe City, Hyogo Prefectural Board of Education conducting hemoglobin concentration estimation for an and Kobe City Board of Education, Hyogo Amateur Athletics enthralled crowd. This instrument enables the estimation of Association) was held on November 20, 2011. hemoglobin concentration, closely connected to stamina, Sysmex became a special sponsor of the marathon, which had without requiring a blood sample. Popular with runners who “Thanks and Friendship” as its theme, out of a desire to contribute checked on their health just before the marathon, in two days to health maintenance and improvement through sports. a total of 3,300 visitors measured their hemoglobin levels. Sysmex booth at the Kobe Marathon EXPO Roadside supporters The First Kobe Marathon (image provided by The Kobe Shimbun) Employees volunteers provide water 9 Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 Employee Volunteers Cheer Runners and Managing a Women’s Track & Field Team Support Management Training Globally Active Athletes In the past, Sysmex employees have voluntarily formed teams Sysmex conducts several other sports support activities in to conduct volunteer activities such as coastline cleanup and addition to sponsorship of the Kobe Marathon. One of those is aﬀorestation eﬀorts, but most activities were comparatively management of the Sysmex Women’s Track & Field Team, small in scale. The Kobe Marathon was our ﬁrst large-scale which includes Mizuki Noguchi, active all over the world, and activity, involving approximately 180 people, including young athletes who aim to become world-class competitors. employee volunteers and their families. Participants provided The Sysmex Women’s Track & Field Team won second place at water at a beverage booth, handed out towels at the ﬁnish line the West Japan Women’s Industry Group Ekiden Race, held in and assisted with course cleanup activities. Many participants October 2011, making their mark at a national event. said the volunteer activities were excellent and provided them At present, the Women’s Track & Field Team practices in with valuable experiences. Kyoto’s Ukyo Ward, but in April 2013, they will move to On the day of the event, among the approximately practice facilities in Kobe City in Hyogo Prefecture, where 520,000 people shouting encouragement to over 20,000 Sysmex head oﬃce are located, to further energize runners, 150 of those voices came from roadside Sysmex interactions with the local community in Kobe. participants supporting runners with their “A Smile from Sysmex will continue to support the realization of a Kobe” message. Employee participants provided the Kobe healthy and prosperous society through sports promotion. Marathon with entertainment, voluntarily assembling a band that performed at a specially constructed roadside studio. The second marathon will be held on November 25, 2012. Sysmex plans to provide ongoing support for the Kobe Marathon. Words from an Employee I participated in the First Kobe Marathon, hanging medals on runner’s necks as they completed the race. The sense of accomplishment in the expressions on the faces of runners as they approached the finish line was moving and motivational. Also, I got a sense of the connection and feeling of oneness shared among local runners and participants from all over Japan and the world, making this a treasured experience. Kumiko Ikushima, Human Resources Department Internal Lectures on Sports and Nutrition Conducted by Senior Nutritionists In December 2011, Sysmex provided second-year students from the Dietary Nutrition Department of the Osaka Yuhigaoka Gakuen Junior College with a lecture on sports and nutrition. They introduced athlete diets and essential nutrients, explaining athlete performance and hemoglobin using real-life examples. At the end of the lecture, we had the students experience use of Sysmex instruments for estimating hemoglobin concentration. Words from a Participant Importance of Doing Sports Science from a Nutritional Perspective At this lecture, the students taught me that an athlete’s diet has an enormous influence on their competitive performance, bringing home the importance of conditioning management. Doing sports science from a nutritional perspective is linked to enhancing the competitive performance of athletes. I look forward to the development of instruments used to ascertain athlete nutritional management and conditioning. Kiyohiro Kawai, Professor, Medical Doctor, Ph.D., Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Osaka Yuhigaoka Gakuen Junior College Sysmex Sustainability Report 201 2 10 Organizational Governance Aiming to Be a Corporation Trusted by Society To improve management eﬃciency and enhance transparency and management robustness, Sysmex is strengthening the corporate governance system for holding general and informational meetings for shareholders. We pursue open and aboveboard business activities based on high ethics to protect our stakeholder’s interests. Promotion of CSR Activities Corporate Philosophy Sysmex CSR Builds Trust and Conﬁdence through Practice of the Sysmex Way Sysmex CSR builds trust and conﬁdence to all our stakeholders through the practice of the Sysmex Way, the corporate philosophy of the Sysmex Group. The Sysmex Way indicates the way the Shaping the advancement of healthcare. most basic corporate activities ought to be, consisting of three elements necessary for continued growth: Mission, Value and Mind. The Core Behaviors clarify provision of value to customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, society We continue to create unique and innovative values, while building trust and conﬁdence. and all our stakeholders. At Sysmex, every Group employee shares the Sysmex Way, placing importance on speciﬁc behaviors throughout daily business activities. With passion and ﬂexibility, we demonstrate our To become more individual competence and unsurpassed teamwork. proactive in our CSR initiatives, Sysmex joined Core Behaviors the United Nations Global To our Customers Compact in February 2011. We deliver reassurance to our customers, through unmatched We practice the 10 principles quality, advanced technologies, superior support, and actions related to human rights, that consistently reﬂect the viewpoint of our customers. We constantly look out for our customers' true needs, and seek to labor, the environment generate new solutions to satisfy those needs. and anti-corruption. To our Employees The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles We honor diversity, respect the individuality of each employee, and provide them with a workplace where they can realize their Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed full potential. We value the spirit of independence and challenge, human rights; and Human Rights provide employees with opportunities for self-fulﬁllment and growth, and reward them for their accomplishments. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. To our Business Partners Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom We deliver commitment to our client companies through of association and the effective recognition of the broad-ranging partnerships. We strive to be a company that can grow right to collective bargaining; in step with our trade partners, through respect and mutual trust. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Labour and compulsory labour; To our Shareholders Our shareholders can rest assured that we will continue to improve Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and the soundness and transparency of our management policies, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in while promoting information disclosure and close communications. respect of employment and occupation. We commit ourselves to a consistent yet innovative style of management, in order to achieve sustainable growth and increased Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; shareholder value. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote To Society Environment greater environmental responsibility; and We carry out our business in strict compliance with laws and regulations, as well as in adherence to high ethical standards. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies As a responsible member of society, we play an active role in resolving environmental issues and other problems that impact Principle 10: Businesses should work against our society today. Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 11 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Extraction of CSR Key Subjects Internal Control In ﬁscal 2011, Sysmex conducted an analysis of current CSR activities based on ISO 26000 international standards for social Internal Control System Improvements responsibility, extracting CSR key subjects that require handling. Based on a Board of Directors resolution concerning internal Sysmex will continue to formulate CSR plans based on these control systems in ﬁscal 2006, Sysmex is engaged in the key subjects and promote CSR management. improvement and promotion of a system for compliance, information retention and management, risk management, Corporate Governance eﬃcient execution of professional duties, Group company management and auditing. Enhancing Management Robustness and In ﬁscal 2008, Sysmex formulated Internal Control Transparency to Improve Management Eﬃciency Regulations concerning Financial Statements and established Sysmex considers reinforcing corporate governance to be one an Internal Control Committee concerning Financial Statements, of its most important management priorities. We believe that a consultative body to the president. enhanced management robustness, better transparency, and improved management speed and eﬃciency will help us to Information Disclosure maximize the overall corporate value of the Group. The Company’s Board of Directors consists of eight directors, General Meeting and informal Meetings who deliberate on important management issues. The Company for Shareholders has adopted the corporate auditor system, and the Board of Valuing opportunities for direct dialogue with our shareholders, Auditors consists of four corporate auditors, two of whom are we make an eﬀort to encourage the participation of as many external auditors. The corporate auditors supervise the directors’ shareholders as possible at the General Meeting of Shareholders. business conduct both independently and objectively. In April We also hold informal meetings every year to deepen 2005, we adopted the executive oﬃcer system in order to conversations with shareholders. In ﬁscal 2011, with the objective increase the speed of decision making in the conduct of business of facilitating a better understanding of our activities, we and respond quickly to changes in the business environment. exhibited the XN-Series and introduced facilities using our A consultative body to the president, the Steering Committee products in addition to a panel display explaining Sysmex social deliberates on important matters concerning the Group’s contribution activities. business. Seven out of the 14 executive oﬃcers are concurrently At the same time, for shareholders who ﬁnd it diﬃcult to directors. The Company has also established the Nominating attend shareholder meetings, we use mail and the Internet to Committee and the Compensation Committee, which have facilitate the exercise of voting rights. Furthermore, we contribute responsibilities in accordance with the “companies with to the readability of convocation and resolution notices. We also committees” system. prepare English-language versions for overseas shareholders. In ﬁscal 2011, we printed a color convocation notice and posted Corporate Governance Structure the same information on our corporate website. Shareholders’ Meeting Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Further Enhancing Information Disclosure Sysmex makes it a rule to disclose any information that we Board of Directors (Directors) believe will aﬀect investment decisions in light of our own Nominating standards, as well as to observe applicable laws and regulations Committee concerning securities trading and the Rules on Timely Disclosure Compensation Board of Accounting Committee of Corporate Information by the Issuer of Listed Security and Auditors Auditors (Corporate the Like established by the Stock Exchange. Auditors) President and CEO In addition to biannual brieﬁngs on ﬁnancial results (after Global Strategic Internal Audit Office year-end and after the second quarter), since the third quarter Committee Risk Management of ﬁscal 2011 Sysmex has held a conference call following the Steering Committee Committee Auditing Auditing announcement of business results in the ﬁrst and third quarters Executive Officers in an eﬀort to further enhance information disclosure. Divisions, Subsidiaries and Affiliates Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 12 Risk Management Compliance Promoting Risk Management by Establishing a Pursuing Open and Aboveboard Business Dedicated Committee Activities To control Group-wide risk management activities, Sysmex Sysmex has deﬁned its view of compliance as “respecting laws established a Risk Management Committee, which is chaired and regulations and going about our business boldly with a by a Risk Management Oﬃcer (Senior Managing Oﬃcer), the strong sense of ethics”. Group’s chief executive in charge of risk management. This In accordance with this deﬁnition, we have established a committee continuously conﬁrms results of monitoring and Compliance Code, in which particularly important conformance risk reduction countermeasures conducted by each division rules for all executives and employees to abide by are compiled. and consolidated subsidiary. The Compliance Code has been translated into English, Chinese After the Great East Japan Earthquake, in ﬁscal 2011 Sysmex and German for use by subsidiaries and aﬃliates outside of Japan. once more reviewed its risk reduction countermeasures in terms We have collected a written pledge to comply with this Code of supply chain and services to ensure no disruption of products from all employees within the Sysmex Group. or services in the event of a natural disaster. At present, we are enhancing earthquake resistance at production facilities, conducting Continuously Providing Education on Compliance a review of raw materials procurement, in-house IT infrastructure Sysmex provides education on compliance for all employees and a system for initial actions in the event of disaster. of Group companies in Japan. We have also produced a Compliance Handbook and distributed a copy to every Risk Management Structure employee in Japan. Furthermore, we conduct companywide Risk Management Officer (Senior Managing Director) education on important subjects established annually and provide education on work-related laws and regulations to each Risk Management Committee department. In ﬁscal 2011, we conducted Chaired by: Risk Management Officer companywide education on the subject Members: Relevant executive officers of anti-corruption. (See page 25 for Risk Management Dept. details.) For overseas Group companies, we Compliance Sub-committees have appointed compliance managers at Leader: Executive vice president, CSR Div. regional headquarters for the Americas, Europe, China and the Asia-Paciﬁc region Divisions, Subsidiaries, and Affiliates to promote compliance. Compliance Handbook Sysmex Group Compliance Code* 1. To Ensure Safety of Our Products and Services to Customers 6. To Conduct Proper Accounting and Appropriate Tax Payment We shall act in all of our corporate activities by making it a matter of We shall always conduct appropriate tax payment and proper accounting priority to provide our customers with safety and security. by complying with applicable laws and regulations related to taxes as 2. To Promote Fair Dealing and Free Competition well as other laws and regulations, etc. related to accounting. We shall deal with our customers and all partners having business 7. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety relationships with us in a just and fair manner and shall conduct We shall respect the fundamental human rights of each of the personnel transactions under appropriate conditions. As regards our relation and shall not do any infringing act thereon such as discrimination, with other companies in the same line of business, we shall not do harassment, etc. We shall also endeavor to improve occupational health any dishonest act of unreasonably restricting business with each and safety and shall not enforce any unfair labor practice on the personnel. other or of defaming them. 8. To Make Distinction between Public and Private Matters and Not 3. To Make Fair and Proper Information Disclosure and to Exercise to Do Any Act Involving Conflict of Interest Complete Information Control We shall be sure not to attempt to gain any personal profit in performance We shall disclose our corporate information such as our group’s financial of duties, and shall not make any unauthorized use of our group’s assets, conditions and business activities in a fair, quick, correct and intelligible goods and information nor shall do such personal act that might cause way in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, etc. and shall any disadvantage to our group’s business activities. exercise strict control over confidential information collected through our 9. To maintain sound relationship with society business activities so as not to cause any disadvantage to third parties. We shall be always strict at the time of conducting business with public 4. To Respect Intellectual Property agencies and making political donations by complying with relevant We shall respect any third party’s intellectual property, and shall not laws, etc. We shall also maintain a dauntless attitude toward antisocial attempt to obtain any third party’s result of efforts or confidential activities and groups and shall never be concerned with them. information through an illegal method nor shall we use any third party’s 10. To Preserve the Global Environment right for our own business without the rightful person’s consent. We shall comply with environment-related laws and regulations, etc. and 5. To Maintain International Peace and Safety pay attention to environment throughout our business activities based We shall comply with exportand import-related laws and regulations, on international standards, etc. for environment in an endeavor to preserve etc. and shall not be engaged in any transaction likely to impede and improve the global environment. maintenance of international peace and safety. Revised November 2009 * Written above is the Sysmex Corporation Compliance Code. Our subsidiaries outside of Japan have established their own versions of the Compliance Code by reflecting the various differences in customs and practices of their respective regions. 13 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Internal Reporting System External Evaluation An internal reporting system originally developed for Group companies in Japan, the “Campanula Lines” allow our staﬀ Sustainability Evaluation members to seek consultations and ﬁle a report via telephone, Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) is garnering attention for the postal mail or e-mail through two lines (in-house and external). assessment and screening of corporations displaying performance Any information received is handled anonymously to protect above a certain level from the perspective of environmental and the personal information of those providing the information. social fairness rather than an economic perspective to realize a Also, Sysmex is moving forward with improvements to sustainable society. Since 2008, the Sysmex Corporation has been internal reporting systems at overseas Group companies. added to the FTSE4Good Global Index*1. In ﬁscal 2011, received Ethibel Pioneer & Ethibel Excellence*2 from SRI evaluation “Campanula Lines” Internal Reporting System organization in Belgium, Forum Ethibel. Compliance Sub-committee Also in ﬁscal 2011, Sysmex was selected for inclusion in Reporting the Global 100*3 list of the world’s most sustainable companies published jointly by Canadian publisher Corporate Knights and Compliance leaders U.S. newswire and broadcaster Bloomberg L.P. *1 FTSE4Good Global Index: SRI index developed and managed by England’s FTSE Group, a joint-venture between the Financial Times newspaper and the London In-house contact External line (law ﬁrm) Stock Exchange. * 2 Ethibel Pioneer & Ethibel Excellence: Select stocks chosen for demonstrated E-mail, performance above a certain level in terms of CSR issues related to observance E-mail, of human rights and environmental contributions. Reply Consultation telephone, Consultation Reply postal mail, postal mail * 3 100 of the world’s most sustainable companies: Assessment of corporate value in-house mail of 3,500 global companies from every industry, ranked according to the top 100 most sustainable companies. Sysmex Group employees (regular employees, non-regular employees, part-time employees, temporary employees) Dialogue with Stakeholders Promoting Direct Dialogue with Various Stakeholders Sysmex values opportunities for direct dialogue with stakeholders. We incorporate opinions and requests received into our business activities. Main Dialogue Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Customers Shareholders and Investors • Conducted survey on degree of customer satisfaction in each region • Conducted informal meeting after general shareholders meeting (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies in each region) (Sysmex Corporation) • Held scientific seminars in each region (Sysmex Corporation and • Conducted individual interviews with over 300 domestic and foreign overseas Group companies in each region) institutional investors and analysts (Sysmex Corporation) • Ongoing customer training program incorporating customer feedback • In October 2011, conducted tour of R&D core Technopark for individual in each region (Sysmex Corporation and overseas Group companies investors (Sysmex Corporation) in each region) • In January 2012, held informational meeting for individual investors Employees at Kobe Portopia Hall for 515 individual investors (Sysmex Corporation) • Investigated desire concerning career design, including interest in Local Residents working overseas or changing jobs through a voluntary reporting • Held Technopark Festa 2011 for local community interaction at R&D given to all employees, with results made use of in HR rotation core Technopark (Sysmex Corporation) (Sysmex Corporation) • Participated in math and science education-focused “4th Science Fair • Held 30 conferences or more during the year with the labor union to in Hyogo” event for high school students (Sysmex Corporation) promote initiatives improving the work environment, including HR systems, time management, work-life balance and support for health • Participated in the “Aim High Urban Mentoring Initiative” conducted maintenance (Sysmex Corporation) by a U.S. NPO and advised local high school students (Sysmex America) • Held Christmas charity lottery event (Sysmex Europe) Business Partners • In February 2012, held a purchasing policy briefing to explain direction of business with suppliers. 397 people from 225 companies attended (Sysmex Corporation) Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 14 Human Rights/Labor Practices Providing a Workplace Environment Where Diverse Human Resources Are Invigorated Sysmex’s Compliance Code forbids discrimination and proscribes unjust working conditions. We strive to adhere thoroughly to these principles and work to ensure fair working conditions and treatment. We also seek to provide labor systems and a workplace environment in which diverse human resources can maximize their potential and be invigorated. Respecting Human Rights and system for Group companies in Japan. We also have internal Diversity reporting systems in place at Group companies overseas. These reporting channels enable consultations related to sexual harassment and power harassment, among other topics. (See Sysmex Group Compliance Code (Excerpt) page 14 for details.) 7. To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities We shall respect the fundamental human rights of each of the Sysmex Corporation encourages the employment of people with personnel and shall not do any infringing act thereon such as discrimination, harassment, etc. We shall also endeavor to disabilities. Targeting long-term employment, we design working improve occupational health and safety and shall not enforce conditions so as to maximize individuals’ aptitudes and skills. any unfair labor practice on the personnel. As of January 2012, our employment ratio of people with 7-1 Prohibition of discrimination and harassments disabilities was 1.99%, exceeding the legally stipulated 1.8%. We must not conduct discriminatory behaviors with regard to a person’s sex, age, nationality, race, origin, belief, religion, We will continue reinforcing our eﬀorts in this area, targeting social status, lineage, illness or physical disability, nor must an employment ratio of 2.0%. we take such behaviors as ignoring the dignity of other people, including such acts as giving sexual harassment, power harassment, etc. Employing Seniors—System for Reemploying People 7-2 Privacy protection Who Have Retired at the Mandatory Retirement Age We must acknowledge diversiﬁed sense of values people have individually, and must respect privacy of each and Sysmex Corporation’s mandatory retirement age is 60, but we every person. Also, we must not unnecessarily disclose private information we acquire in the course of work to have in place a system for rehiring until age 65 people who have any other third person and must not try to obtain retired at the mandatory retirement age and still wish to work. private information unnecessarily. During ﬁscal 2011, we rehired according to internal rules 7-3 Elimination of forced labor and child labor We must not enforce unjust labor by detaining someone all nine employees who had retired at the mandatory age but against his or her will. Also, we must not hire children of age wished to continue working. below the minimum age of employment set forth by laws or regulations enforced in the country of region we operate. Reemployment of People Who Have Reached Mandatory 7-4 Assurance of safety and health at workplaces We must adhere to laws and regulations related to safety Employment Age (Sysmex Corporation) and health so that everyone may work with ease of mind, Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 and must strive to maintain and enhance mental as well as physical health of everyone so that safe and comfortable Number of people working environment can be established. seeking reemployment 11 8 9 Number of people reemployed 11 8 9 Eliminating Discrimination and Unjust Working Reemployment Conditions percentage 100 100 100 Item 7 of Sysmex’s Compliance Code is “To Respect Human Rights and to Improve Occupational Health and Safety.” We have formulated guidelines describing particularly important rules and Group Company in Brazil Obtains SA8000*1 and OHSAS18001*2 Certiﬁcation behaviors for compliance with basic respect for human rights. Sysmex Brazil has acquired certification for Social Accountability This code clariﬁes a variety of discriminatory actions that 8000 (SA8000)*1, an international standard for the protection are not tolerated; prohibits sexual harassment, power harassment of workers’ fundamental human rights. The company has also obtained certification for and other acts that ignore human rights; underscores prohibitions OHSAS18001*2, an international standard for occupational on child labor and forced or compulsory labor; and seeks to ensure health and safety management systems. a safe and comfortable workplace environment. * 1 SA8000: Created by an American CSR assessment body based on the International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Consultation and Reporting Systems Related to * 2 OHSAS18001: Published in 1999 based on the BS8800 standard, which Human Rights was developed by the British Standards Institute (BSI) in 1996, by a team consisting of some 30 certiﬁcation bodies and standardization organizations in various countries. Sysmex has set up “Campanula Lines” as an internal reporting 15 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Employee Evaluation and Treatment work overseas. In ways such as this, we improved the reporting sheet to gather more detailed information about employees’ Equitably Evaluating Personnel Based on Abilities future aims. and Accomplishments Sysmex Corporation values the spirit of independence and Aiming to Equalize Employment Opportunities challenge, provides employees with opportunities for Sysmex Corporation recruits new employees based the evaluation self-fulﬁllment and growth, and rewards them for their of individuals, without regard for gender, nationality, race, age, accomplishments. employment history or disability status. Speciﬁcally, in ﬁscal Based on the principle of fair treatment, Sysmex’s basic 2011 we widened our pool of potential recruits to ensure that approach on evaluation is to “reward employees for capabilities around 15% of new hires included people who had already that contribute to the enhancement of corporate value as well graduated or had studied overseas, thereby equalizing as for producing accomplishments.” In addition to evaluating employment among categories of people who the hiring processes employees for their successes, we evaluate the processes leading typically puts at a disadvantage. We also use the Internet to to employee growth (competency evaluations). To ensure the conduct Web-based Company brieﬁngs and Web-based interviews, fairness and elicit employee understanding of their evaluations, enabling us to recruit candidates throughout the world, including we show employees their evaluation results, as well as those who are living overseas or in rural parts of Japan. In ﬁscal superiors’ comments. 2011, approximately 10% of new hires were non-Japanese. Hiring Contract and Temporary Employees to Basic Principles of the Personnel Full-Time Positions Management System Sysmex Corporation actively hires temporary employees and 1) Ensuring long-term employment contract employees as full-time personnel. We have clariﬁed • Establishing a double-linear-type competence-based rating frame that enables a diversity of employees to maximize their skills, our internal regulations for hiring people working on limited, and providing opportunities for self-realization and growth ﬁxed-term contracts, oﬀering them fair opportunities for 2) Promoting the development and cultivation of diverse promotion. We put this information on our intranet to encourage employee skills thorough understanding of these rules. • Establishing competence-based rating standards and promoting cultivation of human resources and normalization of career When renewing temporary employees’ contracts, for advancement through clarification of promotion criteria employees that meet certain conditions we notify temporary • Evaluating not only accomplishments but also the processes of producing achievements (realization capability) in order to placement agencies of the possibility of employing such promote human resource development and the reform of personnel directly. corporate culture Through the ongoing application of these systems, in ﬁscal 3) Rewarding employees for capabilities that contribute to the 2011 we promoted 23 contract and temporary employees to enhancement of corporate value as well as for producing accomplishments full-time positions. • Simplifying the relationship between evaluation and reward. • Creating a remuneration structure that is easy for everyone to Promotions to Full-Time Positions (Sysmex Corporation) understand and that rewards employees in accordance with their contribution, role, competency and accomplishments Results in Results in Results in Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012* Contract employees 4 13 10 Supporting Employee Eﬀorts to Design Their Temporary Future Careers employees 6 10 6 Sysmex Corporation has in place a voluntary reporting system Total 10 23 16 that employees can use to design their future careers. Approximately 90% of employees take advantage of this system. * As of April 1, 2012 The system aﬀords each employee with the opportunity to consider their own career directions and life plan, as well as to aﬀect their own skills development and placement according to the content of their reports. In ﬁscal 2011, we augmented this system with questions that encourage employees to consider their careers over the medium to long term, as well as questions related speciﬁcally to the desire to Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 16 Supporting Employees in Striking a who ﬁnd it diﬃcult to take care of their children due to caretakers’ Balance between Work and Family illness, bereavement or other circumstances may also temporarily utilize the service. As of March 31, 2012, 26 children were Providing Support for Childhood Education and attending the daycare center on a full-time basis. Nursing Care Sysmex Corporation oﬀers a variety of childcare leave and Expanding Systems to Provide a Good Working shortened working hour systems to ensure that parents can spend Environment as much time together with their children as possible. To further In addition to childcare, Sysmex Corporation has in place a support employees’ childrearing, we have introduced a system number of other systems to help employees realize a work–life that allows employees to take reserve paid leave days when balance from various perspectives. necessary to attend to sick children. In ﬁscal 2011, we extended the We allow employees to use reserved annual leave days to period of applicability of this program, which formerly applied to attend hospital consultations for parents and family members, children prior to entering elementary school, to children prior to as well as to accompany family during hospital stays. We also entering junior high school. We also oﬀer a reemployment system oﬀer a reemployment system to provide employees forced to to provide employees forced to suspend their careers due to suspend their careers due to child-raising to resume their work. child-raising with opportunities to resume their work. Furthermore, we have introduced a cafeteria-type plan We post information about these support systems on that meets diverse employee needs by enabling them to choose dedicated intranet sites, providing information in an from a menu of welfare options. easy-to-understand way. Acquiring a Next-Generation Accreditation Mark Establishment of In-House Daycare Center In ﬁscal 2011, Sysmex Corporation Sysmex Corporation has opened the “Sysmex Kids Park,” an received the next-generation in-house daycare center, at Technopark, our core R&D facility. accreditation mark (nicknamed The center takes care of employees’ infant children while they “Kurumin”) from the Ministry of Health, are at work. Labour and Welfare for its planned The center oﬀers short-term as well as full-time daycare, implementation of systems to support so that employees whose spouses work on a part-time basis or a balance for employees between work Next-generation accreditation and family life. mark, “Kurumin” Cooperation between Labor and Management Working together to Create a Better Workplace All regular employees of Sysmex Corporation, except those holding managerial posts and some in back-oﬃce operations, are members of Sysmex Union, the Company’s labor union. The Company and Sysmex Union work together to develop systems In-house daycare center, Sysmex Kids Park that make it easier for employees to maintain a work–life balance. Users of Work and Family Support Systems (As of March 31, 2012) System Description Number of Users Shorter work hour system for Until the end of third grade of elementary school 26 users child rearing Leave of absence system Child nursing leave prescribed by law, available after one year of age and (childcare leave, childbearing leave) up to two years 43 users Reserved leave with pay for up to 10 days of annual paid vacation from Reserved paid leave system 5 users previous years can be taken for child nursing leave or short-term nursing leave. System to reemploy people who previously left the Company for childcare Reemployment system 0 users, 9 people registered or nursing-related reasons Daycare center provides care for infants and children up to entry into In-house daycare system elementary school, which is available for full-time or temporary childcare. 26 children 17 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Health and Safety Considerations Human Resources Development Maintaining and Improving Physical and Mental Focusing on Human Resources Development on Health a Global Basis Sysmex Corporation encourages its employees to undergo Sysmex Corporation aims to provide an environment that thorough physical examinations and cancer tests for women, develops and nurtures employees’ skills. We have in place in addition to regular health checkups, for the early detection of systems designed to enable all employees to cultivate expertise illness. We provide channels for health consultations throughout and skills on a regular and planned basis. Through these eﬀorts, the company, and have in place systems where employees can we aim to cultivate the global human resources that are central meet with industrial physicians and public health nurses. We oﬀer a to reinforcing the Company’s management and developing dedicated channel for mental health consultations with specialized global business going forward. industrial physicians and have established an external counseling In ﬁscal 2011, we began providing training for business skills institution (EAP), enabling employees to seek help easily. in English. We also began a business English training program In ﬁscal 2011, we began providing speciﬁc health guidance using foreign-language instructors inside the company to boost in-house on metabolic countermeasures, with dieticians oﬀering understanding of other cultures. guidance on lifestyle improvements. Measures such as these are We have introduced the Global Apprentice Program targeting designed to help employees prevent illness. younger employees. We solicit participants internally for this program, which oﬀers employees the opportunity to work at Occupational Health and Safety overseas subsidiaries and is open to employees who aim to To ensure the health and safety of its workers, Sysmex Corporation develop global careers. The objective of the program is to foster has formulated Safety and Health Regulations. We have also a core of global personnel within the Company. established a Safety and Health Committee at each of our oﬃces to foster a safe and good working environment. Employees are given training on emergency measures, how to evacuate when an accident occurs, and how to handle machinery and raw materials that are potentially dangerous, as well as how to use an automated external deﬁbrillator (AED). We are also developing citizen emergency life-saving technicians. Furthermore, the Company organizes evacuation drills and ﬁre drills in cooperation with local ﬁre stations as a precaution against earthquakes, ﬁres, and other disasters. Frequency and Severity of Work-Related Injuries (Sysmex Corporation) 2.0 1.83 1.75 1.62 1.61 1.5 0.96 1.0 0.85 1.26 0.53 0.5 0.22 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.00 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Average frequency among all industrial sectors in Japan Frequency at Sysmex Corporation Severity at Sysmex Corporation Notes: “Frequency of work-related injuries” is the number of employee deaths or injuries resulting from work-related accidents per million work hours. Employees dispatched to overseas subsidiaries as part of global apprentice program “Severity of work-related injuries” is the ratio of the number of days absent (Upper middle) Koki Amano, Corporate Business Administration Division from work due to work-related injuries per thousand hours worked. (at subsidiary in United States) (Lower left) Shino Kurisu, Business Management (Japan) Division (at subsidiary in Germany) Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 18 The Environment Promoting Environmental Activities to Reach Our Long-Term Environmental Objectives In the Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020), we have set forth our long-term environmental objectives, including global warming countermeasures, eﬀective use of resources and waste reduction, and eﬀective use of water resources, etc. and we are working to attain these goals. Environmental Management ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Sysmex is working toward the acquisition of ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management, for the Environmental Policy Group as a whole. By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global Between April 2011 and April 2012, four sites newly acquired environmental conservation activities contribute to the creation this certiﬁcation. As a result, all Sysmex’s factories in Japan, and ﬁve of a fulfilling and healthy society. of seven overseas locations, have received ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, bringing the total to 17 sites. We are moving forward with eﬀorts Core behavior to acquire certiﬁcation at Sysmex Wuxi and Sysmex Jinan, as well. 1. We deliver reassurance to all people by carrying out business activities in an environmentally conscious manner. ISO 14001 Certiﬁed Sites 2. We strive to provide eco-friendly products and services while Company name Site Achieved in giving careful thought of environmental issues throughout Kakogawa Factory April 2000 their life cycles. Technopark February 2002 3. We strive to conserve energy and resources, reduce wastes, Sysmex Corporation Head oﬃce February 2002 promote recycle and properly control chemical substances Solution Center November 2005 in all business activities. Sysmex International Ono Factory March 2001 4. We comply with all applicable national or regional Reagents Seishin Factory June 2007 environmental regulations, standards and agreements. Sysmex Medica — March 2001 5. We continually improve our environmental conservation Sysmex RA — June 2008 activities and work diligently prevent pollution and minimize the impact our products have on the environment. Neumünster Factory November 1999 Sysmex Europe Head oﬃce October 2011 6. We contribute to society through environmental conservation Sysmex Deutschland — October 2011 activities as a member of the community, while educating and raising the environmental consciousness. Sysmex Brazil — May 2006 Sysmex America — December 2009 7. We establish environmental objectives and targets consistent with this environmental policy, and measure our performance Sysmex Reagents America — December 2009 against them. Sysmex New Zealand — May 2011 Revised May 2009 Sysmex India — March 2012 Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc — April 2012 Promoting Environmental Activities Environmental Auditing Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International Reagents are In ﬁscal 2011, Sysmex Corporation and Sysmex International in charge of establishing policies and plans, managing the Reagents evaluated overall compliance through a series of progress of planned activities, and evaluating their results as self-assessments conducted by individual divisions themselves members of the Environmental Management Committee and internal environmental auditing performed by auditors chaired by the Sysmex executive oﬃcer in charge of CSR. in other divisions. External environmental auditing was also In ﬁscal 2010, Sysmex formulated the Sysmex Group carried out by a third-party auditing organization. Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020). We are The internal environmental working to reduce our environmental impact to achieve these audits found four nonconformities, long-term environmental objectives. while the external environmental Sysmex has also appointed an environmental manager in audits discovered three each Group company in Japan and overseas, thus establishing nonconformities. Corrective a system to collect groupwide activity information and actions for these nonconformities environmental performance data. were promptly completed. External environmental auditing 19 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Sysmex Group Environmental Action Plan (Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020) Sysmex Eco-Vision 2020 Activities/Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Long-term Environmental Objectives (for Fiscal 2020) Reduce the power consumption of diagnostics instrument by 25% • Promoted developments to reduce power consumption. (in comparison with conventional models) • Performed water-proof rooftop construction and installed heat-shielding films (Seishin Factory). • Mounted energy-saving initiatives, setting all personal computers to energy-saving modes, thoroughly monitoring air conditioned room temperatures, affixing insulative sheets to Reduce greenhouse gas emissions at business glass on windows and turning off unnecessary lighting. offices by 50% (per unit of consolidated sales) • Switched electric power providers, using only suppliers that generate power from renewable Global energy (Sysmex Europe). warming • Through operation of photovoltaic system throughout fiscal 2011, covered 25% of overall countermeasures energy use, or approximately 110,000 kWh (Sysmex Europe, Neumunster Factory). • Reduce domestic carbon dioxide emissions for logistics by 11% (per unit of parent-only sales) • Commenced modal shift from air to ocean transport on exports to Indonesia, for which • Set a target of reducing global carbon dioxide ratio of air transportation had previously been high. emissions for logistics Reduce carbon dioxide emissions from • Conducted eco-drive training at branches and sales offices and held eco-drive contest. domestic company cars by 50% • Promoted introduction of fuel-efficient and hybrid cars. (per unit of domestic sales) • Reduce domestic materials for containers and packaging for products and packing for transportation by 15% • Achieved an average 18% reduction in weight on packaging materials used for XN-Series (per unit of parent-only sales) diagnostic instruments (seven items). • Set a global target of reducing materials for containers and packaging for products and Eﬀective use of packing for transportation resources and waste reduction Reduce waste, etc. emissions at business • Installed garbage disposers (Ono Factory). offices by 15% (per unit of consolidated sales) • Domestic: Achieve a recycle rate of 99% or higher at all business offices covered • Conducted efforts including review of waste disposal companies. • Overseas: Achieve a recycle rate of 95% or • Began recycling used reagent bottles. higher at all business offices covered Eﬀective use of Reduce water usage at business offices by 30% • Promoted efficiency improvements on water purifying equipment. water resources (per unit of consolidated sales) Develop products with no animal-derived • Promoted a switchover of protein raw materials used in reagents from animal derivatives ingredients to artificially synthesized protein. • Commenced sales of reagents in paper packages in combination with XN-Series diagnostic Develop paper containers for reagents instruments. • Clarified rules and environmental design guidelines related to handling of chemical Establish and operate guidelines for substances that are limited (targeted for reduction or elimination) by the REACH regulation eco-friendly design and other regulations. • Promoted efforts to obtain ISO 14001 or simplified environmental management system Others Achieve an environmental management system certification (acquired by 76%, 64 of 84 suppliers). development rate of 100% for major suppliers • Conducted survey targeting 220 suppliers and requesting responses regarding environmental management systems and environmental conservation activities. Obtain the ISO 14001 certification at business • ISO 14001 certification received by Sysmex Europe, Sysmex India and Sysmex Asia Pacific. offices covered Promote eco-friendly service models • Promoted expansion of facilities employing SNCS in Asia region. • Performed LCA comparing CO2 emissions of newly introduced XN-Series diagnostic Promote life cycle assessment instruments and previous models. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 20 Global Warming Countermeasures Reducing CO2 Emissions from Domestic Company Cars To reduce CO2 emissions from some 400 company cars in Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Business Oﬃces Japan, we are conducting eco-drive training at our branches We are promoting various measures at each site, in order to and sales oﬃces and holding eco-drive contests. reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our business oﬃces. As a We are also moving ahead with the introduction of eco-cars result, in ﬁscal 2011 greenhouse gas emissions per unit of sales and hybrid cars. In ﬁscal 2011, we introduced 14 eco-cars and were 16% lower than in the previous ﬁscal year. seven hybrid cars. At our factories in Japan, we are working on various measures However, because ﬂeet to bolster production eﬃciency, such as by conserving energy vehicles were used at production facilities. At all our business oﬃces, including our more in ﬁscal 2011 than factories, we have introduced in the previous year, thorough temperature emissions per unit of controls, aﬃxed insulating sales were essentially ﬂat sheets, and assiduously year on year. Eco-drive training reduced unnecessary lighting. Energy conservation Reducing Power Consumption of Diagnostic measures are designed Instruments according to each site Introduction of electric power monitor To help reduce the amount of energy consumed when customers at Technopark to determine status of characteristics. electricity use throughout the facility use our products, we are pursuing eﬀorts to develop diagnostic instruments that use even less electricity. Reducing CO2 Emissions for Logistics We are also promoting eﬀorts to reduce CO2 emissions from Effective Use of Resources and logistics processes. For logistics operations in Japan, during the Waste Reduction year we consolidated our logistics centers and revised transportation routes to make them more eﬃcient. As a result, Reducing Materials for Containers and Packaging CO2 emissions from transportation within Japan were down for Products, and Packing for Transportation 8% in ﬁscal 201 1, compared with the previous ﬁscal year. We are working to reduce the amounts of materials for containers, To reduce emissions resulting from the export from Japan to packaging and packing for instruments, reagents and repair parts overseas regions, whereas in the past we transported instruments in an eﬀort to reduce the weight of materials used. In ﬁscal 2011, from Japan to Indonesia by air, we shifted transportation of we decreased the weight of materials used in packaging accessories approximately 90% of these exports to ship. By making changes for the XN-Series, which launched during the year, reducing this such as these, in ﬁscal 2011 we succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions weight by approximately 18% compared with previous items. from transportation to overseas destinations by 19% year on year. Reducing Waste at Business Oﬃces Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 201 1 In ﬁscal 2011, we conducted a review of contractors who Transportation within Japan 1,369t-CO2 1,256t-CO2 process the waste generated by Technopark and Seishin Factory of Sysmex International Reagents, with the aim of Transportation to overseas 4,031t-CO2 3,279t-CO2 raising recycling ratios. Greenhouse Gas Emissions at CO2 Emissions for Logistics CO2 Emissions from Domestic Business Oﬃces Company Cars (t-CO2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) (t-CO2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) (t-CO2) (t-CO2/¥100 million) 24,000 10.83 10.35 12.0 2,800 2.4 4,000 6.0 2.05 4.9 1.84 8.69 4.2 4.1 18,000 9.0 2,100 1.54 1.8 3,000 4.5 12,619 12,910 11,711 1,344 1,369 1,256 1,891 12,000 6.0 1,400 1.2 2,000 1,740 1,805 3.0 4,488 4,440 4,516 6,000 3.0 700 0.6 1,000 1.5 8,131 8,470 7,195 0 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Japan Overseas Per unit of sales CO2 emissions Per unit of sales CO2 emissions Per unit of sales Note: See page 24 for information on the boundary of data. Note: These ﬁgures indicate CO2 emissions resulting from the Note: See page 24 for information on the boundary of data. distribution of products from Japanese factories to distributors. 21 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 We continued to promote the use of garbage disposers at scientiﬁc measurement instruments and from July 2016 for facilities that produce large amounts of raw garbage and waste diagnostic instruments and diagnostic instruments for oil, such as employee cafeterias. In ﬁscal 2011, we installed a animals. To meet the stipulations of the revised RoHS garbage disposer at the Directive, Sysmex is adjusting its design and production processes Ono Factory of Sysmex for products shipped to Europe. International Reagents. * RoHS Directive: A directive prohibiting the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic devices sold in the European Union. This directive calls Owing to renovations at for the cessation of use of heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent business oﬃces, however, chromium) and specified bromine-containing flame retardants (PBB and PBDE). total waste emitted in ﬁscal 2011 was up 3% year-onyear Carefully Managing and Appropriately Disposing per unit of sales. Garbage disposer of Substances with Infection Potential Sysmex International Reagents uses bio-based materials for Effective Use of Water Resources the manufacture of products, and such materials are used at Technopark as experimental materials for research and Reducing Water Usage and Processing Wastewater development. As these substances have infection potential, all Appropriately at Business Oﬃces appropriate precautions are taken in their handling. Manuals Sysmex is working to reduce the amount of water it uses through are in place to manage their use strictly, limiting storage and such eﬀorts as increasing the eﬃciency of water purifying locations where they are used. Furthermore, these substances equipment. However, as production volumes are increasing— are carefully segregated from general waste for proper disposal. notably for the production of reagents overseas—water use in ﬁscal 2011 per unit of sales was up 2% year-on-year. Others In addition, we upgraded the wastewater processing system at our Helping Suppliers Build an Environmental Kakogawa Factory to augment facility Management System operation eﬃciency and boost safety. Sysmex encourage its suppliers to acquire ISO 14001 certiﬁcation This system measures biochemical or build other environmental management systems recommended oxygen demand (BOD)—an indicator of by local administrations. As of March 31, 2012, 64 of our 84 water pollution—in real time, helping to main suppliers had received ISO 14001 or a simpliﬁed version ensure that we control equipment of environmental management system certiﬁcation. appropriately to keep wastewater above Furthermore, in ﬁscal 2011 we conducted a survey of 220 required standards. Wastewater processing system suppliers to inquire their status of EMS certiﬁcation and environmental conservation activities. We conﬁrmed that no Reducing the Use of Substances major environmental issues had arisen. with Environmental Impact Green Procurement Conforming with Regulations We have formulated green procurement standards, which Application of the revised RoHS Directive*, which went into describe our basic policy on environmentally conscious eﬀect in July 2011, to Sysmex’s products begins in July 2014 for procurement activities. Materials for Containers, Product Total Volume of Waste Emissions Water Consumption at Business Packaging and Packing for at Business Oﬃces Oﬃces Transportation (t) (t/¥100 million) (t) (t/¥100 million) (thousand m3) (t/¥100 million) 227.2 230.7 234.6 4,000 3.2 2,000 1.00 400 240 0.83 2.50 0.74 0.76 316 2.33 3,000 2.18 2.4 1,500 0.75 300 288 180 264 1,025 157 1,861 969 917 117 137 2,000 1,775 1.6 1,000 0.50 200 120 1,525 170 195 262 1,000 0.8 500 0.25 100 60 799 722 764 147 150 159 0 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Materials for containers, product packaging and Japan Overseas Per unit of sales Japan Overseas Per unit of sales packing for transportation Per unit of sales Note: See page 24 for information on the boundary of data. Note: See page 24 for information on the boundary of data. Note: See page 24 for information on the boundary of data. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 22 To reduce substances included in our products that have Promoting Eco-Friendly Service Models an environmental impact, in addition to these green procurement In addition to expanding the functions of the Customer Support standards, we disclose on our website lists of substances that Center, we are minimizing downtime for diagnostic instruments we limit or are working to reduce the use of in our products. in use by constructing the Sysmex Network Communication We ask our suppliers of parts and raw materials for their System (SNCS, see page 28 for details) to maintain interactive cooperation in this regard. communication with customers. This system leads to reduced visits to customer sites by our employees, allowing reductions in the amounts of gasoline used Green Procurement Standards (Excerpt) by company cars and the amounts of CO2 emitted by them. 1. Objectives In accordance with its environmental policy, the Sysmex Establishing Eco-Friendly Production Methods for Group strives to fulfill its corporate social responsibility by the Raw Materials Used in Diagnostic Reagents promoting global environment conservation. Accordingly, we endeavor to promote the manufacture of environmentally Sysmex has established a method of producing from friendly products by encouraging the procurement of raw silkworms the proteins used as raw materials in certain of its materials and parts that have low impact on the global diagnostic reagents. environment. These standards have been formulated to In the past, proteins were cultivated in computer-controlled cultivate proactive environmental conservation activities among our suppliers and enable us to work together toward the tanks, using cells derived from mammals; the new approach reduces development of a sustainable society. energy consumption 2. Green Procurement Initiatives substantially. As We practice “green procurement” to ensure that our procurement silkworms can be activities promote a reduction in the environmental impact cultivated at room of the Company’s products and reduce the environmental temperature, simply impact of all production activities, including those of our suppliers. We promote the two items below as specific green using shelves and procurement initiatives. breeding containers and 1) Promote the procurement of raw materials and parts that providing them with have lower environmental impact. food, we anticipate 2) Expand business with suppliers that take a proactive approach energy savings and toward environmental conservation. waste reduction. Silkworms to produce proteins Activities at Overseas Bases Eco-Friendly Factory (China) Sysmex Jinan is building an eco-friendly factory, including (without limitation) greenery on its roof (scheduled to commence operations in 2012). Water Recycling (India) At Sysmex India, all factory wastewater is reused at green spaces within the factory area, and thus the company is working to reduce the amount of water it consumes. Acquisition of ISO 14001 Certification (Germany, Singapore, India) Sysmex Europe, Sysmex Asia Pacific and Sysmex India have acquired ISO 14001 certification. Sysmex Wuxi and Sysmex Jinan are also pursuing initiatives toward this end. Renewable Energy Use (Germany) At Sysmex Europe, the Neumünster Factory’s installation of a photovoltaic system reduced overall power consumption at all factories in fiscal 2011 by around 25%, or 110,000 kWh. The company has also switched electric power providers, using only suppliers generate power from renewable resources. Photovoltaic system installed at the Neumünster Factory 23 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental Impact of Business Activities Period: April 1, 2011, to March 31, 2012 INPUT Energy Printing paper Electricity 25,935 thousands kWh Japan and overseas Printing paper 70.1 t Japan PRTR chemicals Fuel (city gas) 801 thousands Nm3 Japan and overseas Volume of PRTR* chemicals handled 9.1 t Japan Fuel (LPG) 17.6 t Japan and overseas Materials for containers, packaging and packing Materials for containers, packaging for products and packaging for transportation 1,775 t Japan Fuel (kerosene) 57.9 kl Japan and overseas Water Fuel Water (gasoline for Company cars) 774.4 kl Japan consumption 316 thousands m3 Japan and overseas Sysmex’s business activities Design Production Transportation Use Disposal OUTPUT Greenhouse gases Waste Greenhouse gases Total volume of waste CO2 emission at business 11,711 t-CO2 Japan and overseas emission 1,025 t Japan and overseas offices CO2 CO2 emissions from Volume recycled Company cars 1,805 t-CO2 Japan (recycling rate) 910 t (88.7%) Japan and overseas PRTR chemicals Water PRTR* chemicals emitted and released 0.6 t Japan Waste water 129 thousands m3 Japan and overseas Japan and overseas Factories and Principal Business Oﬃces of Group Companies in Japan and Overseas Sysmex Corporation / Sysmex International Reagents / Sysmex RA / Sysmex Medica / Sysmex America / Sysmex Reagents America / Sysmex Brazil / Sysmex Europe GmbH (Neumünster Factory) / Sysmex Shanghai / Sysmex Jinan / Sysmex Wuxi / Sysmex Asia Paciﬁc / Sysmex India Japan Factories and Principal business Oﬃces of Group Companies in Japan Sysmex Corporation / Sysmex International Reagents / Sysmex RA / Sysmex Medica * PRTR : Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system used to collect, aggregate and disseminate data on the quantity of toxic chemicals that have been released into the environment and their sources including those which have been transferred outside of facilities in the form of waste. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 24 Fair Operating Practices Pursuing Fair Business Practices with Business Partners To ensure the fairness of its business activities, Sysmex makes a thorough eﬀort to anti-corruption and ensure ethics compliance. We also work to promote CSR activities throughout the entire value chain, as we strive to maintain favorable relationships with suppliers, distributors and other business partners. Anti-Corruption Encouraging Activities Based on Promotion Codes Sysmex Corporation has established a Sysmex Promotion Code (SPC), which stipulates the core behaviors for preventing bribery and other inappropriate acts and maintaining fair trade. The Fair Trade Promotion Committee, established in ﬁscal 2008, oversees training and conducts surveys on an ongoing basis in an eﬀort to bolster employee awareness. Training on relations with overseas government officials We revised the SPC in April 2012, adding new operational rules on providing food, drinks and entertainment to healthcare Security Export Control professionals. Establishing a Security Export Control Structure Educational Campaign for Anti-Corruption Sysmex formulated Security Export Control Regulations in ﬁscal One of 10 principles of the Global Compact states that 1997. Since that time, we have worked steadily to reinforce our “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, security export control system, thoroughly verifying the including extortion and bribery.” Sysmex is striving to put this destinations and purposes of our exports. principle into practice. At each department in Japan, a security export control oﬃcer In ﬁscal 2011, we reinforced our regulations on bribery on is appointed who is responsible for ensuring security export control a global scale, incorporating the content of the UK Bribery Act and employee training on the issue at his or her department. and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States. We also conducted training in Japan regarding the enhanced regulations. Respecting Property Rights Themed on the healthcare facilities, this training addressed relations with anti-corruption and the healthcare industry. Preventing Infringement of Other Companies’ We invited outside lecturers to conduct a seminar for Sysmex Intellectual Property Rights executives and performed training for employees whose duties Dedicated to intellectual property management, Sysmex strives to put them into contact with government oﬃcials overseas. We protect and utilize its own intellectual property rights, as well as to also provided an e-learning program for all employees. prevent infringements on the intellectual property rights of other companies. Each product development project involves a patent Anti-Corruption Education Performed in Fiscal 2011 review to decide what patents to apply for to protect our own Seminar for Executives (Global Trends Targeting Anti-Bribery intellectual property and review third parties' intellectual property and Countermeasures) information. As a part of this review, a patent application study Conducted: January 2012 Participants: 26 people, including the president, executive oﬃcers committee is held, where Intellectual Property members and and corporate auditors R&D engineers draw up patent application policies and plans for e-Learning Program: “Relations with Government Oﬃcials” technologies under development. At the same time, the committee Conducted: October–December 201 1 investigates the status of third-party intellectual property rights, Participants: 1,669 employees thereby minimizing any risks associated with intellectual property. In Training on Relations with Overseas Government Oﬃcials ﬁscal 2011, we ﬁled 101 patent applications in Japan and 230 overseas. Conducted: February 2012 As of March 31, 2012, patent holdings in Japan totaled 546, and 812 Participants: 103 employees overseas. Six of our patent applications were environment-related. In ﬁscal 2011, we held an informal meeting with the Commissioner for the Japan Patent Oﬃce, explaining Sysmex’s global strategies and eﬀorts to respond to the issue of imitative reagents. The meeting also involved a broad-ranging exchange of ideas with the Japan Patent Oﬃce concerning international intellectual property strategies. 25 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 R&D Ethics Compliance them with checklists they can use to self-examine their quality management systems, and sending Procurement and Quality Establishment of a Committee Including Outside Management members to suppliers’ manufacturing plants to Members assist them in improving quality on the shop ﬂoor. Being involved in clinical research and human genome and We have prepared a Quality Assurance Agreement that deﬁnes genetic analysis research, Sysmex has adopted the Ethics the quality requirements, and have been encouraging suppliers Regulations on Clinical Research and Development and Human to sign this agreement since ﬁscal 2009. As of March 31, 2012, the Genome and Genetic Analysis Research, whose basic policies Kakogawa Factory had concluded the agreement with 119 out include respect of human dignity and thorough protection of of 148 suppliers that it regularly procures parts and materials personal information. Sysmex has also established a Research from. We have also produced and distributed guidelines aimed Ethics Examination Committee, which includes outside members at deepening the overall understanding of the agreement. such as legal and science experts, in order to review research content. Number of Suppliers* The list of committee members and examination results China Asia-Paciﬁc are disclosed on our website, thus ensuring transparency. 0.3% 1.2% North America CSR Promotion throughout the 4.6% Value Chain Europe 4.6% Fiscal 2011 Japan 89.1% Total: 324 Procurement Policies companies To contribute to healthcare through the supply of superior products To achieve mutual growth and development based on mutual trust with business partners * Suppliers of parts and raw materials Better partnerships Fair, transparent procurement Compliance with applicable laws, confidentiality Strictly Observing the Act against Delay in Payment Environmental considerations of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors In order to comply with the Act against Delay in Payment of Purchasing Policy Brieﬁng Subcontract Proceeds, Etc., to Subcontractors, Sysmex provides The annual Purchasing Policy Brieﬁng is an opportunity for us education through companywide e-learning. In addition, we to meet with suppliers and brief them on the course of our have established an electronic purchasing system to prevent business and purchasing policy, thereby forging even stronger unreasonable payment reductions and refunds. Each year, we relationships with them. also provide training on the system. In ﬁscal 2011, 63 people The brieﬁng in February 2012 was attended by 397 people underwent this training, including new employees assigned to from 225 companies. We described to participants our business R&D departments. activities, purchasing policies for the ﬁscal year. Throughout the year, we also awarded ﬁve suppliers whose In Distributor Relationships, Focusing on the Key cooperation was Issue of Compliance particularly helpful Sysmex rigorously ensures compliance to build sustainable in heightening the and fruitful partnerships with its distributors. We prohibit competitiveness and employees from abusing any dominant bargaining position, reliability of our oﬀering excessive entertainment, presents or the like when products, as well as dealing with distributors. their stable supply. Purchasing Policy Briefing At the same time, we take advantage of opportunities presented by product brieﬁngs, which are held on occasions Aiming to Improve the Quality of Supplied Parts such as new launches, to share our policies and activities with and Raw Materials our distributors, helping them to deepen their understanding To supply top-quality products to customers in a stable manner, of the importance of compliance. In ﬁscal 2008, we bolstered our it is essential to maintain and improve the quality of supplied drive to prevent corruption by establishing a Sysmex Promotion parts and raw materials. Toward this end, Sysmex supports quality Code (SPC) in an attempt to involve distributors in the initiative assurance of its suppliers in various ways, such as providing to maintain business fairness. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 26 Consumer Issues Pursuing Quality and Satisfaction That Exceed Expectations While attending to constant improvement of the quality of our products and services, Sysmex is working hard to create a system that allows us to ensure that customers can conﬁdently use such products with safety and ease. We aim to provide satisfaction that exceeds expectations by deepening our understanding of “what customers truly want.” Quality Assurance Currently, all Group companies involved in development and production are in the process of acquiring ISO 9001 and ISO 13485* international quality management system standard Quality Policy certiﬁcation. As of March 31, 2012, 25 of the 47 Sysmex Group By shaping the advancement of healthcare, our global business companies had acquired ISO 9001 certiﬁcation, with 13 Group activities contribute to the creation of a fulﬁlling and healthy society. companies also having acquired ISO 13485 certiﬁcation. Core behavior * ISO 13485: Quality management system for the design and manufacture of medical devices. 1. We understand our customer’s needs, and provide products and solutions that meet or exceed their expectations. 2. We act based on our customer’s viewpoints by realizing that Ensuring Product Quality “Quality is customer satisfaction”. Used for clinical testing, Sysmex’s products play a vital role in 3. We seek to reassure our customers by establishing the highest protecting people’s lives and good health. Being fully aware of quality assurance standards and using them to enhance the quality of all aspects of our business. this responsibility, Sysmex is making constant eﬀorts to maintain 4. We continually create innovative value for our stakeholders and improve product quality by building various systems, not by developing and applying new and unique technologies to mention complying with safety standards around the world and knowledge. in the design and development stages. 5. We comply with all relevant national or regional regulations and standards to provide safe products. In the product development stage, we verify product quality 6. We maintain and continually improve the eﬀectiveness of by setting ﬁve “quality gates” in the process leading up to market our quality management system. launch. Also, when we market products that are manufactured 7. We establish quality objectives consistent with this quality policy, and measure our performance against them. by others, we verify their quality by conducting periodic audits of the manufacturers and meticulously inspecting the products. Revised in May 2007 The Sysmex global quality complaint processing system was launched in April 2011. This system allows us to gather quality information in a timely way from markets around the Building a Global Quality Management System world. When we receive information about a bug or malfunction, Sysmex has constructed a system to ensure compliance with we immediately look into the cause and cease distribution of laws and regulations around the world based on the “Sysmex the product. Corporation Quality Compliance Policy”, and we act accordingly. At the same time, Sysmex also conducts global internal quality After-Sales Support auditing, to conﬁrm that the system is operating properly. In ﬁscal 2011, we conducted quality audits of our overseas For Responding to Inquiries both Rapidly and suppliers in addition to the auditing we have been conducting Responsibly at overseas factories. In Japan, Sysmex Corporation maintains a Customer Support Also, beginning in ﬁscal 2011 we concentrated the quality Center, where experienced staﬀ members with expert knowledge eﬀorts of the main overseas companies and overseas factories cater to customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year (separate at the headquarters quality assurance department, and introduced agreement required). a system whereby they are reviewed by management. By creating a database containing maintenance histories In addition, once a year we hold the Global RA/QA (regulatory and the details of past inquiries from customers to ensure aﬀairs/quality assurance) Meeting, at which managers of quality quick reference, the center responds to inquiries and requests management systems from Sysmex Corporation in Japan, the both quickly and carefully. We also maintain customer service regional headquarters in the Americas, Europe, China, and the contacts at our regional headquarters in the four regions Asia-Paciﬁc region, and aﬃliates gather to share information outside of Japan (the Americas, Europe, China and the with the goal of strengthening our response to product regulations Asia-Paciﬁc region). and the quality assurance system. 27 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Supporting Customers’ Precision Control on a Daily Basis At hospitals and other healthcare facilities, instrument precision is controlled to maintain consistent testing data reliability. In most cases, the condition of instruments is checked by comparing the measurement results of special reagents known as “control samples” with assay values and results from the previous day. Sysmex supports precision control by providing control samples. Customer instruments are connected to the Customer Support Center via our online Sysmex Network Communication Systems (SNCS). Measured values of control samples sent via the SNCS from customer instruments are received by the Customer Support Center Customer Support Center, which checks for abnormalities and returns the analysis results to the customer. Ensuring Product Safety The SNCS also helps customers to prevent instrument failure by detecting signs of problems even before customers Preventing Injuries and Infection have become aware of them. We will continue to strengthen We care about the safety of medical technologists and nurses, our remote maintenance support by utilizing this “predict and who are the users of our products. Accordingly, Sysmex prevent” support service and network. products are designed and developed in compliance not only with the Pharmaceutical Aﬀairs Act of Japan, but with even more stringent in-house standards. Inquiries to the Customer Support Center For example, to prevent operators of healthcare instruments Consultations on data Complaints 3.5% 0.2% from contracting blood infections through wounds suﬀered while working, we have incorporated a number of ideas in our Others Inquiries on operating 10.4% products to enhance their safety, e.g., designing all components procedures 5.0% used in instruments to be free from any edges that might cause Total for Inquiries on quality ﬁscal 2011: injury, and automatically housing the tips of piercing needles control (for piercing blood collection tubes) when they are replaced. 4.0% 94,584 Requests for repairs / Inquiries on products 7.2% maintenance 69.7% Safety and Quality Information Collection and Repair Information Posted on Our Website Instruments registered with the on-line quality Sysmex posts information about product collection and repair control service (worldwide) on website under “Important Product Notices.” In ﬁscal 2011, (units) 20,000 19,436 we disclosed information about 15 cases of product collection and repair. 16,595 15,000 13,464 Sharing Customer Feedback on Product Quality and Safety within the Company 10,659 10,000 8,532 At Sysmex, information on product quality and safety is centrally controlled at the Safety Information Division. This division investigates and analyzes such information 5,000 from customers, and feeds their analysis results to relevant customers while also sharing them with design, manufacturing 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) and other related functions, so that these ﬁndings may be applied to quality improvement and product development. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 28 Product Quality and Safety Information Control System Patients Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Efficacy/Safety Proper testing/ Pharmaceuticals and Information diagnosis Medical Devices Agency Direct reporting Medical technologists and other clinical professionals Instructions/ Reporting Partners both Gathering Gathering guidance of Efficacy/ Provision of Efficacy/ Information in Japan of medical provision, Information and Abroad Safety Safety Sharing, information response Information Information cooperation Information Information provision, Sharing, response cooperation Subsidiaries Customer Vigilance and affiliates Sales reps Information Gathering Division outside of Japan Sysmex Scientific Seminar in China Information provision/transmission • Literatures both from Japan and abroad Sysmex Journal International Available in More Gathering • Academic Information Gathering of Efficacy and Safety Information • Research Data than 100 Countries • Information on new developments We distribute Sysmex Journal International to healthcare facilities Sysmex Group and college libraries in more than 100 countries around the world, thus keeping many clinical professionals updated on Calling Attention to Counterfeit Reagents current clinical medicine and medical testing. To assure accurate testing results, Sysmex asks our customers at healthcare facilities to use Sysmex-branded instruments Publishing Picture Books Explaining Diseases and reagents together. In recent years, however, reagents and Testing disguised as Sysmex reagents have been found in circulation Sysmex compiles educational picture books on diseases and in some Asian countries. The use of such counterfeit testing, which we distribute to clinics and other healthcare reagents cannot guarantee the reliability of testing results facilities to keep in their waiting rooms. and, in some cases, can be harmful to patients’ health. Introducing the characteristics of diseases and procedures Sysmex continuously monitors markets for counterfeit of healthcare testing and treatment in an easy-to-understand reagents. When they are discovered, we seek cooperation from way, the picture books present stories that hold the interest of local governments and, when necessary, we bring cases to court. children and other readers who may lack medical knowledge. We have received favorable feedback from the readers of these books. Academic Supports Holding Scientiﬁc Seminars for Clinical Stable Supply of Reagents Professionals For Accurate Execution of In Vitro Diagnostics, Sysmex keeps clinical professionals updated on scientiﬁc which Is Indispensible to Treatment information by sponsoring seminars and study sessions for Sysmex is expanding support structures and facilities to ensure doctors, nurses, and medical technologists. In June 2011, nine stable product supplies. In ﬁscal 2011, we upgraded and made venues, including the main sites in Kobe, Tokyo, Sendai and additions to the Ono Factory of Sysmex International Reagents, Fukuoka and ﬁve satellite sites, were linked by satellite relay expanding capacity. By expanding the production area we have in conducting the 34th Sysmex Scientiﬁc Seminar under the increased the factory’s production capacity to 1.5 times its theme of “Cancer Genomes and Epigenomes: The future of previous level, and made smooth transition to mass production testing at the genome level”. of new products possible. Part of the new wing has been We are also active in holding seminars overseas, including established as a testing area for strengthening and expanding in Asia. In ﬁscal 2011, we held seminars in Indonesia, China and new production technology. We are also moving forward with Taiwan. The seminar in Taiwan was attended by more than 400 revising the materials procurement process as part of our participants, and was our ﬁrst in that country, where we recently disaster response. established a wholly owned subsidiary. We are also expanding reagent production facility in Sysmex Jinan to meet rapidly growing demand in China. The new facilities are scheduled to commence operation during 2012. 29 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Community Involvement and Development Contributing to a Global Society Sysmex is aware of the responsibilities as a good corporate citizen, and actively contributes to society across a broad range of ﬁelds, including healthcare. As a global company, we are developing these activities from Kobe, Japan, our home base, to the rest of the world. Basic Policy Funding of University Courses Since ﬁscal 2004, Sysmex has contributed funds to a course at Sysmex established its Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities the Kobe University Graduate School of Medicine. The course, and Philanthropy in May 2012, indicating how the Company will entitled “Assessment of Clinical Testing (Sysmex)”, involves basic pursue behaviors and commitment as a good corporate citizen. and clinical research for the scientiﬁc determination of the eﬃcacy of clinical testing, such as new testing methods, the use of biomarkers and laboratory diagnosis evaluation, in a clinical setting. Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities Sysmex also seeks to invigorate educational and research and Philanthropy Sysmex actively carries out corporate philanthropic activities activities at local universities, and contributed funds toward to promote a healthy society and vibrant community, and the construction of a hall at the Kobe University School of also facilitates our employees’ personal participation in Medicine. The university has named one part of the facility volunteer efforts. “Sysmex Hall” in appreciation of the Company’s funding support. Contribution to a healthy society Sysmex actively utilizes its resources in the healthcare field Endorsing “Pink Ribbon” to Support Breast to carry out philanthropic activities and promote the building Cancer Patients of a healthy society. Since 2004, Sysmex has continuously supported the Pink Ribbon Cooperation toward a vibrant local community Campaign, which promotes the early detection and treatment of Sysmex acts as a responsible and socially-conscious corporate breast cancer, by sponsoring symposiums and through other citizen by cooperating with the local community through activities. In 2011 we participated in the “Smile Walk” held in donations, sponsorships and involvement in philanthropic Kobe. We also actively support Pink Ribbon Campaign awareness programs. activities, such as in-house lectures and movie screenings as well Facilitation of employees’ volunteer efforts placing “Pink Ribbon vending machines”*1 at our oﬃces. Sysmex will facilitate employees’ participation in volunteer efforts as citizens of the world, members of Sysmex group *1 Pink Ribbon vending machine: A vending machine from which 1% of the drink sale proceeds is donated to the Pink Ribbon Smile Fund.*2 that contribute to healthcare in the world, and emphasize * 2 Pink Ribbon Smile Fund: A Japan Cancer Society fund for the placement of community involvement and development. diagnostic equipment at medical institutions as well as patient support. Established May 2012 Japan Participating in the Kobe Medical Industry Development Project The Kobe Medical Industry Development Project aims to create a focal point among healthcare industries in Kobe through industry–government–academia cooperation. Sysmex established the Sysmex Asano Laboratory at the Translational Research Informatics Center (TRI), one of the core facilities of this project. Under the direction of Dr. Shigetaka Asano (Professor Emeritus, Pink Ribbon Smile Walk (Kobe) The University of Tokyo, and Professor of the Faculty of Science and Engineering, Waseda University), a leading expert on hematology, Participation in the Ecocap Movement we are working on research to develop immunodiagnostics Sysmex has participated in the Ecocap Movement since 2008. technologies for proper diagnosis of autoimmune disorders and PET bottle caps are sent to Ecocap Movement oﬃces, and improve the eﬃcacy and safety of cell therapies. donations corresponding to the number of caps are sent to developing countries to pay for vaccinations. The number of caps sent so far by Sysmex is equal to about 1,000 vaccinations. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 30 Accepting JICA Trainees Local Community Development Support Every year, Sysmex Corporation provides training on the use We contribute to and sponsor a variety of events in an eﬀort to of instruments to researchers from developing countries who assist in the development of our Kobe community. visit Japan on a program oﬀered by the Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA). • Kobe Luminarie In fiscal 2011, Sysmex accepted trainees from Africa three times, Sysmex is a regular sponsor of Kobe Luminarie, an annual who toured plants and oﬃces and received technical instruction. illumination event that originated as a memorial for the victims of the 1995 Great Hanshin–Awaji Earthquake and Internships and School Visits which is held in the hopes of reconstructing/restoring Kobe Sysmex Corporation accepts ambitious students on internship and all of Hyogo Prefecture. programs every year. In ﬁscal 2011, Sysmex received two students from an internship program with Lomonosov Moscow State • The Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake Memorial Concert University in Russia. These students worked as assistants in Sysmex is a regular sponsor of the “Evening of Poetry Reading surveying overseas markets as well as in other capacities. and Music” event, at which actress Keiko Takeshita recites poems In addition to taking high school and graduate school by residents with themes such as “dreams,” “hope” and “love.” students from the Kobe area, we also cooperate in the “Try-yaru Week” workplace experience program held • The Kobe Biennale: A Festival of Integrated Art annually for Hyogo Prefecture junior high students. In June Sysmex sponsors the Kobe Biennale, a celebration of art and 2011, we accepted two Kakogawa junior high students, who culture held once every two years to advance artistic culture spent three days experiencing testing work. and revitalize Kobe. We have also registered with the Kobe Career Education Personnel Bank, and conducted school visits at a junior high and • The Kobe Oji Zoo Animal Sponsor Program a high school. We also participated in “4th Annual Science Fair The program invites individuals and businesses to support the in Hyogo”, an event participated in by companies, universities, zoo by sponsoring particular species of animal at the institution. and research institutions, at which Hyogo Prefecture math and We elected to support the giant pandas, among the most popular science students present their research results. of the zoo’s inhabitants. Preserving the Environment An Eco Team formed by Sysmex Corporation employees who are interested in environmental preservation activities has been conducting various activities since ﬁscal 2008. As it did in the previous year, in ﬁscal 2011 the Eco Team carried out a cleaning operation at Suma Beach in Hyogo Prefecture and an aﬀorestation project in the Tsurukabuto Forest on Mt. Rokko, which is also located in Hyogo Prefecture. The family members of employees also participated in these activities. Junior high students in the “Try-yaru Week” program Technopark Festa: A Community Event Sysmex Corporation holds Technopark Festa, inviting community residents to visit the Technopark R&D Center every year. Technopark Festa aims to strengthen our relationship with the local community. More than 500 people attended the Technopark Festa in November 2011, at which we provided lectures and facility tours. We also opened the Japanese garden at Technopark to the public in April, and had about 400 visitors. Tsurukabuto Forest afforestation project 31 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 The Americas established to inspire employers to encourage volunteer activities among their employees. Sysmex America’s employees serve as Ongoing Participation in an Philanthropic Event advisors to students at three Chicago public high schools and for the Elimination of Cancer also provide ongoing ﬁnancial support. Sysmex America has continued to participate in fundraising Sysmex America was awarded Honor Roll status by the events for the elimination of cancer since ﬁscal 2009. In Center for Companies That Care for its local community ﬁscal 2011, Sysmex America sponsored charity events for the contributions and outstanding workplace practices for four American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association consecutive years since ﬁscal 2008. and the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society. Highway Cleanup Every year, Sysmex America participates in a highway cleaning campaign for the highways around the company. In May 2011, eight members of Sysmex America participated in the event. Europe Ongoing Support for Children As in the previous year, in ﬁscal 2011 Sysmex Europe and Sysmex Deutschland held a charity lottery, with the cooperation of suppliers, to raise funds for Christmas gifts for needy children, and donated proceeds totaling 3,000 euro to philanthropies for children with disabilities, a non-proﬁt spinal donor center, Presentation of charity funds (Georgia Branch of the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) and others. We also donated desks and other ﬁxtures used at exhibitions Events for Children to local schools. Sysmex America invites children to visit its workplaces every year, oﬀering them a variety experiences. Contracting out Work to Organizations This year’s event had the theme “Future Heroes,” with the Supporting People with Disabilities children using cardboard to fashion images of their heroes. We Sysmex Europe and Sysmex Deutschland contract out work such also held a trash cleanup competition and photo exhibition, and as materials selection and carton stacking to organizations that a grand time was had by all. aid the physically-challenged in becoming more self-reliant. These organizations dispatch workers with disabilities to Sysmex’s manufacturing line. Children touring the company Supporting Local High School Students Reagent manufacturing (packaging by workers with disabilities) Sysmex America is an active member of the “Aim High: Urban Mentoring Initiative,” a program organized by the non-proﬁt organization “Center for Companies That Care,” which was Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 32 China Participation in New Zealand Walking Event Volunteers from Sysmex New Zealand took part in a walking Sysmex Reference Counter for Blood Cell event held by Oxfam* in ﬁscal 2011, during which they walked Counting Contributes to Testing Standardization 100km in two days. The Beijing Institute of Medical Device Testing (BIMT) selected The event was held to raise funds for poor people in the Sysmex Reference Counter as the national standard for developing countries. blood cell counting in China. The BIMT handles the registration * Oxfam: An organization dedicated to supporting people suﬀering from poverty in developing countries. Oxfam is active in over 90 countries, and seeks to of medical devices under the State Food and Drug Administration eliminate poverty. (SFDA), and this is the ﬁrst time the reference counter has been employed. Tree-Planting throughout the Region The adoption of the Sysmex Reference Counter provides a Sysmex employees throughout the Asia-Paciﬁc region have basis for further eﬀorts toward more precision in blood cell joined to create the Greener Sysmex Team, with the goal of counting and further standardization of testing by registered making Sysmex a more environmentally friendly company. In testing organs aﬃliated with the SFDA. ﬁscal 2011, the team was active in tree-planting and greening projects in each region. Mangrove planting was undertaken by Sysmex Thailand in April 2011 and by Sysmex Malaysia in November 2011. Sysmex Philippines also conducted tree-planting in May 2011, while Sysmex Indonesia did so in February 2012. Sysmex Reference Counter provided free of charge on loan to the Beijing Institute of Medical Device Testing in China Asia-Pacific Support for Students of Health Informatics Tree-planting (Indonesia) Sysmex New Zealand sponsored an essay competition for health informatics students at the Auckland University, with Visits to Homes for the Elderly in Malaysia the goal of cultivating students with innovative ideas so as to The Sysmex Malaysia Greener Sysmex Team visited a home for bring about better healthcare through information technology. the elderly run by a local NPO in ﬁscal 2011. In addition to The award for the best student essay was presented in donating food and sundries, the volunteers had lunch and September 2011, with the award presentation preceded by a enjoyed chatting with the elderly residents. lecture by Sysmex staﬀ. 33 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Independent Opinion On Reading the Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 1. As a Company Oﬀering “Trust and Conﬁdence” Sysmex’s Corporate Philosophy, the “Sysmex Way,” lists one of the Company’s precepts as “building trust and Katsuhiko Kokubu conﬁdence,” and as we see in the name* of this report, the Professor, Graduate School of Business Company emphasizes the notion of trust and conﬁdence. Administration, Kobe University The clariﬁcation of trust and conﬁdence as Sysmex CSR policy is the central theme of this report. standards, which is important for a company generating Highlight 1 introduces a new product, the XN-Series, three-quarters of its net sales overseas. At the same time, the which is designed to be safe for users and the Company notes that it is in the process of formulating a CSR environment. Various other aspects of trust and conﬁdence plan by analyzing the status of its CSR activities in 2011 based are addressed throughout the report, and we can see that on ISO 26000, and determining the important issues based it lies at the core of the Sysmex Group’s management. on that analysis. The next step should be to formulate a * The Sysmex Sustainability Report is called the “Anshin Report 2012” mediumto long-term vision for CSR, as it has done for its in Japanese; anshin is Japanese for the “trust and confidence.” environmental policies by creating the Sysmex Eco-Vision 2. Establishment of a Policy on Corporate Citizenship 2020, and then creating a clear action plan. Sysmex is making Activities and Philanthropy steady progress in its environmental and CSR activities, but Sysmex established its Policy on Corporate Citizenship given that the Sustainability Report is published annually, Activities and Philanthropy in May 2012, indicating how the degree of progress for the given ﬁscal year should be the Company will pursue global social contribution as a disclosed in a way that is easy to understand. good corporate citizen. How to pursue international social contribution through its business is a serious CSR issue 4. Communication with Stakeholders faced by Sysmex, and it is an area in which we expect While the company does take many opportunities to much of the company. I think the Company will produce engage in dialog with stakeholders, the next step should even greater successes if it sets concrete targets for social be dialog along the important shared theme of the Sysmex categories and conducts results-based management. Group’s CSR. In establishing and executing a CSR plan, it is important to get opinions from those on the outside. 3. Global Development-Aware CSR I urge Sysmex to do so in order to get stakeholders to This report is structured according to ISO 26000. I give broadly understand its CSR, and to ensure transparency Sysmex high marks for its consciousness of international in the Company’s activities. In Reply I am grateful for Dr. Kokubu’s frank but courteous opinion. Sysmex is aware of the importance from a social Kenichi Yukimoto responsibility perspective of building trust and conﬁdence to Member of the Managing Board and Executive Officer our stakeholders, and we will continue to actively seek to do so. Senior Managing Director In addition, we are making step-by-step progress CSR based on our newly established Policy on Corporate Citizenship Activities and Philanthropy, to contribute to We intend to take needs of stakeholders fully into account the development of healthcare and resolving the issues in the establishment of the plan. faced by regional communities. We will continue to work steadily to step up our CSR We will draw up a concrete CSR plan based upon the activities to meet the expectations of all our stakeholders, important issues derived from our analysis of ﬁscal 201 1. including Dr. Kokubu. Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 34 Corporate Data Corporate Overview Company name SYSMEX CORPORATION Line of business Development, manufacture, sales, and export/import of laboratory testing Established February 20, 1968 instruments, reagents, and related software Paid-in capital ¥9,187 million (As of March 31, 2012) Main customers National and other public hospitals, private hospitals, universities, research laboratories, Representative Hisashi Ietsugu, President and CEO other healthcare facilities, etc. Head Oﬃce 1-5-1, Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Export destinations More than 170 countries Kobe 651-0073, Japan Consolidated subsidiaries 46 (7 in Japan, 39 abroad) Business Activities Diagnostics ﬁeld quality of laboratory operations. for predicting the eﬀects of anti-cancer The diagnostics ﬁeld involves instruments, drugs slated for commercial launch. Our reagents, and software for analyzing samples Life sciences ﬁeld ultimate goal is to contribute to better of blood, urine, and cells. Our instruments Tapping into the wealth of technological patient QOL. for measuring the number and functions of know-how that we have amassed in the blood cells (hematology) and determining the diagnostics business, Sysmex applies the Other ﬁelds (Healthcare, etc.) activity of blood hemostasis (hemostasis) latest technologies for gene and protein We commercialize and sell devices that can enjoy a high reputation with customers, who analysis to the creation of innovative testing estimate hemoglobin levels without blood place us as the number one brand in each and diagnosis technologies. Our priority sampling, and a series of support software market segment. By combining quality R&D area here is the deﬁnitive diagnosis for health management and childcare instruments with a broad range of other and recurrence prevention of cancer, and services. We are also involved in the products and services, such as reagents, we are currently introducing technologies development of particle measuring analyzers software, instrument maintenance services, for rapid detection of cancer cell metastasis for industrial ﬁeld, utilizing the particle and academic support, we are oﬀering in lymph nodes to markets around the world. analysis technology that was originally solutions that increase the eﬃciency and We are also involved in R&D of technologies developed in the diagnostics ﬁeld. Financial Data Consolidated net sales Consolidated operating income / Net sales by destination Consolidated net income (¥ million) (¥ million) AsiaPaciﬁc 7.2% 150,000 134,743 20,000 18,288 19,205 124,694 15,708 110,724 111,842 116,174 15,033 15,134 China Japan 15,000 100,000 11,411 12,007 14.3% 29.5% 9,131 9,764 Consolidated 10,000 8,013 net sales FY2011 50,000 134,743 5,000 Europe (¥ million) Americas 0 0 27.7% (U.S., Canada, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Central and (FY) (FY) Operating income Net income South America) 21.2% R&D expenditure Consolidated total assets Number of employees (consolidated) (¥ million) (%) (¥ million) 9.6 9.7 9.9 18,000 8.8 10 150,000 142,285 5,000 4,596 8.3 130,059 4,248 118,521 120,702 3,913 12,380 11,904 8 109,027 4,000 3,550 3,333 12,000 10,771 11,238 100,000 9,221 6 3,000 4 2,000 6,000 50,000 2 1,000 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) (FY) (FY) R&D expenditure R&D expenditure per net sales 35 Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 Global Network Aﬃliates Sales Production Development Distribution Controlling company Principal Third-Party Awards (Fiscal 2011) •Received the Good Design Gold Award 2011 for in-vitro diagnostic •Received awards from multiple medical institutions in the system employing Silent Design®*1 Philippines for contributions to regional healthcare through •Received the “Invention Award” in the 2011 National scientific seminars and workshops (Sysmex Philippines) Commendation for Invention, sponsored by the Japan Institute *1 Silent Design® : A proprietary design concept of Sysmex Corporation that, in of Invention and Innovation, for technologies related to its addition to functionality and performance rises, concentrates on enhancing instrument usability by clinical laboratory technicians. white blood cell classification and counting method and * 2 Honor Roll 2012: Corporate ranking that selects companies for their contributions associated reagents. to employees and their families, as well as to the welfare of local communities. •Received Technology Award from the Japan Society of Clinical Survey conducted by the Center for Companies That Care, an NPO. Chemistry for ‘A Novel CK-MB Activity Assay Kit “L-System * 3 Best Places to Work in Healthcare: Corporate ranking that selects and awards companies in the healthcare ﬁeld that are good places for employees to work. CK-MB” Using Anti-human Mitochondrial CK Antibodies’ Based on a survey conducted by Modern Healthcare, an industry journal. •Selected for the Honor Roll 2012*2 (Sysmex America) •Selected as one of the Best Places to Work in Healthcare*3 (Sysmex America) Sysmex Sustainability Report 2012 36 1-5-1 Wakinohama-Kaigandori, Chuo-ku, Kobe 651-0073, Japan
