st sustainability care efficiency courage impartiality honesty respect coura nability care honesty efficiency impartiality trust honesty sustainability re age care impartiality efficiency honesty respect care trust efficiency hone Algorithm pect impartiality honesty sustainability courage trust respect impartiality c ciency sustainability courage efficiency impartiality trust sustainability cour y respect care impartiality honesty trust courage care efficiency respect of sustainability ability care efficiency courage impartiality honesty respect courage sustain honesty efficiency impartiality trust honesty sustainability respect courage ality efficiency honesty respect care trust efficiency honesty respect impa ty sustainability courage trust respect impartiality care efficiency sustaina e efficiency impartiality trust sustainability care efficiency courage impar respect courage sustainability care honesty efficiency impartiality trust h nability respect courage care impartiality efficiency honesty respect care iency honesty respect impartiality honesty sustainability courage trust res rtiality care efficiency sustainability courage efficiency impartiality trust t ability care efficiency courage impartiality honesty respect courage sustain honesty efficiency impartiality trust honesty sustainability respect courage ality efficiency honesty respect care trust efficiency honesty respect impa ty sustainability courage trust respect impartiality care efficiency sustaina e efficiency impartiality trust sustainability care efficiency courage impar nesty respect courage sustainability care honesty efficiency impartiality tru sustainability report 2009–2010 ALgorithm of sustainability sustainability report 2009–2010 UC ­RUSAL UC ­RUSAL sustainability report / 2009–2010 contents Algorithm of trust 005 Algorithm of courage 007 Algorithm of efficiency 015 Algorithm of care 027 Algorithm of Impartiality 043 Algorithm of honesty 051 Algorithm of respect 059 Algorithm of sustainability 065 Report overview 068 Independent limited assurance report 070 Glossary 074 GRI and UN Global Compact content index 076 Feedback form 086 Algorithm of trust UC RUSAL Algorithm of trust pp005–005 Dear friends, It is with great pleasure that I preIn Africa and Central America the Company has sent to you UC ­RUSAL’s fourth Sustainability Report, prioritised socio-economic development programmes prepared in accordance with GRI requirements and for a number of years: the Company helps local populathe principles of the United Nations Global Compact. tions to gain access to sources of clean drinking water, The past few years represent a time of major change builds roads, improves occupational health and safety, for our Company. This has been a difficult period for supplies medicines to the population and gives people the global economy, commodity markets in general a chance to receive professional medical assistance. and for the aluminium sector in particular. The global The economic crisis had no bearing on the quality economic crisis demonstrated a need to change our of the social programmes that are being implemented management approach and establish a foundation by the Company. for long-term sustainable development. We promptly Over the past five years UC ­RUSAL has invested implemented a cost reduction and efficiency improveover USD 1 billion in the development of environmenment programme, which enabled the Company to retain tally sound technologies, as well as in the implemenit leading position in the sector. tation of a modernisation programme at existing Our most significant achievement in the reportenterprises, enabling the Company to cut harmful ing period was UC ­RUSAL’s successful IPO on the Hong emissions. A project to reduce greenhouse gas Kong Stock Exchange in January 2010. We realise that emissions at Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter, one of the status of public company necessitates particular the largest in the world, was adopted as a Joint Impleattention to the implementation of best global standmentation Project under the Kyoto Protocol. A joint ards and practices in the area of information transproject of UC ­RUSAL and the Hong Kong University of parency and corporate governance and we will continue Science & Technology (HKUST) has also been submitted to maintain both in future. for the development of solutions aimed at protecting The trust of our customers and an understanding the environment and implementing progressive ideas, of their requirements and expectations are important including a search for new applications of aluminium. to us. The Customer Support Centre of UC ­RUSAL, opened It goes without saying that it would be impossible in 2011, will enable us to take into account the opinion of to achieve such impressive results if we did not have Trust in employees, which our clients when establishing products on the market. a dedicated team of hard workers. Notwithstan­ allows us to delegate Our key priorities are building long-term relations ding the difficulties of the period, we maintained with partners and local communities and adopting our trust, a team spirit and the desire to develop powers and responsibility a responsible attitude to the environment and climate the Company as a team. I would like to take this opchange. As a global company we understand the imporportunity to express my thanks to UC ­RUSAL’s global for taking decisions tance and need to pool resources to resolve these chalteam of professionals for their contribution to our and the means of their lenges not only at a national, but also at a global level. collective success. The Company continues to invest in the sustainThe Company’s strategic objectives will be to implementation able development of the countries and regions where consolidate its status as industry leader and to Trust UC RUSAL’s enterprises have a presence. The proestablish cutting-edge standards in the area of gramme Territory of UC RUSAL aims to raise living sustainable development. We have already managed to standards in the regions where the Company has significantly improve performance which will make it a presence. The programme stipulates the developfar easier for us to tackle any difficulties that may ment of social infrastructure objects and support for lie ahead. Today we look to the future with confipublic initiatives. The Company is currently supporting dence. primary education in Russia jointly with the Charitable Foundation Volnoe Delo, equipping schools with stateChief Executive Office, UC ­RUSAL 04 of-the-art computers. Oleg Deripaska 005 2010 Algorithm of courage ANNUAL REPORT UC ­RUSAL Algorithm of courage Sales by country•, 2009 % pp007–013 1.4% 18.1% 23.3% 23.3% Netherlands 18.0% Russia 3.1% 5.7% Turkey 5.1% Japan 9.1% USA 2.1% 4.4% Norway 6.2% South Korea 2.1% Italy 1.2% 1.2% Greece 2.1% Sweden 2.1% Overview 3.1% United Kingdom 1.4% Germany 18.0% 0.2% Canada 6.2% of operations 18.1% other 4.4% 9.1% 5.1% 5.7% Sales by country•, 2010 % 1.6% 1.3% 15.5% 25.2% 25.2% Netherlands 20.8% Russia United Company RUSAL (UC ­RUSAL) is a global company 1.9% 7.9% Turkey 6.0% Japan with assets in 19 countries on five continents. 5.7% USA UC ­RUSAL comprises 16 aluminium smelters, 12 alumi2.3% 5.5% Norway 3.9% South Korea na refineries, 8 bauxite mines, 4 aluminium foil mills, 2.4% Italy and 2 cathode plants. 2.4% 2.3% Greece 1.9% Sweden UC ­RUSAL has representative offices operating in 3.9% 1.6% United Kingdom 1.3% Germany Courage to resist what is Australia, Armenia, China, Guinea, Guyana, Ireland, Ita20.8% 0.0% Canada ly, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Sweden, and Ukraine. 5.5% 15.5% other unacceptable and assume It is headquartered in Moscow, Russia. personal responsibility The Company sells its products in Europe, North 5.7% America, South-East Asia, Japan, China and Kofor the results of our own 6.0% 7.9% rea – a total of 50 countries on five continents. In 2009, the European region accounted for decisions the largest amount of sales. In 2010, the share • According to the data of the audited consolidated IFRS financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010. Courage of the Russia and CIS market more than doubled, while the European and American markets contracted slightly. UC ­RUSAL forecasts that its sales on the Asian markets will increase in the years to come, particularly in China. Companies in various industries and economic sectors – construction, transport, packaging, machinery and equipment, electrical and the consumer goods – are consumers of UC ­RUSAL products. In future, the Company intends to increase its sales to end users, gradually reducing the share of global traders while reinforcing the role of regional distributors. A global scale of operations, an orientation on manufacturing products with a high added value, and a favourable position on the cost curve ensure UC ­RUSAL’s leadership in the global aluminium industry. UC ­RUSAL is a vertically integrated company that combines bauxite mines, alumina refineries, aluminium smelters, and companies that produce aluminium foil and packaging, 06 as well as power plants. 007 07 2010 Algorithm of courage 2010 Sustainable development Sustainable development report UC RUSAL report Algorithm of courage Title of Chapter 1 3 4 5 6 7 11 13 14 17 20 2 8 12 15 18 21 9 16 19 22 pp007–013 ppXXX–YYY 10 23 24 UC ­RUSAL’s main line of business is the manufacturof aluminium powders, differing in granule size, chemiing of primary aluminium, which is widely used in modcal composition, and particle form. ern industry, including by companies that manufacture Aluminium wire rod is widely used in the cable indusrolled aluminium and aluminium foil, pressed aluminium try to produce wires and cables, in ferrous metallurgy and cables, and cast parts. as a reduction agent, and in the manufacture of other Primary wrought alloys are used for the production metal goods. of rolled aluminium and pressed products. Products Silicon production is fully balanced from the vieware then processed for their final use in packaging, point of supplying refineries with the necessary raw construction, transportation, electronics, machinematerials – quartzite, supplied from the Cheremshansk building, and consumer goods. Primary casting alloys mine. The companies Silicon Ltd. and Urals Silicon proare widely used to manufacture various parts used in duce various kinds of products. Silicon Ltd. is the largthe automobile industry and other machine-building est producer of metallurgical silicon and the only industries. producer of refined silicon in Russia. The Company’s enterprises manufacture aluminium High-quality non-aluminium products include chemifoil as well as a wide range of flexible foil-based packcal products. The Company accounts for 22% of Russia’s aging and consumer goods. sodium carbonate production. Powder metallurgy is a separate highly processed The Company’s high-quality products with a broad goods area. The Company is the leader in Russia in range of applications include corundum products and terms of the quality of its fine and coarse aluminium gallium, which is used in the production of mobile telpowders. The equipment and technologies used by ephones, computer equipment, solar power cells, LEDs the Company make it possible to output a wide range and other high-technology goods. ARMENIA South Urals Cryolite Plant 35 ARMENAL 37 Urals Aluminium and Alumina AUSTRALIA Complex 34 Queensland Aluminia Ltd 25 Krasnoturyinsk Powder CHINA Metallurgy 33 Cathode Production 26 North Urals Bauxite Mine 14 GUINEA Urals Silicon 16 Compagnie des Bauxites de Bogoslovsk Aluminium Smelter 15 Kindia 44 Novokuznetsk Aluminium Friguia Bauxite and Alumina Smelter 17 Complex 45 Krasnoyarsk Aluminium GUYANA Smelter 18 Bauxite Company of Guyana Inc 3 Achinsk Alumina Refinery 31 IRELAND Sayanogorsk Aluminium Aughinish Alumina Refinery 4 Smelter 30 ITALY SAYANAL 29 Eurallumina 5 Khakas Aluminium JAMAICA Smelter 28 Windalco 1 Alukom Taishet Aluminium Alpart 2 Smelter 20 KAZAKHSTAN Bratsk Aluminium Smelter 23 LLP Bogatyr Komir 32 SibVAMI 21 NIGERIA Shelekhov Powder Metallurgy 24 ALSCON 43 Irkutsk Aluminium Smelter 22 United Company RUSAL RUSSIA Kandalaksha Aluminium Smelter 8 BEMO Project 19 Taishet Aluminium Smelter 27 SWEDEN is a global company with Nadvoitsy Aluminium Smelter 9 Volkhov Aluminium Smelter 10 Kubal 6 UKRAINE 44 43 37 33 32 28 26 25 Boksitogorsk Alumina Refinery 7 45 38 34 29 27 assets in 19 countries on five VAMI 41 SAYANA Foil 11 Nikolaev Alumina Refinery 40 Zaporozhye Aluminium and 35 30 Alumina Complex 42 39 36 31 continents. Timan Bauxite 12 Volgograd Powder Metallurgy 38 32 Volgograd Aluminium Smelter 39 40 Ural Foil 13 Polevskoy Cryolite Plant 36 41 008 01042 010 2010 Algorithm of courage 2010 Sustainable development Sustainable development report UC RUSAL report Algorithm of courage pp007–013 Key performance indicators*, 2008–2010 Primary aluminium production, 2009–2010 million tonnes Alumina production, 2009–2010 million tonnes 5 12 Production, mln. tonnes 2008 2009 2010 7,8 10,1 8,9 9,2 7,3 7,8 5,4 6,1 3,9 4,0 Primary aluminium 4,424 3,946 4,083 3.9 4.1 3.8 3.8 3.4 3.8 3.4 3.6 1.4 1.4 1.2 1.2 10 4 Alumina 11,317 7,278 7,841 8 3 Bauxite 19,100 11,300 11,700 6 2 * As per the Company’s management accounting. 4 1 2 UC ­RUSAL Chalco RT Alcan Alcoa norsk hydro BHP Billiton Chalco 2009 Alcoa 2010 UC ­RUSAL Alumina Ltd, BHP Billiton Milestones 2009 2010 Source: UC ­RUSAL internal company report Source: UC ­RUSAL internal company report Figures 2009 2010 Key financial indicators•, 2008–2010 In 2009-2010 UC ­RUSAL retained its position as the world’s largest producer of aluminium and its Indicator, million USD 2008 2009 2010 position as one of the largest producers of alumina. March May Over the reporting period, the Company accounted The ARMENAL aluminium foil mill in Armenia reached its UC ­RUSAL was listed in the first rating of business Direct economic value generated for 10% of the global aluminium market and 10% of global designed capacity of 25 thousand tonnes. partners of post-secondary educational institutions Revenue 15,685 8,165 10,979 alumina production. compiled by the Russian Union of University Rectors Finance income 106 1,321 99 Average headcount at the Company fell in 2010 May and won awards in the categories “Major contribution against 2009, from 80,489 to 72,383 persons. However, Artyom Volynets, UC ­RUSAL Director of Strategy and to science and innovation” and “Major contribution Direct economic value distributed the Company’s wages expenses increased by 9.8%, Corporate Development, was named chairman of the Into support of talented students and young teachers”. Operating costs to USD 990 million. ternational Aluminium Institute (IAI). Cost of sales 11,073 6,710 7,495 Demand for aluminium fell by 8.2% in 2009 yearJune 553 on-year, as a result of the global recession. In 2009 July UC ­RUSAL and the Hong Kong University of Science Distribution expenses 798 566 the average price of this metal fell by 35% compared The modernisation program of the Krasnoyarsk and Technology (HKUST) signed a five-year agreement Administrative expenses 1,103 713 762 to 2008. As a result, production of aluminium and aluAluminium Smelter (KrAZ) was completed, with a total on research cooperation and increased cooperation Salaries and other employee payments and benefits mina, extraction of bauxite, and accordingly, sales fell investment of USD 300 million. between young academics. compared to 2008. In the face of the growing Chinese Wages and salaries 1,206 902 990 economy, in 2010 production of aluminium and alumina, September December Contributions to defined contribution retirement plans 180 120 116 the extraction of bauxite, and their sales increased. The first start-up complex of a new foundry secThe innovation project of UC ­RUSAL won a tender Contributions to defined benefit retirement plans 21 (4) 10 Revenues fell in 2009 by 48% compared to 2008, or tion was put into operation at the Irkutsk Aluminium of the Russian Ministry of Education and Science to USD 8.165 million, as a result of lower aluminium Smelter. on carrying out integrated projects to create highPayments to providers of capital prices and decreased sales. In 2010 higher aluminium technology manufacturing facilities. Interest expense on operating income 839 1,258 1,250 prices, an expanded product range and higher margins Interest paid under financing activities 599 965 623 reduced in increased revenues: USD 10.979. In January 2010 UC ­RUSAL became a public company, Repayment of borrowings 10,943 1,850 7,116 successfully carrying out an initial public offerRepayment of bonds 238 ing (IPO) in Hong Kong and on the Euronext exchange Dividends paid 2,099 in Paris. Russian depositary receipts issued for Payments to government Company shares are traded on the MICEX and RTS stock exchanges. Income tax (69) 18 144 Community investments Charitable donations 31 4 9 Assets, liabilities and equity Total assets 24,005 23,886 26,525 Net debt 13,170 13,633 11,472 Total equity 4,488 6,332 11,456 • As per the audited consolidated IFRS financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 and the year ended 31 December 2010. 011 013 2010 Algorithm of efficiency Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of efficiency pp015–025 to retain competent, professional, ambitious employees who share its corporate values is a high-priority strategic goal for the Company. UC ­RUSAL’s core values include: > Respect for the individual rights and interests of Company employees, requirements of clients and conditions of cooperation proposed by lenders, vendors and business partners as well as respect for the public. > Impartiality, which implies remuneration of work in good balance with achieved results and the granting of equal rights for further career development. > Honesty in all relations, be they within or outside the Company and in the common sharing of information required for our work. > Efficiency as a means for sustainable achievement of the best possible results in everything Company does. > Courage to resist what is unacceptable and assume personal responsibility for the results of Company own Mission, strategy, values decisions. > Care demonstrated by Company efforts to proUC ­RUSAL believes its success to be a means of promottect people from any harm or threat to their health ing social prosperity. and wellbeing and by our intention to do our utmost UC ­RUSAL’s strategy is aimed at using its competitive to safeguard the environment. advantages to secure its sustainable activity and long> Trust in employees, which allows us to delegate term development. The Company is a leader in the alupowers and responsibility for taking decisions and minium industry, and intends to maintain its position the means of their implementation. on the global markets using its own technological innoBy integrating these corporate values into the Comvations, the global scale of its business and the profespany’s day-to-day operations, UC ­RUSAL plans to sionalism of its employees. Stability of production will maintain the corporate culture necessary to achieve be promoted by ensuring the Company is able to supply the best possible results in all our business endeavall kinds of raw materials to the greatest extent posours. Values are reflected in the Company’s successes, sible. The development of internal energy resources and are binding on all employees, and are offered to all who their diversification will help to guarantee uninterwork together with UC ­RUSAL. The Company will not comrupted electricity supplies to the Company’s factories. promise its values in pursuit of profit, and considers Efficiency as a means The efficiency programs being implemented at the Comits values to be the unifying thread tying together all for sustainable pany’s enterprises support one of the industry’s most competitive costs of production. achievement The Company recognises the need to take active of the best possible measures to strike a balance between supply and demand, and will act as necessary to reduce pressure results in everything on the alumina and aluminium markets and restore we do metal prices. To this end, UC ­RUSAL is optimising and reducing the production of less profitable aluminium UC ­RUSAL’s strategy Efficiency and alumina facilities. However, while cutting costs the Company has maintained production levels at its is aimed at using its most efficient and environmentally friendly factories. Here, priority activities include working with end uscompetitive advantages ers to find new ways of using aluminium, creating new products, maintaining flexibility in meeting orders and to secure its sustainable improving product quality. Implementation of strategic plans depends on activity and long-term 014 UC ­RUSAL personnel. Ensuring that the Company is able development. 015 2010 Algorithm of efficiency Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of efficiency pp015–025 of its operations, and expects the same from its busiShareholders of UC ­RUSAL, as at 31 December 2010 description of which can be found in section Develness partners. 47.41% 17.02% 15.80% 47.41% En+ Group opment of Regions. 17.02% Onexim Group UC ­RUSAL’s mission and values are enshrined 15.80% SUAL Group More details on the members and activities of in the Company’s Code of Corporate Ethics adopted in 8.75% Amokenga the Board of Directors and its committees in 2009 and Holdings* 2007. 0.26% Management** 2010 can be found in the 2009 and 2010 annual reports 10.75% Free float of UC ­RUSAL (which are available at www.rusal.com/inCorporate governance 8.75% vestors.aspx). UC ­RUSAL believes that an effective system of corpo10.75% Executive bodies rate governance is one of the key factors promoting The operational management of UC ­RUSAL, implementhe Company’s successful development and increasing 0.26% tation of the Company’s development strategy and its investment appeal. A well-built system provides execution of the decisions of the Board of Direcadditional guarantees to shareholders, partners, tors are the responsibility of the Executive Board and clients and helps to strengthen internal control * controlled by Glencore International AG and Chief Executive Officer Oleg Deripaska. The key ** including 0.22% of shares owned by the general director of UC ­RUSAL mechanisms. authorities of the Executive Board are enshrined The Company structured its corporate governance in the Company Charter and the Shareholders’ Agreesystem in accordance with leading international standment. ards and best practices of public companies. As of 31 December 2010, the Executive Board had The Company’s corporate governance system is 18 members, including the Chief Executive Officer. governed by the Charter and the Shareholders’ AgreeThe UC ­RUSAL Executive Board has a number of Comment of UC ­RUSAL, and as well as by internal regulatory documents regulating the activity of the Board and Nominations Committee, and the Remuneration Committee. The committees have the following funcmittees, including the Corporate Governance Committee and Capital Markets, the HR Committee, and Internal controls and risk of Directors, the Executive Board, and Committees of tions: Management Committees for each of the Company’s management the Board of Directors and Executive Board. The Com> The Audit Committee provides the Board of Direclines of business. Their activities are governed by The Company’s system of internal controls has been pany’s main ethical principles and standards are set tors with an independent assessment of the Company’s the corresponding Regulations. developed and implemented for the purpose of protectout in the Company’s Code of Corporate Ethics, while financial statements and the effectiveness of its In 2009-2010 the Executive Board and its Commiting assets, ensuring proper accounting, and complying approaches to corporate governance and the determiinternal controls and risk management, considers and tees participated in the resolution of issues concernwith regulatory requirements. nation of the roles and responsibilities of the Board recommends approval by the Board of Directors of reing sustainable development and corporate social The Board of Directors is responsible for maintainof Directors are set out in the Code of Corporate Govlated-party transactions; oversees the audit process; responsibility. An example of such work is the considing the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control ernance which was approved by the Company in 2010. and performs other duties at the request of the Board eration of the environmental action plan by Corporate system. The Board of Directors creates and controls of Directors. Governance and Capital Markets Committee of the Exthe Company’s risk management system, for which Shareholders > The Corporate Governance and Nominations Commitecutive Board in 2010. a working group on risk management has been created UC ­RUSAL was created in 2007 through the merger tee makes and revises recommendations on corporate More details on the members and activities of within the Department of Internal Control, which develof the companies RUSAL, SUAL, and the alumina asgovernance for the Company, mechanisms of monitorthe Executive Board and its Committees in 2009 and ops documents on risk management and monitors their sets of Glencore. In 2008 the ONEXIM Group joined ing compliance with corporate governance princi2010 can be found in the 2009 and 2010 annual reports execution. The Internal Control Department reports the shareholders of the Company. As a result of ples, recom­mendations to the Board on appointments of UC ­RUSAL (which are available at www.rusal.com/inon its activities to the Board of Directors on a regular the successful IPO on the Hong Kong stock exchange, of members of the Board of Directors and Board comvestors.aspx). basis. 10.75% of the share capital of UC ­RUSAL now consists of mittees, and the Executive Board. The risk management policy is aimed at analysing freely traded shares. > The Remuneration Committee makes recommendaOrganisational structure the risks that the Company encounters, establishtions to the Board on the remuneration of Board memThe following changes were made to the organisaing the relevant controls and approving limits, and Board of Directors bers, members of the Executive Board, and the CEO. tional structure of UC ­RUSAL in summer 2010: two monitoring compliance with limits. Documents that UC ­RUSAL is managed by the Board of Directors, which A number of other functional Committees have new directorates were created, and the alumina and govern the work of the risk management system and bears collective liability. The duties of directors also been created by the Board of Directors, such as aluminium divisions were divided into eastern and the system itself are regularly reviewed to reflect include strategic management of the Company, control the Marketing Committee and the Health, Safety and western divisions. The chief purpose of these changchanges in the Company’s external and control environover compliance with corporate governance standthe Environment Committee, whose main functions are es was to increase Company management efficiency, ment. Through personnel training and the development ards, transparency of operations, and the interests to draft recommendations to the Board on matters including making the decision-making process faster of internal standards and procedures, UC ­RUSAL strives of shareholders. Members of the Board of Directors within their competence. and improving the quality of business processes. to create a control environment in which all Company include executive, non-executive and independent In 2009-2010 the Board of Directors and At the end of 2010 the structure of UC ­RUSAL employees recognise their duties in this area. directors. the Board committees participated in the resoluincluded eight divisions: the Eastern aluminium diviThe UC ­RUSAL Audit Committee assesses the effiAs at 31 December 2010 the Board of Directors tion of issues concerning sustainable development sion, the Western aluminium division, the Eastern ciency of the internal control system and risk manageof UC ­RUSAL comprised 18 directors, of which four are and corporate social responsibility. For example, alumina division, the Western alumina division, the Inment system, and monitors the compliance of these independent. in summer 2010 a meeting of the Corporate Governternational alumina division, the Packaging division, systems with the relevant procedures. The Audit ComThe Board of Directors has the following commitance Committee of the Board of Directors approved the Engineering and construction division, the Committee is assisted in these functions by the Internal 016 tees: the Audit Committee, the Corporate Governance the budget of the New Village project, a detailed mercial directorate and the Energy division. Audit Service, which performs both regular and special 017 2010 Algorithm of efficiency Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of efficiency pp015–025 Chief Executive Officer Oleg Deripaska derstanding of the production system and assessment of its role in realising the Company’s development strategy. At this stage of development of the producManagement Board: tion system, a key aspect is the transition from pinpoint O. Deripaska, K. Alexandrov, A. Arnautov, S. Belsky, A. Volvenkin, V. Geraskin, Ya. Itskov, V. Matvienko, improvements and experiments to the stabilisation and standardisation of all processes, from the purchasing O. Mukhamedshin, P. Ovchinnikov, V. Polin, P. Sinshinov, T. Soina, M. Sokov, V. Freis, S. Hodgson of materials to the sale of finished products and consumer relations. A system of benchmark areas has been created, and a continuous f low has been arranged from finished products to key operations. Experience gained Aluminium Aluminium Alumina Division International Packaging Engineering and Commercial Energy Division by the Company’s factories during experiments was anaDivision East Division West East Alumina Division Division Construction Directorate reviews, the results of which are communicated to lyzed; key kaizens were identified for implementation; V. Polin A. Arnautov V. Matvienko Ya. Itskov A. Burdin Division P. Ovchinnikov A. Volvenkin the Audit Committee. problems in all branches of production were analysed; For 2010 the Board of Directors of UC ­RUSAL ascommon problems were identified and goals were detersessed the Company’s internal control system as being mined – improve quality and reduce costs. in compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance. To reach these goals, in 2010 the Directorate of Production Development was created and a system was Bratsk AS Bogoslovsk AS Achinsk AR Friguia B and ARMENAL RUSAL VAMI Polevskoy BEMO AC (Guinea) (Armenia) Cryolite Plant RUSAL production system developed based on the following internal documents: > A company-wide program document that determines With the aim of increasing competitiveness, reducthe areas of development of the production system for Irkutsk AS Volgograd AS Bogoslovsk AS SBK (Guinea) SAYANAL SibVAMI Shelekhov Bogatyr ing costs and improving the efficiency of business the next several years. It identifies the main plants Silicon Komir processes, in 2009 the Company began the development where all know-how will be processed and the specialof a production system (PS) based on the principles ists will be trained, who will then disseminate their Krasnoyarsk Volkhov AS Timan Bauxite Bauxite Urals Foil RUSUrals Silikon of the Toyota production system (TPS). experience to other UC ­RUSAL enterprises. The first AS Company of Engineering The Production System is understood as an apenterprises selected for this purpose were the proGuyana (Guyana) proach to organising production relations that, by duction facilities in Krasnoyarsk, Sayanogorsk, Volgodeveloping personnel, makes it possible to create a culgrad and Achinsk. Novokuznetsk Zaporozhye AS Boksitogorsk Auginish ALSCON Powder ture of continuous improvement of business processes. > The “Regulations on the organisation and stimulaAS AR Alumina (Nigeria) Metallurgy (Ireland) With the aim of creating a single systemic approach tion of the submission, consideration and implementato the understanding of TPS, the implementation and tion of kaizens at Company enterprises”, which estabSayanogorsk Kandalaksha AS North Urals AM Alpart Taishet Shanxi (China) dissemination of the RUSAL PS, and the development lishes the basis for involving employees in developing AS (Jamaica) of personnel and a culture aimed at continuous imkaizens. From the time the Regulations were adopted provement, in 2009 the philosophy of the RUSAL PS was to the end of 2010, more than 3500 kaizens were subformulated based on five principles: mitted, of which more than 1500 have been implementKhakas AS Nadvoitsy AS Urals AS Eurallumina Komi South Urals 1. Give priority to long-term goals ed, with the majority yielding an economic benefit. (Italy) Aluminium Cryolite Plant 2. Think about the client 3. People are the most precious asset RESAL Nikolaev AR Queensland Yaroslavl GOK 4. Kaizen is a culture of continuous improvement (Ukraine) Alumina 5. Give full attention to the production floor (Australia) The main goals that the Company strives to achieve by developing its production system are: A key aspect of development Urals AS Windalco > An increase in productivity without increasing (Jamaica) labour costs of the production system > Achievement of 100% quality of finished product KUBAL > An increase in the overall efficiency of the operais the transition from (Sweden) tion of equipment > The high-quality development of human resources pinpoint improvements is the key to creating a culture of continuous improvement. and experiments * AS – aluminium smelter, AP – alumina plant, AR – alumina refinery. Development of the production system to the stabilisation and in 2009-2010 The UC ­RUSAL continued to develop the production sysstandardisation of all 018 tem in 2010; the year was marked by a new level of unprocesses 019 2010 Algorithm of efficiency Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of efficiency pp015–025 Ideals of UC RUSAL 1. Safety 4. Equalisation 2. Quality 5. Instant reaction of suppliers > The “Standardised Work” methodology, which espowder metallurgy enterprises. In addition, more than 3. At the client’s first request 6. Minimal costs tablishes uniform requirements and approaches to 50 UC ­RUSAL employees received the opportunity to organising production and to the work of the repair undergo instruction in the MBA program at Lomonosov and functional services. Moscow State University. > The method of assessing the implementation and According to UC ­RUSAL’s plans, 2011 will be devoted to dissemination of the production system at Company developing employees’ familiarity with the production enterprises, which determines that experience is comsystem. Three stages of personnel training are planned: Long-term goals Standardised pletely and correctly applied. > Training in the basic approaches of the production take priority work The Company has also approved regulations on system, for which three training sites are created; the Managing Committees for the Production System. In the selection criteria for these sites are the cyclical 1 November 2010 the Managing Committee for KrAZ held nature and frequent repetition of operations. The key its first meeting, during which presentations were sites selected were the packaging manufacturing site given on the work accomplished at the enterprise on at SUAL-PM-Volgograd, the clamshell shelter facility at All attention Think about Kaizen Identification to the production Principles the customer The faster of losses developing the production system and achieving goals SAZ, and the PFS repair unit at KrAZ. of the RUSAL the cycle, in 2010, and the highest-priority areas of work for > Training in the operations of typical existing manusite (Gemba) production the better! 5 system 2 the coming year were set. Meetings of such committees facturing facilities – casting, reduction and anode. in 2011 are planned for KrAZ and a number of other of > Opening of projects in which personnel will be the Company’s production sites. required to demonstrate and realise their potential, Kaizen – Employees are Identification A priority area in 2010 was the reduction of labour using the knowledge received. the culture the most valuable of the cause of continuous asset costs on manual operations by applying mechanisaimprovement 4 3 tion (breaker machines, floor-sweeping machines, Quality alumina distribution machines, etc.). Rather than buying standardised equipment, the Company plans to Quality management system design equipment to take into account the specifics of UC ­RUSAL is traditionally very attentive to quality isthe production process. A contract was concluded with sues: both in respect of the products it manufactures How can the ideals of UC RUSAL be achieved? Losses have to be identified 4. Waiting. the GAZ Group in 2010 to design and manufacture new and the raw materials and consumables it purchases. and eliminated (muda): 5. Surplus processing steps. equipment for UC ­RUSAL. To date the Company has not had a unified policy on 1. Overproduction. 6. Excessive inventory. Another significant event in the development of quality: the main document in this area was the Quality 2. Unnecessary movements of people. 7. Repeat work and defective products Losses are an opportunity 3. Unnecessary transport. for improvement the Company’s production system in 2010 was the openPolicy of the Aluminium Division. However, in 2010 work ing of the corporate web portal for the development of was conducted on revising this document with the aim the production system, which offers training materiof expanding the scope of its application. This work Stability Resolution of problems Jidoka Right on time als, presentations, regulatory documents, videos and resulted in the UC ­RUSAL Quality Policy, which is to be 1. The person 1. Describe the problem 1. Building quality into the 1. Flexibility information on projects. The portal has been conapproved in March 2011. 2. Materials 2. Find the core cause (5 Whys?) production process 2. Time to fulfil orders sistently popular: every month it is visited by more This policy establishes the following quality princi3. Equipment 3. Fiind the solution 2. Better use of people’s 3. Quality 4. Methods 4. Develop an action plan intellectual capabilities 4. Price than 3000 UC ­RUSAL employees. An electronic ledger ples for all enterprises and divisions: 5. Monitor the result for registering kaizen is currently being developed > Orientation on the consumer: to become the stan­ The working standard 6. Develop/change the standard Tools: Building processes is the foundation of for the portal; this will simplify the procedure of dard of trust for consumers; to understand client Andon on the customerprocess stability Poka-yoke supplier principle searching for the necessary solution and for reports generating. Training of employees in the field of PS In 2010 training in the production system was organised Standardised work General maintenance of Rapid changeover and conducted for key employees at the plants. Train1. Clock time equipment 1. Take the current state ing was organised in several stages. The first stage 2. Consistency of work 3. Standard level of WIP 1. Autonomous maintenance 2. Scheduled maintenance 3. OEE/OPE 2. Divide actions into internal and external 3. Transform internal actions was basic training in standardised work of employees A priority area in 2010 at OAO GAZ; the second stage was deeper training at into external 4. Improve all changeover Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter; the third stage was was the reduction actions the opening of projects and the application of new 5. Develop a standard knowledge obtained at their enterprises. More than 25 of labour costs people have undergone training in this program over the past year. on manual operations To train specialists in the Production System, in 2010 the PS Development Department also conducted by applying 020 training sessions at SAZ, BrAZ, IrkAZ, KUBAL and mechanisation. 021 2010 Algorithm of efficiency Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of efficiency pp015–025 Consideration was also given to work with personnel, Implementation improving working conditions and improving the qualof the lean production ity of training. After capital repairs in potroom No. 12, a lounge was opened for cell operators. A training room model was also opened in potroom No. 12, containing everything necessary for the training in the RUSAL production system. Here employees of OAO RUSAL Krasnoyarsk needs and expectations; to guarantee the delivery of can share their knowledge not only with employees of > Mutually beneficial relations with suppliers: products; and to increase the level of consumer satistheir enterprise but with those of other Company plants. to create strategic unions that engage suppliers faction with the quality of products and services. in the work of improving quality, and to reinforce mu> Executive leadership: to ensure a positive image for As a result, the following goals were reached in pottual trust, respect and responsibility. the Company as a supplier, to establish goals of conroom No. 12: the percentage of metal of the highest As at 31 December 2010, 26 Company enterprises have tinuous improvement and create the conditions for grades in December 2010 was 100% and at the end of DeISO 9001 certificates for their quality management achieving them. cember all 92 of the potroom’s cells were yielding A7E system, which were issued by the company DNV. Under > Personnel: to ensure the growth of professionalism grade metal. the approved quality management system, control among employees, improve the personnel incentive procedures affect the following stages of a product’s program, and develop a culture of quality at the ComAlso in December 2010, the first issue of an almanac life cycle: pany. Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter , on the production system was released, which reflected > development of the product concept > Systems-oriented and process-oriented approachpotroom #12 the most important aspects of the Company’s PS devel> processes related to consumers (identification and es: to ensure that related business processes are manopment activities. analysis of product requirements) aged as a system, and to assess their performance and > research and development (of the new product) Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter was chosen as a pilot efficiency with the aim of improving them. > production plant for the implementation of the production system. > Continuous improvement: to strive for improvement > storage and use The first step in building an ideal production system was in everything that the Company does, to optimise and > purchasing of raw materials and other consumables. the creation of benchmark areas, where best practices standardise all processes, to cut costs and to motivate Three enterprises of the Aluminium Division – KrAZ, would be implemented and developed, all losses would be personnel. NkAZ and SAZ – also hold ISO/TS 16949 certificates eliminated, and work would be performed on standardis> Fact-based decision-making: to make decion the quality management system for manufacturing processes and personnel training. sions and act on the basis of an analysis of factual ers of components and spare parts for the automobile data on the characteristics of products, processes, industry. The benchmark areas selected at KrAZ were potroom and the state of the Company’s Management System. Plans for 2011 also include expansion of the scope No. 12, foundry section No. 2 and the Schlick anode stud of application of the international standard ISO/TS cleaning unit. These areas were not selected at random: 16949 since more and more enterprises of UC ­RUSAL personnel here were prepared for innovative work and, are becoming suppliers of products for the automobile most importantly, there were kaizen teams and buy-in industry. from factory management to work in this area. A unified policy on quality For potroom No. 12 the goal was set to achieve 100% Customers UC ­RUSAL is engaged in an active, ongoing dialogue with of the company establishes quality of metal produced. The ideal reduction cell was identified, and areas to improve it were identiconsumers of its products regarding quality issues. In order to make activity in this area more systematic, the following quality fied. A multifunctional group of Company specialists worked in each area. Each group prepared key kaizens in summer 2010 the company created the Department of Quality Management. principles: orientation on and technological solutions, which made it possible to achieve serious results. Instead of the traditional tapthe consumer, executive ping (once per day), aluminium was tapped every eight hours; in this respect, the key proposed kaizen was that leadership, systems-oriented the tap-hole would not freeze between tappings, which eased the burden on the tap-hole preparation operathe Company annually and process-oriented tors and freed them to perform other work on maintenance of the reduction cell. performs an analysis approaches, continuous In 2010 an ideal production model was developed, of consumer satisfaction, improvement, fact-based which brought together all of the best innovations and practices tested in the potroom. In November a decision in order to clarify their decision-making, mutually was taken on disseminating best practices to other potrooms, and targets were set for quality and productivexpectations regarding beneficial relations with ity. the quality and packaging suppliers, etc. of products and ensuring complete customer 022 satisfaction. 023 2010 Algorithm of efficiency Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of efficiency pp015–025 In 2010 the Company opened the Consumer Support All of these areas are stipulated in the work of Centre project, the goal of which was to improve prodthe Consumer Support Centre project. uct quality and ensure consumer satisfaction. Under this project, joint meetings were organised between Suppliers specialists of the processing enterprises of UC ­RUSAL Another no less important element of the Company’s and consumers. Representatives of Mechem S.A. (Turkey), quality management system is work with suppliers when Cooperation of UC ­RUSAL and Hong Kong Hydro Aluminium, Novelis German, Apollo-RTA (a compurchasing raw materials and products. University of Science and Technology bination of the rolling mills of Alcan), Elval and others In 2010 UC ­RUSAL organised accounting of delive­ (HKUST) visited the aluminium plants of UC ­RUSAL with the aim ries of poor-quality products to the Company’s of studying the production quality system, discussaluminium smelters to systematise work on claims ing opportunities and prospects, and developing joint against suppliers. A methodology was also developed measures for the improvement of quality. These meetand approved for estimating losses from the launch technology is planned for Bratsk, Irkutsk, Volgograd, ings resulted in an increase in the volume and range of of products with deviations from the requirements and Novokuznetsk. The RA-300 and RA-400 electrolysis orders, including for value-added products. of the technology. technologies developed by the Centre corresponds to The Consumer Support Centre project also included The Company regularly performs audits of suppliforeign analogues in terms of its key technical and improvements to the system for analysing consumer ers, both domestic and foreign. Technical audits were economic indicators. needs and putting new products into production and performed in 2010 for the majority of the enterprises UC ­RUSAL’s current projects in the field of innovathe claim management system. The Company plans supplying significant amounts of raw materials and tion include: testing of new technology with prebaked to launch an interactive web-based client service consumables to UC ­RUSAL. anodes and development of new aluminium alloys, which by 2012. Thus, UC ­RUSAL will create a system where In 2011 the Company will commence a Supplier the Company is carrying out in conjunction with major the divisions of plants, first and foremost casting Development Centre project. Among other things, this Russian and global research centres and universities. divisions, will work directly with their customers. project is intended to formulate a unified system for In addition, the Company annually performs an certifying suppliers, improving contractual and claims Cooperation with universities and research analysis of consumer satisfaction, normally during work, supporting accounting and documentation of all centres the period from April to June, in order to clarify cases of defective products, and also organising work In June 2010 UC ­RUSAL and the Hong Kong University their expectations regarding the quality and packto help suppliers develop in the area of implementing of Science and Technology signed a five-year coaging of products and ensuring complete customer Total Quality Management (TQM). operation agreement, which includes joint work on satisfaction. In its 2010 analysis, the Company idencreating fibre-reinforced aluminium roofing systified the following areas for improving customer Innovation tems – the most technological and environmental relations: material. > Achievement of more rapid and efficient consideraLeadership in the field of innovation is one of At the same time, RUSAL is working with leading Rustion of customer claims UC ­RUSAL’s priorities, and is an instrument for reali­ sian universities to create the technology of the fu> Tracking of the process of the deliveries from facsing the Company’s mission. To effectively manage inture. In conjunction with the laboratories of Moscow tories novation, the Engineering and Technology Centre (ETC) State University and Siberian Federal University, > Achievement of efficient supply chain management was founded in 2002 in Krasnoyarsk. This Centre brings the company is working on creating a reduction tech> Improvement of quality and expansion of technical together the best specialists from the Company’s plans nology using inert anodes. In 2009-2010 work was also support provided to consumers. and academics working in major universities. performed in conjunction with the Moscow Institute By 2010 the Centre’s specialists had successfully of Steel and Alloys (MISIS) and Irkutsk State Technical achieved two strategic goals: a solution increasing University. the efficiency of Soderberg technology – Eco friendly UC ­RUSAL places orders for R&D work with the acaLeadership in the field Soderberg – and the creation of a proprietary elecdemic institutions of the Russian Academy of Sciences trolysis technology. and research and production enterprises that are acof innovation is one Eco friendly Soderberg was a significant improvetively engaged in the development of science in Russia. ment on Soderberg technology, the basis for the opof UC ­RUSAL’s priorities, erations of the majority of UC ­RUSAL’s plants. This program makes it possible to modernise factories, and is an instrument for increasing productivity and reducing environmental impact. realising the Company’s Following implementation of Eco friendly Soderberg technologies, the environmental indicators of plants mission. will become virtually identical to those of enterprises using prebaked anode technology. A similar project was launched at the Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter 024 in 2009, and by the end of 2011 implementation of this 025 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Care demonstrated by Algorithm our efforts to protect people from any harm or of care threat to their health and wellbeing and by pp027–041 our intention to do our assessment of risks and so on) are the responsibility of the divisional services of health, safety and enviutmost to safeguard ronment. At the enterprise level, specialised departments the environment on health, safety and the environment perform conti­ Care nuous operating activity, ensuring the achievement of the relevant goals and targets at each enterprise. Environmental goals The UC ­RUSAL environmental strategy sets the following goals: 1. By 2017 compliance by Company enterprises with air emissions standards established by the laws of the countries where they have a presence. 2. Defence of the Company’s interests in the field of regulating greenhouse gas emissions and their reduction. 3. By 2017 Creation of closed-loop water-supply systems for the main processes of Company enterprises. 4. An annual increase in the share of waste that is Approach treated and used. 5. By 2020 Complete elimination of equipment and The production operations of UC ­RUSAL – the largest wastes containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). producer of aluminium in the world – have a substantial 6. Annual increase in the proportion of re-cultivated impact on all aspects of the environment. The company land. accepts responsibility for the implications of its ope­ 7. Creation of a corporate management system to manrations and strives to minimise potential damage. age environmental aspects and risks. 8. Assistance in the creation of a modern environmenManagement structure tal regulatory framework for the production of aluminiThe UC ­RUSAL Board of Directors has created Health, um and alumina. Safety and the Environment Committee. Among the functions of this committee are the establishAreas of activity ment and revision of goals, including strategic goals, As part of the realisation of the environmental related to issues of environmental protection, ocstrategy in the reporting period, large-scale work was cupational health and industrial safety on the basis of performed at all enterprises and levels of Company a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the Company’s operations. Committee meetings are held quarterly. Depending on the topic, relevant issues in the field of health, safety and the environment are discussed at meetings of the Executive Board and the Managing Committees: > Corporate Governance and Capital Markets Committee > Budget Committee The company accepts > Managing Committees of businesses (aluminium, alumina, packaging). responsibility for Coordination of the Company’s operations on planning, control and reporting on health, safety and the implications of its the environment is the responsibility of Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Department, which is operations and strives part of the Executive Directorate. The resolution of these issues (ensuring the necesto minimise potential 026 sary financing, monitoring of permit documentation, damage. 027 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of care pp027–041 Reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions created during the reduction process at Aluminium Division enterprises (not including the ALSCON plant in Nigeria). ISO 14001 compliance by Company enterprises, % reduction in CO2E* as at 31 December 2010 Year CO2 (t) Perf luorocarbons, (tCO2E*) TOTAL, (tCO2E*) compared to 1990 25 1990 5,883,019 11,880,331 17,763,350 0% 21 22 5 5 0 12 16 5 2008 6,918,976 4,171,569 11,090,545 38% 20 2009 7,021,146 2,452,036 9,473,182 47% 15 2010 7,269,483 2,919,164 10,188,647 43% 10 * tonnes of CO2 equivalent 5 For the Company Alumina Aluminium Other as a whole enterprises enterprises enterprises without ISO 14001 ISO 14001 management. The following became the chief programs and initiatives in the field of environmental protec2009, the total reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions Re-cultivation of disturbed land, 2009–2010* hectares tion: was 130.8 thousand tonnes of CO2 equivalent for BrAZ > Creation of the “National Hydrocarbon Agreement” (for 2008) and 749.3 thousand tonnes of CO2 equivalent 300 partnership for KrAZ (2008-2010). 84,5 263,2 34,1 244,9 > Adoption of voluntary targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions > achieving an overall reduction of 50% in the quanLand 200 > Minimisation of climate change in accordance with tity of direct atmospheric greenhouse gas emissions the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol at existing aluminium smelters by 2015 UC ­RUSAL is consistent in its efforts to assess the ef> Signing of a Memorandum of Intention with > in the long-term perspective, ensuring carbon fect of its production activity on land resources and 100 the UN Development Program on implementing joint neutrality throughout the lifecycle of the aluminium to protect conservation areas, believing this work projects aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions produced by the Company and the products made from to be an important element of sustainable develop> Compliance with the 10 principles of the UN Global it (including processing). ment. Acknowledging that the loss of biodiversity and Compact The Company is an active participant in the greenthe degradation of ecosystems constitute long-term 2009 2010 Disturbed Recultivated > Adoption of the voluntary targets of the Internahouse gas reporting project of the International Alurisks for the Company, UC ­RUSAL evaluates potential entional Aluminium Institute in the field of sustainable minium Institute (IAI). Under this initiative, UC ­RUSAL vironmental problems at the design and planning stage. development provides data on energy consumption by the enterpri­ * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie > Efforts to comply with the international requireses of the Aluminium and Alumina Divisions. Land resources des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in ments of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent As part of the GHG Protocol, in 2010 enterprises Since 2008 the Company has had an internal governing Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. Organic Pollutants of the Aluminium Division submitted reporting based document “Regulations on Decommissioning and Envi> Compliance with the Russian Business Charter on the methodology of the World Resources Institute ronmental Reclamation: Requirements on Organising of the RUIE. (WRI) for calculating greenhouse-gas emissions creWork and Assessing Liabilities”, aimed at the reclamaIn their efforts to achieve the goals set, one ated during the reduction process. tion of production sites. This document establishes of the chief tasks of management and the Company as As a special initiative on reducing greenhouse-gas uniform approaches and requirements on land rea whole in addressing environmental issues has been emissions in the Russian Federation, two Joint Implecultivation at UC ­RUSAL enterprises in accordance with continuous improvements to the environmental manmentation Projects have been prepared within under the Environmental Policy and the Goals of the Environagement system. the Kyoto Protocol. mental Strategy, and also uniform rules for assessing In 2010, 22 enterprises out of 43 held a certificate Both projects secure a reduction in greenhouse-gas decommissioning liabilities for the compilation of of compliance with ISO 14001. emissions by reducing anode effect frequency (AEF) and the Company’s financial statements in accordance with The Company believes that precise and up-to-date the duration of anode effect as a result of implementing the Accounting Policy. One of the company’s information is a key instrument for making stratea number of organisational and technical measures at The main areas of the Company’s work on land regic management decisions. With the aim of impro­v ing the 24 potrooms of KrAZ and the 25 of BrAZ. cultivation are: goals is to achieve an the quality of its environmental management and The quality of implementation of these projects > Restoration of soil topography and fertility after investing in environmental conservation activity, has been confirmed by independent expert review the exhaustion of quarries and mines overall reduction of 50% UC ­RUSAL is implementing a single unified parameter (verification). Pursuant to the expert opinion of > Re-cultivation of landfill sites for production and reporting system for all of its enterprises. Bureau Veritas Certification, “all project measures consumption wastes in the quantity of direct have been executed in accordance with the project > Re-cultivation of disturbed and contaminated land. Climate documentation, the installed equipment is operating The total quantity of disturbed land under the exis­ atmospheric greenhouse in normal mode, the monitoring system is functional, ting facilities of Company enterprises in 2009 and 2010 In 2007, as part of its Secure Future Strategy initiaand the project as implemented ensures a persistent were 6,765.4 and 6,748.0 thousand hectares, respecgas emissions at existing tive, UC ­RUSAL recognised that the risks associated reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions”. tively. with climate change are a global threat and set out It was also confirmed that during the implementaBased on the results of the Company’s activities aluminium smelters 028 to mitigate these risks by: tion of the project from 1 January 2008 to 31 December related to quarry development, over the reporting by 2015. 029 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of care pp027–041 Environmental monitoring at the Khakassia Aluminium Smelter period the area of re-cultivated land decreased in 2010 > The RUSAL-Eco project, involving environmental proWater intake by source*, 2009 % by 18.3 hectares compared to 2009. At the same time, tection, ecological education and scientific research. 60% 9% 10% 60% surface water the area of disturbed land decreased by 50.4 hectares Under this project, Company employees helped to patrol 9% underground sources in 2010 compared to 2009. specially protected natural areas in the Altai-Sayansk 10% sea water 15% municipal water The disturbed land re-cultivation coefficient, region. systems which is calculated as the ratio of re-cultivated lands Together with the Conservation Country National 6% other sources to lands under development was 3.1 and 7.2 in 2009 and Foundation, the Association of Conservation Areas 15% 2010, respectively. and National Parks of the Altai-Sayansk Ecoregion, and other state and public organisations and research Biodiversity institutions of Krasnoyarsk krai, the Khakassia Re6% UC ­RUSAL enterprises are located in various regions public and Kemerovo oblast, the Company is carrying and countries all over the world, with some of them out the major project “Environmental monitoring in being located near to nature conservation areas. the impact zone of RUSAL enterprises (including moniKhakas Aluminium Smelter * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in Adhering to the principles of sustainable developtoring of biodiversity and SPNAs)”. Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana ment, the Company is actively working to preserve This project involved monitoring of changes from Pursuant to the Environmental and Social Issues biodiversity. 2007 to 2010 in the populations of common, rare and Management Plan of the Khakassia Aluminium Smelter, UC ­RUSAL enterprises are not located in specially endangered species of flora and fauna in the impact it is mandatory to monitor work over the entire peWater intake by source*, 2010 % protected natural areas (SPNA) and do not border zone of the Sayanogorsk and Krasnoyarsk aluminium riod of operation. The results of this monitoring will 60% 11% 10% 60% surface water them. smelters. serve as the basis for the preparation of reporting for 11% underground sources In its social and environmental projects, UC ­RUSAL Based on the results of this work, the Siberian the environmental supervision authorities. 10% sea water 13% municipal water cooperates with the National Foundation Strana Division of the Russian Academy of Sciences issued systems 6% other sources Zapovednaya which works to preserve the system a compendium of works on biodiversity monitoring These materials should be included in the projects on of SPNA in Russia. In 2009-2010 the Company took part at the specially protected natural areas in the Altaiplanning new production capacity and investment fea13% in the following actions and initiatives: Sayansk eco-region. sibility studies as regards the development of an Envi> “March for Parks” – an annual international environOn the whole, the Company sees biodiversity monironmental Impact Assessment, and may be used to demental action to show public support for SPNA in Rustoring as part of a compensation mechanism aimed 6% velop social projects and to hold of public hearings. sia and the CIS. at reducing the negative effects on the environment > Activities of children’s environmental groups as and the health of the population, and considers it * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie part of the programs Green Watch and Ecology Camp, a mandatory condition for decision-making in public des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in which are important for environmental education. hearings on the construction and subsequent operaFriguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana > “Under Your Wing” – an action aimed at improving tion of UC ­RUSAL plants. the living conditions of animals in the Khakassia Republican Zoo. Water Freshwater intake and use for production needs, 2009–2010* million m3 The technological processes by which aluminium 300 is manufactured requires the use of a large amount of water. Approximately 60% of the total volume of water consumption and water discharge. One of the fo203,7 179,6 215,0 191,8 water collected is taken from surface sources. cal points of the Company’s environmental strategy One of the focal points Despite the growth in water intake and consumption is to create closed-loop water systems for the core 200 year on year in 2010 due to the resumption of operaprocesses of UC ­RUSAL enterprises by 2017. of the Company’s tions at the enterprises temporarily shut down in 2009, 100 on the whole the Company has reduced its water conenvironmental strategy sumption over the past four years. This was achieved Electricity through the creation of water cooling and recycling is to create closed-loop systems and the streamlining of production capacities. High consumption of electricity is one of the intri­ 2009 2010 Alumina refineries account for the majority of nsic technological features of product manufacturing Water intake Water used water systems for the core water use (74%). at UC ­RUSAL. In 2010 the enterprises of UC ­RUSAL discharged The Company estimates that nearly 80% of all alumin* Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie processes of UC ­RUSAL 67.4 million m3 of industrial effluents. The amount ium production at UC ­RUSAL is performed using hydrodes Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana of industrial effluents discharged fell slightly comelectricity, the generation of which creates a minimum enterprises by 2017. pared to 2009. of emissions. The Company is switching to closed-loop water Recognising its responsibility to combat climate system technology and the recovery of processing change and greenhouse gas emissions and to promote 030 solutions and their return to production to reduce energy security, UC ­RUSAL prioritises energy effi031 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of care pp027–041 Projects Projects of the Novokuznetsk of the Achinsk Water consumption, including sea water, by type of enterprise*, 2010 million m3 Aluminium Smelter Alumina Refinery ciency. An energy conservation programme is in place at 74% 74% Alumina production 160.0 million. m3 all Company enterprises, making it possible to reduce 23% Aluminium 23% production, 48.3 the actual consumption of water, heat and electricity. million m3 Modern energy saving technology is also being installed. 3% Other, 6.7 million m3 The Company regularly invests in technological development, which allows it to both increase producti­ vity and reduce the environmental impact by improving 3% energy efficiency and minimising pollution. The transition to Ecofriendly Soderberg cell technology (more detailed information is given in the section “Air”) is * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in an example of this type of initiative. Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. Novokuznetsk Aluminium Smelter, A Programme to reduce electricity use at the ComAchinsk Alumina Refinery, potroom pany’s aluminium smelters was adopted in May 2010. turbine area The measures performed under this Programme are Industrial wastewater discharge, 2009–2010* million m3 expected to yield energy savings of approximately Untreated effluent is currently being discharged The implementation of a project to convert the pow1 billion kW/h in 2011. from the NkAZ-2 industrial site into a stream that er plants to a recirculating water supply system in 100 dumps into the Kulyanovka River (a tributary of the Tom 2010-2015 commenced during the reporting period. 68.4 67.4 River). NkAZ has committed itself to limiting the disAir The design documentation is currently being prepared. charge of harmful substances into the river to standard The project for the reconstruction of the treatment 50 The Company takes into account the differences safe levels for effluent to be discharged, which involved facilities of the fuel oil enterprise was also developed. in regulatory requirements in various countries when the drafting of design documentation and the construcperforming its production activity. A system for mea­ tion of treatment facilities to limit the discharge of The Achinsk Alumina Refinery is developing the consuring and controlling atmospheric emissions in acharmful substances into the water. struction project for the treatment facilities of 2009 2010 cordance with local legislative requirements has been the waterworks pumping and filtration station (WWPFS) established at all enterprises. The Company prepared design documentation in 2010 together with the construction project for the ad* Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie Despite the global financial crisis, the Company des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in as part of the project to limit (exclude) discharges ditional slurry pit (relocation of the drinking water continued to work to reduce its negative impact on Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. of effluents from the NkAZ industrial site. The state supply of the WWPFS to a new site). At the end of 2010 the atmosphere, upgrade its enterprises, commission expert review of the design documentation should be working documents for the WWPFS and the network were new production facilities, and perform research and completed in May 2011. The project is scheduled for com90% complete. Wastewater discharge (not including quarry development activities. pletion in 2012. water), 2009–2010* million m3 In 2010 emissions amounted to 389.6 thousand tonnes. The reduction in atmospheric emissions was 60 achieved due to a fall in production during the period 7.4 12.4 48.5 4.6 12.3 50.4 2009-2010 as well as to measures to improve production processes. 40 Aluminium production accounted for the lion’s share of atmospheric emissions in 2010, approximately 76% of the Company’s gross emissions. In this regard, 20 alumina production accounted for 9% and heat and electricity generation for 6% of emissions. In 2009 and 2010 carbon oxides accounted for almost 2009 2010 60% of the Company’s main emissions; dust, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides were also prevalent. In 2010 Industrial effluent that meets purety standards Treated industrial effluent Polluted industrial effluent carbon oxide emissions equalled 241.7 thousand tonnes, the Company continued solids – 67.6 thousand tonnes, sulphur dioxide – * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie 37.2 thousand tonnes, and nitrogen oxides – 20.2 thouto work to reduce sand tonnes. des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. In the reporting year the Company set for itself and its negative impact successfully completed the following main tasks: > Completion of the 1st stage of modernisation at KrAZ on the atmosphere, > Continued implementation of the Eco friendly Soderberg cell technology project upgrade its enterprises, > Implementation of operational improvement programmes commission new 032 > Clarifications and adjustment of standards. production facilities. 033 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of care pp027–041 Transition to Eco Dusting remedies friendly Soderberg Emissions by line of production, thousand tonnes at the bauxite and technology 2009–2010* alumina complex 300 38.5 288.7 35.3 29.0 35.3 297.4 22.1 34.8 in Friguia (Guinea) Emissions by line of production*, 2009 % 74% 9% 74% Aluminium 200 10% Alumina 9% Heat and electricity 7% Other 100 7% 10% 2009 2010 Alumina Aluminium Heat and Other Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter, electricity potroom #4 * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie Bauxite loading at Friguia Bauxite des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. and Alumina Complex The existing Soderberg technology has a number of significant shortcomings: it does not meet environmental standards, has low energy efficiency, and > The Company in Friguia is implementing a dust conEmissions of pollutants into thousand tonnes Emissions by line of production*, 2010 % requires a great deal of manual labour. UC ­RUSAL is the atmosphere, 2009–2010* trol programme. A total of USD 1.49 million has been inimplementing a production modernisation programme vested in this programme since 2004. The measures un76% 6% through the installation of new technologies. 234.7 241.7 der this programme have included: aspiration and dust 76% Aluminium 9% Alumina 250 46.2 37.2 20.4 20.2 67.7 67.6 12.2 12.9 10.4 10.1 9% Other collection at the mine and the port. 6% Heat and electricity Eco friendly Soderberg technology makes it pos200 > Watering of the territories around the mine, smel­ sible to modernise plants and increase productivity, ter, port, roads and approaches. while simultaneously reducing their environmental im> Watering of streets and roads in residential commu9% 150 pact and the cost of production of aluminium. In 2006nities located near the mine and smelter. 2009 the RUSAL Engineering and Construction Division 100 > Upgrading, expansion and technical retrofitting 9% deve­loped and tested S-8BME and S-8BE electrolysis of the dust collection systems and equipment. 50 technology using colloidal paste. The main difference in the new technology is that it uses a colloidal anode The following steps are planned for 2011: acquisi* Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie paste instead of the traditional anode paste. The colloition and installation of artificial fog systems, covering des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in Carbon oxide Sulfur Amount Solids (gas Total Other dal anode paste has relatively low pitch content, which (CO) dioxide of nitrogen treatment flourine emissions the loading areas with concrete, updating of the shipFriguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. (SO2) oxides like efficiency (gaseous is the main source of emissions of tars into the atmosnitrogen (кр. Fтв.), and solid) loader’s dust control and sprinkler systems, site landphere. dioxide (NO2) tarry matter, b(a)p), total scaping and intensification of measures to clean up 2009 2010 the territory. The new technology ensures high performance indicators for the electrolysis process and a reduction * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in in harmful emissions to the standards established by Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. the Russian Federation legislation and recommended by OSPAR for European aluminium smelters. UC ­RUSAL is currently implementing this techno­ logy at the Krasnoyarsk smelter. Plans for 2011 include the implementation of this technology at the Irkutsk, Bratsk, Volgograd and Novokuznetsk smelters. A system for measuring and controlling atmospheric emissions in accordance with local legislative requirements has been established 034 at all enterprises. 035 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of care pp027–041 Polychlorinated Generation, removal and processing of waste (not including overburden), million tonnes Generation, removal and processing of carbon lining, 2009–2010* thousand tonnes biphenyls (PCB) 2009–2010* 60 46.7 18.5 19.0 51.8 29.1 20.9 15 13,7 10,1 1,6 14,4 11,1 3,4 Are persistent organic pollutants. PCB oils are used Waste 40 as a dielectric in electric transformers and capaci10 tors. Considering the scale of the potential negative impact of production waste on the environment, UC ­RUSAL is 20 5 putting into practice a wide range of measures to: > Minimise the amount of waste produced > Increase the share of waste sent for recycling > Increase the reliability and safety of the temporary 2009 2010 Due to an increase in production, in 2010 environ2009 2010 waste storage and disposal facilities. Generated Removed Processed mental levies increased compared to 2009. Generated Removed Processed UC ­RUSAL companies produced 14.4 million tonnes Fines for violations of environmental legislaof waste in 2010 (not including overburden). * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie tion amounted to USD 131.0 thousand in 2009 and USD * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie Waste from alumina production (red mud and nephedes Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in 49.3 thousand in 2010. des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. line mud) accounts for 90% of all waste (not including The Company recognises that its responsibility overburden). to protect the environment goes deeper than fulfilling One of UC ­RUSAL’s unique types of waste is spent its legislative obligation to pay environmental levies, Generation of overburden, million tonnes carbon and the brick lining of electrolytic pots. Generation, removal and processing thousand tonnes and performs rehabilitation and clean-up works and 2009–2010* These types of waste are stored separately from of mud from alumina production, implements environmental programmes, projects and other waste for recycling purposes. The Company’s 2009–2010* initiatives. 25 20,3 18,7 aluminium smelters sold for recycling or reused ap20 proximately 40 thousand tonnes of carbon lining in 15 000 12 047.3 11 305.1 742.1 12 764.3 9 389.7 2 406.0 Investment projects 15 2009-2010. The Company continues to develop innovative technol10 The mud produced during alumina production is ogy using its own research and development facilities. 10 000 5 the largest waste in terms of volume. UC ­RUSAL has developed proprietary RA-300 and RAThe quantity of mud from alumina production uti400 aluminium production technology, and is developlised during the reporting period equalled 742.1 thouing new energy efficient and environmentally friendly 2009 2010 5 000 sand tonnes and 2,406.0 thousand tonnes in 2009 and RA-500 technology. * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie 2010, respectively. The Company’s priority tasks are technical upgraddes Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in In other words, the quantity of mud from alumiing, the introduction of modern production practices, Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. na production utilised increased more than threefold and the search for new development possibilities. 2009 2010 compared to 2009. The Company’s investment projects are aimed at: Generated Removed Processed In 2010 mud was used to build dams in the holding > Consolidating the raw materials base Waste generation*, 2010 % ponds at AGK, BAZ and UAZ. > Establishing in-house power generation facilities * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie 89.2% 9.8% In all 157 capacitors containing PCB were phaseddes Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in > Streamlining and curtailing production at less profout at SAZ in 2010 as part of the work to phase-out PCB Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. itable aluminium and alumina enterprises 89,2% Mud from alumina equipment and waste, resulting in a reduction in PCB by > Improving environmental performance. production 0,3% Spent carbon lining 0.78 tonnes. At the same time, another 377 capacitors During the reporting period UC ­RUSAL implementwith a total of 3.8 tonnes of PCB oils were discovered ed a large-scale production modernisation pro0.7% 0,7% Other wastes of 1-3 hazard class Amount of materials containing PCB, tonnes at Silicon Ltd. (Shelekhov). gramme that included the replacement of obsolete 9,8% Other wastes 2009–2010* of 4-5 hazard class equipment and ineffective, environmentally faulty 246 249 0.3% Investments in the future 250 technology. This programme resulted in a reduction 200 in the amount of air emissions and decreased enviDespite the difficult economic conditions during 150 ronmental levies. the reporting period, UC ­RUSAL continued to develop Other projects include the development of inert * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie 100 des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in and implement environmental protection programmes anode technology, reconstruction of the gas treatment Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. and projects and to invest in technological upgrades. 50 facilities at AGK and improvement of the production Programmes involving the modernisation of producsystem at BrAZ. tion, installation of new technologies and equipment, 2009 2010 creation of sanitary protection zones, introduction of new cost saving and environmentally friendly * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in production facilities, educational and research and Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. development programmes were implemented. In 2009 total investments in environmental measures amounted to USD 28.4 million, and in 036 2010 – USD 44.9 million. 037 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of care pp027–041 Modernisation The Nikolaev Modernisation of the Krasnoyarsk Alumina Refinery of the Irkutsk Expenses on environmental measures, 2009–2010* USD million Aluminium Smelter Project Aluminium Smelter 20 The Nikolaev Alumina Refinery (NGZ) commenced 5,1 2,1 11,0 1,1 0,1 1,9 7,2 11,4 3,0 16,4 0,9 0,1 3,1 10,0 a joint project with the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences 15 in 2010. The project is an experiment involving the installation of new technology to minimise the negative 10 impact of red mud on the environment. The deliverables will be incorporated into a full-scale environmental en5 gineering project. 2009 2010 Protection Water Handling New casting line at Krasnoyarsk Aluminium metal pouring into the mixer, casthouse, of atmospheric air conservation of wastes Smelter Irkutsk Aluminium Smelter Land reclamation and maintenance Environmental management system Other The Company’s Engineering and Construction DiviHealth and safety of sanitary The large-scale modernisation of the Irkutsk Aluprotection zones Capital sion developed a project to modernise KrAZ that was imminium Smelter, which was commissioned in 1962, was repairs UC ­RUSAL believes that occupational, industrial and fire plemented in 2004-2009. The modernisation programme completed in 2010. safety (hereinafter – health and safety) are of singuat KrAZ stipulated the use of cutting-edge solutions * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie lar importance in its operations. from around the world to improve both aluminium proThe implementation of a construction project for des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in UC ­RUSAL’s main health and safety management goals Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. duction technology and performance indicators. series five electrolysis, equipped with prebaked anode are: > Zero injuries, no accidents and no fires electrolytic pots, began at IrkAZ in 2005. Investments The main components of the Programme were: inin the project exceeded USD 600 million. The commisEnvironmental levies, USD million > Health and safety of staff at the workplace troduction of an automated system for feeding alusioning of series five electrolysis made it possible to 2009–2010* > Preventing work-related illnesses. mina into the electrolysis production facility, installaincrease overall production volume at IrkAZ through The Company performs regular work based on the ap20 tion of new gas treatment equipment, transition to dry the use of new cost efficient and environmentally proved Policy and procedures to manage health and anode production technology, increase of the current friendly facilities. Thanks to the launch of new genera15.1 1.6 16.0 2.5 safety issues and to mitigate risks, including: strength in existing potrooms, and modernisation of tion electrolysis, 585 additional jobs were created at 15 > Monitoring compliance with existing requirements foundry operations. IrkAZ. Implementation of this project resulted in an inand procedures > Collecting and analysing key information on health crease in tax payments to the consolidated budget of 10 Over four years more than USD 300 million has been Irkutsk oblast of RUB 143 million per year. and safety invested in the modernisation of the Krasnoyarsk Alu> Developing and introducing new corporate health minium Smelter, leading to a reduction in maximum 5 and safety standards and requirements. emissions of the following harmful substances per The Company’s long-term health and safety goal is tonne of aluminium produced: hydrofluoric acid – by to reduce the number of fatal on-the-job accidents 2009 2010 33%, tars – by 63%, and benzpyrene – by 60%. to zero. The Company keeps mandatory accounts of Within the limit Above the limit fatal accidents, conducts investigations and analyses An industrial storm water post-treatment facility the reasons for each accident. * Data consolidated for all Company enterprises, except Compagnie was also built at KrAZ. Its construction represented des Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), the bauxite and alumina complex in Every month at a meeting of a special-purpose Friguia (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and the Bauxite Company of Guyana. the final achievement of five years of work to moderncommittee the Board of Directors performs a qualitaise the smelter’s water cooling and recycling system. tive and quantitative assessment of the results for A sanitary protection zone for the smelter was also esthe reporting period. Among other things, it analyses tablished as part of the modernisation programme. injuries to both Company employees and employees of contractors and third parties. The analysis demonstrated that the main hazards that led to fatal accidents in 2009 and 2010 were working at heights and cave-ins at mines. These factors accounted for 60% of all fatal injuries during the indicated period. To reduce the risks involved in working at heights, draft instructions on “Preventing falls” are being developed. To reduce the risks associated with cave-ins, special Mine safety instructions are regularly updated and improved. For the past few years the generally accepted 038 international indicator in the area of occupational 039 2010 Algorithm of care Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of care pp027–041 Measures to ensure health and safety at Number of fatal on-the-job accidents, 2009–2010 Guinean enterprises 15 safety has been the lost time accident frequency rate > An integrated plan has been developed at BEMO for 7 11 10 (LTAFR*). This indicator is widely used in the industry, the prevention of workplace injuries of employees and and makes a comparative analysis possible. contractors. 5 UC ­RUSAL employees undergo mandatory occupation> A programme is in place for the safety of third paral and industrial safety training, and their knowledge ties at railways in Guinea. is regularly tested. The Company pays special attention to preventive 2009 2010 Monitoring of the fulfilment of safety norms and medicine and the promotion of a healthy lifestyle. requirements is organised by specialised divisions UC ­RUSAL provides a full range of medical services at enterprises responsible for health and safety issues to its employees through a network of medical centres together with line managers of the departments, both opened in most of the Company’s areas of presence. Lost time accident frequency rate (LTAFR), Alumina production process, Friguia Bauxite during day-to-day operations and regular audits. RUSAL Medical Centre plays a leading role in pre2009–2010 and Alumina Complex Health and safety requirements are included on venting non-industrial accidents. a mandatory basis in agreements with contractors. Active work was performed in the following areas 0.3 0.27 0.25 If contractors violate health and safety requireduring the reporting period: In 2009 the enterprises in Friguia and Compagnie des ments, they may be subject to fines up to and including > Reducing the risk of sudden death at the workplace 0.2 Bauxites de Kindia (CBK) located in Guinea performed the termination of agreements. due to somatic causes the following measures to ensure health and safety: The improvement of health and safety management > Medical checkups for high-risk groups prior 0.1 > Implementation of modern health and safety managestrategies is an integral part of the risk management to shifts ment systems. As part of this work CBK installed signs system. UC ­RUSAL is bringing its health and safety > Preventive heat stroke treatment and marked safe areas in the production zone. Despite management system into line with the requirements > Preventive alcoholism and drug addiction treat2009 2010 their insignificant cost (USD 3,800 in 2009), these of international standards. For example, at the end ment. measures contributed considerably to the creation of of the reporting period, the following ten companies an effective health and safety management system. were certified under the international standard OHSAS > Provision of personal protective equipment to com18001: Eurallumina, NGZ, AGK, SUAL-PM-Volgograd, SAZ, pany employees. In all, USD 374,127 was spent on the purKhAZ, NkAZ, BrAZ, KrAZ, and ZaLK. chase of personal protective equipment in 2009. In the reporting period UC ­RUSAL continued to > Ensuring safety at railways. To prevent fatal acciimplement projects to give employees support and dents and injuries among the local population, UC ­RUSAL incentives for safe work, in particular: has taken a number of measures, including through co> The Chessboard project was implemented. The teroperation with the local population, to improve the inritory of a smelter is divided into distinct zones, frastructure and security of railway crossings. As part reminiscent of the squares on a chessboard. A speof infrastructure improvements, work was performed cific employee is personally responsible for crea­ to restore the coverings of railway crossings, repair ting and maintaining safe working conditions in each pedestrian bridges and fencing, install guardhouses for “square” or zone. guards, and much more. Financing for this work came > The Safe Mine Project is being implemented at one to USD 591,925 in 2009. of the most hazardous enterprises, the Alumina Division of SUBR, which uses the highest level of manual labour for the underground mining of bauxite. Both the directors of SUBR, including foremen and team leaders, and rank-and-file employees of the mine are involved in the project. > Staff training work has been organised with the help The Company’s long-term of the Corporate University. Computer-based health and safety training tools have been developed using health and safety goal the latest in training techniques, and the existing system is constantly improved. Training is offered is to reduce the number in the following areas: > Study of changes in legislation on health, safety * LTAFR is the number of fatal on-the-job and environmental management of lost-time accidents per 200,000 hours > Training in the requirements of international qualworked. accidents to zero. ity management standards ISO 9001 and occupational health and safety assessment system OHSAS 18001 > Other areas (fire safety, attestation of work sta040 tions, environmental impact assessment, etc.). 041 2010 Algorithm of Impartiality Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of Impartiality Average headcount of UC ­RUSAL in December 2009, broken down by division, 2009 % pp043–049 20.1% 27.7% 2.6% 41,5% Aluminium Division 20,1% Alumina Division 27,7% Engineering and 0.6% Construction Division 0,01% Power Generation Division 2,6% Packaging Division 4.8% 0,6% Management Company 4,8% Commercial Directorate 1.0% 1,0% Technical Directorate 1,7% Other 41.5% 1.7% Average headcount of UC ­RUSAL in December 2010, broken down by division, 2010 % 30.5% 26.3% 2.8% 30,1% Aluminium Division 30,5% Alumina Division 26,3% Engineering and 0.7% Construction Division 0,0% Power Generation Division Approach 5.4% 2,7% Packaging Division 0,7% Management Company 5,4% Commercial Directorate The Company’s employees are its main asset, and 1.3% 1,3% Technical Directorate 2,8% Other the success of the entire organisation depends on their professional qualities. 30.1% 2.7% The Company’s human resource management system is based on engaging employees in the decision-making process, standardising business processes, and improving all aspects of business at UC ­RUSAL. The main functional elements of the human resource management system were set forth in the Company’s Human Resources Policy developed in 2007. The 2009-2010 reporting period was a difficult one Impartiality, which for the Company from the standpoint of operational and human resources management. The Company’s main implies remuneration human resources tasks during the economic crisis of work in good balance were retaining professional staff members and preventing labour conflicts. with achieved results A Commercial Directorate and a Technical Directorate were added to UC ­RUSAL’s organisational structure and the granting of equal in early 2010. The employees of the Urals Aluminium rights for further career Smelter, Bogoslovsk Aluminium Smelter and RUSAL Transport Achinsk were transferred to the Alumina Didevelopment vision. The Company’s employees Impartiality The cost optimisation measures performed throughout the reporting period resulted in a 10.1% staff reduction at the Company. In December 2010 are its main asset, and staff numbers equalled 72,383 persons (compared to 80,489 persons in 2009). At the same time, productivthe success of the entire ity at UC ­RUSAL’s aluminium smelters increased by 9.8%, from 138.8 tonnes per capita in 2009 to 154.4 tonnes organisation depends per capita in 2010. Considering the difficult economic situation in on their professional 042 the reporting period, UC ­RUSAL played an active role in qualities. 043 2010 Algorithm of Impartiality Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of Impartiality pp043–049 UC ­RUSAL employees participating in the executive talent pool % 30.2% 21.0% 20.4% 20,4% Aluminium Division East 8,0% Aluminium Division West the implementation of measures under Russian Federa> Zero tolerance for any form of discrimination or op20,4% Alumina Division East tion Government Resolutions No. 1089 and No. 1011, pression at the workplace 30,2% Engineering and which stipulated the provision of federal budget subsi> Non-use of child and forced labour Construction Division 21,0% Other dies to reduce tensions on the job market. > The maximum possible delegation of authorities 8.0% As a result of these measures, the Company was able to employees to quickly find jobs for those sent by regional Employ> Due consideration of the cultural specifics of 20.4% ment Centres, to perform training and professional the countries and regions where the Company has re-education of its employees, and to receive para presence during the performance of its operations. tial reimbursement of staff costs (advance training, UC ­RUSAL did not record any cases of discrimination temporary job placement, internships) in an amount by the employer in 2009-2010. of more than USD 2.8 million in 2010 and more than The principle of non-use of child and forced labour USD 7.7 million in 2009, respectively. is reflected in the Company’s activity during the rethis person’s CV to the Personnel Recruitment and education institutions. Candidates take an exam UC ­RUSAL was one of the first in Russia to begin reporting period: no cases were identified. Planning Division. on the completion of the courses, and the most suctraining employees at its companies and engaging them For the purpose of monitoring compliance with The Company actively employs the practice of cessful receive an opportunity for a foreign internin community service and internships – to ensure that the provisions of the Code of Corporate Ethics, and personnel rotation, both inside enterprises and ship or MBA training. the effects of the financial crisis touched Company in order to promptly resolve and prevent complicated throughout the Company as a whole, including the foremployees as little as possible. ethical situations, the institution of corporate ethics eign enterprises of UC ­RUSAL. This makes it possible representatives has been created at UC ­RUSAL and for Company employees to receive new professional exTraining Corporate culture a system for collecting information from employees perience, to familiarise themselves with international and for reacting to ethical violations has been develstandards of doing business, and to receive language UC ­RUSAL considers highly skilled staff to be one The main document setting forth the standards and oped. If the corporate ethics representative cannot practice. of the Company’s key competitive advantages, and corprinciples of the Company’s corporate culture is resolve a problem, the employee can appeal to the Huporate education to be the main development tool. the Code of Corporate Ethics of UC ­RUSAL. This documan Resources Committee or the Corporate Governance Executive talent pool The staff training and development system at ment was first approved on 7 February 2005, and has Committee. For all practical purposes, UC ­RUSAL has been forming UC ­RUSAL encompasses all categories of production and been updated repeatedly since then to reflect internal In 2009-2010 there were 35 corporate ethics reprean executive talent pool since the very first days of its office personnel at all levels of management – from and external changes at the Company. sentatives at Company enterprises. Each of them conexistence. The organisation of the program has underrank-and-file employees to senior management, The version of the Code of Ethics approved in 2007, sidered on average approximately five appeals a month gone significant changes since that time, as the Comand covers all divisions and enterprises regardless which sets forth the corporate culture values necessary from the employees of their enterprises. pany’s strategic goals have changed and the human of where they are located, their type of production for the Company to achieve the highest possible perforA coordination centre for UC ­RUSAL corporate resources policy has evolved. or the products they manufacture. mance in all its endeavours, is currently in effect. ­ethics representatives was created at the Sayanogorsk The new format of the Executive talent pool proSince 2006, Corporate University has been funcUC ­RUSAL adheres to consistent ethical principles Aluminium Smelter on 17 March 2010. At the centre, corgramme was launched at UC ­RUSAL in 2009, and a unitioning at the Company, with the goal of preparing in respect of its employees, such as: porate ethics representatives can consolidate their fied corporate electronic database was created. and developing highly-skilled personnel that meet > Respect for personal freedom and human rights and experience, seek optimal solutions to the problems Whereas previously an employee could only become the Company’s business and corporate culture redignity, and the provision of various opportunities that concern the employees of all enterprises, and hold part of the executive talent pool on recommendation quirements. to employees training sessions and seminars. of a director, now any Company employee can enter himself or herself in the unified database and become Recruitment of employees a candidate for a certain position. The new information system makes the process of forming the Company’s The Company offers its One of the priorities of UC ­RUSAL’s human resources executive talent pool transparent. To register, a canpolicy is the recruitment of qualified personnel. didate completes a questionnaire containing personal employees opportunities The Company offers its employees opportunities for information and undergoes an assessment of his or her self-fulfilment in their profession and competitive professional and management competence. A rating of for self-fulfilment in salaries, but in turn it places fairly high demands candidates is formed based on the assessment results, UC ­RUSAL considers highly on them: professionalism, responsibility and a resultsgiving a visualisation of the potential of each canditheir profession and driven approach. date for promotion to a post. skilled staff to be one Employees are recruited from both outside sources To date more than five thousand employees have competitive salaries, but (the posting of vacancies on the Company’s corporate become participants in the Executive talent pool proof the Company’s key website and employment portals) and from internal gramme, with another almost one thousand employees in turn it places fairly resources. included in the employee reserve. competitive advantages, Any UC ­RUSAL employee can apply for any open vaUC ­RUSAL has created the Personnel Reserve high demands. cancy at the Company, information on which is placed Academy to provide training in the form of lectures, and corporate education on the internal portal, as part of the Internal contest seminars and training sessions. The lecturers include programme. Employees can also recommend an external the directors of the Company’s key lines of busito be the main development 044 candidate for employment at the Company by sending ness and instructors from the best Russian higher tool. 045 2010 Algorithm of Impartiality Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of Impartiality pp043–049 Total number of employees receiving training, 2009–2010 50,000 10,580 42,689 An integrated approach to corporate education fulfilment of targets (such as EBITDA, production cost, 40,000 includes the use of a wide range of tools: the training working capital, etc.), from which bonuses are paid and 30,000 centre, distance learning, and functional academies. employee training, social and charity programmes are 20,000 Various training programmes using different trainfinanced. 10,000 ing methods, forms and aids are developed, depending In 2010 the Company developed a system of incenon the goals and the target audience. Employees appraisal tives for senior management, including a short-term 2009 2010 US RUSAL’s education programmes include: incentive plan (STIP) and long-term incentives in source: UC Rusal management accounting > Mandatory employee training and re-education the form of restricted shares. This incentive system programmes, as well as professional development prowill be approved and implemented in 2011. grammes regulated by legislation Short-term incentives will be paid based on the reNumber of employees trained through > Additional professional development programmes sults of fulfilment of short-term key performance the E-learning System, 2009–2010 aimed at improving professional management compeMotivation indicators (KPI) which are tied in with the indicators tencies of the Company’s business plan and the individual 10,000 2,354 8,860 > Training programmes aimed at developing foreign Material incentives performance targets of each programme participant. 8000 language skills The individual STIP, and the KPI of each director on 6000 > Programmes to develop the executive talent pool UC ­RUSAL has a reputation as an employer of choice which the payment of STIP will depend, will reflect 4000 > Programmes aimed at educating schoolchildren and guarantees stable and competitive compensation the importance of the indicator in the director’s sys2000 and students studying at educational institutions of employees. tem of individual incentives. in the Company’s field Since 2003 UC ­RUSAL has used an employee compenThe Company’s total costs on payroll and other 2009 2010 > Programmes for the exchange of experience: tutorsation system based on grades. An internal hierarchy payments and fringe benefits to UC ­RUSAL employees ing, internship, conferences, functional academies consisting of ten pay grades has been created based in 2010 amounted to USD 990 million, which is 9.8% more source: UC Rusal management accounting > RUSAL Professionals contest. on a universal system of assessment of positions. than in 2009 (USD 902 million). The Company also has a training centre and E-learnThe internal hierarchy and market rates for various The average monthly wage of a Company employee ing System. professions were used to develop pay ranges, i.e. maxiin 2010 also increased by 20.1%, and equalled USD 1,051. Almost all of the employee training and profesmum and minimum amounts of compensation that an emThe Human Resources Directorate also developed sional development programmes include E-learning. ployee can be paid within each grade. Compensation is a three-year wage growth programme in 2010. This is one of the Company’s most effective forms of established based on the pay ranges. The system of pay personnel development, the main advantage of which is grades was successfully implemented at all Company Work with young employees the possibility to study both at the workplace and at facilities by 2008. The corporate youth programme “Formula for the fuhome, at a time convenient for employees. In the reporting period the procedure and terms for ture” was developed in 2010, and in 2011 UC ­RUSAL plans A total of 53,269 Company employees received trainpaying wages to Company employees were governed by to launch the pilot programme at five industrial sites: ing in 2009-2010. Average training costs per employee separate regulations approved at the enterprise level. in Krasnoyarsk, Bratsk, Nikolaev, Achinsk and Sayin 2010 totalled USD 105.26. Regulations on the payment of wages that establish anogorsk. Thanks to the programme administered by uniform rules for paying wages at all UC ­RUSAL enterThe goals of the programme are: the UC ­RUSAL Corporate University, students from prises are to be approved in 2011. > To involve young employees in the resolution Guinea and Nigeria have the opportunity to study at The monthly compensation of UC ­RUSAL employees of the Company’s strategic goals, the industrial and the People’s Friendship University of Russia in Moscow. consists of a fixed base salary (80-90%) and a varisocial life of the enterprises, and to foster adherence The Company also plans to involve the enterprises in able bonus (10-20%). The amount of compensation to corporate values. The staff training Jamaica and Guyana in this programme. The Company paid to each employee is set in accordance with his/ covers all the students’ expenses. her position in the Company’s organisational strucand development system After they finish training, students are placed in a job ture, qualifications, the type of work he/she does and at the UC ­RUSAL enterprise in their home countries. the quantity and quality of his/her labour. The variable at UC ­RUSAL encompasses bonus is calculated based on the monthly assessment Personnel assessment of employees and is contingent on the achievement all categories A personnel assessment based on set targets is of specific targets. UC ­RUSAL has a reputation performed twice a year at all UC ­RUSAL enterprises. The monthly compensation UC ­RUSAL pays to its of production and office This procedure will be performed on a quarterly basis employees also takes into account the geographical and as an employer of choice starting from 2011. socio-economic conditions of the region of presence, personnel at all levels In 2009-2010 participants in the assessment and may include additional pay or regional coefficients and guarantees stable included directors, specialists and rank-and-file required by the relevant local labour law. of management. employees (except certain categories, such as secreFrom the third quarter of 2009 the Company introand competitive taries). duced a new system of incentives based on the achieveAs at 31 December 2010, 14% of all Company employees ment of target indicators. A quarterly enterprise compensation 046 were undergoing regular assessments. development fund (EDF) is formed based on the overof employees. 047 2010 Algorithm of Impartiality Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of Impartiality pp043–049 RUSAL Professionals > To develop proactive and responsible young emp­ a guaranteed employment benefits package all help emOther countries loyees, and to provide them with an idea of work values, ployees feel that they are part of the Company’s overall In Jamaica the Company pays pensions and medical professional development and economic independence success and to look to the future with confidence. bene­f its to pensioners in accordance with the estab> To improve the image of UC ­RUSAL as an employer of UC ­RUSAL offers its employees the full package lished pension plan. The pension programmes were terchoice among youngsters, to attract the best young of employment benefits set forth in labour legislation. minated due to the temporary suspension of producspecialists and to ensure their acclimatisation at ComEach employee is provided with mandatory medical and tion at the Alpart and Windalco refineries in 2009. pany enterprises pension insurance policies, and has the right to paid Two types of pension payments are made in Ireland: > To strengthen the Company’s image as a socially vacation and medical leave. final pension plan and long-term and post-employment responsible employer that pays special attention benefits including death-in-service, lump sun upon First Deputy CEO Vladislav Soloviev to the development of youngsters congratulates a worker from Krasnoyarsk Pension benefit obligations retirement and death-in pension benefits. > To identify, develop and retain young employees with United Company employees are participants in the penThe pension plans in Ireland and Jamaica are funded Aluminium Smelter leadership potential to fill the Company’s executive sion systems of the relevant countries. The Complans. talent pool pany allocates a set percentage of the wage fund for In Sweden, pursuant to legislation, the Company > To create a system of Youth Councils to promote Since 2004 UC ­RUSAL has organised and held a corthe future pension coverage of its employees. Targeted makes both lifetime and interim pension payments. the Company’s goals and objectives, and to improve porate contest of professional skills called RUSAL funds may be created in different countries to cover A special fund has not been created for these paythe level of awareness and involvement of young employProfessionals. The main goal of the contest is to crea­ the pension plans. ments. ees. te the Company’s professional elite. The number of At several other Company enterprises, lump-sum The following areas of work were tentatively singled professions involved in the contest has increased Russia and Ukraine severance payments formed from current income are out: “My choice” (professional orientation, underover the years, and by 2010 included 56 blue-collar and Based on Russian and Ukrainian legislation UC ­RUSAL made when employees retire. standing of the Company’s mission and values, and 12 management professions. makes pension insurance contributions to the bud­ Net pension liabilities totaled USD 138 and the rules and norms of behaviour at the workplace), gets of the state pension funds. The pension systems USD 134 million in 2009 and 2010, respectively•. An “My profession” (acclimatisation, active mastering In 2010 the project was distinguished by the fact of Russia and Ukraine stipulate the following types assessment of insurance indemnity shows that 49% of of the profession, the necessary technologies and that UC ­RUSAL employees in Guinea, China and Ireland of pension programmes and payments to Company the Company’s liabilities were secured with pension business skills), “My career” (career planning, idenwere given an opportunity to participate. In all, 225 of employees: assets as at 31 December 2010 (60% as at 31 December tification and development of employees with good UC ­RUSAL’s best employees from 44 Company enterprises > Old-age or disability pension. The amount of pen2009). leadership and creative potential to form the execuin Russia, Ukraine, Armenia, Guinea and China made it sions under some programmes depends on the wage tive personnel reserve), and “My company” (developto the 2010 final. The contest was brought to a close on level, and is either a set amount or depends on the emSocial package ment of business and social awareness and responsi28 October with the awarding of 69 diplomas and souveployee’s employment history. The difficult economic situation worldwide had an imbility among young employees, and their involvement nirs to those who had demonstrated their right to hold > Pensions for veterans of the Second World War. pact on the employment benefits package offered in the work of the youth councils of the enterprises). the honorary title of a UC ­RUSAL professional. > Long-term and lump-sum employee severance bene­ by UC ­RUSAL to its employees. For example, voluntary fits, including payments and benefits for employees medical insurance was cancelled in 2009. However, vo­ Non-material incentives in case of death, the reasons for which are attributa­ luntary medical insurance had been reinstated by 2010 Non-material incentives play an important role in ble to the performance of official job duties. at the Management Company in Moscow, and by 2011 it the system of employee incentives and motivation Special-purpose charities have been created at will have been reinstated at all enterprises. at UC ­RUSAL. The moral encouragement of success, the Company’s enterprises in Russia and Ukraine to An assistance programme for employees expe­ the possibility to participate in corporate events and support veterans. The amount of annual withholdi­ riencing difficult life situations has been in place ngs to these funds is not fixed, and is calculated as at the Company since 2005. This program guarantees a certain share of the wage fund. Monthly supplemental material aid in the case of illness, fire and other situpayments to state pensions and financing of various ations. lifesaving and recreation measures for pensioners are performed using these funds. Pursuant to legislative requirements, the UC ­RUSAL The average monthly wage enterprises located on the territory of Ukraine are partially responsible for financing expenses on penof a Company employee sion coverage of employees working under arduous and harmful working conditions. In Ukraine the Company in 2010 also increased also voluntarily pays long-term and lump-sum employee severance benefits, including payments and benefits for by 20.1%, and equalled • As per the audited employees in case of death, the reasons for which are consolidated IFRS attributable to the performance of official job duties. financial statements USD 1,051. All the aforementioned types of pensions and payfor the year ended 31 December 2010. ments to employees are fixed-benefit programmes. The Company finances these programmes using current 048 income. 049 2010 Algorithm of honesty Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Honesty in all our relations, be they within or outside Algorithm the Company and in the common sharing of honesty of information required for our work pp051–057 ers, but also an individual approach to each group Honesty of stakeholders in various countries. The Company will initiate creation of a system for interactions with stakeholders next year. At present UC ­RUSAL does not have a strategy for interaction with stakeholders: the Company has not yet developed any documents regulating this process. Over the next few years the Company plans to develop a stakeholder map and a separate document to regulate interactions with stakeholders. The Company is currently working to identify key groups of stakeholders and the approaches to inte­ raction with them, based on existing practices of interaction and the level of their influence on the Company’s performance. The types, forms and frequency of interaction vary depending on the group of stakeholders. For example, the status of social projects is discussed with partners during monthly meetings, decisions on the construction of large facilities are made during public debates, and interaction between Approach employees and management is an integral part of the daily production process. Interaction with key stakeholders is not only an imThe aggregate of various feedback received portant element of the Company’s sustainable deve­ during interaction helps the Company to adjust and lopment, but an effective mechanism for a proactive improve internal business processes and to respond response to changing conditions. Such a system makes proactively to queries, complaints and propo­ it possible to pool efforts to overcome the consesals from stakeholders. The reaction of Company quences of economic downturns. stakeholders to initiatives and projects helps to The changes that took place at UC ­RUSAL during determine the importance of the topics and issues the reporting period created a system of operational being raised, making it possible to take prompt and management at the Company that implies the active informed decisions. participation of stakeholders in the management At present the Company does not perform a sysprocess. tematic performance assessment of the selected UC ­RUSAL understands stakeholders to be those methods and forms of interaction. This is a longparties that are significantly impacted by the Comterm objective that UC ­RUSAL plans to achieve pany’s activities. Some of the Company’s production facilities are located outside Russia, including in Africa and Central America, which requires a constant search for the most suitable methods of communicaThe global nature tion, taking into account the specifics and traditions of the local population. of operations assumes Sustainable development demands a mature system of measures covering all areas of the Company’s not only a system activity. Its foundation is accountability to partners, clients, employees and the local communities of universal values in the countries of presence, heightened attention to environmental protection, serious investments in toward stakeholders, the development of new technologies, and constant improvements to production processes. but also an individual Key groups of stakeholders, and the principles and approaches to interaction with them, are deapproach to each scribed in the Code of Corporate Ethics of UC ­RUSAL. The global nature of operations assumes not group of stakeholders 050 only a system of universal values toward stakeholdin various countries. 051 2010 Algorithm of honesty Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of honesty pp051–057 Social projects Social projects in Guinea in Nigeria CBK constantly provides assistance to the population for the construction, repair and reconstruction of mosques. Each year CBK organizes the hajj for enthrough the development and implementation of terprise employees. In 2009 it allocated USD 20,500 for systems to monitor client and partner satisfaction, a trip to Mecca by a group of five people and USD 1,215 to a continua­t ion of annual evaluations of employee loysupport the mosque in Mambia village. alty, and regular monitoring of the key performance indicators of social projects. The construction of unpaved roads is also a key UC ­RUSAL’s interaction with stakeholders includes area of urban redevelopment in Guinea. a wide range of issues at the global and local level. His royal majesty Edidem U. J. Ntuk Obom, Stakeholder relations Russia and Guinea are linked by 50 years of coope­ Paramount Ruler of Ikot Abasi, сommissions Local communities ration in the area of bauxite developments. Projects the Ukpum Okon water project The period of economic instability did not affect in Guinea are strategically important for UC ­RUSAL. UC ­RUSAL’s activity as a socially responsible ComThe Company is carrying out long-term projects here, In Nigeria, where 40% of the employees of the Company. Together with the authorities, local adminand is implementing them in full, despite the current pany’s plants are inhabitants of the Ikot Abasi district istrations and non-governmental organisations climate on the global aluminium market. The Company’s and 80% are from the state of Akwa-Ibom, the relations in the countries where it has a presence, the Cominternational experience, including in the area of imbetween the Company and local communities have a sigpany implemented large-scale projects to reduce plementation of social programmes, will contribute nificant impact on the safety of people’s lives. unemployment, maintain production facilities, stamp to the development of the country’s economy and lead out health problems, improve living standards, and to an improvement in the welfare of its citizens in Social projects in Nigeria are implemented in the folcombat climate change. future. lowing areas: electrification of cities, supply of water to The Company temporarily suspended work at the local population, the establishment of terms and conobsolete, unprofitable, energy intensive and environWith the support of the Guinean authorities, UC ­RUSAL ditions for receiving education and the support of sport. mentally inefficient production facilities. Production strives to ensure appropriate living standards not only of alumina was also shut down at the Urals Aluminium for the Company’s employees, but also for the populaThe most significant project within the framework of Smelter. These measures resulted in increased protion in the regions where it has a presence. the Programme for the Social Development and Improveduction and environmental efficiency. ment of the Health of the Local Population conducted Most of the Company’s smelters are the principal One of the main areas of social initiatives of by Aluminium Smelter Company of Nigeria (ALSCON) is employer in the cities where they are located, and UC ­RUSAL in Guinea concerns the supply of electri­c ity a project to provide drinking water to the populahave a significant impact on the employment situaand water to the population. In 2009 the Compagnie tions of those regions where the enterprises operate. tion, infrastructure development and environmental des Bauxites de Kindia built drinking water wells for The President of Nigeria recently declared: “No Nigericonservation in the region. Therefore, the creation Simbai village. A power supply project was implemented an child should in the next few years trek long distances in Mambia village (Mambia sub-prefecture, Kindia preto carry water on their heads before going to school. fecture). Our target is to ensure that by the year 2015, 75% of Nigerians will have access to safe drinking water and that When organising The Company also pays significant attention to by 2025 the figure will rise to over 90%”. the development of education. In 2009 it repaired interaction, UC RUSAL takes a school in Debele village at a cost of USD 25,819. Each Aware of the importance of drinking water to people’s year CBK provides school supplies in the villages of Dehealth, ALSCON has implemented a number of projects into account the specifics bele, Mambia and Pushkin (Kindia prefecture): in 2009 it to supply drinking water to the local population. In April provided assistance worth USD 3,100. 2010 the Company successfully completed a project reof the countries and lating to the construction of a water pipeline in Ikpetim village, using the enterprise’s water supply system. In regions where it has a addition, the drilling of four drinking water wells had been comple­ted by the end of 2010. There are plans to presence, and engages drill another two in 2011. the local authorities in These projects were implemented in an area inhabited by five Ikot Abasi clans. According to the Company’s the joint performance estimates, as a result, over 10,000 people received access to clean drinking water. of projects. 052 053 2010 Algorithm of honesty Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of honesty pp051–057 of the conditions necessary for effective interacthat make it possible to guarantee product quality (once a year); this agreement is approved by the HR tion with the local population is extremely important and appropriate prices. Committee under the Management Board of UC ­RUSAL. from the standpoint of understanding and respondUC ­RUSAL interacts with customers and business The Collective Agreement formalises the Company’s ing to the interests of this group of stakeholders. partners through the following: obligation to notify employees promptly of all changes When organising interaction, the Company takes > Implementation of interactive customer services at the Company which may affect them to some extent into account the specifics of the countries and rein the form of an Internet portal to arrange for the dior other. The provisions of the collective agreegions where it has a presence, and engages the local rect interaction of the plants and customers ments also include occupational health and safety authorities and representatives of the local commu> Establishment of a register of uniform requireissues, which stipulate that employees are granted nities in the joint performance of projects. Interacments on the characteristics of manufactured pro­ compensation and benefits for working in harmful tion with local communities assumes the following ducts and hazardous work conditions and equipment for forms: > Holding of face-to-face meetings and plant visits the individual and collective protection of employees, > Discussions of socio-economic development pro> Improvements to the accounting system and reacbasis with plant specialists and management, informaEmployees also undergo regular medical check-ups. jects for the region (partnership projects) tion to appeals and complaints tion centres were fully operational, and corporate The primary trade unions of enterprises, which are > Participation in social and charity projects being > Increase in the quality of output through the implemass media published promptly relevant information part of the National Union of Miners and Metallurgiimplemented by the SPC mentation of the quality management and certification on the situ­ation at the plants and the development cal Workers of Russia, are responsible for the public > Participation in public discussions and consultasystem ISO 9001 and the establishment of a Customer prospects for the aluminium industry as a whole. monitoring of the compliance of the rights and legal tions during the performance of projects to upgrade Support Centre In 2010 a large-scale two-hour Internet conference interests of workers with occupational health and and expand existing production facilities or construc> Publication of annual reports and sustainable deve­ was held, during which Company employees were able safety requirements through representatives on tion of new assets lopment reports to address any questions on matters of interest to the Occupational Health and Safety Committee. > Communications through the mass media. > Holding of annual customer satisfaction surveys. them to management. Employees were given the opporOne of UC ­RUSAL’s main objectives in Africa and Since 2004 the Company has performed annual tunity to learn about important Company news through State and municipal authorities Central America is to improve the quality of life customer satisfaction surveys, which make it possible the Internet portal, RUSAL TV and RUSAL radio. For UC ­RUSAL the establishment of open and mutually of the local population. With this goal in mind, for to learn the opinions of customers, understand their The practice of holding meetings between Company advantageous interaction with the state authorities, many years the Company has been escalating its requirements and desires, assess the degree of satismanagement and employees is a key component for and also the local administrative authorities is an imsocio-economic development programmes: ensuring faction and identify areas for improvement. ensuring feedback. portant element in the resolution of socio-economic the local population’s access to clean drinking water, For more detailed information about claims work During the economic crisis the Company impleissues on a global, national and regional level. building roads, improving occupational safety, proand research into customer loyalty, see section “Qualmented a number of special measures to ensure social UC ­RUSAL believes that interaction with the exe­ viding the population with medicines and the possiity”. stability in the regions where it has a presence: cutive authorities and municipalities of countries bility to receive professional medical assistance. in part it retained the employment benefits and wages where the company has a presence is a key factor for Shareholders of employees at enterprises that had been temporarily the successful development of the business. In this Clients and business partners The shareholders of UC ­RUSAL are interested in shut down. area the Company strives to account for the specifics The convenient location of the Company’s assets in increasing the Company’s long-term value through of the mindset and traditions of the communities in Siberia has enabled UC ­RUSAL to create a customer base an effective risk management system, cost reductions, Employee trade unions whose lives it participates on a daily basis. on five continents, including customers in construcoptimization of internal management processes and UC ­RUSAL respects the freedom of its employees and The Company is not only an active participant in intion, packaging and the automobile industry. the attraction of a foreign partner. does not restrict their rights to participate in unions dustry associations, councils and committees, but also UC ­RUSAL customers are located in 50 countries, In the reporting period UC ­RUSAL interacted with its and associations. implements wide-ranging projects relating to the conand the Company strives to organize interaction with shareholders through: Approximately 70% of employees are members of struction of major production facilities, the creaeach one of them. Furthermore, the alumina refineries > The holding of annual meetings trade unions and associations in the sector. Employee tion and development of infrastructure in the regions of the Company are the primary customers of the alu> Participation in sector-specific events, confertrade unions operate at virtually all of the Company’s where it is present. A partnership model based on mina assets of UC ­RUSAL. ences, road shows, etc. plants. They have a number of competencies, including a combination of resources helps UC ­RUSAL achieve an In its activities UC ­RUSAL seeks long-term and > The posting of information to the “Investors” secamong others, approval of the terms and conditions of important strategic objective –improve the quality of mutually advantageous cooperation and believes that tion of the Company’s website. the collective agreement and participation in the re­ life. success is contingent first and foremost on client solution of disputes and conflicts arising from employThe financing of social projects is based on relations based on respect, trust, honesty and fairEmployees ment agreements. the principles of joint financing and control of exness. At the same time, UC ­RUSAL expects its custo­ For UC ­RUSAL, employees are the key to success. The labour relations of the Russian enterprises of penditure, which makes it possible to reduce the risk mers to comply with high standards of business and to The Company brings together people in 19 countries: the Company are also regulated by the industry tariff of ineffective and non-core expenditure of funds. respect the Company’s principles and values. the effectiveness of the Company’s reactions to agreement for Russia’s mining and metals sector. UC ­RUSAL does not provide financial support for The development and improvement of business rechallenges and any emerging issues is contingent A new industry tariff agreement for the mining and political parties in any countries where it participates lations with consumers and the increase in the degree on the extent to which interaction with them is open metals sector for the period from 2011 to 2013 was and does not take part in such activities. of customer satisfaction and loyalty is key a strategic and based on trust. signed in February 2010 and entered into force in The following were the main issues of concern in objective of the Company. The partners and custo­ In times of economic instability the Company December 2010. respect of the Company’s interaction with the state mers of UC ­RUSAL are interested in the high level believes that it is natural and essential to maintain In 2010 the collective agreement covered 95.3% executive authorities in the reporting period: of transparency of Company operations, timely and dialog and notify employees on planned work changes. of the Company’s employees. The Company revises > The development of professional executives (engi054 stable interaction, and the use of safe technologies With this goal in mind, meetings were held on a regular the standard Collective Agreement on a regular basis neers) through the establishment of RUSAL ETC 055 2010 Algorithm of honesty Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of honesty pp051–057 Public private Dian-Dian project partnership in Guinea projects To date UC ­RUSAL has fully discharged its obligations > The development of competency centres (power and for the development and approval of environmental metallurgy) docu­mentation within the framework of its area of re> Participation in tariff regulation issues in sponsibility for the project. the electricity sector > Participation in professional committees, commisThe cost of the project (net of costs on the creation sions, associations and unions of infrastructure and the preparation of the bed of > The resolution of issues related to the continued the floodwater zone of the hydropower plant) has been implementation of the BEMO project estimated at approximately USD 3.6 billion. The project > The development of rail transport is being financed with the Company’s own funds and by > The implementation of social programmes. loans taken out by RusHydro and RUSAL. In July 2010 In 2001 UC ­RUSAL received an ore mining concession the project of Boguchansk Aluminium the Supervisory Board of Vnesheconombank approved for the Dian-Dian group of deposits in Guinea. The proNon-profit organisations Smelter loans for the implementation of the BEMO project. ject involves the construction of a bauxite-alumiUC ­RUSAL cooperates with a large number of nonna complex: a bauxite mine with a capacity of 12.2 million profit organisations on issues regarding impact on Successful implementation of the BEMO project is tonnes a year and alumina refinery with a capacity of the environment and climate change, tariff regulation A large-scale public-private partnership project a key component of RUSAL’s strategy to reinforce and de2.8 million tonnes a year (including a potential expanin the area of power at a local, regional and national relating to the establishment of the Boguchanskoye Envelop its own energy base. At the same time, the project sion in capacity to 5.6 million tonnes). level. ergy and Metals Complex (BEMO) is being implemented plays an extremely important role in ensuring the soAt a global level UC ­RUSAL is a member of the Inby RUSAL and the company RusHydro on a parity basis. cio-economic stability of the region through the estabWith the support of the state authorities, ternational Aluminium Institute (IAI). In 2009 Artyom The BEMO project includes completion of the construclishment of over 3,500 jobs. Highly-skilled professionals the UC ­RUSAL is ready from 2011 to start the phased Volynets, UC ­RUSAL Strategy and Corporate Develoption of the Boguchanskya HPP (BHPP) with a capacity of and managers will be hired for the successful operations implementation of the Dian-Dian project, stipulating ment director was appointed Chairman of IAI – a global 3,000 MW on the Angara River and the construction of of the plant (division directors, sub-division directors, the expansion of port infrastructure, an increase in organization that brings together over 80% of all the Boguchanskiy Aluminium Smelter (BoAZ) with a camanagers, foremen, etc.) from the existing enterpristhroughput capacity and the productivity of rail transglobal aluminium producers. pacity of 588,000 tonnes per annum, which will become es of RUSAL, while 50% of the plant’s specialists will be port, the development of residential and social infraUC ­RUSAL has also acceded to the United Nations the main consumer of the electricity generated by BHPP. hired from the local population of Boguchansky district structure, and the development of the power capacities Global Compact and adheres to its principles in its The BEMO public-private partnership project is a key and surrounding areas of Krasnoyarsk krai. of the district. operations. component of the comprehensive development proAt a corporate level the Company participates gramme of the Lower Angara region, which also includes actively in the activities of the Russian Union of the construction of a pulp-and-paper mill, the deve­ Industrialists and Entrepreneurs: UC ­RUSAL CEO Oleg lopment of gas condensate fields and iron ore depo­ Deripaska is a member of the bureau of the Board of sits, the construction of a railway line and network of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreroads. The construction of infrastructure facilities is neurs and Chairman of the Committee on Environfinanced with state funds. mental, Industrial and Process Safety. The Committee considers and submits proposed amendments to As at 31 December 2010 the construction of the first regulatory acts in the area of the environment and line of the BoAZ with a capacity of 147,000 tonnes of sub-soil use. aluminium per annum had been 30% completed. The conThe Company has been undertaking joint social struction work was suspended temporarily in 2009 and projects with the Charitable Foundation Volnoe Delo in should be renewed at the start of 2011. The commissio­ the regions where it operates since 2010. ning of the first start-up facilities of the smelter is Company enterprises cooperate with non-profit anticipated in 2013. organisations on ecological issues and environmental protection. More detailed information can be found on Construction of the Boguchanskaya hydropower plant the purposes and results of this interaction in section continued even during the economic crisis. The com“Algorithm of Concern”. missioning of the first line of the BHPP is scheduled in the fourth quarter of 2011, while BHPP should attain Mass media project capacity in 2013. The organisation of interaction with representatives from the mass media is a prerequisite for the timely and correct submission of information on development plans and the performance of the Company. As a rule, interaction with the mass media is performed within the scope of press releases, awareness-raising articles, presentations and other events, with the partici056 pation of UC ­RUSAL representatives. 057 2010 Algorithm of respect Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of respect pp059–063 the social investment programmes of the Company in the regions where it has a presence and develop and support local social initiatives aimed at improving peop­le’s living conditions. As at 2010 SPC had conducted activities in 13 cities in Russia and Ukraine. Development of regions Strategy of social and charitable activities Within the framework of its social and charitable activities, UC ­RUSAL highlights the following areas: > Development of social infrastructure on the local market: water supply, provision of electricity and road construction > Health care: construction and repair of medical institutions, medical programmes for employees and the local population, support for national projects combating AIDS > Sport: construction of sports stadiums and the organisation of events, the promotion of a healthy As a global company, UC ­RUSAL believes that only a busilifestyle, development of mass sports in courtyards ness based on sustainable development principles > Education: construction and repair of educational can contribute to the socio-economic development institutions, education and vocational learning for of the regions and the countries where it operates. the population. At the same time, investments in the development of During the economic crisis, in the reporting period Respect for the individual local communities constitute an integral component of the Company’s sustainable development activities. many companies significantly reduced their charitable activities. Levels of sponsorship contracted signifirights and interests An on-going dialogue with the population of the recantly, giving way to corporate volunteering, the colgions where it operates and an active role in the deve­ lection of private donations and the provision of of our employees, lopment of local communities is one of the core compofree-of-charge services to the population. requirements of our nents of the sustainable development of the Company’s business. clients and conditions An on-going dialogue of cooperation proposed Approach by our lenders, vendors with the population The management system of social and charitable activiand business partners ties of UC ­RUSAL is regulated by a number of internal of the regions where regulations of the Company. as well as respect “The Regulations on the Charitable Activities of it operates and for the public UC ­RUSAL”, approved on 1 October 2007, determines the areas and principles of charitable activities and an active role in Respect describes the process for managing charitable activities. the development of local In 2010 the Company adopted Regulations on the Scholarships of UC ­RUSAL, intended to formalise communities is one the goal and procedure for awarding Company scholarships to students. In 2011 the Company plans to develop of the core components and approve a corporate social responsibility Policy, and also adopt a new version of the “Regulations on of the sustainable Charitable Activities”. For effective project management in the area of development corporate social responsibility, the Company established the Social Programme Centre (SPC) has been of the Company’s 058 operational in 2004. The SPC and its branches manage business. 059 2010 Algorithm of respect Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of respect pp059–063 Awards in the area of corporate social responsibility UC ­RUSAL was also compelled to adjust its policy in private partnership principles. At the same time, the area of charity, while striving at the same time to the programme also contains an innovative component, maintain the effectiveness of the activities of the SPC. which consists of joint financing by the Company and At a time when the funding for charitable programmes the constituent subjects of the Russian Federation of contracted, the Company served as the ideological the best social infrastructure development projects inspiration for a charitable movement in the regions selected on a competitive basis. new village built by UC ­RUSAL where it has a presence, engaging other organisations The Territory of RUSAL programme is being impleand local authorities in the establishment of joint mented in three areas: social partnership projects. > Development of social infrastructure – the conThe Company’s total expenses on charitable prostruction, reconstruction, repair and equipment of jects amounted to USD 4 million in 2009 and USD 9 milIn 2009-2010 UC ­RUSAL’s performance in the area of facilities in the areas of education, culture, physiImplementation of the programme was planned in lion in 2010•. social responsibility received a number of awards and cal culture and sport, expansion of the area of social two stages: prizes, including: services and improvements in their quality 1. Construction of houses for the resettlement of famiDevelopment in regions where the Company > 1st prize “For contributions to charity” in the com> Support and development of public initialies affected by the fires and also social amenities and has a presence petition “Corporate Charity Leaders” conducted by tives – grant-based, educational and partnership profacilities To further develop the regions where it has a presence, the Vedomosti newspaper and PricewaterhouseCoopers grammes. Support for projects involving youth initia2. Establishment of new work places through the deve­ the UC ­RUSAL has focused since 2010 on implementing > A diploma of the government of Irkutsk oblast and tives in professional self-realisation, the performance lopment of small and medium-sized businesses, and also the following five social programmes: the legislative assembly of Irkutsk oblast for the best of volunteer campaigns and events. In addition the dethe construction of new state-of-the-art social and cultur> Territory of RUSAL social project “The Path of Kindness” velopment of the scientific and technical creativity of al facilities and the organisation of permanent employment > New Village > The SPC director in Sayanogorsk became a member of youth in computer technologies, robotics and modelling on their basis on the performance of cultural and sport> Partnership projects the public chamber of the Republic of Khakassia > “Computers for School Students” – educating the puing events (in cooperation with the Charitable Foundation > Volunteer movement > Diplomas of the head of city were awarded to the copils of primary schools jointly with the Free Act charity Volnoe Delo). > UC ­RUSAL’s Private Donations Programme. ordinators of partnership projects of the city of in the use of state-of-the-art information technologies Implementation of the first stage of the programme Krasnoyarsk for the organization of a set of measures The Company disbursed a large grant for the implewas completed in November 2010. Here Company costs Territory of RUSAL within the framework of the Krasnoyarsk City Forum mentation of a project involved in the construction, exceeded USD 3 million. During the first two months of The new social programme Territory of RUSAL, show(2008-2010) reconstruction, repair and equipment of social in2010 49 modern houses of enhanced comfort, furnished cased by the Company in its tenth anniversary, is > Within the framework of the Krasnoyarsk District frastructure amenities in the amount of USD 160,000. and equipped with household appliances, telephones the successor of such successful projects in previous Competition “Young Follower” SPC won in the category Within the framework of developing youth activities, and Internet access were built and commissioned in years as “100 best projects”, “100 sport projects”, “Development of youth voluntary work” (city of Achinsk). a large grant was allocated in the amount of USD the Borsky district of Nizhny Novgorod oblast. In ad“Green Watch” and others. The Territory of RUSAL aims 3,000. dition a family-oriented kindergarten was built and to develop the social infrastructure and support promAs part of the project “Computers for School there are plans to build a general practice medical faising social initiatives in the regions where UC ­RUSAL Students”, schools in Krasnoyarsk, Achinsk, Kodinsk, cility to provide a broad range of health care services has a presence. The programme is based on publicDivnogorsk and Nikolaev (Ukraine) were equipped with to the population of the new village. over 15,000 laptops. The fund invested USD 3.5 million in this project. • As per the audited Equipping the schools in the regions where the Comconsolidated IFRS financial statements pany has a presence, in addition to the implemented UC ­RUSAL believes school computerisation programmes, will transform for the year ended 31 December 2010. the academic institutions into leaders in computerisathat only a business tion and innovation-based learning methods. based on sustainable New village The Company’s total To mitigate the implications of the fires that occurred development principles in July-August 2010, UC ­RUSAL developed and submitted expenses on charitable to the government of Nizhny Novgorod oblast a longcan contribute term programme “New Village”, which has the goal of projects amounted maintaining the traditions and practices of Russian to the socio-economic villages. Implementation of this programme will help to USD 4 million in 2009 to raise living standards in villages, create the condidevelopment tions for their stable and harmonious development and USD 9 million in 2010. through the establishment of state-of-the-art socioof the regions and economic infrastructure, and also help to provide employment for villagers in order to minimise the number the countries where 060 of people relocating from the countryside to cities. it operates. 061 2010 Algorithm of respect Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of respect pp059–063 Assistance to the victims of the accident at Sayano-Shushenskaya HPP The successful implementation of the first stage In 2009-2010 UC ­RUSAL continued its activities as part of the programme enabled the Company, jointly with of this partnership project. the administration of Borsky district, to promptly In 2010 over 760 joint events were implemented start developing the second stage. with the participation of 1,122 partner organisations. Meetings were held with the fire victims to ascerIn 2010 more than USD 140,000 was raised. tain their expectations and the issues that UC ­RUSAL Cooperation with the executive authorities and loturbine room of Sayano-Shushenskaya HPP will seek to resolve in 2011. cal government in Nikolaev region has been successful. With the participation of the Company the campaigns Partnership projects “There is hope” and “For the right to live tomorrow” The mission of the Partnership Projects programme is were conducted. During these campaigns, medito develop a multilateral social partnership. Developcal equipment was acquired for local hospitals with ment of the territory is intensified through the transthe funds of volunteers. of items volunteers visited the Baby House and Old Peofer of the social experience accumulated by the Comdam of Sayano-Shushenskaya HPP Among other campaigns performed in 2010 as part ple’s Home. In the Spring Week of Charity in 2009 over pany to the local community and interaction with of partnership programmes, the following deserve 270,000 people were the beneficiaries of the campaign. the executive authorities, business structures, public UC ­RUSAL’s enterprises in Sayanogorsk are the town’s mention: In 2010 the Company again participated in Spring organisations and charities. keystone employers. After the accident on 17 August at > Campaign “The Path of Kindness” – the provision Weeks of Charity in Krasnoyarsk, Sayanogorsk and The programme is being implemented in Russia (Rethe Sayano-Shushenskaya HPP managed by RusHydro, as of targeted support to over a hundred Bratsk families. Bratsk. During the campaign in 2010 over 150,000 peopublic of Khakassia, cities of Krasnoyarsk, Bratsk and a major employer of the region the Company could not The SPC of UC ­RUSAL involved in the campaign 32 orple were beneficiaries. Achinsk) and Ukraine (city of Nikolaev). keep to one side. ganisations, which provided various services for no Private Donations Programme During implementation the Company has managed consideration. The corporate personal donations programme involves to establish a sustainable partnership community Sayanogorsk and the population centres Maina and > Spring and autumn campaign “Weeks of Charity” employees in an opportunity to participate directly in consisting of leaders from the non-profit sector, repCheremushki that are part of the city administratively in Nikolaev, during which students gathered funds to charity and offers each individual simple and underresentatives of business organisations and the local were offered a range of measures to improve the enbuy medical equipment for the children’s city hospital. standable mechanisms for personal voluntary assisauthorities. In 2009-2010 the SPC managed to maintain vironmental and social environment. These included: During the reporting period cooperation was tance to children. the programme and leadership positions at the previassistance with the restoration of the destroyed faproposed with youth organisations. The successors The main principles of the Private Donations Proous level in all regions where the Company has a prescilities on the region’s territory, support of the level of the photocrosses of previous years were the photo gramme are its voluntary nature, confidentiality and ence. Employees from the Social Programme Centre of employment at these population centres, provision quest “City of Youth” conducted in 2009 in Krasnoyarsk transparency. were invited to city and regional discussion platforms of assistance to the population, in particular psychoand the photo bike cross “City through the eyes of An Intranet facilitates the practical implementaon the topics of corporate social responsibility, social logical assistance to the children of the region’s inhabyouth” in Bratsk. tion of these principles: employees can simply access project planning and charitable issues as experts, itants who were victims. the web page of the Private Donations Programme presenters and moderators. Volunteers from their computers, choose a charitable project and The Charitable Season project is one of the key In addition, understanding the long-term nature of UC ­RUSAL considers the initiatives of the inhabitants indicate the amount of money that will be automatically partnership projects. Charitable seasons in the rethe implications of the accident, UC RUSAL prepared of regions where it has a presence in the area of voldeducted from their salaries. gions where UC ­RUSAL has a presence, involving proposals jointly with the Conservation Country Naunteering as one of the priority areas of its social and The automated private donations programme startregional authorities and non-profit organisations, tional Environmental Foundation to elaborate a multienvironmental activities. Developing and supporting ed to become operational at UC ­RUSAL from 1 September has become a tradition since the start of the 2000s. pronged programme to liquidate the environmental the volunteer initiatives of the population, the Com2005. With its assistance each employee of the Managedamage inflicted on the basin of Yenisei River. pany helps to shape a positive public opinion about ment Company can transfer money to charities without volunteer activities and elevate the status of volunleaving his or her work place. investments teers in society. Under the terms of the programme UC ­RUSAL doubles A shining example of volunteer initiatives is provided each charitable contribution. Over 150 people particiin the development by the annual Spring Week of Charity campaign. The goal pated regularly in the personal donations programme, of the campaign is to attract society’s attention to or approximately 14% of all employees of the Manageof local communities the role of youth volunteering and the contribution of ment Company. This indicator complies with the pracyoung volunteers to the country’s social and economic tice of developed countries globally, where 10-13% of constitute an integral development. The SPC of UC ­RUSAL acted as coordinator employees are involved in charitable activities. Up of the campaign in the cities where the Partnership Proto 40% of Company employees participate in the procomponent of the Company’s jects campaign is being implemented. gramme when there are special campaigns to collect In 2009 the Spring Week of Charity covered such funds. sustainable development cities as Achinsk, Bratsk, Sayanogorsk and KrasnoIn 2010 Company employees donated over USD 42,000 yarsk and involved over 100,000 volunteers. In Achinsk from their salaries for charitable goals. With these activities. volunteers performed a wide range of events: from funds UC ­RUSAL was able to provide support to eight street cleaning and the collection of clothes, books non-profit organisations, which provide support to and toys to the organisation of charity concerts and seriously ill children, disabled children and difficult 062 rock festivals. In Bratsk in addition to the collection adolescents. 063 2010 Algorithm of sustainability Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of sustainability sustainability pp065–067 Everything we do now affects what happens in the future Sustainability Results UC ­RUSAL had by the end of the reporting period attained sustainable financial results and upgraded its production and investment activities. For example, the operations of the alumina refinery Ewarton Works (WINDALCO) resumed as did construction of the Boguchansky Aluminium Smelter with the use of project financing from Vnesheconombank. In 2011 the Company plans to resume work at the Kirkvine works plant (WINDALCO) in Jamaica and the construction of the Taishet aluminium smelter. A solid framework was established during 2009-2010, which will enable UC ­RUSAL to further consolidate its position as leader of the global aluminium industry in 2011. This framework, together with the favourable situation on the global markets, attributable to an increase in the number of the economically active populations, urbanisation and the rising use of aluminium as a metal, create the prerequisites for adding value to the Company and increasing its sustainability. This will also be favourably reflected in the activities of UC ­RUSAL as a socially responsible company. 064 065 2010 Algorithm of sustainability Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Algorithm of sustainability pp065–067 Plans for the future Plans Implementation period Production system Occupational health and safety Develop an electronic registration log of kaizen in 2011 Develop divisional Target Programmes to prevent work-related injuries for 2011 in April 2011 Continue training personnel in the area of production systems in 2011 Personnel Quality management Revise the HR Policy in 2011 Approve a uniform UC ­RUSAL Policy in the area of quality management by March 2011 Include students from Guyana and Jamaica in the training programme at the Peoples' Friendship Univerin 2011 sity of Russia in Moscow Confirm ISO/TS 16949 certificates for Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter, Nikolaev Alumina Refinery and in 2011 Sayanogorsk Aluminium Smelter Approve and implement the senior management incentive system in 2011 Perform internal audits of the compliance of the enterprise quality management system with the requirein 2011 Implement the corporate youth programme “Formula for the Future” in pilot mode in 2011 ments of ISO 9001 and TS 16949 Renew voluntary medical insurance of the employees of Company enterprises in 2011 Launch an interactive client service in the form of an Internet portal by 2012 Implement a programme for training the operational succession pool at enterprises (with one trained sucin 2011 Launch the project “Supply Development Centre” in 2011 cession candidate for each position) Environment Interaction with stakeholders Start implementing the “Eco friendly Soderberg” technology at Irkutsk Aluminium Smelter, Bratsk Aluin 2011 Initiate creation of a system of interaction with stakeholders in 2011 minium Smelter, Volgograd Aluminium Smelter and Novokuznetsk Aluminium Smelter Social and charitable activities Attain the norms of air emissions established by the legislation of the countries where the Company has by 2017 a presence Develop and approve a Policy on corporate social responsibility in 2011 Establish a closed-cycle water-supply system for the main processes of Company enterprises by 2017 Adopt a new version of the Regulations on charitable activities in 2011 Increase the share of refined and used waste annually Continue implementing social and charitable programmes, and partnership projects, the volunteer proin 2011 gramme and corporate personal donations programme Fully dispose of equipment and waste containing PCBs by 2020 Increase the share of reclaimed lands annually Attain target parameters on the collection of waste water at Novokuznetsk Aluminium Smelter by December 2012 Implement a project involving the transfer of the CHP to recycling water supply at the Achinsk Alumina Reby 2015 finery A solid framework was established during 2009-2010, which will enable UC ­RUSAL to further consolidate its position as leader of the global aluminium industry in 2011. 066 067 2010 About the report Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Report overview pp068–069 the requirements of the industrial application GRI G3 topics of the Report. Performance in 2010 demAssurance for mining and metallurgical enterprises at the self – onstrated that UC ­RUSAL selected strategically In 2008 UC ­RUSAL began the practice of engaging a prodeclased Application level C+. important management approaches. The Report for fessional audit firm to provide assurance of sustainApplication of the GRI reporting system for 2009-2010 was dedicated to the Description of these ability reports. Assurance makes it possible to achieve the preparation of sustainable development reports approaches as well as to the results. the high reliability and accuracy of the information complies with the goals, objectives and principles of The Report takes into account the interests of presented in the reports, and accordingly raises information disclosure of the Company, makes it posa wide group of stakeholders and covers such strategic the value of reports for readers. sible to provide a fuller and a more balanced picture of areas of activity of UC ­RUSAL, as environmental proKPMG performed independent limited assurance of processes and also contributes to the comparability of tection and industrial safety, investments in the dethe sustainability report of UC ­RUSAL for 2009-2010. the published reports with the reports of UC ­RUSAL and velopment of new technologies, constant improvements More detailed information on the boundaries and leading international metallurgical companies. in production processes, improvements in the workthe subject of assurance can be found in section 10 Since 2002 UC ­RUSAL has been a member of the UN ing conditions and investments in the development of “Independent limited assurance report”. Global Compact and reports on a regular basis on its the regions where the Company has a presence. Sustainability reporting plays a key role in raiscompliance with 10 principles. References to inforUC ­RUSAL is seeking more active shareholders ing the information transparency of UC ­RUSAL, pools mation on the disclosure of corresponding princiengagement in the process of generating sustainable the efforts of the Company’s sub-divisions, faciliples are presented in the table of GRI indicators development reports. This will significantly enhance tates the development of internal communications and included in this Report. their relevance and informational content for readthe exchange of experience and identifies problem UC ­RUSAL seeks to present an objective picture of ers. areas where work still needs to be performed in future. its financial performance for the reporting period. Consequently, the Report contains information on Reporting boundaries The past few years were a serious test of endurance both the attainments and successes of the Company, Information and statistical data on economic and of companies in the aluminium industry and necesand also on the problems that the Company faced social performance indicators presented in the Report sitated active steps from each of them. UC ­RUSAL was during this complex period. are consolidated for all the enterprises included in able to withstand all the consequences of the global the United Company for the period since 1 January 2009 economic recession and became even more competiReporting scope to 31 December 2010 inclusive. tive owing to the results attained as part of the cost The Report presents UC ­RUSAL within the system of All the financial performance indicators of UC ­RUSAL reduction programme, and also thanks to the successglobal economic and social ties and mutual relations, are denominated in US dollars in accordance with ful restructuring of debt and the placement of shares covering the activities all enterprises, which were the audited IFRS consolidated financial statements, on international exchanges – the Hong Kong Stock included in United Company RUSAL in 2009-2010. The Reunless otherwise stated. Exchange and the NYSE Euronext in Paris. The results port also presents information on the activities of The environmental performance indicators for created a solid basis for the further development the Management Company. 2009 and 2010 are presented in consolidated form for and growth of the business. The Company’s financial In 2009 the enterprises Alpart (Jamaica), Euralluall enterprises of the Company, with the exception of performance in 2010 demonstrated that UC ­RUSAL had mina (Italy) were temporarily shut down, while aluthe Compagnie de Bauxites de Kindia (Guinea), Friguselected a strategically correct approach to manminium production volumes were cut at Urals Aluminium ia Alumina Refinery (Guinea), ALSCON (Nigeria) and agement. This Report is dedicated to a description Smelter, Bogoslovsk Aluminium Smelter, KandalashBauxite Company of Guinea, as the system of financial of said approaches and also the attained financial ka Aluminium Smelter, Nadvoitsy Aluminium Smelter statements is still being developed at these enterperformance. and Volkhovsk Aluminium Smelter. This fact may have an prises. In the next reporting period the Company plans UC ­RUSAL has been preparing sustainability reimpact on the comparability of the data of this Report to disclose the environmental performance indicators ports since 2007; the first report covered the period with the data of previous reports. for all enterprises of UC ­RUSAL. for 2005-2006. Soft copies of sustainability docuThe terms UC ­RUSAL and the Company used in this Information on greenhouse gas emissions formed ments and reports are published on the corporate Report relate to the activities of the group as a whole. directly during electrolysis at enterprises of the Aluwebsite: http://rusal.ru/development.aspx. minium division was prepared within the framework of The annual reports of the Company are available Materiality the GHG Protocol initiative on the basis of the metho­ in English at http://rusal.ru/en/annual_reports. When determining the content of this Report, the Comdology of the World Resources Institute (WRI). aspx. pany focused on GRI principles and guidelines. UC ­RUSAL Information on reductions in greenhouse gas considered the topics and issues disclosed within emissions resulting from Joint Implementation ProPrinciples and standards the framework of the Report to be material from jects was obtained on the basis of methodology apThe fifth sustainability report of UC ­RUSAL was prethe perspective of their impact on the activities proved and checked in accordance with the requirepared in accordance with the established practice of the Company, on the interests and expectations of ments of the Kyoto Protocol and the United Nations for non-financial reporting. The system that is being stakeholders and their presentation in publicly availFramework Convention on Climate Change (UN FCCC). developed for collecting and preparing information able information sources. Compared with the Social Report for 2008 there facilitates improvements in the quality of the Report, The approaches and actions of the Company to have been no material changes in applicable methods is more informative and is useful for stakeholders. overcome the consequences of the global financial for measuring and presenting data, or to the bound068 The report was prepared in accordance with GRI and crisis and strengthen its competitiveness are key aries of reporting. 069 2010 Independent Limited KPMG Limited Telephone +7 (495) 937 4477 10 Presnenskaya Naberezhnaya Fax +7 (495) 937 4400/99 Moscow, Russia 123317 Internet www.kpmg.ru Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Management of UC RUSAL pp070–073 Introduction • Total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period (page 44) We were engaged by the management of UC RUSAL to provide limited assurance on the quantitative • Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related indicators of the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) institutions by country (page 55) as set out on pages 7 to 63 of UC RUSAL’s Sustainability Report for the years ended 31 December • Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight (page 35). 2010 and 2009 (“the Report”) and UC RUSAL’s self-declared GRI C+ application level as at 31 December 2010. Management’s responsibility for The following quantitative GRI indicators (“the selected performance information”) were reported the Report and the criteria applied and subject to our procedures: Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Report in accordance • Number of countries where the organization operates (page 7) with the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative as described • Number of employees (pages 12, 43) in the “Report Overview” chapter, and the information and assertions contained within it; for • Economic indicators: Revenue, Finance income, Cost of sales, Distribution expenses, Administradetermining UC RUSAL’s and its subsidiaries’ objectives in respect of sustainable development tive expenses, Interest expense from operating activities, Interest paid from financing activities, performance and reporting, including the identification of its stakeholders and issues that are Repayment of borrowings, Repayment of bonds, Dividends paid to shareholders, Income tax, Total material to its stakeholders; and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance assets, Net debt, Total equity (page 11) management and internal control systems from which the reported performance information is • Wages and salaries (pages 11, 47) derived. • Contributions to defined contribution retirement plans and contributions to defined benefit retirement plans (page 11) Scope and assurance standard • Percentage of pension liabilities covered by pension assets (page 49) Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion • Charitable donations (pages 11, 60) based on the work performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with International • Quantity of production (page 12) Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or • Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated in hectares, total amount of land newly disturbed Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance and rehabilitated within the reporting period (page 29) Standards Board. That Standard requires that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, • Total water withdrawal by source, total water withdrawal for production use, amount of water use including independence requirements, and that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain including sea water by type of production (pages 31-32) limited assurance about whether the selected performance information and UC RUSAL’s self• Total production water discharge and total water discharge (excluding quarry water) by water declared GRI C+ application level are free from material misstatement. quality (page 32) • Total air emissions by source (pages 34-35) • CO, NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight (page 35) • Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (pages 36-37) • Total amount of overburden (page 36) • Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (page 37) • Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (pages 37-38) • Lost time accident frequency rate and absolute number of work-related fatalities (page 40) • Percentage of total employees who received a formal performance appraisal and review during the reporting period (page 46) • Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (page 55) • Amount of funds provided for infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement (pages 60-63) KPMG Limited, a company incorporated under the Companies (Guernsey) Law, 1994 as amended in 2008, a subsidiary of KPMG Europe LLP, and a • Significant estimated aggregate financial value on an accruals basis for subsidies (page 44) member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated • Size of land owned, leased, managed, located in, adjacent to, or that contain protected areas and with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. 070 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (page 30) 071 Independent Limited UC RUSAL KPMG Limited Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Management of UC RUSAL pp070–073 Work undertaken GRI application level C+ indicated in the “Report Overview” chapter are not properly prepared, in A limited assurance engagement on sustainability information consists of making inquiries, all material respects, in accordance with the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and Reporting Initiative. applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: Limitation in use • Inquiries of management to gain an understanding of UC RUSAL’s processes for determining the Our limited assurance report is made solely to UC RUSAL in accordance with the terms of our enmaterial issues for UC RUSAL’s key stakeholder groups. gagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to UC RUSAL those matters we have • Interviews with management and relevant staff at corporate and selected operational sites level been engaged to state in this limited assurance report and for no other purpose. We do not accept concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues and the implementation of these or assume responsibility to anyone other than UC RUSAL for our work, for this assurance report, or across the business. for the conclusions we have reached. • Inquires of management and relevant staff at corporate and selected operational sites level about the design and implementation of the systems and methods used to collect and process the information reported, including the aggregation of data into information presented in the Report. KPMG Limited • Interviews with management and relevant staff at corporate and operational sites level responsiMoscow, 25 July 2011 ble for providing the information in the Report. • A media analysis and an internet search for references to UC RUSAL during the reporting period. • Performing substantive analytical procedures consisting of the evaluation of sustainability data through a study of plausible relationships with financial data, other non-financial data and historical information. • Visits to sites operating in Bratsk, Russian Federation (JSC Bratsk Aluminium Smelter) and Nikolaev, Ukraine (JSC Nikolaev Alumina Refinery) selected on the basis of a risk analysis including the consideration of both quantitative and qualitative criteria. • Comparing the information presented in the Report to corresponding internal and external information in the relevant underlying sources to determine whether all relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included in the Report. • Checking the content of the Report to ensure consistency with the GRI application level requirements of C+. • With regard to the financial data included in the Report that are marked with “•”, verifying that they were correctly derived from UC RUSAL’s audited consolidated IFRS financial statements for years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009. • Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of UC RUSAL. • Obtaining a representation letter signed by the legal representative of UC RUSAL as to the compliance of the Report with the guidelines indicated in the “Report Overview” chapter and as to the reliability and completeness of the information and data contained therein. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is substantially less than that for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. Conclusions Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that 072 causes us to believe that the selected performance information and UC RUSAL’s selfdeclaration of 073 2010 Glossary Sustainable development report UC RUSAL Glossary pp074–075 Term Definition Term Definition DNV Det Norske Veritas – independent classification and certification company IrkAZ Irkutsk Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL GHG Protocol Initiative on the submission of initiatives on greenhouse gas emissions ETC Engineering Technology Centre of UC ­RUSAL Glencore Mining company. Its alumina assets were included in UC ­RUSAL in 2007 KAZ Kandalaksha Aluminium Smelter GRI Global Reporting Initiative – Sustainability reporting guidelines BCG Bauxite Company of Guyana, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL HKUST Hong Kong University of Science and Technology CBK Compagnie des Bauxites de Kindia, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL IAI International Aluminium Institute KrAZ Krasnoyarsk Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL IPO Initial Public Offering – Initial Public Offering of shares implying the offering of company shares for sale to a wide Silicon (Shelekhov Silicon, Silicon production enterprises of US RUSAL range of people Urals Silicon) ISO 9001 International Quality Management Standard MICEX Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange ISO 14001 International Standard for the establishment of an Environmental Management System NAZ Nadvoitsy Aluminium Smelter ISO/TS 16949 International industry standard developed for the automotive industry NAR Nikolaev Alumina Refinery, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL KUBAL Kubikenborg Aluminium, aluminium enterprise of UC ­RUSAL (Sweden) NkAZ Novokuznetsk Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL OHSAS 18001 International standard for health and safety management PFP HES Pump Filtration Plant of Hydraulic Engineering Structures OSPAR Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic OSPAR Convention – as part of US RUSAL, RUSAL United Company RUSAL which recommendations were developed on the level of emissions for aluminium smelters SPNA Specially protected natural areas TPS Toyota Production System – production system of the Company Toyota aims to optimise product quality through improvements to the production process and reductions in the irrational use of natural, man-made and corporate resources PS Production System of UC ­RUSAL TQM Total Quality Management – generally recognised method involving continuous improvements to the quality of all organPCB Polychlorinated biphenyls – persistent organic pollutants isational processes RUIE Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs WRI World Resources Institute RTS Russian Stock Exchange AAR Achinsk Alumina Refinery, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL SAZ Sayanogorsk Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL AS Aluminium smelter IPG Individual protective gear AW Aluminium works SUAL Company that was part of UC ­RUSAL since in 2007 AFS Alumina feeding system SUAL-PM-Volgograd UC ­RUSAL enterprise for the production of aluminium powders (Volgograd) ARMENAL Aluminium foil mill of UC ­RUSAL (Armenia) NUBM North Urals Bauxite Mine, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL BAZ Bogoslovsk Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL UAZ Urals Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL BoAZ Boguchanskaya Aluminium Smelter EDF Enterprise Development Fund BHPP Boguchanskaya Hydropower Plant KhAZ Khakas Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL BrAZ Bratsk Aluminium Smelter enterprise of UC ­RUSAL SPC Social Programme Centre of UC ­RUSAL BEMO Boguchanskoye Energy and Metals Complex VAZ Volkhovsk Aluminium Smelter VgAZ Volgograd Aluminium Smelter, enterprise of UC ­RUSAL AR Alumina Refinery AM Alumina Mill VMI Voluntary Medical Insurance 074 075 2010 GRI and UN Global Compact content index Sustainable development report UC RUSAL GRI and UN Global Compact content index UN Global Cross-reference/Direct Compact Profile Disclosure Description Reported answer principle Comments 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar About the report, p. 68 year) for information provided. pp076–085 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About the report, p. 68 (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About the report, p. 68 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Feedback form the report or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. About the report, p. 68–69 G3 Content Index Mining & Metals Sector Supplement STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, About the report, p. 68 divisions, subsidiaries, leased UN Global facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Cross-reference/Direct Compact See GRI Boundary Protocol for further Profile Disclosure Description Reported answer principle Comments guidance. 1.1 Statement from the most senior Algorithm of trust, p. 5 3.7 State any specific limitations on About the report, p. 68–69 decision-maker of the organization. the scope or boundary of the report 1,2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Approach, p. 43–44 (see completeness principle for opportunities. Approach, p. 27–28 explanation of scope). Internal controls and risk 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, About the report, p. 68 management, p. 17 subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 2. Organizational Profile entities that can significantly affect UN Global comparability from period to period Cross-reference/Direct Compact and/or between organizations. Profile Disclosure Description Reported answer principle Comments 3.9 Data measurement techniques and About the report, p. 69 2.1 Name of the organization. Algorithm of trust, p. 5 the bases of calculations, including Overview of operations, p. 7 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation Corporate governance, p. 16 of the Indicators and other information 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Overview of operations, in the report. Explain any decisions not services. p. 7–8 to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 2.3 Operational structure of Corporate governance, p. 18 the organization, including main Overview of operations, 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any ren/a divisions, operating companies, p. 7–10 statements of information provided subsidiaries, and joint ventures. in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ 2.4 Location of organization's Overview of operations, p. 7 acquisitions, change of base years/ headquarters. periods, nature of business, 2.5 Number of countries where the organiOverview of operations, measurement methods). zation operates, and names of countries p. 7, 9–10 3.11 Significant changes from previous About the report, p. 69 with either major operations or that are reporting periods in the scope, specifically relevant to the sustainabilboundary, or measurement methods ity issues covered in the report. applied in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Corporate governance, p. 16 3.12 Table identifying the location of GRI and UN Global Compact the Standard Disclosures in the report. content index, p. 74 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Overview of operations, 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard About the report, p. 69 breakdown, sectors served, and types of p. 7–8 to seeking external assurance for customers/beneficiaries). the report. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Figures, p. 12, Anual report, p. 81 2.9 Significant changes during Corporate governance, the reporting period regarding size, p. 16–17 structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Milestones, p. 13 3. Report Parameters 076 077 2010 GRI and UN Global Compact content index Sustainable development report UC RUSAL 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4,10 Explanation of whether and how In the reporting the precautionary approach or principle period the Company UN Global is addressed by the organization. did not apply Cross-reference/Direct Compact the precautionary Profile Disclosure Description Reported answer principle Comments principle to identify 4.1 Governance structure of Corporate governance, monitor and manage the organization, including committees p. 16–17 risks at each stage of under the highest governance body the product life cycle. responsible for specific tasks, such 4,11 Externally developed economic, Approach, p. 28 The Company adheres as setting strategy or organizational environmental, and social charters, to the principles, oversight. principles, or other initiatives to charter and 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of Corporate governance, p. 17 which the organization subscribes or initiatives the highest governance body is also an endorses. enumerated in this executive officer. Report. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary Corporate governance, p. 16 4,12 Memberships in associations (such as Milestones, p. 13, The Company does not board structure, state the number of Anual report 2010, Profiles industry associations) and/or national/ Stakeholder relations, p. 56 consider membership members of the highest governance of directors and senior international advocacy organizations in organizations body that are independent and/or nonmanagement in which the organization: * Has or associations as executive members. positions in governance bodies; * strategic. Participates in projects or committees; 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Stakeholder relations, p. In the reporting * Provides substantive funding beyond employees to provide recommendations 54–55 period such routine membership dues; or * Views or direction to the highest governance mechanisms were not membership as strategic. body. fully formalized. In practice, however, 4,13 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Approach, Stakeholder the Company the organization. relations, p. 52–57 has a number of 4,14 Basis for identification and selection of Approach, Stakeholder opportunities to stakeholders with whom to engage. relations, p. 51–57 ensure feedback between management 4,15 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Approach, Stakeholder In the reporting and employees. including frequency of engagement by relations, p. 51 period the Company 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Motivation, p. 47 type and by stakeholder group. did not account members of the highest governance for the frequency body, senior managers, and executives of interaction (including departure arrangements), with stakeholders. and the organization's performance Stakeholder (including social and environmental representatives performance). did not take part in the preparation of 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Anual report 2010, Corporate this Report. governance body to ensure conf licts of governance report, p. 104 interest are avoided. 4,16 Key topics and concerns that have been Approach, Stakeholder raised through stakeholder engagement, relations, p. 52–57 4.7 Process for determining Anual report 2010, Corporate and how the organization has responded the qualifications and expertise of governance report, p. 105 to those key topics and concerns, the members of the highest governance including through its reporting. body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators 4.8 Internally developed statements of Mission, strategy, values, mission or values, codes of conduct, p. 15 Economic and principles relevant to economic, UN Global environmental, and social performance Cross-reference/Direct Compact and the status of their implementation. Performance Indicator Description Reported answer principle Comments 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Internal controls and risk Economic performance body for overseeing the organization's management, p. 17, Annual identification and management of report 2010, p. 23 EC1COMM Direct economic value generated Figures, p. 11–12 economic, environmental, and social and distributed, including revenues, Motivation, p. 47 performance, including relevant risks operating costs, employee and opportunities, and adherence or Development of regions, compensation, donations and other compliance with internationally agreed p. 60, Annual report 2010, community investments, retained standards, codes of conduct, and p. 27 earnings, and payments to capital principles. providers and governments. 078 079 EC2 Financial implications and other Climate, p. 28 Принцип 7 Water risks and opportunities for EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Water, p. 30–32 Principle 8 In the reporting the organization's activities due to period the Company climate change. accounted for EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined Annual report, p. 167-177 the volume of benefit plan obligations. wastewater. However, EC4 Significant financial assistance Approach, p. 44 In the reporting the Company did received from government. period no significant not consolidate financial assistance information on was provided by the volume of the governments of the collected the countries where storm wastewater UC ­RUSAL operates, and wastewater with the exception accepted from other of funds allocated organizations. in accordance Biodiversity with Resolutions No. 1089 and 1011 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Land, p. 30 Principle 8 of the Russian managed in, or adjacent to, protected Government. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Indirect economic impacts EN12COMM Description of significant impacts of Land, p. 29–30 Principle 8 EC8 Development and impact of Development of regions, In the reporting activities, products, and services on infrastructure investments and p. 59–63 period the Company biodiversity in protected areas and services provided primarily for public did not assess areas of high biodiversity value outside benefit through commercial, in-kind, or separately protected areas. pro bono engagement. the requirements MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and Land, p. 29–30 of communities managed for production activities in respect of or extractive use) disturbed or the development rehabilitated. of infrastructure and/or services. Emissions, effluents and waste However, a number of the Company’s EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Climate, p. 28–29 Principle 8 charitable gas emissions by weight. projects stipulate EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Climate, p. 28–29 Principle 7 the financing of emissions and reductions achieved. Principle 8 projects relating to the development Principle 9 and establishment EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Principle 8 The Company does of infrastructure in substances by weight. not use in its the regions where it activities materials has a presence. and equipment EC9 Understanding and describing Development of regions, contributing to significant indirect economic impacts, p. 59–63 emissions of ozoneincluding the extent of impacts. depleting substances. EN20COMM NOx, SOx, and other significant air Air, p. 33–35 Principle 8 The Company uses Environmental emissions by type and weight. the classification UN Global of substances in Cross-reference/Direct Compact accordance with Performance Indicator Description Reported answer principle Comments the legislation of Materials the countries where it is present, which EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 In the reporting differs from what is period the Company given in the GRI. accounted for all materials used in the production process. However, at present, the Company has not developed special procedures for the collection and submission of information based on main and nonrenewable materials. 080 081 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Water, p. 32 Principle 8 In the reporting Overall destination. period the Company did not have EN30 Total environmental protection Investments in the future, Principle 7 The Company accounts any procedures expenditures and investments by type. p. 37–38 Principle 8 for environmental for collecting expenditures Principle 9 and submitting based on its own information on classification the collection which differs from of wastewater GRI. It includes: discharges broken capital repairs, down by form of an environmental treatment or management system, the volume of waters land restoration, recycled by other waste disposal, organizations. In the protection addition, the Company of water bodies, did not develop protection of the air procedures on and others. the consolidation Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work of information on the volumes UN Global of pollutants. Cross-reference/Direct Compact The Company plans Performance Indicator Description Reported answer principle Comments to submit this Employment information in subsequent reports. LA2 Total number and rate of employee Approach, p. 43 Principle 6 turnover by age group, gender, and EN22COMM Total weight of waste by type and Waste, p. 36–37 Principle 8 In the reporting region. disposal method. period the Company did not consolidate Labor/management relations information on LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Stakeholder relations, p. 55 Principle 1 the bulk waste broken collective bargaining agreements. Principle 3 down by the following types of treatment: LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Stakeholder relations, p. 55 Principle 3 incineration, landfill significant operational changes, disposal, deep including whether it is specified in injection of waste, collective agreements. burial on the sites of Occupational health and safety the enterprise. LA7COMM Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Health and safety, p. 40–41 Principle 1 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, Waste, p. 36–37 lost days, and absenteeism, and number tailings, and sludges and their of work-related fatalities by region. associated risks. LA8 Education, training, counseling, Health and safety, p. 41 Principle 1 Products and services prevention, and risk-control programs Development of regions, EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Water, p. 30–32 Principle 7 in place to assist workforce members, p. 59–63 impacts of products and services, and Air, p. 33–35 Principle 8 their families, or community members extent of impact mitigation. regarding serious diseases. Principle 9 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Stakeholder relations, p. 55 Principle 1 formal agreements with trade unions. Compliance Training and education EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and Investments in the future, Principle 8 The Company did total number of non-monetary sanctions p. 37–38 not consolidate LA11 Programs for skills management Training, p. 45–46 for non-compliance with environmental information and lifelong learning that support laws and regulations. on a number of the continued employability of immaterial sanctions. employees and assist them in managing In the reporting career endings. period the Company LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Training, p. 46 consolidated regular performance and career the information development reviews. based on the cases commenced through dispute resolution mechanisms and presented the data in the Report on a sample basis for several enterprises. 082 083 Social: Human Rights Social: Product Responsibility UN Global UN Global Cross-reference/Direct Compact Cross-reference/Direct Compact Performance Indicator Description Reported answer principle Comments Performance Indicator Description Reported answer principle Comments Non-discrimination Customer health and safety HR4 Total number of incidents of Corporate culture, p. 44 Principle 1 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and Quality, p. 23 Principle 1 discrimination and actions taken. Principle 2 safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Principle 6 percentage of significant products and Freedom of association and collective bargaining services categories subject to such procedures. HR5COMM Operations identified in which the right Corporate culture, p. 44 Principle 1 to exercise freedom of association Principle 2 Product and service labelling and collective bargaining may be at Principle 3 PR5 Practices related to customer Quality, p. 23–24 significant risk, and actions taken to satisfaction, including results support these rights. of surveys measuring customer Child labor satisfaction. HR6 Operations identified as having Corporate culture, p. 44 Principle 1 significant risk for incidents of child Principle 2 labor, and measures taken to contribute Principle 5 to the elimination of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having Corporate culture, p. 44 Principle 1 significant risk for incidents of forced Principle 2 or compulsory labor, and measures to Principle 4 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Social: Society UN Global Cross-reference/Direct Compact Performance Indicator Description Reported answer principle Comments Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and Stakeholder relations, p. 55 Principle 1 participation in public policy Principle 2 development and lobbying. Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind Stakeholder relations, Principle 10 contributions to political parties, p. 55–56 politicians, and related institutions by country. 084 085 Feedback form 1. What best describes you as a stakeholder? Inhabitant of the regions where the Company’s enterprises operate Client pp086–088 Shareholder Investor Business partner Employee Member of a trade union Representative of a state or municipal authority Representative of a non-profit organisation Mass media representative Other group of stakeholders 2. Did the Report cover topics and issues of interest to you? Dear readers! You have just read the fifth UC RUSAL Sustainability Report. Your opinion on this document is exYes, fully tremely important to us and we would be grateful if you could help us to improve the quality of UC RUSAL Partly reporting by answering the questions in this survey. Please send the completed form by fax: Not at all + 7 (495) 720-51-70 or to the address: 13/1, Nikoloyamskaya Str., Moscow, 109240, Russia with the note: Sustainability Report for 2009– 3. Please assess the Sustainable Development Report of UC RUSAL 2010. for 2009-2010 on the following criteria: You can also email this form to the address CSR@rusal.ru Criteria/Assessment Excellent Good Satisfactory Bad General impression Provides a full picture of information about the Company Degree of relevance of the issues covered Reliability and objectivity of the information Clarity and accessibility of the presentation of information for the reader Convenience of navigation 086 Report design 4. Did the Report provide you with an understanding of UC RUSAL’s sustainable development activities? Yes, fully Yes, partly No, not really Not at all 5. What information presented in the sustainability Report did you find most interesting? 6. What information presented in the sustainability Report did you find least interesting? Your contact information (optional) Name: Organisation: Position: Address: Telephone/E-mail: Thank you! UC RUSAL
