COP 2012 Udviklingsselskabet By & Havn I/S Global Compact Annual Communication On Progress Nordre Toldbod 7 Postboks 2083 1013 København K Tel. 3376 9800 Fax 3376 9801 www.byoghavn.dk info@byoghavn.dk CVR nr. 30823702 Company name: CPH City & Port Development 21 December 2012 (Udviklingsselskabet By & Havn I/S) Address: Nordre Toldbod 7 PO Box 2083 1013 Copenhagen K Country: Denmark Contact name: Head of the secretariat: Rikke Enderlein +45 3376 9800 Date: October 21, 2011 Member since: October 2010 Number of employees:121 Sector: Real Estate Investment & Services Short description of CPH City & Port Development CPH City & Port Development is one of Denmark’s largest urban development corporations. The corporation was founded at the end of 2007 when Port of Copenhagen Ltd. and the Ørestad Development Corporation I/S merged. The primary objective of the corporation is the development of areas in Ørestad and the Port of Copenhagen and the management of the maritime operation of the Port. The latter part of the commission is handled by Copenhagen Malmö Port (CMP), a subsidiary. CPH City & Port Development is owned by the City of Copenhagen (55%) and the Danish State (45%). The vision of CHP City & Port Development is developing modern and vibrant urban areas of world class that are attractive to live and work in and also exciting to visit. The task of the corporation is to develop the areas owned by the corporation and be responsible for the port activities in Port of Copenhagen, all on a commercial basis. For more info on CPH City & Port Development: www.byoghavn.dk Side 2 af 7 Statement of support CPH City & Port Development is the primary land owner in Ørestad, Nordhavnen, Sydhavnen (approx. 5.5 square km) – the corporation handles more than 750 tenancies and car parks for 3,400 vehicles, maintains almost 60 km roads and pavements and 20 km wharves and is responsible for the port activities. We develop new neighbourhoods in the Copenhagen metropolitan area, take care of infrastructure and sell building sites in the area on a commercial basis. We accept our responsibility and know that we are expected to develop urban quarters of a high quality. The CSR policy of CPH City & Port Development is based on both external and internal initiatives. Externally, we focus on urban development activities, environment and sustainability in the urban areas and on maintaining the port and other areas. Internally in our organization, we focus on the well-being of our employees, physically and mentally. CPH City & Port Development endeavours to develop vibrant urban quarters of great diversity, now and in the future. Among other initiatives, we evaluate the development of the areas we are responsible for regularly, seen from a general point of view and specifically relating to architecture, urban spaces and urban life. That may result in further initiatives, e.g. contemporary architecture or establishing new urban spaces. To a large extent, CPH City & Port Development aims at developing sustainable urban quarters. In the structure plan for the new Nordhavn, green traffic, green neighbourhoods with green roofs and the concept of compact city will be important elements. As a member of UN Global Compact our corporation back up all ten principles within the fields of human rights, work, environment and anti-corruption. Because of our business spheres the main focus of our corporation will be the environmental principles, since this is where we have the most significant influence. We are, however, also aware of the importance of securing human rights and labour rights and working against corruption. In 2012 it has been our priority to establish the CSR working principles firmly within our organization, just as it has been the company´s focal point to contribute to qualifying the labour market. In 2013, CPH City & Port Development will establish a policy aiming at contributing to respect for human rights in general and to reducing human impact on the climate. The ten principles of UN Global Compact enable CPH City & Port Development to systematically apply CSR and establish a familiar common frame of reference which we can refer to when cooperating with our many partners. Jens Kramer Mikkelsen CEO Side 3 af 7 Initiatives to support the UN Global Compact Principles CPH City & Port Development backs up the UN Global Compact principles by working actively and as much as possible with initiatives involving urban development activities, environment and sustainability in our urban areas. As to UN Global Compact, the main focus of our corporation will be the environmental principles, since this is where we have the most significant influence. We are, however, also aware of the importance of securing human rights and labour rights and working against corruption. In 2012 we have been working with the following goals and objectives, as well as defining new goals and objectives for the company´s CSR efforts: Human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption (principles 1-6, 10) 1. External human resources policies CPH City & Port Development is obliged to contribute to a well-educated society. In 2012, the company developed an human resources policy stressing our commitment to the society around us, e.g. when recruiting and qualifying students, trainees, unemployed persons and others in need of special support in varying degrees. Goals and objectives: Status: Recruitment of a long-term trainee We are finding out where in the company a long-term trainee is to be stationed Establishing two or three temporary jobs In 2012 the company has made (in the form of trainee periods, jobs subagreements with six trainees – they sidised by the government, etc) were unemployed persons, so-called job testing unemployed, or foreign students. Mapping possible social clauses For the time being, criteria and definitions are being worked out as to the publication of social clauses related to long-term trainee positions 2. Developing the company´s human rights policy CPH City & Port Development wants to respect the UN guidelines for the human rights. CPH City & Port Development wants to keep on involving the users when developing neighbourhoods and we want our contractors and suppliers also to respect the human rights and the rights of employees. In 2013 we shall define our company´s human rights policies. We expect to define goals as to involving our users in our projects. Furthermore we shall work out a set of guidelines (Code of Conduct) defining the company´s requirements regarding contractors and suppliers. Our partners may expect to be asked to live up to certain human, environmental and economic standards to secure sustainable business, all in order to influence our partners in the direction of socially responsible actions and development. Side 4 af 7 Goals and objectives: Status: Human rights policies Will be made in 2013 Defining goals regarding the involveWill be made in 2013 ment of the company´s users The working out of a Code of Conduct Unfinished Environment (principles 7-9) 3. CPH City & Port Development´s contribution to decreasing the human impact on the climate In 2013, CPH City & Port Development will define a strategy for the company rising contribution to decreasing our impact on the climate. This policy will secure an operational effort when developing sustainable urban quarters. Goals and objectives: Status: Policy aimed at reducing the company´s Will be made in 2013 impact on the climate 4. Reducing CO2 emissions internally in the company We have been reducing CO2 emissions continually in the administration and daily procedures, since we as a company wish to demonstrate environmental responsibility, just as we wish to further an environmentally responsible attitude in our staff. The reduction of CO2 is based on many initiatives: making paper recycling more efficient, limiting the use of stand-by power, changing heating systems, modernising server rooms, introducing green purchasing policies, using climate friendly communication systems and intelligent IT, etc – new initiatives will keep appearing. Goals and objectives: Status: Defining goals for and limits to the comUnfinished pany´s CO2 emission Leasing electric cars for the company´s Implementation has started fleet of inspection vehicles Estimated reduction of CO2 in the lease term per car is approx. 2.5 tonnes. Green transport and car policy Will be developed in 2013 Green and secure handling of the adWill be implemented in 2013 ministration´s waste Reducing the power consumption of In 2012 a device has been installed computers and servers that turns off computers and servers after 11pm. The estimated reduction per year is 6,000 kWh Testing solar and wind powered lighting The results of the tests will be availat the land reclamation project able in 2013 Light buoys and beacons on land based Models with dry batteries will be reon solar cells placed with lamps powered by solar cells. Side 5 af 7 Implementation has started – in the second quarter of 2013, all light buoys will have been replaced. Estimated reduction in the third year: 46,000 kWh per buoys. An environmentally positive side effect is that used batteries will not have to be disposed of. The company´s land-based beacons are also being replaced – this process will be finished by the end of 2013. 5. Making the energy consumption of the properties of CPH City & Port Development more efficient CPH City & Port Development wants to meet the climatic and environmental challenges of the future and to show initiative and a will to optimise the energy in our rented properties. Doing so, CPH City & Port Development may make a difference when it comes to a more sustainable development and at the same time reduce our running expenses and be at the cutting edge in case of new legislation in the field. Therefore, we shall have to point out our focal points and get a precise idea of the energy consumption in our properties. Goals and objectives: Status: Mapping focal points Unfinished 6. Sustainable urban development – DGNB certification CPH City & Port Development plans the new urban quarters to be sustainable when it is possible. Therefore the company takes part in a pilot project under Green Building Council Denmark regarding the sustainability system DGNB. This is an abbreviation of Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen and is a German system that certifies sustainability using 45 indicators. This system is to be developed so that it does not only apply to single buildings but also to whole developing neighbourhoods. In participating, the company tests the certification and adapts the German standards to Danish conditions. Furthermore, CPH City & Port Development contributes to a national incentive structure directed at thinking urban development sustainability. Furthermore, the company intends to earn the certificate in developing the urban areas Sundholmen, Trælastholmen and Levantkaj Vest. The first step is a pre-qualification of the areas, presumably before the end of the second quarter of 2013. This pre-qualification is based on the plans and reviews of the areas in question. The company will be measured on indicators such as environment and social, economic, technical and processual sustainability. If this prequalification is gained, we expect the company to earn a temporary qualification when 25 per cent of the plans for the urban development areas have been realised – after 75 per cent, we shall probably get the permanent qualification. Goals and objectives: Status: Participation in a DGNB pilot project Pilot project has started. aimed at earning a certificate for sustainable urban areas and a development of a national incentive structure supporting sustainability in urban develSide 6 af 7 opment. DGNB (sustainable) certification of the Pre-qualification of the quarters in the city quarters Sundholmen, Trælastholsecond quarter of 2013. men and Levantkaj Vest. Expected temporary certification: when 25 per cent of the plans have been realised. Permanent qualification: when 75 per cent of the plans have been realised. 7. LEED certification CPH City & Port Development builds the 48,000 floor square metre large UN City at Marmormolen in the Port of Copenhagen. The building consists of offices for six UN organisations and is highly sustainable. Among other details, the building ranges as so-called energy class 1 , which means that not more than 50 kWh may be used per square metre per year. Before the building process started in 2010, it was decided to try to get a LEED certificate. Buildings earn this certificate – Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design – through an evaluation based on seven parameters: Sustainable site development, Water savings, Energy efficiency, Materials selection, Indoor environmental quality, Innovation and design, Regional priority. Only when both phase 1 and phase 2 have been finished is the total building evaluated according to these criteria. However, before that happens we have taken initiatives which will add to the points in the system: There are solar cells on the roofs, we start a thorough process where all details of the building are optimised in relation to the final use of the building, owners and daily users are involved so as to continue the sustainability of the whole project in the long run, and we use environmentally friendly materials and green roofs. At the same time, but independent from the LEED certification, the project achieved the EU Green Building Award 2012. This award is given for energy saving building. In this an energy consumption about 55 per cent lower than required in the requirements of the Danish authorities (Bygningsreglement BR-08) imposed on this project. Goals and objectives: Status: LEED certification of the UN City This is a running process. The certification is expected in 2014, when the building is brought into use. The following credits have already resulted in points in the LEED certification: Solar cells on the roofs All details of the building adapted Owners and daily users involved so as to continue the sustainability of the whole project Environmentally friendly materials. Side 7 af 7 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? CPH City & Port Development will publish this COP at our website: www.byoghavn.dk
