sustainability report A better bank for a better world 2011 3 index 1 Chairman’s statement 4 2 Strategy 6 3 As a citizen of the world  12 4 As a customer bank 32 5 As an employer  52 6 As a business facilitator 64 7 As a part of the community 74 Appendix 1: ABN AMRO at a glance 86 Appendix 2: Basis for reporting 92 Appendix 3: Quantitative data 96 Appendix 4: 2011 Sustainability Report objectives 104 Appendix 5: Stakeholder dialogue 106 4 chairman’s statement 5 type of community work exceeded 50% in the Netherlands in 2011, and we were awarded 1 a prize for the best employee engagement programme in the country. chairman’s In our view, sustainability also means running a tight ship in which neither manpower nor other resources are wasted and in which costs are kept as low as possible. Last year saw the launch of a Customer Excellence programme that has already generated ­considerable savings and speeded up many of our internal processes. We are planning statement to use the same methods in 2012 and subsequent years to make the bank even more ­efficient and sustainable. We also wish to adopt certain standards on sustainability, ­ such as ISO 26000, a benchmark for corporate social responsibility produced by the ­International Standards Organisation. As in previous years, our stakeholders were closely involved in shaping the bank’s policy I am proud to present to you this report on our sustainability efforts in 2011. My sense on corporate social responsibility in 2011. The Sustainability Advisory Board is a group of of pride stems not just from the impressive progress ABN AMRO made in this area in wise men and women whose critical comments help keep the bank’s sustainability policy 2011, but also from the fact that much of it has been above and beyond the activities fully up to date. Their input keeps us sharp and helps us innovate and produce a constant planned by the Managing Board, in the form of individual staff members responding to stream of good news for our customers. Our aim for 2012 and beyond is to involve our customers’ suggestions. These actions have illustrated just how responsive our staff stakeholders even more closely in securing the sustainability of our operations. are to their c­ ustomers’ needs. Needless to say, ABN AMRO promotes the sustainability of its operations in different The European debt crisis placed the financial markets under tremendous pressure in ways. For example, we mount energy-saving projects and projects for generating energy 2011, prompting the market regulators to come up with a raft of changes and tougher from sustainable sources. We also support sustainable business practices, for example ­demands. We believe that we can help contain the crisis by focusing on sustainability. by funding the Amulet, a prize-winning eco-tanker. We are one of the members of the We also believe that companies such as ABN AMRO have a responsibility to pursue Sustainable Shipping Initiative, which sees leading players in the shipping industry join ­carefully thought-out policies on sustainability. Moreover, a heightened awareness of forces with non-governmental organisations to promote sustainable shipping practices. the demands of sustainability will enable us to respond better to the opportunities ­presented to us. Sustainability is key to our long-term success. ABN AMRO’s commitment to sustainability is not a one-off project with a clearly defined goal; it is a continuous process. All our staff are doing their very best to turn ABN AMRO For ABN AMRO, sustainability begins with putting our customers’ interests first. In 2011, into a more sustainable bank. The progress we are making may not always be readily we launched a consumer campaign involving specially trained financial advisors who ­apparent to outsiders, or indeed easily measurable, and this is something we would like help customers organise their household budgets in these financially demanding times. to change in the years to come. I am fully confident that we will succeed in this aim, The campaign demonstrates our commitment to forging long-term relationships with our by working together with our stakeholders. customers. I hope that you enjoy reading this report and invite you to keep us We are also a major source of volunteer coaches for Qredits, a supplier of microcredits. ­informed of your thoughts and suggestions. This is one of the activities performed by ABN AMRO Foundation, which encourages staff to perform voluntary work in the community. The rate of staff participation in this Gerrit Zalm 6 strategy 7 strategy 2 ABN AMRO wants to be a better bank working towards a better world – which is why the bank takes its responsibility seriously to support projects that help make the world a better place for all its stakeholders and customers. The bank pursues its sustainability policy based on three core principles: we put customers’ interests first, we are alert to social developments and needs, and we take responsibility in the supply chain (from supplier to customer). 8 strategy 9 A sustainable bank… ABN AMRO does not promote sustainability solely for philanthropic reasons, but because ABN AMRO is seeking to regain its customers’ trust. More than ever, the bank wants to it makes good business sense – and that is something that can be expected of a bank. be seen as thoroughly reliable and transparent; a bank with passionate professionals who ABN AMRO puts its sustainability policy to work every day, in the knowledge that always put customers’ interests first. there is a long way to go in this ongoing process. Offering sustainable financial solutions and Three core principles ­services that strengthen our customers’ trust 1. We put our customers’ interests first. This concept is at the heart of how we define our actions; ABN AMRO offers a clear range of products described in plain language, a humane policy 2. We respond to society’s needs. We need to listen carefully to customers – and to for people in financial need, a sound approach to complaints, financial education, sustain­ the society in which customers and ABN AMRO operate. The signals we pick up from able asset management and advice, social sponsorship and the active commitment of society shape our ideas and actions; staff to the community through the ABN AMRO Foundation. 3. We take responsibility in the supply chain, from supplier to customer. As a large financial institution, ABN AMRO can play an important role in promoting sustainability. …for a sustainable world To promote sustainability throughout the supply chain, ABN AMRO first and foremost Below is a description of the main activities the bank performs in implementing these needs to put its own house in order, minimising its ecological footprint. Sustainability has core principles. to be embedded in the bank’s internal organisation and corporate culture. ABN AMRO feels it has an added responsibility as the bank has the potential clout to play a significant Putting customers’ interests first role in improving the sustainability of the whole supply chain, from the beginning The bank has started simplifying its product offering, trimming down the number of (suppliers) to the end (customers). ­savings accounts from twenty to three, and has re-written its product conditions in plain language, resulting in a huge reduction in the number of complaints. The bank will ABN AMRO aims to play a role in which it can make a real difference. As an office ­continue to pursue this policy in 2012 and is using its complaints reports – which the ­organisation, the bank’s ecological footprint is fairly small. Although ABN AMRO believes Managing Board reviews – to tackle problems systematically. its footprint can be further reduced, the bank can make a bigger difference elsewhere. In today’s adverse economic climate, an increasing number of people are finding it Sustainable impact – how? ­difficult to make ends meet. ABN AMRO helps people get their finances in order by ABN AMRO’s sustainability policy governs those areas in which the bank can make a ­offering the assistance of financial coaches trained by NIBUD, the Dutch national institute meaningful and logical contribution to a sustainable society. for family finance education, and operates a Mortgage Care Team for people who are having trouble paying their mortgages. These are just two ways in which ABN AMRO ABN AMRO’s primary role in society is as a financer. As such, the bank pursues a helps people in financial need. ­high-quality risk management policy, allowing it to safeguard and use its own policy to promote sustainability among its customers. The bank also acts as a facilitator, Responding to society’s needs ­contributing to a better society by promoting sustainable initiatives. ABN AMRO also ABN AMRO has relationships with numerous stakeholders in society, including aims to serve as a knowledge centre for customers and partners in the sustainability ­customers, employees, regulatory authorities, trade unions, industry associations, ­industry. non-governmental organisations and local communities. The key ingredients in these ­relationships are openness and a commitment to dialogue. ABN AMRO always puts its customers centre stage, focusing primarily on confidentiality of customer relationships 10 strategy 11 and transactions. The bank engages in an ongoing dialogue with customers and works, ­ABN AMRO helps them take sustainability issues into account and to make better ­employees alike by means of customer panels and internal discussion forums. investments. ABN AMRO does not do business with companies in a number of sectors ABN AMRO has identified other stakeholders as well and has drawn up a targeted and areas. action plan to help the bank engage in a more intensive dialogue with all stakeholders to involve them in its sustainability efforts. Summary ABN AMRO aims to be a sustainable bank in a sustainable world. Just as ABN AMRO’s ABN AMRO offers primary and secondary school pupils various forms of financial success relies on its customers’ success, so there is a close link between the bank’s role ­education in an effort to address financial problems, which often arise at an early age. as a sustainable partner and the logical role it can play in creating a more sustainable ABN AMRO’s sponsorship policy allows the bank to make a positive contribution to world. ­society, and the bank encourages staff to give back to society through the ABN AMRO Foundation. A sustainable bank…: Sustainability is essential to ABN AMRO’s position and gives the bank its licence to operate – now and in the future. Taking responsibility in the supply chain, from supplier to customer …for a sustainable world: A sustainable approach to its core business will lead to a ABN AMRO is a founding partner of FIRA, an independent party that issues sustainability more sustainable world and long-term, profitable relationships with customers. ratings for suppliers. Many of the bank’s suppliers have signed up to FIRA for a ­sustainability rating based on ISO 26000, an international guideline for corporate social Next steps responsibility designed to ensure that suppliers gradually improve their sustainability ▶▶ Continue to take responsibility in the supply chain and in society; ­performance. ▶▶ Pick up signals from stakeholders and society and integrate them into the bank’s sustainability policy; ABN AMRO wants to be a business partner that helps customers boost the sustainability ▶▶ Continue to enhance the transparency of the bank’s products. of their companies. The bank uses its experience and portfolio to develop financial ­products and services that promote energy conservation and sustainable energy. ABN AMRO intends to include sustainability in its sector advisory services, based on its commitment to promoting sustainability within the financial scope of each individual customer. In its lending operations, ABN AMRO weighs the improvement of sustainability on the one hand against exclusion on the other. If the bank has any doubt about a customer’s sustainability performance, it will only grant a loan subject to additional conditions. This allows the bank to expand its influence in this area and to take more responsibility than if it were to terminate the relationship with the customer. The bank ends the ­relationship if the customer fails to make sufficient improvements. ABN AMRO has limited influence on how its wealthy customers use their capital. It can, however, use its expertise in investing and sustainability to help customers make well-founded decisions. The extent to which businesses are sustainable influences ­investment risks and opportunities. By giving customers more insight into how this 12 as a citizen of the world 13 of the world as a citizen 3 Under ABN AMRO’s finance and investment policy, customers and transactions are screened based on environmental, social and ethical (ESE) considerations. Where applicable, the bank expects customers to take appropriate measures to minimise sustainability risks. ABN AMRO’s stakeholder dialogue focuses on issues that involve the bank, and has a direct effect on the bank’s actions. 14 as a citizen of the world 15 quality production, with good long-term profitable business practices, for example sustainable and prospects for the farmers. The same by providing some of the pre-funding that case applies to ABN AMRO, one of our main farmers need. We’d also like to see the suppliers of funding: they, too, see the bank incorporate sustainability into its profitable ­business long-term benefits.” ­operational management systems, and not assign it to separate project boxes. We’re practices That said, what’s your take on the bank’s not going to make any progress if that sustainability policy? ­happens. Agriculture is a seasonal business David Rosenberg: “The bank’s lending and farmers are naturally conservative policy is logical, prudent and consistent. people, so it takes time to bring about At the end of the day, though, its value will change. That’s why applying sustainable depend on whether the bank is able to business practices in this industry and in As part of its commitment to responsible profitable and more resilient, and so that ­acquire enough expertise on sustainability these countries is all about patience and governance, ABN AMRO offers financial their products are better in quality and issues affecting specific industries such perseverance.” expertise and services to Ecom Agroindustrial more distinctive. That’s why we’ve formed as our own. Which we believe the bank Rick Torken: “We’re enthusiastic about the Corporation Ltd. This international trader in a team of some 200 agronomists scattered will indeed be able to do, by the way.” potential progress we can make together coffee, cocoa and cotton supports farmers in all over the world who work together Rick Torken, head of Agri-commodities at with Ecom – an organisation that, like us, developing countries by boosting their with farmers to get their businesses on to ABN AMRO, adds: “Like Ecom, we believe is committed to helping create a sustainable profitability and making them more resilient. a higher rung. That’s an investment we’re that agriculture is in dire need of sustainable society. We acknowledge that change willing to make, because we believe we solutions that centre on human rights and takes time, but we believe that by placing Ecom is in the agribusiness market. stand to gain from sustainable, higherresponsible governance. We’re working our financial expertise and services at What are the problems facing this particular ­together with Ecom to try and find out the disposal of our customers’ projects, industry at present? how best to ensure that projects such as we can form the vital link in the chain of Ecom’s sustainability officer David this, which are the fruits of our sustainability sustainable solutions.” Rosenberg: “The global demand for policy, become part and parcel of our core food and fibres is on the rise. Moreover, business.” many of our customers want to buy higher-quality, traceable products. Small What do you expect from the bank in terms farmers in developing countries find these of sustainable solutions? demands hard to meet on their own. David Rosenberg: “ We think ABN AMRO They’re having to contend with problems is capable of understanding our industry such as the changing climate, constant and our corporate strategy, and sees that fluctuations in the availability of water, sustainability is a source of value creation and the declining fertility of their land. rather than simply an obligation and a They need access to both information source of paperwork. So we expect the Rick Torken (l) and David Rosenberg and funding, so that they become more bank to help us to develop sustainable and 16 as a citizen of the world 17 3.1 Management structure which states that employees may not accept or give gifts on behalf of the bank. In enforcing this policy, ABN AMRO may be required to report violations to the authorities, ABN AMRO is organised in a manner that guarantees a high standard of operational impose internal sanctions or terminate the relationship with the customer. ABN AMRO ­management by the Managing Board, coupled with effective supervision by the did not have to take any disciplinary action in this respect in 2011. ­Super­visory Board. For the bank and its business activities, integrity, transparency and ­accountability are the key elements of good corporate governance. Together, they enable ABN AMRO participates in various public policy development committees, such as the the bank to pursue an effective system of risk management, to comply with rules and Dutch Banking Association (NVB), and has a government affairs department in The Hague regulations and to offer complete transparency to all relevant stakeholders and market which closely monitors political developments. players. The bank does not offer financial contributions or payment in kind to political parties, The Supervisory Boards, Supervisory Board committees and Managing Boards at ­ ­politicians or any related institutions, unless management has given its explicit approval. ABN AMRO Group N.V. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V. are composed of the same members. Please see the website, www.abnamro.com, for more information on the bank’s As part of its efforts to guarantee customer confidence, ABN AMRO pursues an ­organisational structure, operating methods and the qualifications and expertise of the ­anti-restrictive trade policy which includes a series of environmental, social and ethical members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. The Annual Report published on ­aspects and is incorporated into its customer acceptance policy. the website also contains details on the remuneration of and outside posts held by the members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. ABN AMRO has standard procedures in place enabling it to supervise compliance with laws, standards and industry codes in its marketing and communications, The European Commission recently redefined ‘corporate social responsibility’ as meaning ‘the including advertisements, promotions and sponsorship activities. The procedures are responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society’. Respect for applicable legislation, and commun­icated bank-wide in training courses focusing on areas such as compliance, for collective agreements between social partners, is a prerequisite for meeting that responsibility. credit ­acceptance and commercial activities. To fully meet their corporate social responsibility, enterprises should have in place a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer concerns into their business ABN AMRO did not incur any penalties from financial supervisors for non-compliance operations and core strategy in close collaboration with their stakeholders. with laws and regulations in 2011. 3.2 Compliance and regulatory requirements 3.3 Financial and investment policies ABN AMRO regularly takes measures designed to prevent its actions from having Environmental, social and ethical risk management: policy and practice ­negative consequences for the local communities in which it operates. In its drive to put ABN AMRO accepts its social responsibility as a member of society whose activities customers’ interests first, for example, the bank has trimmed the number of savings have a direct impact on people and planet. It also accepts its responsibility as a supplier products it offers, improved the information it provides to customers and accelerated of financial services which, indirectly through its customers’ businesses and investments, and enhanced its response to complaints. also affect society. ABN AMRO helps create sustainable solutions by incorporating ­environmental, social and ethical (ESE) standards in its risk management policies. ABN AMRO devotes attention to ethical business operations and has put its values into practice by strengthening its anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies. The bank also pursues customer acceptance procedures and a gifts regulation policy, the latter of 18 as a citizen of the world 19 Policy review: policy, customer acceptance and country risk management now allocated a ‘high’, ‘average’ or ‘low’ risk score. The index combines various aspects Last year, ABN AMRO adopted the best policy documents previously drawn up by its of sustainability, such as human rights, security, good governance, transparency, legal predecessors, the former ABN AMRO and FBN. These have now been incorporated ­prosperity, environmental protection and compliance with international treaties on as temporary components of the new risk framework on sustainability. Formulating the social and ­environmental standards. bank’s risk appetite in relation to ESE risks was the first step in the review process, which is due to be completed in 2012. ESE risk governance ABN AMRO’s account managers are responsible for applying the ESE standards in In 2011, ABN AMRO’s Group Risk Committee approved the revised versions of ten ­practice, i.e. for implementing the policies on individual industries. Using specially ­selected policy documents on ESE risks. These documents set out the (temporary) ­designed guidelines and questionnaires, they identify the potential risks associated with standards, rules and guidelines applied by ABN AMRO in supplying finance to a range of a particular customer or transaction. These risks depend on the industry and the country industries. The policy documents will apply on a temporary basis until such time as the in which the customer in question operates. Where transactions in high-risk industries bank has adopted a new policy framework. and countries are concerned, the account manager performs a risk analysis in conjunction with the customer that makes clear whether the customer complies with the relevant The old policy was geared primarily towards lending. ABN AMRO has also tightened standards or whether the risks associated with the transaction in question are sufficiently up the ESE aspects of the due diligence studies performed as part of its customer offset by the action taken by the customer to mitigate them. The findings of this ­acceptance procedures, particularly in relation to international customers who also use ­assessment are incorporated in the credit risk analysis that is performed for the ­ other services such as payments and deposits. The business units involved here are customer in question. ­Private Banking International, Third Party Banking, Trade Finance Transactions, Corporate Banking, Large Corporates & Merchant Banking and the International Diamond & Jewelry “ABN AMRO’s sustainability experts send us comprehensive, well-researched reports which Group. we discuss with customers on a regular basis. The vast majority of our customers are pleased with the information. They are cooperative, and value the fact that such aspects are taken into ABN AMRO has compiled a sustainability index for countries which is used to factor account in our decisions.” ­environmental, social and ethical criteria into country risk assessments. Countries are Rusty Kayser, Senior Banker, Commercial & Merchant Banking Approved policies ▶▶ Tobacco industry policy ABN AMRO’s sustainability experts are responsible for formulating the bank’s corporate ▶▶ Agri-commodity industry policy policies on environmental, social and ethical risk management, and for assessing the ▶▶ Guidelines on social and environmental risks guidelines and questionnaires used throughout the company. They examine the bank’s ▶▶ Defence industry policy ­industry-specific policies, for example on the mining, forestry and agricultural industries, ▶▶ Project finance and the application of the Equator Principles and on issues such as human rights. They also monitor the extent to which individual ▶▶ Policy on forestry and plantations business units comply with these guidelines. They advise on business activities where ▶▶ Mining and metal industry policy there is a high environmental, social or ethical risk, acting both on their own initiative ▶▶ Oil and gas industry policy and in response to requests from colleagues. The experts monitor the progress made ▶▶ Sustainable shipping industry policy in ­implementing these policies in various parts of the bank and report on the main ▶▶ Declaration on human rights 20 as a citizen of the world 21 ­outstanding issues in the form of Enterprise Risk Management Reports prepared In 2011, 50 customers from the ECT industry agreed to be interviewed on the new-style on a monthly basis for the Managing Board. questionnaires. The bank is using the interview findings to refine its guidelines on ­sustainability. All ECT sustainability questionnaires should be ready by the first quarter Compliance of 2012. The sustainability experts from ABN AMRO’s head-office Sustainability Department ­performed a number of more detailed due diligence studies in 2011. They carried out In April 2011, ECT began undertaking a series of assessments to explore the sustainability ­detailed assessments of 109 customers’ intentions, practices, management and past performance of all customers, whether new or already existing. The results of these ­experience in terms of taking appropriate action to contain potential ESE risks. ­assessments are shown in the table below. Reports on sustainability risks associated with individual industries in 2011 ECT Process Number of Approvals Qualified Rejections Industry Customer acceptance Loan Total reports issued approvals Agricultural commodities 46 60 106 Mining & metals 30 25 1 4 Energy commodities 82 67 149 Oil & gas 24 23 1 0 Metal commodities 58 52 110 Agricultural commodities 21 16 5 0 Energy 12 39 51 Defence 13 11 1 1 Transportation 38 8 46 Chemical 5 4 0 1 Total 236 226 462 Forestry 5 4 1 0 Energy & utilities 5 4 0 1 Processing industry 3 3 0 0 Equator Principles Others 3 3 0 0 The Equator Principles once again constituted a binding condition for all project finance Total number of reports 109 93 9 7 supplied by ABN AMRO. A total of 19 new project finance deals in emerging markets were screened for their compliance with the Equator Principles. Of these, eight were ­category A projects, i.e. projects with potential significant adverse social or environmental Reports on sustainability risks associated impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented, while 11 were classified as with individual industries in 2011 ­category B projects, i.e. projects with potential limited adverse social or environmental impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily ­addressed through mitigation measures. A total of 39 projects from high-income/OECD countries were assessed. Category Country classification A B C Total Focus on Large Corporates & Merchant Banking Emerging markets 8 11 19 ABN AMRO’s specialist unit for lending to companies in the Energy, Commodities & High-income /OECD 1 33 5 39 Transportation (ECT) industry places particular emphasis on sustainability, and expects Total 9 44 5 58 all departments to use specific sustainability guidelines and the relevant questionnaires. The idea is to find out how customers address the environmental, social and ethical impact of their business activities. ABN AMRO always verifies the customer’s strategic course before entering into any transaction involving large human and environmental risks. 24 as a citizen of the world 25 Sustainability risk management Managing ESE risks The bank has formulated a set of principles in order to ensure that ESE risks are managed High in a consistent and coherent manner, and that customers and transactions are required Sustainability performance to meet a uniform set of standards. These principles are a logical consequence of the bank’s strategic objectives in relation to sustainability, the key elements of which are Medium the adoption of an open approach and the importance of improvement and cooperation. The basic principles for ESE risk are defined as follows: Above par ▶▶ The management of sustainability risks is an incentive for quality improvement. Low On par Systematically embedding ESE risk management in its decision-making process will Below par improve the quality of the bank’s services and of its decisions; ▶▶ The bank is responsible both for its own activities and for the activities Low Medium High ­undertaken by its customers. ABN AMRO is exposed, both directly and indirectly, Sustainability risk to the effects of and risks associated with the activities performed by its customers, and accepts full responsibility for the consequences of any decision to either ­commence or discontinue a business relationship with a customer; ▶▶ The bank seeks to adopt an inclusive approach and to pursue a dialogue with ABN AMRO has a policy of identifying the ESE risk associated with every single trans­ its customers. Rather than excluding people and companies who lag behind in terms action. The main prompts in this respect are the industry and country in which the of sustainability, ABN AMRO encourages them to make improvements, provided that ­customer operates. The risk category in which the deal is classified, i.e. low, medium or such improvements are adequately resourced and supported; high, has the following consequence: the higher the level of risk associated with the deal, ▶▶ The bank is not involved in activities that do not meet its ESE standards. the better the customer’s social and environmental performance is expected to be. If the Where ESE risks cannot be mitigated to a sufficient degree, and the customer in customer’s policy is not adequate, or if the customer does have an appropriate policy but question takes insufficient action, the bank refrains from doing business with the fails to implement it adequately in practice, and hence fails to comply with our standards, ­customer. ABN AMRO does not do business with companies performing activities we expect the customer to present us with a credible action plan stating precisely how that ABN AMRO would not perform itself; and when it is planning to meet our standards. ▶▶ The bank seeks the active and open participation of stakeholders in discussions on sustainability risks. Human rights ABN AMRO wishes to play a leading role in promoting sustainable business development. These principles have been discussed at length, both with the staff of the bank and with Respect for human rights is an integral part of good corporate behaviour, built on the external stakeholders. Thirty external stakeholders, consisting of representatives of other bank’s common values of ‘trusted, professional and ambitious’. ABN AMRO expects all banks, customers, experts and non-governmental organisations were asked to comment its customers and suppliers to treat their staff, local residents and other stakeholders on them. with dignity and respect. A desire not to be involved in human rights violations is also a characteristic of good business practice, as considerable damage may otherwise be caused in terms of reputation damage or financial loss (discounting any personal damage caused to those concerned). 26 as a citizen of the world 27 ABN AMRO has always recognised the importance of human rights, and issued its first Aware that its activities affect the human rights of its suppliers and their staff, ABN AMRO declaration on human rights in 2005. That said, the new UN Framework for Business ­accepts its responsibility when signing contracts with suppliers. We signed new contracts with and Human Rights has alerted the bank – more than ever before – to the fact that, for cleaning contractors in 2011. There is currently a great deal of unrest in the cleaning industry, a ­business, respecting human rights means doing the right things. This equates with as more and more contractors seek to cut the prices on which their contracts are based. making a constant effort to ensure that day-to-day business decisions stand up in the Our contract negotiations were based on the following three principles: ‘court of social debate’. 1. Cleaning contractors must be able to guarantee proper working conditions for their staff, ­including an acceptable level of pressure and rates of pay that are in line with current Against this background, ABN AMRO is focusing increasingly on the human rights market rates; ­aspects of due diligence. Among the issues examined when the bank is looking at 2. The contract must leave a healthy margin for the contractor’s business; ­prospective deals, for example, are child labour, employee rights, sovereign rights 3. ABN AMRO believes that the quality of the cleaning services provided should be the prime and national rights. The key questions addressed in 2011 were: consideration and for this reason did not press bidders to lower their prices. In the first ▶▶ In what ways and in which areas does the operational management pursued by ­ round of the tender procedure, the bank returned all the bids it had received and asked the ABN AMRO and its customers affect human rights, either directly or indirectly? suppliers to quote a more realistic price for their services. This resulted in the signing of ▶▶ In what ways and in which areas can ABN AMRO effectively contribute to solutions? three contracts that stipulate, among other things, that ABN AMRO will apply the pay rises agreed under the collective bargaining agreement for its own staff. The contracts also state Acknowledging that respect for human rights requires an active, inquiring attitude, that ABN AMRO will pay a performance bonus to those contractors who supply high-quality ABN AMRO formulated an action plan in 2011 with the following objectives: cleaning services, and that this bonus should be passed on in full to the contractors’ staff. ▶▶ To review company policy on human rights, including ABN AMRO’s declaration on human rights; ▶▶ To produce a ‘human rights risk map’; 3.4 Stakeholders ▶▶ To foster an environment in which people are aware of the risks pertaining to human rights violations. ABN AMRO should recognise, prevent and, where necessary, The role played by ABN AMRO’s customers and staff as the bank’s prime stakeholders ­mitigate these risks; is discussed elsewhere in this report. This section looks at another important group of ▶▶ To publish an annual report on human rights for ABN AMRO’s stakeholders. stakeholders: non-governmental organisations, regulatory authorities and so on. ABN AMRO is keen to pursue a dialogue with these actors on social trends and problems. ABN AMRO also continues to contribute actively to the debate on human rights both in The interaction between the bank and these stakeholders often has a direct impact on the Netherlands and in the international arena, as in the framework of the UN Global the bank’s activities, both in the marketplace and in its dealings with its own staff. Compact. Materiality principle In 2010, we wrote about the dilemma facing us in relation to customers whose supply We receive a tremendously wide variety of queries about the issue of sustainability. chains involved child labour. In the end, the bank opted for a policy of improvement rather The ‘materiality principle’ is one of the main considerations in deciding on whether or not than of exclusion. The same issue raised its head in 2011. Working together with customers to engage in a dialogue with our stakeholders. In other words, there is only any point in and other stakeholders, ABN AMRO continued to bring its influence to bear in order to starting a dialogue if the issue in question is relevant to the bank, and also if the bank can improve the situation. actually do anything about it. The bank’s policy is to focus on those issues that customers, staff, shareholder(s) and other key stakeholders (see the stakeholder analysis) regard as being important. 28 as a citizen of the world 29 Sustainable dialogue ABN AMRO’s sustainability policy has been debated at considerable length, both within the bank and in a dialogue with external stakeholders. Among the bodies involved in this debate are the Works Council, the board of the ABN AMRO Foundation, relevant ­civil-society organisations that are active in the field of ecology and society, and the ­Sustainability Advisory Board. The latter board meets three times a year with the Managing Board to discuss topical issues in relation to sustainability. ABN AMRO is involved in a variety of national and international initiatives, including the Global Compact, the United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and various round-table conferences on industry-specific sustainability issues. ABN AMRO is also actively engaging with the Sustainable Finance Lab and is a member of various sustainability-related organisations. Finally, ABN AMRO is in constant dialogue with its owner, the State of the Netherlands, on the question of its own sustainable development. These are the most relevant organisations of which ABN AMRO is a member: IIF Sustainable Shipping Initiative NVB PRIME Finance Conferences No bank in today’s world Duisenberg School of Finance Holland Financial Centre Kifid NIVE Dutch Green Building Council VNO NCW Active stakeholder management can operate without The global financial crisis has had a huge impact on the credibility of the banking industry in recent years. ABN AMRO is fully aware of the situation and accepts that a systematic ­structured, proactive form of proactive stakeholder management is absolutely vital for a bank that wishes to respond to relevant social trends. This is not simply a matter of risk management; it is also a critical route to identifying and seizing business opportunities. See Appendix 5 for ­stakeholder management. an outline of the bank’s stakeholder dialogue. ABN AMRO performed a comprehensive stakeholder analysis and also prepared a stakeholder management plan in 2011. The latter is based on a method developed by Aubrey L. Mendelow (Kent State University, Ohio, 1991). We are keen to pursue a ­proactive dialogue with the main stakeholders identified in the analysis (see the outline in Appendix 5), ensuring at the same time that we retain the initiative. We hope that this will enable us to respond to these stakeholders’ needs and wishes in terms of ­sustainability, and to do so in a timely and systematic manner. 30 as a citizen of the world 31 Sustainability Risk Management Framework: the latest news Another customer with whom ABN AMRO is engaging in a dialogue on sustainable business The new Sustainability Risk Management Framework produced by the bank in 2011 is practices is a large company that is planning to start major trading in palm oil. ABN AMRO a good example of the way in which ABN AMRO would like to involve its stakeholders has raised the issue of sustainability with this particular customer on a number of in the formulation of its sustainability policy. Input for the process was collected in two ­occasions. At first, the customer took the view that we were asking too much. Following a stages from N ­ GOs (6), industry bodies (3), consultants (3), banks (4) and customers (19), number of further meetings about the value of and the need for sustainability, and in the all of whom are keen to promote sustainable banking (see the ­stakeholder table in light of extensive desk research, we were ultimately prepared to issue a ­positive recommen­Appendix 5). dation in relation to the customer’s application, subject to the ­following conditions: ▶▶ The company should apply for membership of the Round Table on Sustainable Palm The idea behind the Framework is to submit new policies to external scrutiny and hence Oil (RSPO) in the near future. The company should become an ‘active follower’, improve their quality, and also to get the stakeholders themselves on board. ABN AMRO pushing for progress in the industry; wishes to maintain close relations with its key stakeholders, and believes that engaging ▶▶ The company’s aim should be to arrive at a situation, within two years, in which it with them in a substantive dialogue is a vital part in achieving this. sources 100% of its palm oil supplies either from RSPO members or from suppliers who meet comparable criteria formulated by the company; The Sustainability Risk Management Framework and the five principles for managing ▶▶ The company should provide ABN AMRO with a list of its palm oil suppliers every ­sustainability risks (see also the previous sections on ESE risk) were first submitted to a six months. group of ABN AMRO’s customers. They were invited to comment on the completeness of the bank’s basic approach, and the principles underlying it. In the second stage of the The company in question remains a good customer of ours. consultation process, stakeholders were asked to comment on a specific lending policy. The participants were invited to comment on the bank’s strategy on sustainability risks Looking ahead in relation to lending, and also on the criteria for exclusion. We are planning to proceed As already indicated, ABN AMRO is planning to do more to involve its stakeholders in along similar lines in 2012, submitting a large number of more industry-specific policies the process of becoming a sustainable bank, for example by offering customers and to our stakeholders for comment. staff an opportunity to have a real say in the formulation of its policy on corporate social responsibility. Also, sustainability and sustainable issues are among the topics of discussion Pursuing a sustainable dialogue with customers on Arena, the bank’s internal debating forum. ABN AMRO would like to see its stake­ One of our customers is a leading player in the global tuna trade, an industry involving holders play an active role in the creation of a more sustainable bank. It seeks to achieve sustainability risks. In the light of its market share, ABN AMRO decided to enter into this aim by intensifying the dialogue with external stakeholders, by sending them a dialogue with the customer in question, and expressed the hope that it would play copies of policy documents, and by guaranteeing fully transparent decision-making a ­pioneering role in promoting a more sustainable tuna trade. ABN AMRO needs no on ABN AMRO’s responsibility for all activities throughout the supply chain. ­convincing of the problems caused by over-fishing, the fact that certain tuna species are endangered, the problem of excessive by-catch due to the use of certain fishing methods, and the reputation of tuna traders. 3.5 Next steps Although, on the face of it, the easiest solution is simply to refuse the company’s ▶▶ Further integrate environmental, social and ethical considerations into the bank’s custom, this would not solve the problem. While ABN AMRO opts for improvement risk management; rather than exclusion, this is on condition that the improvement in question is practicable. ▶▶ Continue to promote stakeholder dialogue and involvement; Based on our talks with the customer and the information available to us, we expect the ▶▶ Work with stakeholders to update the Sustainability Risk Management Framework; company to be able to act as a trend-setter in promoting a sustainable tuna trade. ▶▶ Make an ongoing contribution to the international human rights debate. 32 as a customer bank 33 customer bank as a 4 ABN AMRO strives to help its customers enhance the sustainability of their business operations. All levels of the bank work to achieve this goal, actively supporting customers by offering responsible financial products and services. 34 as a customer bank 35 case sticking your neck out Renzo Deurloo (l) and Eric Zwaart outside the box. It’s about co-creation, for Rotterdam Zoo, the Gemeentemuseum looking for solutions that tie in with the in The Hague, the Amsterdam RAI Exhibition accounts for around a quarter of the bank’s thinking on sustainability and are Centre, the cities of Utrecht, Rotterdam ABN AMRO is keen to participate in innovative, energy bill in an average office building? capable of truly adding value.” and Eindhoven, and the Amsterdam Music green initiatives that help customers boost the So that can easily mean a huge saving. Renzo Deurloo: “You’ve got to be willing Theatre.” efficiency and sustainability of their operations. Moreover, as we’re helping people who to stick your neck out. It’s not about playEric Zwaart: “Naturally, GreenFox will In this spirit, the bank finances GreenFox, are not easily employable at the same ing safe. It’s about fostering innovation also be targeting our own buildings. First which helps building managers reduce energy time, we really are creating the ultimate ­precisely by getting away from the beaten up was our Dordrecht branch, which got consumption by making ­existing strip lighting win-win situation!” track.” the treatment at the start of the year. more energy efficient. What’s more, GreenFox Zoetermeer and Leeuwarden are due to employs staff from sheltered workshops. In the Sounds amazingly simple. And yet you ABN AMRO is doing its best to find follow suit shortly.” words of Renzo Deurloo, c­ o-founder of Greendid have a bit of trouble getting funders on customers in the public sector for GreenFox. Fox, and Eric Zwaart, who’s in charge of the board. Why did ABN AMRO sign up? Why the public sector in particular? It all sounds too good to be true. Is it? Government, Educational and Institutional Eric Zwaart: “The idea behind GreenFox is Eric Zwaart: “The GreenFox method is Renzo Deurloo: “No! Certainly not since Sector at ABN AMRO Public Banking, the to use some of the future savings to fund ­ideally suited for institutions like hospitals, we’ve partnered up with ABN AMRO and GreenFox method is a ‘complete no-brainer’. energy-efficient lighting, subject to a schools and local authorities, all of which we can count on the support of people like ­maximum pay-back period of four years. are being given all sorts of new tasks but Gerrit Zalm and the city executives in OK, so you’re planning to supply sustainable This method of pre-funding investments is need to cut their spending at the same places like Amsterdam, Utrecht, Rotterdam lighting and create new jobs, at no net cost. actually quite novel for the Dutch banks. time. This makes it hard for them to invest and Eindhoven. In the early days, I often Where’s the catch? Even at ABN AMRO, not everyone was in energy conservation. Moreover, local noticed how amazed people were, when Renzo Deurloo: “There is no catch. With the ­immediately convinced that lending to ­authorities in particular have the additional they checked the figures, to see that aid of the staff of sheltered workshops GreenFox on this basis would actually be problem of a mismatch on the job market: ­everything really did add up, that there throughout the country, GreenFox adapts a good idea. But that’s precisely the point unemployment is on the rise, but it’ll soon weren’t any hidden catches.” old-fashioned strip-light fittings, making of ABN AMRO’s Dialogues Incubator, be difficult to find the right staff.” Eric Zwaart: “The GreenFox method is a them ready for a new generation of lowwhere the idea for partnering with GreenRenzo Deurloo: “The public sector is a unique combination of solutions in which energy lights. Did you know that lighting Fox was generated: it’s all about thinking ­brilliant showcase for GreenFox. We work all the parties come out as winners.” 36 as a customer bank 37 4.1 Retail & Private Banking Banque Neuflize OBC, the local branch of ABN AMRO Private Banking, helps under­ privileged children by awarding scholarships and helping young business owners in ABN AMRO Retail & Private Banking is aiming for sustainability in all aspects of its deprived areas set up their own companies. ­operational management, from its marketing practices to the development of products and services in accordance with sustainability goals and based on a broad social Retail & Private Banking seeks actively to engage customers in the improvement of its ­engagement. Sustainability is being incorporated more and more into the bank’s services. ABN AMRO obtains a clear idea of its customers’ current needs by engaging ­day-to-day business operations and staff throughout the bank are playing an active role in an ongoing dialogue with them. Retail Banking has formed a community of several in all manner of community support programmes. The bank also welcomes suggestions hundreds of customers with whom it discusses a variety of service-related issues. from individual members of staff. The aim is to ensure that sustainability and sustainable The bank also uses a 10,000-strong customer panel as a sounding board. Getting up business practices become ingrained in the bank’s DNA, so that customers, staff and close to its customers helps the bank to gauge whether the products and services it ­society at large all profit from them. offers actually meet a genuine market need. Customer focus Customised services are another way of getting up close to customers. In the present Sustainability lies at the heart of ABN AMRO’s services. This applies both to our dealings economic climate, more and more customers are contemplating an uncertain financial with customers who already bank with us and to the importance we attach to later future, for example because of the possibility of losing their jobs or as a result of other ­generations. Recognising that customers are the focal point of all the bank’s activities, changes in their personal situation. ABN AMRO supports these customers proactively ABN AMRO Retail & Private Banking revised its approval procedures in 2011. We now with a team of committed and qualified financial coaches. These coaches help and use a set of ‘ethical criteria’ to perform a systematic assessment of both the short-term advise customers in organising or rearranging their financial affairs so as to prevent and the long-term aspects of all our products, existing and future, examining all relevant them from ending up in financial difficulties at a later stage. Customers highly appreciate aspects from the customer’s viewpoint. Our savings products are a good example of this ­service. how this works: we have reviewed our product offering, paring it down to a clear, ­transparent range. Products Just as ABN AMRO seeks constantly to improve its operating processes and minimise The better informed customers are, the more likely they are to be satisfied. Retail Banking its environmental impact, so a growing number of customers wish to see all or part of systematically rewrites its information and publicity materials in plain ­language in order their capital invested in ethical or socially responsible investment instruments. This is to foster transparency, so that each and every customer fully understands the bank’s why ABN AMRO MeesPierson offers a raft of sustainable investment products: equities, products and services. These efforts have had an immediate effect, resulting in a decline funds and special mandates, including customised investment portfolios managed in in the number of queries about savings products. Customers have also ­commented ­accordance with socially responsible principles. Despite the current state of the financial ­favourably, through social media for example, on the clarity of the bank’s mortgage market, ABN AMRO’s socially responsible investment mandates are proving ever more ­product range. popular. Information and training bring vital benefits for future customers as well as current In Germany, Bethmann Bank, the local branch of ABN AMRO Private Banking, created ­account-holders. During the National Money Week last November, for example, some two socially responsible investment funds for its Private Banking customers in 2011: 500 volunteers from ABN AMRO visited a large number of primary schools in the ‘Bethmann Nachhaltigkeit’ and ‘Bethmann Stiftungsfonds’. The companies, countries ­Netherlands, giving 300 lessons to a total of 10,000 children on how best to manage and organisations in which these two funds invest are required to meet certain specific their money. This was the result of a joint initiative by the ABN AMRO Foundation environmental, social and ethical investment criteria. In France, Banque Neuflize OBC and the Dutch national institute for family finance education (Nibud). In France, ­ offers mandates for socially responsible investment (SRI). 38 as a customer bank 39 ABN AMRO launched a campaign called Capital4Change in 2011 as a means of spotlightABN AMRO was one of the founders of Toniic Europe, a network of impact investors, ing social responsibility in relation to private banking. The focus of the campaign is on in 2011. The bank regularly promotes impact investing, both internally among its staff and the bank’s range of socially responsible investments, as well as on philanthropy-related at externally organised events, such as during the international Next Generation seminars services and ‘impact investing’. The latter is a new and growing market, and may be organised for the children of high net-worth customers. The focus in 2012 will be on ­defined as ‘investing in solutions to social and environmental problems that offer a ­refining, implementing and integrating the Capital4Change strategy. Among our aims ­potential financial return’. will be to raise the involvement of customers and staff, and to offer specific impact ­investment opportunities, both directly and indirectly through investment funds. In terms of socially responsible investments, the focus in 2012 will be on screening the bank’s ­investment products. Traditional Socially responsible Philanthropy Impact investing investment investment (SRI) instruments 2011 was also the International Year of the Forest. In France, Banque Neuflize OBC launched a Wood and Forest action plan, managed by 12 volunteer staff, for assisting ­customers who own large areas of forest in managing their property in a sustainable way. Exclusive focus on With the aim of encouraging local businesses, NOBC also maintains close contacts with financial return Exclusive focus on impact small and medium-sized timber firms. Engagement is an aspect of sustainability in which ABN AMRO is taking an increasing interest, both in communications throughout the bank Exclusive focus on Impact is most Financial return is most Exclusive focus on and at an individual level. In Germany, an independent Sustainability Advisory Board was impact important aspect important aspect financial return recently formed, consisting of professionals from a range of industries. The board will be Donating to or forming Funding sustainable Investing in accessible Investing in a charity with a specific companies or initiatives, ­financial instruments, familiar, traditional monitoring socially responsible investment processes and ethical investments for the social or environmental by supplying loans or ­selected by negative or ­financial ­instruments purpose of discretionary portfolio management (DPM). objective equity positive screening Financial return is the Social or environmental Social or environmental Financial return is the sole priority impact is the sole impact is the main main priority, followed by ABN AMRO Private Banking has formed dedicated teams for the ‘institutions and charities’ priority ­priority, followed by social or environmental financial return impact market in various countries. These combine thorough knowledge of the requirements ­applying to this particular segment with a specific mission – that of helping charities and other civil-society organisations in the widest possible sense to achieve their stated ABN AMRO supports the development of impact investing. As the bank sees it, it has ­objectives. Against this background, Private Banking regularly arranges introductions for a responsibility to raise awareness and foster a close relationship between investment Private Banking customers who wish to become actively involved in charity work and ­experts, investors and potential beneficiaries. In order to highlight its commitment to also grants charitable institutions access to its network of Private Banking customers. ­socially responsible business practices, ABN AMRO sponsored the first SOCAP (Social Capital Markets) Europe conference in 2011. SOCAP is a leading global platform bringing The Annual Institutions & Charities Day is a valuable meeting point and debating platform together socially responsible businesses and ethical investors, who together ensure for directors and managers of civil-society organisations. The share issue organised that the capital supplied by investors and fund managers is channelled to the appropriate to mark the 125th anniversary of the founding of the Concertgebouw concert hall in community projects. ABN AMRO’s involvement in SOCAP is the first of what is set to ­Amsterdam is a good example of an activity generated by this type of interaction. become a series of promising partnerships with other actors that seek to identify social In keeping with its much-lauded tradition for raising private finance, the Concertgebouw impact investment opportunities and match these with suppliers of capital. issued anniversary shares in September 2011 to raise funds for maintenance and training. ABN AMRO was the lead bank for this issue, the slogan for which was: ‘Your share in the future of the Concertgebouw’. 40 as a customer bank 41 ABN AMRO is the first Dutch bank to respond to the demand from organisations in the ­research agencies to perform customer satisfaction surveys in all segments of the arts sector for private funds. Now that the government has decided to cut the amount of ­corporate market. We were given higher ratings in all segments of the business markets financial support provided to arts organisations, the Concertgebouw share issue should in 2011. attract the attention of other institutions who need help in arranging alternative forms of finance. Apart from measuring customer satisfaction, C&MB also examines staff satisfaction levels several times a year. Staff satisfaction in all C&MB units rose in 2011 compared Encouraging personal involvement with previous years. Many ABN AMRO staff are ready to help personally in obtaining a sustainable future. The bank supports their efforts through the work of the ABN AMRO Foundation ­ C&MB undertook various sustainability-related activities in 2011, some examples of (see Chapter 7). ABN AMRO’s French branch, Banque Neuflize OBC, has also firmly which are given below. C&MB is planning to further expand its range of sustainable ­embraced sustainable development. Here, think-tanks made up of volunteers from all ­products and services in 2012. corners of the organisation work on issues such as financial sustainability, microcredits and a wide variety of social and environmental issues. Some 12% of the bank’s staff Customer focus are actively involved. ABN AMRO is responding to the increasing value attached by corporate customers to sustainable business practices. The bank designs innovative solutions to help customers The management team of ABN AMRO Private Banking International helped set up a kill two birds with one stone, by raising their efficiency and boosting their competitiveness ­special bank for street children in Mumbai, India. The aim of the ‘children’s bank’ is to in one fell swoop. Many of these are sustainable solutions, offering a combination of ­provide a safe depositary for the savings of homeless children, teach them how to energy conservation and a response to the increasing demand for sustainable suppliers. manage their money and encourage them to get back into mainstream education. The bank is run by child volunteers acting under adult supervision. The children’s bank Our in-depth knowledge of our customers’ markets has given us a clearer idea of the has attracted over 200 customers since opening in March 2011. Apart from attracting threats and opportunities in relation to sustainability in many disparate markets. We are ­deposits, the bank also began granting loans and providing training courses for keen to share our knowledge with customers seeking the ideal vehicles for funding their over-18s at the end of the year. sustainable investments. By recycling the old range of staff uniforms, Retail Banking is responding to the desire ABN AMRO offers its corporate customers loans and leasing arrangements that meet expressed by staff to incorporate sustainable practices in their day-to-day work. their sustainable needs, their future plans and their financial circumstances. At the Staff were asked for suggestions for ways and means of reusing materials. We have same time, ABN AMRO can suggest techniques for energy conservation (developed in selected a number for which we are planning to draw up more detailed plans in 2012, ­collaboration with engineering firms) and advise on how to make optimum use of based also on input from customer and staff panels. subsidy schemes. Creating smarter customer processes 4.2 Commercial & Merchant Banking C&MB is constantly looking for ways of making its customer processes more efficient and more effective. The overriding aim in all cases is to raise the standard of its customer ABN AMRO’s aspiration is to be known as the best commercial bank in the country, ­with services. the most satisfied customers and staffed by the best professionals. Customer satisfaction is the common denominator in all the bank’s business decisions and is also why ­Commercial & Merchant Banking (C&MB) regularly asks various independent market Children who learn to handle money responsibly have the future in their own hands. 44 as a customer bank 45 ABN AMRO’s corporate customers want to conduct their financial transactions quickly Energy-Saving Loans and easily, wherever and whenever they wish. To meet this need, C&MB is expanding its ABN AMRO launched its Energy-Saving Loans in 2011. Customers wishing to stage a online and mobile services, for example by linking customers’ online accounting systems ­sustainable project or ‘green’ their businesses can apply for a loan from ABN AMRO with with Internet Banking, the bank’s mobile banking app, and the ‘Open a bank account which to fund their investment, the cost of which is paid for by the savings it generates. online’ service for YourBusiness Banking customers. By working with leading consultant engineers, ABN AMRO can offer a comprehensive energy-saving solution, from a fact-finding survey of potential solution to the technical ABN AMRO halved the time required to open a corporate account outside the ­implementation of the selected technique and funding of the investment. ­Netherlands in 2011, reducing the lead time from 50 to 21 days. We also cut the time ­required to process applications for loans of up to one million euros. Corporate applicants Take a customer with high energy costs, such as a supermarket. ABN AMRO brings ­ can now elect to receive their quotation for a business loan by email, in the form of a this customer into contact with suppliers of energy-efficient cooling or heating systems. PDF file, rather than as a print-out by post. Owners of business start-ups can open an The customer borrows from ABN AMRO the money it needs to buy one of these ­account online and account-holders can also elect to receive their bank statements in ­systems. The cost of the loan, including both interest and principal, is fully recouped ­digital form rather than as hard copy by post. from the lower energy bill. On balance, the customer either pays nothing or makes a profit. The Electronic Customer File – and the increasing popularity of digital communication in more general terms – is helping to produce paperless operating processes. Less paper Turning waste into value means less need for physical space (in the form of archives) combined with lower ABN AMRO offers local authorities new products and co-creations with which to take ­transport costs, thus helping the bank to meet its sustainability objectives. on the challenges facing them. One of these involves devising a sustainable method for collecting and processing household waste. Apart from representing a source of steadily In the wake of the excellent results at Retail & Private Banking, C&MB launched its own increasing income for local authorities, such an approach also helps them meet other Plain Language project in 2011. We are currently rewriting all our customer information policy objectives, such as better waste separation, reusing waste materials, reducing CO2 in plain Dutch: in clear language, spelling out exactly what customers want to know. emissions, raising public awareness and engagement, and creating new jobs with the aid The project should generate the first tangible results for the bank’s corporate customers of reintegration projects. during the course of 2012. ABN AMRO has partnered up with Modulo Beton Milieustraten to offer local authorities, Over 350,000 people in the Netherlands are either blind or have some form of visual from 2012, an innovative waste-processing system that they can fund on a net cost-free ­impairment. In conjunction with three national charities for the blind and visually impaired, basis. This is an internationally patented system for collecting and separating waste ABN AMRO is looking at ways and means of improving banking services for this particular ­efficiently and safely. The unit consists of a series of prefabricated concrete elements, group of customers. The main areas we are examining are Internet Banking, the bank’s is both long-lasting and flexible, complies with all relevant rules and regulations, and is website, the iDEAL service for web-based payments, the Mobile Banking app, cash designed to meet tomorrow’s demands. ­dispensers and the development of course materials for Internet Banking for the visually impaired. C&MB is hoping that the first results of this partnership will come on stream Sustainable energy in 2012. ABN AMRO takes a close interest in the sustainable energy market, seeing itself as a long-term partner offering solutions and industry expertise in the field of sustainable Products energy. For example, ABN AMRO supplies complete financial packages for onshore and C&MB has developed various sustainable solutions for its customers, a number of offshore wind farms, solar energy and the collection and storage of CO2. which are described on the next page. 46 as a customer bank 47 These are turbulent times for the wind and solar energy industries. A combination of ­cutbacks in government subsidies and fiercer competition on the solar panels markets have made banks more reluctant to lend to companies in this industry. Despite this, ABN AMRO again funded a number of international offshore wind energy projects in 2011, and was selected as the banker of choice by a number of major Dutch suppliers. ABN AMRO contributed to funding packages for a number of UK wind farms in the third quarter of 2011. Granted by trustworthy lenders, these loans allow the bank’s customers ABN AMRO is proud to invest in the development of new wind farms. The deal illustrates the bank’s commitment to sustainable energy markets and underpins the bank’s desire to position itself as a to finance an increasing ­long-term partner for firms operating in this market. number of investments ABN AMRO acquired a stake in Pfixx Solar Holding BV, a property developer and designer of solar energy farms, in 2011. Pfixx Solar designs, builds and manages large-scale, in a better world. ­industrial rooftop and free-field solar power systems in western Europe, and supplies the green power generated by such systems to firms and households. The firm recently completed building work on the first solar power farm in the Netherlands, located on the site of a former rubbish tip in the east of the country. The company is planning to ­construct more solar power farms on former landfill sites. ABN AMRO is the financial partner of a non-profit foundation called ‘Wij Willen Zon’ (‘We Want Sun’). The foundation’s aim is to encourage consumers to use clean solar power by forming purchasers’ collectives to group-buy solar panels. Thus, subscribers were able to negotiate a 35% discount on a group order for 20,000 solar panels in 2011. Thanks to the website, word-of-mouth advertising and the use of social media, the ­campaign sparked a sudden surge in the popularity of solar power. Agricultural industry ABN AMRO takes a close interest in Dutch farmers through its 11 regional agricultural teams. And with some success, as is confirmed by a recent customer satisfaction survey. In order to help customers in the farming industry, ABN AMRO regularly publishes news and views on specific agricultural topics and market segments. In November 2011, for ­example, the bank published a special report on the poultry industry. Animal welfare and environmental impact are both highly topical issues for Dutch poultry farmers – and are issues that inevitably impinge directly on each other. ABN AMRO also produces a 48 as a customer bank 49 ­quarterly newsletter for the agricultural sector, presenting the latest news and trends 4.3 Customer Excellence: sustainable change and highlighting topical issues. Customer Excellence – a combination of Customer Focus and Operational Excellence – The bank is proud to see that farmers are ready to invest heavily in sustainability, i.e. is a new working method based on the principles of ‘lean management’. Customer in environmental protection, animal welfare, efficiency, health and energy. In doing so, ­Excellence represents an entire organisational transformation: the bank acknowledges Dutch farmers are setting the trend to the rest of the world in terms of innovation and that everything revolves around its customers, and seeks to structure its organisation sustainable agricultural production techniques. in such a way that customers receive first-rate service as quickly and as efficiently as ­possible. Customer Excellence is not a project or programme, but a series of constant Transport improvements. Sustainability is becoming an increasingly prominent issue in the shipping industry. Manufacturers all over the world are seeking to produce vessels that are more environment-friendly, Customers are critical: they want their financial service-provider to place them centre for example by fitting them with new, more efficient engines and fuel systems, by embracing stage, and they want them to be reliable and engaged. Above all else, though, they want new techniques for cleaner exhaust emissions, and by a­ dopting new designs. value for money. This is why ABN AMRO gives highest priority to meeting its customers’ needs and why every process starts with the question: What do customers want? Keen as it is to build on its reputation as a sustainable bank for the shipping industry, The bank wants to offer products and services that customers want, and to be flexible ABN AMRO was the first bank in the country to be formally named a Green Award at the same time. In order to answer the above question, we look at our operating ­Incentive Provider. Ships with the Green Award mark meet the highest standards in ­methods through five different lenses (see figure). terms of environmental protection and safety. There are various benefits, both financial and otherwise, to be gained from certification, including discounts on maritime services and port dues. ABN AMRO offers customers a partial refund of the annual certification fee. The five lenses ABN AMRO is also a member of the Sustainable Shipping Initiative, an alliance of leading players in the international shipping industry. The alliance has launched a number of Process efficiency Performance management We organise our processes in response onse to clients’ needs. We visualise results to gain insight into individual and team ­initiatives aimed at producing a sustainable shipping industry in the long term. We give clients what they need, when en they need it – and performance. By continually suggesting and developing ideas for always deliver quality. improvement, we create an organisation that is constantly learning. A new sustainability report was presented during the award ceremony held in The Hague in November 2011 to mark the presentation of the ‘Lean and Green Awards’. Compiled for the second time by the publishers of an industry newsletter working in conjunction with ABN AMRO, Connekt and MAN Trucks, the report summarises the sustainability ­initiatives in the industry. Client Property market The big Dutch property lenders signed a sustainability covenant during the PROVADA property development fair, held in Amsterdam in June 2011. Apart from underscoring the importance of sustainability in the property market, the signatories expressed a desire to Mindsets and behaviours Capabilities and organisation do their utmost, in their roles as lenders, to foster sustainability. ABN AMRO is one of We empower individuals to contribute ute to continuous We develop and organise our people e to improvement and take ownership off the way we work. enable them to perform at their best.t. the driving forces behind the covenant. 50 as a customer bank 51 Reducing waste The success of our approach is shown by the decline in the overall number of complaints in The Lean method is aimed at reducing waste. This can be taken literally as meaning 2011. Whereas a total of 16,500 complaints were received in January of last year, this figure that ABN AMRO wants to get things right the first time. The bank listens better to its had fallen to 13,500 by December. The number of complaints about savings-related issues ­customers, so that it has a clearer idea of the nature of their requirements. ABN AMRO declined by as much as 40%, partly thanks to the use of plain language in our terms and designs its processes to meet customer needs in the best possible way and thus conditions and sales literature. Employees now find the material easier to explain to their ­reduces wastage. The following two examples show how this works: customers, and the customers themselves have a clearer idea of what it is they are ▶▶ The bank has halved the volume of documentation on consumer loans, and the actually buying. number of forms customers need to complete in order to apply for a loan; ▶▶ The introduction of an electronic form and the use of email rather than post have As a further improvement, customers submitting a complaint are now immediately put cut the time required to process securities transactions by 75% and reduced paper through to a single member of staff who deals personally with their complaint. ­The customer consumption by 50%. in question receives a letter confirming that the complaint has been received, identifying the responsible member of staff and stating a date by which the complaint should have Customer Excellence leads to sustainable change. This is something we achieve by been resolved. In other words, customers know exactly where they stand. ­involving staff throughout the bank in change plans from the very outset. Everyone is ­encouraged to suggest improvements. ABN AMRO’s ‘change teams’ are a valuable Customer satisfaction about the bank’s complaints procedures, i.e. the percentage of means of fostering staff engagement and making lasting changes that have the full ­customers awarding a score of at least 8 to the bank’s complaints procedures, rose in ­support of our staff. 2011 from 33% in the first quarter to 44% in the final quarter. For example, looking through the ‘mindsets & behaviours’ lens, the bank reduces ­wastage. Looking through the ‘capabilities & organisation’ lens, the bank seeks to raise 4.5 Next steps its own ­organisational efficiency, deploying staff to their maximum potential. ▶▶ Continue to roll out Capital4Change strategy (impact investing); ABN AMRO invests heavily in coaching and training its staff, the idea being to create a ▶▶ Expand advisory role in philanthropy and socially responsible investment; company culture of continuous improvement. The result should also be a higher standard ▶▶ Promote recycling bank-wide with customer and employee panels; of customer service and more highly motivated staff, leading in turn to greater productivity ▶▶ Continue Plain Language project and improve Internet Banking for the blind and less absence due to illness. and visually impaired; ▶▶ Remain involved in platforms such as the Sustainable Shipping Initiative; ▶▶ Pursue implementation of Customer Excellence. 4.4 Complaints procedures ‘Every complaint is an opportunity’ runs the old adage. While this is absolutely true from the viewpoint of customer satisfaction, we are not particularly interested in receiving a ­constant flow of complaints from our customers. Instead, prevention rather than cure is the policy here. We can prevent complaints by supplying our staff with legal and technical advice on a proactive basis. 52 as an employer 53 employer as an 5 Sustainable growth cannot be achieved without a sustainable workforce. ABN AMRO aspires to be a flourishing, dynamic organisation that promotes diversity and self-development, now and in the future. The bank is committed to promoting employability and offers staff an extensive range of training courses, a differentiated performance management system and opportunities to attain a healthy work/life balance. The goal is to become a sustainable preferred employer. 54 as an employer 55 Mariken Segeren: “Sustainability in the Mariken Segeren: “Sustainability is a hot broadest sense of the word definitely issue at the bank these days. In a recent case sustainability as a plays a role in a prospective employee’s survey, a majority of staff said they’d like choice of employer. What we’re seeing is to see the bank become a trendsetter in that new entrants on the job market are sustainability by 2017. People reckoned social responsibility ­increasingly interested in finding an that the main priority for the coming years ­employer who shares their values and was the need to place the customer at ­priorities. People want to be proud of the the core of our business – that means company they work for.” ­establishing lasting, sustainable relationships with both corporate and private Banks don’t always readily spring to mind ­customers. The challenge is to make when you talk about sustainability and ­sustainability ‘sexy’, to raise consciousABN AMRO wants to give corporate social best traineeship in the Netherlands in 2011. corporate social responsibility. How can ness without being preachy. That’s where ­responsibility a structural and prominent position The same goes for ABN AMRO’s diversity ABN AMRO stand out from the crowd? the Works Council comes in – we have in the organisation and among stakeholders. efforts in the context of the Talent to the Henk Timmermans: “ABN AMRO is well a great network we can use, allowing us Sustainable growth goes hand-in-hand with Top charter, which we hope will ensure on the way to incorporating sustainability to identify local i­nitiatives and encourage a sustainable workforce: diverse, flexible and that our workforce forms a closer reflection into its core business. Customers really their adoption throughout the bank. constantly developing. Mariken Segeren, of society at large. That means having staff appreciate us helping them improve their ABN AMRO has set the wheels in motion. ­representing ABN AMRO’s Central Works of disparate ages and ethnic backgrounds, business models. Mind you, I also see it It’s now our job to keep them rolling.” Council, and Henk Timmermans from the Works and of course from both sexes. This includes as a social responsibility of ours. Our aim Council for Operations & Support Services, having more women in senior and middle must be to finance the sustainability welcome the bank’s ambition to stand out from management positions, though ABN movement in the Netherlands.” the crowd as a socially responsible employer. AMRO has a long way to go.” “Sustainability isn’t simply a question of idealism Henk Timmermans: “It’s not simply a – it’s also a matter of being realistic.” ­question of idealism, by the way. It’s also a matter of being realistic. Young people ABN AMRO wants to promote sustainable these days want to work for sustainable buying practices and is also planning organisations. Once the economy starts to offer sustainable investment products. to pick up again, we’ll soon find that we’re But can the bank also claim to be a operating in a tight labour market in which sustainable employer? it’s hard to recruit suitably qualified staff. Mariken Segeren: “Sustainability is a key Retaining staff – and holding their interest – component of the bank’s HR policy. Staff is going to become increasingly important. get loads of opportunities to explore and ABN AMRO does this by recognising develop their talents. Our Next Generation ­performance and talent and encouraging Mariken Segeren (l) and Henk Timmermans Professionals programme was even named staff to develop personally and profes­sionally.” 56 as an employer 57 5.1 Workforce strategy engagement, as well as better scores for retention, pride and satisfaction with the bank. The staff also felt more confident, about both the corporate culture and the bank’s future. ABN AMRO’s aim is to be a sustainable employer, which means not simply offering Staff appreciate the bank’s unswerving commitment to engaging its staff in an ongoing staff good pay and fringe benefits, but also encouraging them constantly to develop their dialogue; indeed, this sense of appreciation is one of the reasons for the improvement in talents and skills. Training and personal and professional development are a continuous staff morale. process for which the company bears a joint responsibility together with its employees. It’s all about ensuring that staff continuously seek to maximise their potential, that they Diversity can be deployed in a variety of different posts and are mobile. The diversity of its staff complement helps the bank make a difference and achieve the best results for its customers. For this reason, ABN AMRO is keen to build an People strategy ­organisation that recognises a wide range of talents and deploys them to their maximum ABN AMRO is ambitious in terms of its desire to go for long-term, sustainable growth. value, and in which all sorts of talented people feel at home, irrespective of any differences To this end, the bank has adopted a ‘people strategy’ that is designed to achieve the in gender, ethnic background, age, sexual preference and physical disability. We support ­following objectives: attitudes and behaviour that favour diversity and inclusion. ▶▶ Ingrain our core values of ‘trusted, professional and ambitious’ in our company culture; ▶▶ Strengthen the bank’s reputation as an employer of choice. Project an image as a ABN AMRO formed a Diversity Board in 2010 in order to raise awareness of the need ­dynamic organisation that can adapt to the constantly changing demands of its setting, for diversity. This board is made up of seven members from different business units and for example by using technology, by encouraging staff to strike the right work-life is chaired by a member of the Managing Board. The board monitors and evaluates the ­balance and by setting appropriate training requirements; ­progress made by the bank in implementing its diversity policy. ▶▶ Boost staff engagement and dedication, for example by using differentiated performance management. In 2011, an independent committee (formed as part of a government campaign for ­monitoring the gender-diversity policies in the private sector) acclaimed the bank’s How can ABN AMRO raise staff awareness of sustainability issues? ­successful diversity policy as ‘a good example for the industry as a whole’. This conclusion ABN AMRO’s senior managers have a key role to play in promoting awareness of, trust was supported by the following findings: in and engagement with the bank’s sustainability policy. It was against this background ▶▶ One member of the Managing Board, and two members of the Supervisory Board, that, in 2010 and 2011, the bank decided to give an extra impetus to its leadership are women; ­programmes. These programmes revolve around seven leadership competencies, four ▶▶ ABN AMRO runs a range of mentoring programmes: one cross-company programme, of which have a direct bearing on sustainability: one in-company programme and one for members of the Managing Board; ▶▶ Seek to build a long-term relationship with customers; ▶▶ The bank adopted a new policy in 2011 requiring the presence of at least two women ▶▶ Be aware of your role as a ‘steward’; in every Management Development Committee; ▶▶ Inspire others; infuse them with enthusiasm; ▶▶ A number of business units have adopted their own programmes on gender diversity ▶▶ Connect with others by working together. to make it easier for ambitious women in middle and senior managerial posts to gain promotion to executive posts; Monitoring corporate culture ▶▶ Although there was a slight decline in 2011 in the number of women in middle and ABN AMRO commissioned a wide range of staff surveys in 2011 to monitor changes senior managerial posts, the bank is adhering to its ambitious gender-diversity targets, in its corporate culture and to enable it to take appropriate action where necessary. i.e. that 20% of senior managerial posts should be held by women in 2014 (2011: The findings of the Mood Monitor in December 2011 pointed to a general improvement 15%), and that 25% of middle management posts should be held by women in 2014 in comparison with a similar survey held the previous June. There was a rising trend in (2011: 20%). 58 as an employer 59 Disputes Employer of choice Any disputes between ABN AMRO and its staff are settled in accordance with the bank’s The bank seeks to boost its reputation as an attractive employer by means of coaching and corporate values. Where human rights are involved, the bank handles any complaints in by offering staff a wide range of courses, using a variety learning methods as well as on-theaccordance with the terms of its Human Rights Position Statement. ABN AMRO has set job training. ABN AMRO made a particularly vigorous effort in 2011 to help find new jobs for up a disputes committee to adjudicate on any disputes between the bank and its staff. staff who had been made redundant, and to improve the bank’s brand image as an employer The committee consists of an independent chairman and a number of members in relevant markets. ­appointed by the bank and the trade unions. New traineeship programme: Next Generation Professionals A total of 76 complaints were submitted to the committee in 2011. Of these, 18 were ABN AMRO’s ‘Next Generation Professionals’ traineeship programme (named the ‘best withdrawn, six were upheld and 16 were rejected. The remainder are either still under ­traineeship programme in the country’ in 2011) is unique in offering candidates a choice from ­investigation, have been postponed or have been declared inadmissible. 22 different options, as well as the opportunity to design their own programme. A total of 3,000 applications were received in 2011 for 100 trainee vacancies. The idea behind the Confidential counsellors ­programme is to help selected trainees develop to their full potential, socially as well as If there is any problem affecting the relationship between members of staff, or between ­professionally. The programme incorporates a number of innovative tools that are designed a member of staff and his or her superior, the person in question is free to seek the to help position the bank as an attractive employer for generation Y. advice of a confidential counsellor. The bank’s confidential counsellors dealt with 293 cases in 2011. Almost half of these related to working conditions; 90 members of staff Teleworking asked for advice; there were 41 conflicts relating to performance appraisals; and 14 cases ABN AMRO adopted new teleworking practices early in 2010 which it hopes will do more involved an alleged instance of sexual harassment. to satisfy the wishes of the new generation of customers and staff, and will also meet the needs of today’s productive knowledge economy. The bank expects the adoption of the new Whistleblowing policy practices to lead to a rise not just in customer and staff satisfaction, but also in productivity In the firm belief that all cases of abuse should be reported so that it can take appropriate and efficiency. Staff can look forward to a healthier work-life balance, less travel and a more action, limit or prevent any damage and learn lessons for the future, ABN AMRO has adopted productive use of their time. a whistleblowing policy. Some 4,800 staff began converting to teleworking practices in 2011. Of these, 1,000 have Staff representative bodies now completed the process. All conversions have proved successful, in terms of both staff ABN AMRO believes in the importance of a constructive dialogue between management satisfaction and the work-life balance. We are planning to extend the scheme in 2012. and staff. Good, constructive discussions with trades unions and works councils are ­absolutely vital in this respect. ABN AMRO puts this policy into practice in the Netherlands Working conditions by ensuring, for example, that staff who are also trade union officials can combine their The bank aims to offer its staff good working conditions, so as to guarantee their health and jobs with the d­ emands of active trade union membership. As one of the ways of safety and foster a greater sense of well-being. Its policy is based on domestic and interna­achieving this, the c­ ollective labour agreement contains a clause under which staff who tional rules and regulations, where necessary supplemented by internal rules and standards. are active union m­ embers are entitled to up to ten days leave a year to attend union meetings. Ordinary union members are entitled to a maximum of four days leave for Most of our staff have sedentary jobs, work hard and now need to work for longer than this purpose. ­anticipated before reaching retirement age. In short, they run a relatively high risk of exposure to health problems. The bank helps them in their quest to remain fit, offering them in-house 60 as an employer 61 gym facilities and the services of a physiotherapist at a number of our offices, and also members of staff are appraised in accordance with the same model and by following ­organises a wide range of sporting activities for staff. the same process. The bank’s policy on health and safety at work includes special provisions on a raft of The guidelines for performance management set clearly formulated, specific objectives ­high-­priority issues: smoking, sexual harassment, job-related risks and safety. Risk assessthat take account not just of individual targets, but also of the targets set for the ments are carried out on a regular basis to analyse the risks associated with specific jobs. ­employee’s business unit and those applying to the company as a whole. These objectives These a­ ssessments are sometimes supplemented by occupational health medical are then translated into financial and non-financial performance targets, both quantitative ­examinations. and qualitative. Customer satisfaction is one of the factors involved here, and is weighted appropriately. Staff are invited to undergo a health check once every three years. The end-product is a ­personal health report, plus dietary advice, tips on a healthy lifestyle and how to cope with The appraisal procedure applying to members of the Management Group and other pressure at work, etc. A total of 1,886 members of staff underwent health checks in 2011. ‘Identified Staff Members’ also involves what is known as a gatekeeper procedure. ­ The Risk, Compliance and Audit departments assess each year whether the subject’s ABN AMRO’s supplier of occupational health and safety services reported a slight rise in the ­individual behaviour, including types of behaviour that are in the customer’s interest, rate of absence due to illness during the year under review. At 4.19% at the end of the year, are in line with the bank’s guidelines. the figure is comparable with that for other Dutch banks. Variable pay components ABN AMRO adopts suitable technical precautions to protect people, information and property Staff pay may include a variable component, in which case the bank adheres to the throughout the company. Apart from wanting all its staff, as well as visitors to its premises, ­relevant guidelines, i.e. European regulations such as the revised Capital Requirements to feel fully confident about their physical safety and protection, ABN AMRO is bound by Directive (CRD III) and national guidelines, such as the Restrained Remuneration Policy countless national and international agreements relating to workplace safety. Regulations (Financial Supervision Act) adopted by the Dutch central bank, and the Dutch Banking Code. The bank’s Annual Report contains a detailed remuneration report. ABN AMRO believes that its staff should remain fully employable throughout their careers. The bank performs ‘strategic workforce planning’ to identify its long-term staffing needs and to enable it to respond quickly to any changes. Strategic workforce planning gives 5.2 Next steps the bank: ▶▶ A clearer idea of the composition of the labour force in terms of both quantity and ▶▶ Continue to implement the people strategy (embed core values of Trusted, Professional quality, now and in the future; and Ambitious in the corporate culture, strengthen reputation as preferred employer, etc.); ▶▶ The resources and processes it needs for strategic staff planning (including a ▶▶ Raise awareness of sustainability within the organisation; ­forecasting model, for example); ▶▶ Roll out The New World of Work; ▶▶ Intervention tools that can if necessary be used on a cross-business basis. ▶▶ Continue to pursue diversity targets (Talent to the Top). Performance management ABN AMRO has adopted an integrated approach to performance management and ­remuneration. Our policy is to link performance management to talent management, training and development, thus closely gearing our corporate strategy to individual ­strategies. The system is based on a staff appraisal philosophy that assumes that all A diverse workforce helps the bank meet the needs of its diverse customer base. 64 as a business facilitator 65 as a business facilitator 6 ABN AMRO strives to make its operations sustainable across the board by taking responsibility for the supply chain. The bank does this by encouraging suppliers to conduct socially responsible business practices and by minimising its own impact on the environment, in part by conserving energy, paper and other resources. 66 as a business facilitator 67 case Creating a ­sustainable ­supply chain Peter Potters Acknowledging that any organisation by identifying our core themes in relation ­indication of how a company scores in areas organisation. These are big organisations is no more sustainable than its to sustainability and refining our stakeholder such as good governance, the environment that have the clout to influence the supply suppliers, ABN AMRO launched FIRA, analysis. We believe that it’s incredibly and human rights. The assessment takes chain, as witnessed by the increasing a platform which rates suppliers’ CSR ­important for us to make this journey into account the certificates already awarded number of buyers registering with FIRA, performances and helps buyers select ­towards a more sustainable organisation in to the supplier, and produces both a rating including UVIT health insurer, Utrecht sustainable suppliers. “FIRA is the concert with our suppliers. We want to and a score. Obviously, different criteria ­University and Unilever. What we want to cornerstone of a procurement chain in engage in a constant process of dialogue apply to different industries. Environmental do is to use FIRA to gradually build a which organisations join forces to with our suppliers about the latest protection is likely to be a core theme for a ­sustainable purchasing network in the produce a sustainable supply chain”, ­developments rather than exclude them. car leasing company, whereas the emphasis coming years. Our aim is for ABN AMRO explains Peter Potters, responsible for By doing so, we can ensure that customers for a producer of industrial clothing with Netherlands to order half its purchases ABN AMRO Procurement Development. and suppliers inspire each other and that production facilities in Asia is more likely to from FIRA-rated suppliers by the end of sustainability retains a prominent place on lie on human rights and working conditions. this year. This gives us an assurance that ABN AMRO asked its suppliers to register the business agenda.” Suppliers can opt to give other buyers these suppliers recognise the value of with FIRA in 2011 to shed light on their CSR access to their sustainability data, so that ­corporate social responsibility and are keen performances. But how does ABN AMRO There are already loads of quality marks and they only need to note their sustainability to join us in improving their CSR record.” itself score in the FIRA Rating System? certification schemes for sustainability and record just once rather than having to “Obviously, we want to live up to the corporate social responsibility out there. complete different sustainability questionsame standards we expect our suppliers What’s FIRA got that the others haven’t? naires every time they’re asked for a quote.” to meet. At present, we’re rated at entry “FIRA performs professional assessments level, which is bronze in FIRA terms. of companies’ sustainability performances, An initiative like FIRA has to be endorsed This means that we’ve committed ourthus allowing purchasers to find their way in order to succeed. Have many companies selves to the principles of sustainability through the maze of certification schemes have registered with the FIRA Rating System? and that our current sustainability record that have mushroomed in all sorts of “FIRA is an independent sustainability and future plans have been assessed. ­different countries, industrial sectors and broker founded jointly by ABN AMRO, We want to move up in the coming years, markets. The rating system gives a clear Achmea, Rabobank and the NEVI buyers’ 68 as a business facilitator 69 6.1 ABN AMRO’s environmental impact Buildings As mentioned, ABN AMRO performed a study in 2011 to determine the energy clas­ ABN AMRO wishes to minimise the impact of its business activities on the environment sification of its Dutch premises. Steps were taken so that the bank’s Gustav Mahlerlaan and believes that an efficient, cost-effective organisation is critical to achieving this object. building in Amsterdam would qualify for a gold label for Leadership in Energy and The bank’s motto is: ‘consume less, operate sustainably and accept responsibility’. ­Environmental Design (LEED in-use) and a ‘very good’ label under the Building Research Against this background, the bank pursues an active policy of reducing its energy Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) for an existing building ­consumption. The bank’s aim is to cut its overall energy consumption by 20% in 2012 that is already in use. (compared with 2009). The bank is also keen to promote sustainable energy use. Apart from reducing its consumption of energy, ABN AMRO is also planning to cut paper Work began in 2011 on an energy audit that is due to be completed in 2013. ABN AMRO consumption by 20% in 2012. also performed a self-assessment study in 2011 as part of the application procedure for BREEAM certification. BREEAM and LEED are both means of assessing the sustainability performances of buildings. The certification procedure has not been completed yet and 6.2 Energy consumption will continue in 2012. These are some of the campaigns launched by ABN AMRO in relation to energy-saving Other initiatives include: and energy consumption: ▶▶ Together with the ORAM retailers’ association for greater Amsterdam, the Amsterdam ▶▶ ABN AMRO uses low-energy LED and strip lighting fitted with daylight detection. RAI exhibition centre, Zuidas Amsterdam, Accenture, Vesteda, Nuon and Loyens & As part of the merger operation, some 60 branches with an average power consumption Loeff, ABN AMRO is one of the co-founders of and partners in the Dutch Green of 80,000 kWh were closed down, thus producing additional energy savings of ­Building Council. This is an independent, non-profit organisation that seeks to ensure ­approximately 5 GWh.; that the built environment in the Netherlands is sustainable in the long term. In 2011, ▶▶ ABN AMRO has been successful in meeting the targets set out in the MJA3 long-term the members of the Council were invited to complete a survey on their ­sustainability energy consumption covenant. The bank easily achieved its aim of improving the track records. ABN AMRO was awarded a special prize as the highest scoring energy efficiency at two of its head-office buildings in Amsterdam by 2% per annum; ­organisation in the survey; ▶▶ ABN AMRO launched an Energy Care System in 2011. This generates management ▶▶ In partnership with ORAM, the Amsterdam municipal council and Loyens & Loeff, ­information on the current status of the bank’s energy objectives; ABN AMRO set up the Green Business Club. The club has identified the following four ▶▶ ABN AMRO signed the CIO covenant on a more energy-efficient IT operation in 2011. key themes: regional development, mobility, energy and leadership. Having enjoyed a The other signatories are large IT service-providers and consultancies; the common successful launch, the members of the Green Business Club are keen to turn the club objective is to cut energy consumption for IT services; into a nationwide organisation with a range of regional clubs throughout the country. ▶▶ ABN AMRO has reached agreement with IBM on cutting the energy consumption of its electronic data processing centres by 15% in 2013, compared with the situation in 2010; 6.3 Paper consumption ▶▶ ABN AMRO performed a study in 2011 to identify the type of action that needs to be taken in order for all its Dutch branches to be awarded C-class energy certification; One of the ways of reducing the bank’s paper consumption by 20% in 2012 (as compared ▶▶ Of the energy consumed by all of ABN AMRO’s Dutch branches, 85% is certified with the situation in 2009) is by reducing the volume of paper bank statements. In 2011, (by CertiQ) as ‘green power’. ABN AMRO wrote to 700,000 of its customers who use Internet Banking, asking them whether they would be willing to switch from hard-copy to digital account statements. Some 76% said they would indeed be prepared to make the switch. Despite the addition 70 as a business facilitator 71 of retail customers formerly banking with Fortis Bank Nederland to ABN AMRO’s ­accounts, there has not been any increase in the number of hard-copy bank statements sent by post to account-holders. Other initiatives include: ▶▶ Encouraging the use of iPads; ▶▶ Switching to digital contract signatures, and migrating where possible from paper flows to Internet Banking, bankmail and email; ▶▶ Adopting digital pay slips for all staff. This generates an annual saving of over 270,000 envelopes and 290,000 pay slips, equivalent to a total of almost 3 tonnes of paper; ▶▶ Switching where possible to paperless operating processes, for example by the ­adoption of ‘electronic customer files’, digital working practices, etc. The bank aims to use paper that is as light and as environment-friendly as possible. In 2011, for example, stocks of 80g printing and photocopying paper were replaced by 75g paper, all branches switched to double-sided printing and all new paper orders were ­compliant with FSC and ECO standards. 6.4 Travel and mobility ABN AMRO’s motto is: ABN AMRO seeks to minimise the environmental burden caused by commuter travel. It does so by: ‘consume less, operate ▶▶ Encouraging teleworking; ▶▶ Encouraging staff to use public transport (e.g. by paying for a rail season ticket for ­sustainably and take those members of staff who travel to work at least three days a week, and also by ­ensuring that all head-office buildings are located close to a railway station. A total of 6,913 employees used a rail season ticket in 2011); ­responsibility’. ▶▶ Encouraging staff to drive environment-friendly cars (since 1 January 2011, leased company cars must be classified in one of the top three environmental categories); ▶▶ Experimenting with electric cars. In May 2011, ABN AMRO staff were invited to join a pool with Accenture and Vesteda giving them access to four electric cars. Staff can use an online booking system to book a car for customer calls, for example. The booking system has a special facility that allows the cars to communicate with it on a real-time basis, so that users have a clear picture of the remaining battery capacity. If the trial goes well, other companies based 72 as a business facilitator 73 in the same district of Amsterdam will be invited to join the scheme. ABN AMRO has For this reason, ABN AMRO has more than just an internal focus, but is also the fitted chargers for electric cars and scooters in all its corporate premises. ­co-founder of, and one of the partners in, FIRA (see the introduction to this chapter, ­entitled ‘Joining forces to produce a sustainable supply chain’). As mentioned, FIRA has The bank will be examining further ways of reducing its CO2 emissions in 2012. awarded a bronze rating to ABN AMRO Netherlands (discounting subsidiaries and other shareholdings). 6.5 Waste and water The bank signed a public declaration on socially responsible purchasing and business practices in 2011, and took part in a think-tank organised by the NEVI network of buyers ABN AMRO is also active in waste management. A scheme was launched in 2011 for and supply managers. ­collecting used coffee cups in accordance with the terms of the Second National Waste Management Plan. The coffee cups are collected by a charity organisation and are reused Finally, ABN AMRO adopted national and international policies on outsourcing setting out in the production a range of consumables. rules on and criteria for outsourcing, thus guaranteeing that the concomitant risks are properly managed. All waste produced by the bank is collected and disposed of on a carbon-neutral basis. Sustainability is one of the key criteria in the selection of new waste-processing contractors. Other activities in 2011 ▶▶ ABN AMRO came fourth in the Smart Challenge, a contest to find the company whose staff saved the most energy; 6.6 Other resource-efficiency programmes ▶▶ The lights were turned off in all the bank’s premises on 29 October, to mark the ‘Night of the Night’; ABN AMRO’s aim is for its operating processes wherever possible to make use of products ▶▶ The Earth Hour is a WWF initiative to raise awareness of climate change: the idea is with a minimal environmental impact. The bank has taken the following action to this end: for everyone in the world to turn off their lights for an hour to call attention to ▶▶ Sustainable floor coverings are used, in accordance with the cradle-to-cradle principle, ­sustainability and the future of the planet; in the Gustav Mahlerlaan premises in Amsterdam; ▶▶ The bank won the 2011 Participants’ Mirror, a prize awarded to the organisation that ▶▶ The bank takes the environmental impact into account when purchasing office supplies; has done the most during the past year to promote the sustainability of the built ▶▶ The bank uses sustainable long-term budgets (based on the replacement of items at ­environment in the Netherlands. the end of their natural lives); ▶▶ The bank has reached agreement with two of its preferred suppliers, Maas International and Douwe Egberts, that all coffee machines should dispense fair-trade coffee; 6.8 Next steps ▶▶ 30% of the products served in the bank’s staff restaurants were organic in 2011. ABN AMRO wants to see this figure rise to 50% in 2012. ▶▶ Further reduce paper consumption (target: 20% reduction compared with 2009); ▶▶ Reduce energy consumption by 20% (compared with 2009); ▶▶ Use sustainable energy wherever possible; 6.7 As a business partner (for its suppliers) ▶▶ Obtain LEED and BREEAM certification for head office at Gustav Mahlerlaan, Amsterdam; ▶▶ Grow Green Business Club into a nationwide organisation; In terms of the bank’s sustainability and CSR objectives, ABN AMRO’s purchasing policy ▶▶ Increase sustainable purchasing (FIRA) of office supplies, office furnishing, catering, etc. is a vital cog in the wheel. The fact is that buyers, in their position as controllers of the supply chain, are ideally placed to put the bank’s sustainability policy into practice. 74 as a part of the community 75 as a part of the community 7 Every person has a right to be an active member of society – and yet many people suffer from social exclusion, due to poverty, illness or old age. ABN AMRO supports these people by encouraging employees to help the underprivileged gain independence and by sponsoring socially committed organisations. The bank also backs the SUPPORT Foundation’s efforts to shelter and coach street children in Mumbai, India. 76 as a part of the community 77 We’re delighted to be able to support that, The financial industry and a project like and that’s why we organise integration Resto VanHarte are two very different case Fighting ­activities in a social context. Resto VanHarte worlds indeed. Are all employees equally is just one of these initiatives.” enthusiastic to get started? Fred Beekers: “Some participants do find it social exclusion The bank’s contribution is more than just a financial one… Mario Schiks: “Our focus is on people for a bit daunting at first. They definitely want to get stuck in but, for whatever reason, they feel inhibited. Fortunately, that feeling people. Each month, thirty new ABN AMRO passes very quickly. Everyone ends up employees work at one of the ­restaurants really putting their heart and soul into it.” as part of an introductory process in which Mario Schiks: “Something happens to they learn a great deal about the bank, the people during this experience. No matter ABN AMRO encourages staff to help ­involvement in their community ends. way we aim to work and our role in the how disparate the group is, they inevitably economically and socially underprivileged Resto VanHarte gives individuals the community. They can then put these theories develop a sense of team spirit by the end. people by facilitating socially responsible chance to come into contact with other into practice when working at VanHarte. Participants say they feel they’ve bonded projects through ABN AMRO Foundation. people. Here they can also enjoy a tasty Employees also take part in conversation not just with one another, but also with the A prime example is Resto VanHarte (From the meal, good conversation and a fun and meet visitors, cook, and see to table target group. Our aim is to get people to Heart), a chain of restaurants located in ­evening. And it works – you really start to settings or the entertainment. All this realise that every one of us deserves ­respect community and neighbourhood centres see people opening up and coming into ­requires creativity and daring. After all, and has something of value to offer. We also throughout the Netherlands where visitors can their own.” they’re outside their comfort zone in terms want to ensure that that realisation has enjoy a good but inexpensive meal. The bank of the work they’re doing, the environment been firmly embedded in each employee’s sponsors this initiative, and every month a VanHarte relies in part on the business and the target group.” mind by the end of the experience.” number of new ABN AMRO employees roll up community for funding, and ABN AMRO is a their sleeves and help out. The idea is that major sponsor. What about this particular sharing a meal brings people closer together. concept does the bank find so compelling? ABN AMRO Community Commitment Your aim is to ‘create a community support ­Advisor Mario Schiks: “The bank plays a base to tackle social exclusion problems’. role at the very heart of the community. Social poverty? In the Netherlands? We want to contribute to the well-being of Fred Beekers, director and founder of present and future generations. By wellthe Resto VanHarte Foundation: “Actually, being, I mean involvement, in the sense there are many people living in isolation that people feel they’re being heard, that in the Netherlands, individuals who have others know who they are and that they’re hardly any contact at all with the outside directly involved in their community. Resto world. Some leave their homes only to VanHarte connects people and encourages Mario Schiks (l) and Fred Beekers do the shopping, and that’s where their them to make something of their lives. 78 as a part of the community 79 7.1 ABN AMRO Foundation children with language deficits to improve their reading skills. Another 540 members of staff gave a total of 283 sessions in financial instruction to 8,820 primary school pupils in 2011. ABN AMRO established the ABN AMRO Foundation to define and develop its involvement in society as a whole. Under the motto ‘people for people’, ABN AMRO Foundation organises Overcoming social isolation projects that encourage and enable bank employees to help others who have fewer Seeking out socially isolated individuals, talking to them and doing a socially oriented ­opportunities in society because of their economic, physical or cultural circumstances. ­activity with them are all crucial to restoring a more positive perspective to their lives. Many socially isolated people are simply unaware of the resources available to help them. In tandem with the integration process resulting in the new bank in 2011, ABN AMRO also An informal discussion about a particular individual’s personal situation can prove to be developed a variety of community integration activities. In their new teams, staff were the perfect opportunity for providing advice or offering help. ­encouraged to become active in society by participating in joint community initiatives, thus giving them the chance to become acquainted with one another in a different context Sharing a meal brings people closer together. In line with this vision, Resto VanHarte has and, at the same time, tackle important social issues. opened easily accessible, welcoming eateries at community centres and support facilities for people of all ages, creeds and cultures. ABN AMRO supports the work carried out by In 2011, ABN AMRO organised over 400 projects, in which a total of 9,172 employees Resto VanHarte. In 2011, 218 new employees helped to prepare and serve meals as part took part. ABN AMRO’s collective labour agreement includes leave for voluntary activities: of a special introductory programme (see also the introduction to this section, ‘People for employees are allowed one week off a year to contribute to the community. Many employees people’). take this opportunity to help primary school children with their reading, coaching lower ­secondary school pupils or organising a social team activity for their own departments. Other activities ▶▶ The sixth annual Christmas Angel Initiative was organised in 2011 in collaboration with Social exclusion the National Fund for the Elderly. As part of the initiative, volunteers delivered Christmas Poverty is a major factor in social exclusion. For many different reasons, individuals who trees to over 600 solitary seniors, d­ ecorated them together and had a chat over a cup find themselves in such a situation lack the financial resources to play an active role in of coffee; their communities. This ever-growing problem can be addressed by rescuing people ▶▶ Some 350 teams carried out an activity together with a community target group with from social exclusion and helping them improve their life skills, financial and otherwise. the aim of getting to know each other. A visit to a museum or zoo goes a long way By mobilising its workforce, ABN AMRO wants to make a meaningful contribution to ­towards overcoming isolation; solving these issues. ▶▶ The 2011 Christmas hampers distributed to ABN AMRO employees contained an extra cardboard box allowing them to donate a portion of the contents, or other food, as a Improving life skills Christmas gift to visitors of the Food Bank. As a result, 6,300 packets were delivered Life skills can be improved in many ways. The best place to start is with young people. to the Food Bank. Equipping youngsters at an early age with certain skills and insight gives them a far better chance of success as independently functioning members of society in the future. By ­improving reading and entrepreneurial skills, offering study and career guidance, and 7.2 Community sponsorship broadening their knowledge of money matters, ABN AMRO intends to make a lasting contribution to developing talent and helping young people avoid learning gaps and financial debt. ABN AMRO also shows its involvement in the community by sponsoring civil society ­organisations and by promoting and publicising these activities. The bank’s community In 2011, ABN AMRO employees collected over 20,000 books with the aim of encouraging sponsorship policy encompasses the same themes as the bank’s Generation Next model children to read. Twice a week, some 130 bank employees volunteer in schools, helping – namely entrepreneurship, involvement and stewardship. 80 as a part of the community 81 ABN AMRO has long sponsored sports activities. For this reason, the bank is a Thanks in part to the unwavering commitment of the Victim Support Fund, aid for victims proud FairShare partner in the Fund for Special Needs Sports. This means that 2% of and their legal position are now high on the Dutch political agenda, as attested by the fact ABN AMRO’s total sports sponsorship expenditure now goes ­towards sponsoring that Queen Beatrix specifically called for attention to be given to this issue in her recent special needs sports. speech from the throne. ABN AMRO is proud to have contributed to the important work the fund does. Thanks to its partnership with the Fund for Special Needs Sports, the bank helps to ensure that able-bodied and special needs athletes alike receive the support they need to play their particular sport. One unique example is the bank’s ongoing commitment to 7.3 Support voor SUPPORT ­organise the official Wheelchair Tennis Tournament, presided over by tournament director and wheelchair tennis player Esther Vergeer and coinciding with the bank’s very own The ABN AMRO Support for SUPPORT Foundation established within the bank itself ABN AMRO World Tennis Tournament. ­assists the SUPPORT Foundation in its efforts to provide refuge and guidance to street children in Mumbai, India. These children face a range of problems because of drugs and ABN AMRO is a proud sponsor of the Children’s Peace Prize, which is awarded each other circumstances. year to a child, anywhere in the world, who has shown true self-initiative and served the rights of children in a unique way. This ’Nobel Prize for children’ encourages young SUPPORT was founded in 1985 and is run by volunteers. It is one of only a few organisapeople and rewards entrepreneurial initiatives with a real impact on the personal tions in India with a rehabilitation programme for drug-dependent street children and ­environment of c­ hildren and on the world. Another example clearly linked to the bank’s probably the only one to also allow girls into its programme. The foundation provides business activities is the Kids in Bizz programme established by the Foundation for ­children with accommodation and rebuilds their lives using an approach which has proven Young Entrepreneurs. to be highly effective. First, addiction is tackled head-on. The children are then enrolled in school and given assistance in finding gainful employment. The bank further demonstrates its engagement through the initiatives it supports to ­encourage reading among children. Examples include the Children’s Books Week, the Over the last few years, ABN AMRO has raised funds for SUPPORT in a variety of ways. Dutch Children’s Jury, the National Read Aloud Days and an initiative developed by These include donating an hour’s salary, sponsored participation in a number of marathons, the bank itself, the Children’s Travelling Book. the Climbing the Stairs initiative and an online auction. The funds raised went towards the purchase of a piece of land in India in 2008 for the purpose of building a new relief Organised in collaboration with the Climate Neutral Group, all the events sponsored by the centre. Construction got under way in 2010, and the first phase is now coming to a close. bank are climate-neutral. ABN AMRO spent over EUR 1 million on community spon­sor­ship The relief centre will be able to accommodate 150 children. in 2011. In 2012, ABN AMRO’s aim is to pursue its community sponsorship policy and, where possible, to communicate and convey its own story behind the various activities. 7.4 Next steps Support provided to the Victim Support Fund In 2011, ABN AMRO provided financial support to the Victim Support Fund (Fonds ▶▶ Continue FairShare partnership in the Fund for Special Needs Sports; ­Slachtofferhulp), which assists victims of crimes, accidents, disasters and medical mal▶▶ Promote sponsorship initiatives such as Children’s Peace Prize, SUPPORT practice in the Netherlands. The Victim Support Fund operates as a financier, collaborative and Victim Support Fund; partner and advocate to improve assistance, ameliorate victims’ circumstances and stop ▶▶ Actively encourage staff to participate in socially responsible projects via victimisation. ABN AMRO is firmly committed to supporting this valuable work. ABN AMRO Foundation. ABN AMRO employees participate in numerous activities designed to draw people out of their social isolation and give them a brighter outlook. 84 85 appendices 86 appendix 1 87 As sole holder of all issued exchangeable depositary receipts, the Dutch State holds an equal indirect interest in ABN AMRO. NLFI is responsible for managing the shares and exercising all rights associated with these shares under Dutch law, including voting rights. appendix 1 However, material or principal decisions require the prior approval of the Dutch Minister ABN AMRO of Finance, who can also provide binding voting instructions with respect to such ­decisions. at a glance Businesses and services As an all-round bank, ABN AMRO provides services to private individuals and to private banking and business clients. The bank is firmly rooted in the Netherlands and supports clients both in and outside the country with its banking expertise, specialist sector ­knowledge and a selective international network. ABN AMRO has a presence in the neighbouring countries (Germany, Belgium, France and the United Kingdom) where Mission it serves its business clients, as well as in the world’s ten largest financial and ABN AMRO’s first-class professionals always exceed expectations, creating highly logistics hubs, including New York, São Paulo, Singapore and Hong Kong. In addition, ­satisfied clients. ABN AMRO serves a number of global specialist markets such as Energy, Commodities & Transportation, ABN AMRO Clearing and collateralised Finance (Commercial Finance The bank’s core values and Lease in Western Europe). The bank’s private banking business is the market leader Trusted – ABN AMRO strives to maintain long-term relationships. in the Netherlands and serves clients in thirteen countries and territories. Professional – ABN AMRO provides simple, understandable and viable solutions. Ambitious – ABN AMRO wants to achieve more for its customers. ABN AMRO is organised into two business segments – Retail & Private Banking (R&PB) and Commercial & Merchant Banking (C&MB). Both segments are supported by Group Corporate information Functions. Each member of the Managing Board is responsible for either a business ABN AMRO Group N.V. (referred to as ‘ABN AMRO Group’ or ‘the Company’) is the ­segment or a support unit within Group Functions. The Chairman of the Managing Board parent company of ABN AMRO Bank N.V. and a related consolidated group of companies oversees the general management of ABN AMRO and is responsible for Group Audit (referred to as ‘the Group’ or ‘ABN AMRO’). ABN AMRO Group is a public limited liability and the Corporate Office, as shown on the next page. company, incorporated under Dutch law on 18 December 2009, and registered at Gustav Mahlerlaan 10, 1082 PP Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The Dutch State holds all ordinary shares in ABN AMRO Group. On 29 September 2011, the Dutch State transferred its share capital in both ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Preferred Investments B.V. to NL Financial Investments (NLFI). NLFI issued exchangeable depositary receipts for shares (without the cooperation of ABN AMRO Group) to the Dutch State in return for acquiring and holding, in its own name, the share capital in both ABN AMRO Group and ABN AMRO Preferred Investments B.V. NLFI holds a total voting interest of 97.78% in ABN AMRO. ­ 88 appendix 1 89 C&MB serves Netherlands-based corporates with international activities, offering a ABN AMRO ­one-stop shop for all financial solutions and tailor-made services. Clients have access to the bank’s international network including the ten largest financial and logistics hubs in the world, including New York, São Paulo, London, Frankfurt, Singapore and Hong Kong. Internationally, Commercial & Merchant Banking also offers selected specialised activities Group Corporate where it holds or can achieve a top-five position. These include Energy, Commodities & Audit Office Transportation, ABN AMRO Clearing and collateralised Finance (Commercial Finance and Lease in Western Europe). Commercial Banking serves commercial clients with annual turnover of up to EUR 500 Commercial Risk Integration, Retail & Private million and clients in the public sector, commercial finance and leasing. Commercial & Merchant TOPS Finance Management Communication Banking Banking & Strategy & Compliance Banking consists of two business lines: Business Banking and Corporate Clients. Group Functions Business Banking offers small and medium-sized businesses with turnover up to EUR 30 million a comprehensive range of standard and customised products, self-directRetail Banking serves Mass Retail and Preferred Banking clients and offers a wide variety ed ­YourBusiness Banking, a nationwide network of seventy-eight business offices and of banking and insurance products – such as savings accounts and consumer loans and access to ABN AMRO’s international network. All Business Banking clients have access credit, mortgages and investment services – through the branch network, online, via to products and expertise available in other C&MB business lines, such as trade, lease ­contact centres, via intermediaries and through subsidiaries. Other primary brands are and commercial finance. Direktbank, ABN AMRO Hypotheken Groep, MoneYou, Alfam, International Card Services and ABN AMRO Verzekeringen. Corporate Clients serves Netherlands-based companies with an annual turnover of ­between EUR 30 million and EUR 500 million, as well as clients in the public sector. Private Banking provides total solutions to meet its clients’ global wealth management ABN AMRO Lease, ABN AMRO Commercial Finance and Commercial Banking needs and offers a rich array of products and services designed to address their individual ­International are part of Corporate Clients and provide solutions to clients in all C&MB needs. Private Banking operates under the brand name ABN AMRO MeesPierson in the segments. Netherlands, internationally under ABN AMRO Private Banking, and under local brand names such as Banque Neuflize OBC in France and Bethmann Bank in Germany. Merchant Banking serves Netherlands-based corporates, financial institutions and real The International Diamond & Jewelry Group (ID&JG) is the global market leader in the estate investors and developers, as well as international companies active in Energy, ­financing of the diamond and jewellery industry. Commodities & Transportation (ECT). Merchant Banking is organised into two business lines: Large Corporates & Merchant Banking and Markets. Commercial & Merchant Banking (C&MB) Commercial & Merchant Banking (C&MB) offers a comprehensive product range and Large Corporates & Merchant Banking (LC&MB) offers a full range of financial services ­services to commercial clients in the Netherlands and surrounding countries – Germany, to Netherlands-based corporates, financial institutions and real estate investors and Belgium, France and the United Kingdom – as more than 80% of the bank’s commercial ­developers, as well as international companies active in ECT. LC&MB offers its clients a clients conduct their international business in these countries. complete range of financial solutions, including debt solutions, cash management and working capital services, and M&A advice and equity capital market solutions. 90 appendix 1 91 Markets serves a broad client base, ranging from corporates and financial institutions to retail and private banking clients. Its product portfolio includes foreign exchange, money market, bonds, equities, (interest rate) derivatives and structured products. In the Netherlands, Markets has sales and trading activities in Amsterdam and desks at five locations throughout the country. Outside the Netherlands, its main sales and ­trading activities are based in Hong Kong, Frankfurt, London and New York. In addition to the product offering, Markets has two global businesses: Securities Financing and ABN AMRO Clearing. Good grades and accolades The Dutch Consumers’ Association rated ABN AMRO Internet Banking a 9.4 – the best online banking service in the Netherlands – and the bank’s payment package a 9.1. ABN AMRO was named best large bank for online investment for the fifth consecutive year. ABN AMRO ranked fifth – the highest rating for a financial institution – in the Social Media Monitor. The results show that the bank is a front runner in the use of LinkedIn and Twitter, coming in first place for these elements. The bank’s Facebook page and ­YouTube activities scored high as well. The bank has won several Private Banking awards, including ‘Best Private Bank in the Netherlands’ by peers (Euromoney) and highly commended in the ‘Best Private Bank in Europe’ category (Financial Times). For its Merchant Banking division, ABN AMRO was awarded two Structured Retail ­Product prizes by Euromoney: one in the ‘Best Manufacturer in the Netherlands’ category and another in the ‘Best Manufacturer Interest Rates in the Netherlands’. The bank’s trainee programme was named Best Traineeship in the Netherlands in 2011. 92 appendix 2 93 Fifth, the three core principles of ABN AMRO’s corporate strategy define the focus of the bank’s sustainability efforts and are therefore discussed in this report. ABN AMRO believes this report should highlight those sustainability issues that relate to putting appendix 2 ­customers’ interests first, remaining alert to social developments and needs (i.e. listening basis for to customers, employees and stakeholders; see Appendix 5) and taking responsibility for the supply chain. These three principles determine the emphasis and importance of the reporting issues discussed in this report. Finally, the reporting period is from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011. Each year, the Sustainability Report will be published in tandem with the activities relating to the production of the Annual Financial Report. At the present moment, this report, together with the Annual Financial Report, is an essential tool allowing ABN AMRO to communicate its achievements and performance in the area of sustainability. Choices Certain choices were made in drawing up the present report. First, the report was In the longer term, however, the aim is to present the Sustainability Report in the form ­compiled to present ABN AMRO’s sustainability strategy, which sets out the bank’s of a concise summary of all sustainability issues, which ABN AMRO intends to publicise ­present and future priorities and objectives. Reflecting the bank’s vision, the report was online. Here, too, the bank intends to define and shape this initiative through the also published so that future comparisons could be made. ­implementation of its stakeholder plan. Second, the relevance of the information reported in relation to the scope of the issue Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the actual and potential influence exerted by ABN AMRO and its core business was The considerations outlined above reflect ABN AMRO’s application of the guidelines of deemed vital. In this endeavour, ABN AMRO’s aim was to attempt to look further ahead ‘materiality’, ‘stakeholder inclusiveness’, ‘completeness’ and ‘sustainability context’ than may be obvious in terms of estimated effects, risks or opportunities for the bank. as set out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI draws up guidelines on Indeed, this is an initiative which, in line with its stakeholder plan, ABN AMRO intends to ­sustainable reporting which organisations can use to transparently and verifiably report pursue in the future. on all ­relevant economic, environmental and social performance. Third, ABN AMRO has made every effort to weigh up the viewpoints and impact of all its ABN AMRO, too, has based its reporting on the GRI guidelines, using the GRI 3.1 matrix stakeholders, incorporating these into the information presented here. Since it was not to produce the present report. until 2011 that the bank carried out a stakeholder analysis and drew up a stakeholder management plan, ABN AMRO realises that steps still need to be taken in this area. The GRI guidelines also include performance and other indicators in a supplement ­Consequently, ABN AMRO urges all those involved to provide feedback on the present ­intended for the financial service sector. ABN AMRO has started collecting data in this annual report (duurzaamheid@nl.abnamro.com). area, but is not yet in a position to report satisfactorily in specific terms. The aim is to ­incorporate these indicators into future reports. Fourth, ABN AMRO operates primarily in the Dutch market, as is also apparent from its Annual Financial Report. For this reason, the non-financial information relating to An overview demonstrating how ABN AMRO meets the GRI requirements has been ­sustainability presented in this report pertains exclusively to the Netherlands, unless made available online in the form of a table indicating the relevant pages in the ­otherwise indicated. 94 appendix 2 95 ­Sustainability and Annual Financial Reports referring to the GRI requirements in ­website, where many of its sustainability initiatives will be made public over the coming question (www.abnamro.com/sustainability). months. Integrated reporting This report is available online. Please direct any questions about this report or This report is not yet integrated with ABN AMRO’s Annual Financial Report. Nevertheabout ABN AMRO’s activities that relate to the bank’s sustainability strategy to less, these two publications are inextricably linked, as together they show the path ­duurzaamheid@nl.abnamro.com. ABN AMRO has chosen to pursue. Indeed, sustainability will play a crucial role in the future strategy pursued, and choices made, by the bank. ABN AMRO is committed to ­integrating its reporting in the coming years. Assurance This report has not been consolidated by a third party, mainly because ABN AMRO ­believes that, during the short time that it has again been reporting as a separate bank, it cannot guarantee sufficient uniformity with respect to the data systems used to report on sustainability. This is the result of the merger of two banks and the choices made ­regarding the systems chosen at the time of the merger. ABN AMRO fully intends to have its Sustainability Report audited and validated in the coming years. Data quality Naturally, the data collected in this report and duplicated in, or relating to, the Annual ­Financial Report is identical to the data contained in the Annual Financial Report. ­Quantitative data on 2011 not directly related to the Annual Financial Report were in some cases documented here for the first time. In many cases, the source systems have been s­ pecified. Consequently, in respect of many of these data, the bank views this report as a baseline assessment against which it can gauge its sustainability performance over the coming years. Further, many more quantitative data on 2011 were collected than was the case for 2010. As a result, comparisons with the 2010 report are not always straightforward. Reporting method The quantitative data were consolidated at corporate level by the various departments. The qualitative information on various matters was provided by a number of experts throughout the ABN AMRO organisation. Other relevant information on sustainability Not all information available on ABN AMRO’s sustainability performance has been ­incorporated into this report. For this reason, the bank urges readers to consult its 96 appendix 3 97 Review of project financing transactions per region 2011 Region A B C Total Africa 3 2 5 appendix 3 quantitative Asia 3 1 4 Europe 1 32 4 37 Middle East 1 2 3 North America 1 1 data Total Oceania South America 1 9 44 1 6 5 58 1 7 Total per region Review of project financing transactions per sector 2011 Sector A B C Total Key figures for 2011 Infrastructure 22 3 25 Mining 7 7 2011 Oil & gas 2 8 10 Total assets (in EUR million) 404,682 Power production 11 2 13 Equity attributable to shareholders (in EUR million) 11,400 Telecom 3 3 Assets under management (in EUR million) 146,600 Total 9 44 5 58 Total per sector Operating profit before taxes (in EUR million) 680 Net profit (in EUR million) 689 Bank branches in the Netherlands 470 Review of project financing transactions based on assessment/status Number of FTEs 24,225 2011 Countries and areas in which the bank is present 23 Status A B C Total Concluded 6 3 9 Mass Retail customers (in EUR million) 6 Rejected* 5 8 13 Preferred Banking customers (in EUR million) 0.8 Under consideration 1 15 16 Total number of individual customers (in EUR million) 6.8 Unrealised 3 15 2 20 Total 9 44 5 58 * Projects were rejected for a variety of reasons, not solely on the basis of environmental and social aspects. Financing Project financing (Equator Principles) Financing Category and number of reviewed projects 2011 In EUR million 2011 Country classification A B C Total Sustainable financing by Groenbank 587 Emerging markets 8 11 19 High-income OECD 1 33 5 39 Contracts channel Total 9 44 5 58 In millions 2011 Number of households with Internet Banking 3.2 98 appendix 3 99 Workforce diversity Personnel indicators In percentage 2011 Number of employees  Men Women  2011 Total, Netherlands 52 48 Total number of FTEs 24,225 Senior – Managing Board and Supervisory Board 80 20 Senior – total 85 15 Private Banking 3,743 Sub-senior 80 20 Retail Banking 6,680 Total, Retail & Private Banking 10,423 Geographical distribution of workforce Commercial Banking 3,547 In percentage 2011 Merchant Banking 1,996 Netherlands 85 Total, Commercial & Merchant Banking 5,543 France 5 Germany 2 TOPS 5,222 Belgium 1 Risk Management & Strategy 1,183 Europe (other) 1 Finance 572 Asia 2 Integration, Communication & Compliance 1,084 Other 4 CEO Office 198 Breakdown of workforce by age Breakdown of employment contracts In percentage 2011 In percentage 2011 < 24 0.6 FTEs, permanent 86 24-29 7.4 FTEs, temporary 3 30-39 27.4 Agency staff 4 40-49 34.2 Contractors 7 50-59 26.1 > 60 4.3 Absenteeism In percentage 2011 Absenteeism (trend total) 4.19 Breakdown of workforce by job level In percentage 2011 other (up to 7) 59 Breakdown of workforce by type of employment 8-9 16 In percentage 2011 10-11 16 Full-time – Women 24 Sub-senior 7 Full-time – Men 49 Senior – Managing Board and Supervisory Board 2 Part-time – Women 25 Part-time – Men 2 100 appendix 3 101 Employees involved in voluntary work in the Netherlands Policy for employees  2011  2011 Number of employees (not including Christmas hamper initiative) 9,172 Policy on sexual harassment Yes Number of projects 400 Policy on other types of harassment Yes Policy on lodging complaints Yes External inand outflow 2011  Aantal % Inflow from 01-2011 to 11-2011 3,111 12 Consumption and waste (internal sustainability) Outflow from 01-2011 to 11-2011 5,428 21 Energy consumption (target: 100% coverage) 2011 kWh GJ kTon CO2 Employee satisfaction Energy 281,409,246 1,013,073 32.9 In percentage (unless otherwise stated) Nov ‘10 March ‘11 June ‘11 Dec ‘11 Number of respondents 3,028 4,920 7,031 6,168 Per m2 344 1.24 I feel involved with ABN AMRO 68 72 72 75 Per 36h FTE 11,666 42 I’m proud to work for ABN AMRO 55 59 58 62 At the moment, I’m seriously considering Electricity (in kWh) leaving my employer 22 18 17 15 Data centres 57,461,597 206,862 Head offices 49,615,962 178,617 Offices 11,563,474 41,629 Bank branches 55,297,847 199,072 Staff costs and training data Off Premises ATM 3,191,755 11,490 In euros (unless otherwise stated) 2011 Total electricity consumed 177,130,635 637,670 10.5* Total wage costs (in millions) 1,964 * calculation of total Total staff costs (in millions) 2,517 Total personnel and other management costs (in millions) 4,956 Natural gas/Heating/Cooling (in kWh) Total training costs (in millions) 12 Data centres 3,550,000 12,780 0.7 Training costs/wage costs (in percentage) 1 Head offices 10,290,000 37,044 2.0 Wage costs per FTE 81,073 Offices 15,370,000 55,332 3.1 Staff costs per FTE 103,901 Bank branches 48,900,000 176,040 9.9 Personnel and other management costs per FTE 204,582 Total natural gas 78,110,000 281,196 15.7 Training costs per FTE 495 Total district heating 18,873,889 67,946 5.2 Total cooling 7,294,722 26,261 1.5 Season rail ticket Total remaining sources of natural gas,  2011 district heating and cooling 104,278,611 375,403 22.4 Number of employees 6,913 kWh green kWh regular Total energy consumption (kWh) 150,000,000 131,409,038 102 appendix 3 103 Paper consumption Waste Based on 80% coverage 2011 2011 Total based on FTEs (in tons) 3,047 Tons % kg/FTE Total per FTE (in kg) 125.8 Total kg per FTE 157 Paper with ecolabel FSC (in tons) 2,962 Total in tons 3,809 100 Papier without ecolabel FSC (in tons) 85 Other 456 12 Containing paper 1,908 50 Plastic cups 24 1 Business trips Residual waste 1,419 37 2011 Items specified as ‘hazardous materials’ Lease cars (e.g. batteries and empty toner cartridges) 7.5 Total distance travelled by lease cars (in km) 54,769,811 Total CO2 emissions lease cars (in kTon CO2) 9.31 Average km per lease car (2011 up to and including Q3) 16,597 Water Average km per FTE (2011 up to and including Q3) 2,159  2011 Total per m3 per FTE (norm 0.2 m3/m2) 6.75 Business air travel (in km) Total m3 (based on FTEs) 163,492 Short-haul, up to 500 km 613,747 Long-haul 43,252,817 Catering Total (in km) 43,866,565 In percentage 2011 Sustainable catering product range (total in the Netherlands) 70 Number of flights Sustainable coffee supplied centrally 100 Short-haul, up to 500 km 1,714 Long-haul 11,864 Total number of flights 13,578 CO2 emissions (in kTon CO2) Other indicators Short-haul, up to 500 km 0.11 Long-haul 4.76 Safety and privacy Total (in kTon CO2) 4.87  2011 Complaints lodged about employees in the Netherlands failing to comply with ABN AMRO privacy guidelines 0 Complaints lodged about employees outside the Netherlands failing to comply Total CO2 emissions with ABN AMRO privacy guidelines 0 Emissions calculated using Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2011 kWh/km GJ kTon CO2 Electricity (in kilotons) 177,130,635 637,670 10.50 Natural gas, heating and cooling (in kilotons) 104,278,611 375,403 22.40 Business trips per car (lease cars in kilotons) 54,769,811 9.31 Business air travel 43,866,564 4.87 Total CO2 in ktons 47.08 CO2 emissions in tons per FTE 1.94 104 appendix 4 105 Objective 2011 performance Encourage the use of sustainable energy ABN AMRO itself uses green electricity where ­possible and facilitates the Wij Willen Zon sustainability (We Want Sun) solar energy project. appendix 4 ABN AMRO has developed Green Loans and now offers Milieulease (Environmental Lease) and EnergieBesparings­Krediet (Energy Savings Loan) report objectives products. ABN AMRO has now passed the FIRA Rating System’s Bronze-level assessment. All suppliers must complete FIRA compliance steps 2011 Reduce energy consumption by 20% in Project for creating energy management system 2012 (2010) is under way Reduce paper consumption by 20% in Paper reduction project is under way 2012 (2010) Initiate and further structure stakeholder Stakeholder analysis carried out dialogue (2010) Stakeholder management plan formulated Stakeholders have provided direct input and Objective 2011 performance feedback on the shaping of the bank’s sustainable Develop business propositions for sustainable Construction: risk framework investment in the construction, transport and ABN AMRO Real Estate now finances sustainable Employee dialogue has been established. public sectors (2010) buildings exclusively Specific attention to sustainability in employee Transport: surveys. ABN AMRO has published a sustainability report Arena: intranet discussion forum focusing on jointly with the specialist publication Nieuwsblad sustainability and other topics with over 6,000 Transport, Connekt and Pon participants • ABN AMRO representatives spoke at two Make the bank’s services more transparent, Comprehensive strategy for simplifying and ­seminars on sustainability in the transport sector and simplify mortgage products (2010) ­reducing the number of products has since ­resulted Public sector: in a 40% reduction in complaints about savings ABN AMRO has developed GreenFox for the products public sector Facilitate the involvement of 10,000 employees in 10,000 employees have participated in an ABN AMRO Instruction and training of ABN AMRO account Sustainability is an integral part of ABN AMRO’s a social context (2010) Foundation project managers management trainee course Improve employee satisfaction Marked increase in the level of pride and Actively capitalise on the demand for sustainable ABN AMRO sponsored the Social Capital Markets ­satisfaction of ABN AMRO employees compared to retail products and services, including impact (SOCAP) conference in 2011. Impact investment 2010 based on research carried out by the investment for Private Banking clients (2010) products were also developed and made HAY Group available (incl. transactions). Additionally, 20% women in a senior management position, 15.4% women in a senior management position, various presentations (on e.g. sustainable asset and 25% women at sub-senior level (by 2014). and 20% at sub-senior level management) were given to clients Target for 2011 was 16.8% women in a senior Finance sustainable projects and the production Special team has been formed and various solar ­management position, and 21.8% at sub-senior level of sustainable energy by putting together a special projects financed team (2010) Further embed environmental and social New risk framework established with intensive indicators in risk policy and related processes stakeholder dialogue. Development partially (2010) concluded Develop tools to promote further implementation Specific tools have been approved and are being (2010) used in relevant divisions (such as ECT) Optimise internal business operations The Customer Excellence programme carried out by TOPS has been very successful and is being deployed throughout the bank 106 appendix 5 107 Stakeholder 2011 Topics Result Eumedion Eumedion was consulted on ABN AMRO’s Optimisation of Risk Sustainability Risk Management Framework Management Framework Friends of the Friends of the Earth Netherlands was Optimisation of Risk appendix 5 Earth Netherlands (Milieudefensie) consulted on ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Risk Management Framework Management Framework Hier.nu Hier.nu was consulted on ABN AMRO’s Optimisation of Risk stakeholder dialogue Sustainability Risk Management Management Framework Framework Holland Financial Centre The Holland Financial Centre was Optimisation of Risk consulted on ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Management Framework. Risk Management Framework Jointly with ABN AMRO, the Holland Financial Centre is looking into the possibilities of creating a green investment company International Union for IUCN was consulted on ABN AMRO’s Optimisation of Risk Conservation of Nature Sustainability Risk Management Management Framework Stakeholder 2011 Topics Result (IUCN) Framework ABN AMRO also hosted the annual conference Discovering Amnesty International Amnesty International was consulted Optimisation of Risk the Potential of Greening Your on ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Risk ­Management Framework Core Business ­Management Framework Leaders for Nature Finding solutions for an economy that takes Statement of Intent drafted by Banktrack Transparency of processes and themes Optimisation of Risk biodiversity into account eleven IUCN Leaders for Nature – for example, research carried out Management Framework for developing a long-term by Banktrack on land grabbing abroad. programme devoted to Banktrack was consulted on ecosystems and biodiversity ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Risk Management ­Framework Oxfam Novib Transparency of the 2010 Annual Report, Key points formulated for the policy on land grabbing. Oxfam Novib was 2011 Sustainability Annual CSR Netherlands CSR Netherlands was consulted on Optimisation of Risk consulted on ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Report, Optimisation of Risk ABN AMRO’s Sustainability Risk Management Framework Risk Management Framework Management Framework Management Framework ABN AMRO also participates in the Future Leaders Programme Sustainable Trade Initiative Dutch Association of Creating a sustainable capital market Dialogue on innovation in the Investors for Sustainable financial sector. ABN AMRO Urgenda Renewable energy ABN AMRO is a financial Development (VBDO) supports the week of partner in Urgenda’s ‘We Want Sustainable Investments Sun’ project for the combined purchase of solar panels Dutch Consumers’ Consumer issues Simplification of savings Association products, writing in plain Utrecht Sustainability Sustainable solutions that bolster the Participation in Sustainable language and procedures Institute and the economy with minimum ecological impact Finance Lab in order to involving complaint management Sustainable Finance Lab contribute to a sustainable dialogue and to find new Dutch Fair Bank Guide Investments by banks in multinationals Greater insight into ABN AMRO’s sustainable financial solutions (Eerlijke Bankwijzer) involved in human rights violations plans on specific sub-areas Investments by banking groups in and what progress the bank intensive pig farming is making in the area of Transparency of investment policy sustainability In addition, ABN AMRO regularly updates the data in the guide Dutch Society for the Research on animal welfare in pig farming: Protection of Animals Fair Bank Guide Study (Dierenbescherming) 108 109 We want to be the bank that creates ­opportunit ies for businesses by working tog ether to reduce risks. 110 colofon ABN AMRO Group N.V. Gustav Mahlerlaan 10 1082 PP Amsterdam The Netherlands Mailing address P.O. Box 283 1000 EA Amsterdam The Netherlands Telephone 0900 0024 Internet abnamro.com (website in English) abnamro.nl (client website in Dutch) abnamro.nl/en/index (client website in English) Email duurzaamheid@nl.abnamro.com Sources: ANP photo: pages 42-43 foundation@nl.abnamro.com Getty Images: pages 1 / 7 / 62-63 / 75 / 82-83 sustainability report A better bank for a better world 2011
