2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Kinross Gold became a participant in the UN Global Compact in March 2010. This Communication on Progress, the second for Kinross, provides us with an opportunity to report against the principles and standards of the UN Global Compact. Kinross also publishes a comprehensive GRI-based report every two years and key performance data annually. In mid-2012, we will be publishing our full corporate responsibility report for 2010 and 2011, to document our commitments, corporate responsibility strategy and performance at our operations and development projects across a broad range of areas, including our social, community, workplace, human rights and environmental performance. Previously published reports and data are available online at on http://www.kinross.com/corporate-responsibility.aspx KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Dear Mr. Secretary General, In 2010, Kinross became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, and formalized its commitment to furthering the UNGC principles. I am pleased to submit our second Communication on Progress. Corporate responsibility is explicit in Kinross’ core purpose — “to lead the world in generating value through responsible mining” — and in the four values that guide our conduct: putting people first; outstanding corporate citizenship; high performance culture; and rigorous financial discipline. Our Ten Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility provide a set of clear, non-negotiable standards defining our relationships with employees, partners, governments and the communities affected by our operations. In 2011, we took further steps to advance our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles at a corporate level and across our global operations. A key area of focus was the integration of our new operations in West Africa into our corporate responsibility management systems. Other important areas of progress included global implementation of a community engagement standard in our site responsibility plans; the strengthening of environmental management standards for biodiversity, water management, and air quality monitoring for dust; and incorporation of appropriate environmental, health and safety safeguards in the design of our major growth projects. We also distributed a 40-page employee handbook to our worldwide operations entitled “Responsible Mining and You,” which describes Kinross’ commitment to responsible mining, and explains what every employee is expected to do to uphold and advance that commitment. We were proud to have been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World Index for the first time, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America for the second time, and to continue to be listed on the Jantzi Social Index for the fourth consecutive year. Kinross was also placed on the Ethibel Excellence investment register and the ECPI Global Carbon and Ethical Global Equity Indices. We will be continuing our efforts to advance the UNGC Principles in 2012, and look forward to reporting on our progress again next year. Sincerely, Tye W. Burt President and Chief Executive Officer KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. KINROSS Kinross is committed to the protection of human rights in the community and in FRAMEWORK the workplace in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This commitment is enshrined in our Ten Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility, which states that “We conduct all of our activities in accordance with accepted standards in the protection and promotion of human rights” and “We respect the culture and historical perspectives and rights of those affected by our operations, in particular indigenous peoples.” Kinross also supports the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and has implemented a Human Rights Adherence and Verification Program (HRA & VP) across the company. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics explicitly prohibits against discrimination and harassment in the workplace. Our Whistleblower Policy also provides the public and employees and contractors with a confidential mechanism to report any human rights concerns. ACTIONS AND • Introduced our Human Rights Adherence and Verification Program (HRA & VP) to ACHIEVEMENTS new West African operations in Ghana and Mauritania. • Conducted HRA & VP training across all Kinross sites including our new West African sites at Chirano, Ghana and Tasiast, Mauritania. • Reviewed Kinross practices regarding Indigenous People in light of developments during 2011 such as the new IFC performance standards. • Refined and finalized Kinross’ Supplier Conduct Guidelines to outline Kinross expectations for supplier conduct with respect to, among other things, human rights in accordance with UNGC principles. KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. KINROSS “Putting people first” is one of Kinross’ four core values. Our commitment to FRAMEWORK high workplace standards is enshrined in our Ten Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility, which states that “We put people first and our number one priority is the safety of every employee” and “We provide a rewarding and meaningful livelihood to our employees and strive to be an employer of choice.” Kinross honours these commitments with policies and programs that promote a safe, healthy and engaged workforce. Kinross’ Health and Safety Policy (H&S Policy) and Kinross’ Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (EHS), modelled on ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, provide a foundation of policies and guidance to ensure a safe and healthy workplace at our operations and projects. Kinross supports international labour standards. At our operations and development projects, we operate in a manner that is consistent with the core standards of the International Labour Organization. We uphold the principle of freedom of association whereby our employees have the right to choose whether they want to belong to a union. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics enshrines the principles of fairness and non-discrimination for the Company, its directors, officers and employees and contractors (“Kinross personnel”). Kinross has developed Supplier Conduct Guidelines articulating Kinross’ expectations for supplier conduct with respect to labour standards in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Our Whistleblower Policy provides Kinross personnel and the public with a confidential mechanism to report, among other things, any concerns regarding workplace practices and discrimination. cont. KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 LABOUR STANDARDS (CONT) ACTIONS AND • Supported employee and worker organizations at our operations and respected ACHIEVEMENTS collective agreements where they exist at our operations. Completed the successful negotiation of collective agreements at two operations, the Maricunga mine in Chile and Paracatu mine in Brazil. • Continued to uphold the principles of non-discrimination on the basis of race, colour, gender, religion, political opinion, sexual orientation, nationality or social origin across Kinross operations and in the communities where we work. Conducted a formal presentation on the Company’s legal and policy framework for these principles to all Kinross corporate responsibility site managers. • Conducted a Global Employee Survey to measure the top drivers of employee engagement. A total of 5,326 Kinross employees participated, a participation rate of 78 percent. • Received recognition as one of Canada’s 10 Most Admired Corporate Cultures by Waterstone Human Capital. • Expanded Kinross’ performance management process by integrating behavioural aspects of performance, including evaluation against Kinross’ four core values (putting people first; outstanding corporate citizenship; high performance culture; and, rigorous financial discipline) as well as performance objectives. The performance management system extends to the majority of management, technical, professional and administrative employees, representing approximately 20% of Kinross’ global workforce. • Completed annual acknowledgement and certification of compliance with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by expatriate employees in Kinross’ new West Africa region, as well as the management team and human resources personnel at Chirano. Management at Tasiast and the Regional Office in Las Palmas have been familiarized with the policies. The Code and Whistleblower Policy, including access to the Whistleblower hotline via dedicated telephone numbers and the reporting website, are available in the applicable official languages. • Carried out a “Global Time Out for Safety” at every Kinross operation, office and project site in April 2011, in order to reinforce safety as a top priority across the company and to refocus efforts to improve safety performance. This program was initiated in response to an observed increase in company-wide injury rates in the first quarter of 2011. Kinross-wide safety performance of 38.7 million hours worked with 60 lost-time incidents (LTI) and 37 restricted-work activity cases (RWAC) in 2011 reflected a lost workday injury rate of 0.50 per 200,000 hours, compared with 0.33 in 2010. cont. KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 4 LABOUR STANDARDS (CONT) ACTIONS AND • Achieved two million hours worked without a lost-time injury (LTI) at the Kupol ACHIEVEMENTS operation in Russia and one million hours worked without an LTI and zero medical treatment injuries at our Lobo-Marte, Chile development project. • Completed the year with zero medical treatment injuries at our Dvoinoye growth project in Russia, our Mineral Hill reclamation site in Montana, USA, and our exploration operations in South America. • Received the John T. Ryan Safety Award from the Chilean Institute of Mining Engineers for excellence in safety performance and the Atacama Regional Committee of Safety Award at our La Coipa mine, located in the Atacama region of Chile. La Coipa achieved 3.8 million working hours without a lost-time accident. • Became a member of an international Mining Safety Roundtable, a group of senior professionals from the world’s leading mining companies that come together regularly to strengthen safety practices and policies within the industry. • Did not employ children under the age of 18 at any Kinross operations or development projects. Apprenticeship programs are offered for youth ages 16 to 18 in Brazil as part of a legislated training program. KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 ENVIRONMENT STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support the precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. KINROSS At Kinross, maintaining high standards of environmental accountability is a FRAMEWORK cornerstone of our commitment to corporate responsibility. This commitment is enshrined in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Ten Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility, which state that “We exercise utmost vigilance in protecting the environment and seek ways to minimize our environmental footprint wherever we operate. We will always meet, and where possible exceed, regulatory requirements in our environmental performance” and “We consider all aspects of an operation or new project—including social, environmental, and post-closure issues—in making our investment decisions”. Our Environmental Policy sets the principles for our environmental commitment. Kinross’ Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (EHS) is modelled on ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and other internationally accepted standards. It provides a foundation of policies and guidance to protect the environment and worker health and safety. Through the EHS Management System we set targets and performance standards that our operations and development projects worldwide are expected to meet. Kinross is also committed to certification of all of our operations under the International Cyanide Management Code. Kinross has developed Supplier Conduct Guidelines articulating Kinross’ expectations for supplier conduct with respect to the environment in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Our Whistleblower Policy provides Kinross personnel and the public with a confidential mechanism to report, among other things, any concerns regarding the environment. cont. KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 6 ENVIRONMENT STANDARDS (CONT) ACTIONS AND • Strengthened environmental management standards for biodiversity, water and ACHIEVEMENTS air quality management. • Advanced the integration of Kinross’ West African operations to upgrade them to Kinross’ corporate environmental standards. • Completed engineered risk assessments at our operations at Tasiast, Kupol and Kettle River-Buckhorn. • Completed independent technical reviews of tailings storage facilities at Paracatu, Kupol and Fort Knox to assure management of performance, hazard management and corrective action verification. • Received the 2011 Hardrock Mineral Environmental Award from the United States Bureau of Land Management for Kinross’ exceptional track record of meeting or exceeding reclamation requirements at its Mineral Hill project located in the state of Montana, United States, near the entrance to Yellowstone National Park. • Received certification at La Coipa under the International Cyanide Management Code delivering on our 2011 goal to achieve certification at all Kinross sites except for our new West African sites. We also successfully re-certified our operation at Fort Knox. We are proceeding with certification of Chirano in 2012 and are developing a plan to achieve certification at Tasiast. • Continued integrating environmental, health, and safety safeguards into the design of key growth projects at Tasiast, Fruta del Norte, Dvoinoye and Lobo-Marte. • Improved our disclosure score under the Carbon Disclosure Project from a 59 to a 73, placing in the top 10% of Canadian reporting companies and earning Kinross a listing in the 2011 Canada 200 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. Kinross has participated in CDP since 2006. • Continued to explore opportunities for renewable and alternate energy at priority sites including wind and solar at Maricunga and Lobo-Marte in Chile, and at Tasiast in Mauritania. • Supported and participated in the International Network for Acid Prevention and the International Management Cyanide Code. KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. KINROSS Kinross’ Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides a framework for its directors, FRAMEWORK officers, employees and contractors outlining the company’s expectations pertaining to bribery and anti-corruption. Kinross’ Whistleblower Policy provides employees and non-employees with a mechanism to confidentially report any concerns relating to, among other things, bribery and corruption. Our Ten Guiding Principles for Corporate Responsibility also underscore Kinross’ commitment to the highest standards of ethics and honesty and state “We maintain the highest standards of corporate governance, ethics and honesty in all of our dealings, and operate in compliance with the law wherever we work.” Under the terms of Kinross’ Corporate Donation and Sponsorship Policy, political contributions are permitted in accordance with national laws where Kinross has operations and development projects. Kinross has developed Supplier Conduct Guidelines articulating Kinross’ expectations for supplier conduct with respect to anti-corruption compliance in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. ACTIONS AND • Became a supporter of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative to promote ACHIEVEMENTS revenue transparency in the countries where we operate. • Initiated the development of a Kinross education presentation and protocol regarding anti-corruption compliance to complement the Company’s current Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The education presentation and protocol will help strengthen employee understanding and awareness of applicable anti-corruption laws, company expectation for ethical behaviour, compliance and risks of non-compliance, and reinforce implementation of measures to prevent corrupt activities across Kinross operations. The protocol is expected to be completed and rolled out in 2012. • Completed annual and quarterly acknowledgement and certification of compliance with the Whistleblower Policy; and Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trader Policy, by the Senior Leadership Team and their direct reports, including the corporate legal team and regional General Counsels. • Developed a plan to communicate the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Whistleblower Policy to all non-management employees at our West African sites, including tools to ensure effective communication to our employee workforce in Mauritania, which is characterized by a low literacy rate. Communication and initial annual sign off to be rolled out in mid-2012. KINROSS GOLD CORPORATION 2011 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 8
