United Nations Global Compact communication 2011-2012 on progress Back Front Communication on Progress 2011-12 With the profound support of aligning Engro Polymer & Chemical Ltd’s (EPCL) organizational philosophy to the UNGC’s Ten Principles, I am pleased to report Company’s First Communication on Progress since becoming one of the signatories of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2010. The organization has already inculcated the Ten Principles of the UNGC within its modus operandi. EPCL initially used to manufacture and market Poly Vinyl Chloride (PVC) resins, under the brand name SABZ, based on imported Vinyl Chloride Monomer (VCM). To enhance the product range, Expansion & Back Integration Project was initiated in the year 2007. Imported Ethylene base Ethylene Dichloride (EDC) and Vinyl Chloride Monomer (VCM) along with caustic soda is also being produced in Pakistan’s first and the largest Chlor-Vinyl Complex, using state-of-the-art technology, backed by Cryogenic Ethylene and VCM storage at EVTL. The Company is conscious of its duty towards maintaining the highest standards of ethics, safety and environmental responsibility. It constantly stands on guard to meet new challenges and opportunities, all the while ensuring sustainable standards and practices. The Ten Principles of the UNGC are aligned with the Company’s triple bottom line philosophy of People, Planet & Profit where the Company focuses on innovative ideas that result in improved solutions and services, improving Health, Environment and Occupational Safety (HSE) systems, technological support programs, its people and takes part in alleviating poor masses through philanthropic activities in times of crisis and disasters creating a positive impact as a responsible corporate citizen that supports the society at large. In our Communication on Progress report we are emphasizing over the steps the company has taken specifically to integrate with UNGC Ten Principles. We, as one of the leading market players in number of categories and having a number of strategic business units operating under the umbrella term of Engro, vow to cut no corners in our endeavors to provide the community with opportunities to grow and to strengthen the social fabric of the country. Ensuring our commitment to the UNGC, we will be consistent and dedicated in measuring and reporting our progress to the Ten Principles on timely basis. Khalid Siraj Subhani President & CEO Principle 1 The organization should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights COMMITMENT EPCL holds its human resource as its prime within its sphere asset and believes in empowering the community in general. of influence. 02 STRATEGIC SYSTEMS FOR II. Healthy Entertainment for Employees ORGANIZATIONAL AND HUMAN Performance: EPCL organizes Annual sports tournament DEVELOPEMNET amongst employees. ACTIONS EPCL organizes Annual Sports tournament amongst Organizational Surveys employees. Performance: EPCL performs regular surveys facilitating the The Company also publishes its bi-annual Newsletter management of company to examine and espouse best ESPECIAL which highlights the various aspects of practices by benchmarking it with other companies. This Corporate Activities undertaken by the organization with the practical methodology assists in an incessant improvement of purpose of spreading awareness regarding the efforts this systems and procedures. corporate entity is conducting. The Company’s HR department conducts employee EPCL offers various club memberships to its employees engagement survey to provide an analysis and insight on whereby they can be fully equipped with health and fitness the priority dimensions that have the greatest influence on facility to keep them healthy both physically and mentally. employee engagement. The result helps achieve satisfaction, discretionary effort and talent retention. The Company observes and celebrates religious and cultural events as well as national holidays. Salary survey is conducted annually benchmark compensation & benefit across our basket companies. III. Accommodation of Disabled Employees The Company also conducts career growth-talent review Performance:The company adheres to the policy and laws session every year where the career of the employees is of disabled person’s employment for hiring and reviewed. Further, succession planning is conducted for accommodating disabled employees in the organization and employees of each department. secures their rights. EPCL fully complies with laws of Disabled Persons INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS AND Employment and accommodates disabled employees within the organization without discriminating against their EMPLOYEES disabilities. ACTIONS The office and facilities are designed to facilitate such I. Employee Recognition employees. Performance: Rewarding employee efforts towards attaining OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND excellence forms an integral part of any business entity. EPCL SECURITY being an equal opportunity employer considers its workforce as a valuable asset for its growth and continued success. ACTIONS The Company organizes Corporate Excellence Awards I. Safe Business Operations every year to recognize the contribution of its employees in Performance: EPCL has always prioritized health and safety the elements of operational excellence & social of its employees and ensured the sustainability of the responsibility, and to reward them on their exceptional immediate environment. The organization, as a whole, performance and contribution towards the growth of dedicates its resources towards educating and training its organization. employees on all aspects of HSE. Employees are awarded who deliver exceptional Sessions regarding safety are conducted for employees on performance in sphere of meeting organizational objectives, regular basis to educate them for protection of risky situations. enhancing company profitability along with working towards contributing to social elements of community outreach, Employees are equipped with personnel protective environment stewardship and financial performance. equipments according to the type of their job. The company arranges farewell for its retiring staff to Organization has a structured process and personnel acknowledge the lifelong professional association. safety programs. 03 Fire drills are conducted according to HSE requirements. II. Education Evacuation areas are being marked for employees' Performance: EPCL believes in investing in improving quality emergency exit. of education. The Company initiated instituting scholarships for children Employees are given security passes at head office and of Port Qasim area in Karachi. plant. The Company has been supporting a community school based in Razakabad and Ghagar Phatak. CORPORATE SOCIAL EPCL also conducted several sessions with teachers and RESPONSIBILITY parents to collect input for improving the quality of The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility programs education in government schools. forms an integral part of the corporation's mandate of operations which makes it a responsible corporate citizen. In Company had been organizing varios festivals like an general, it urges the individuals to have a greater economic Environment & Education Festival at Port Qasim Karachi. impact, resulting in the ultimate betterment of not just their domestic condition but of society as a whole. III. Other Activities Performance: ACTIONS I. Rehabilitation Activities An annual CSR Awareness session was organized in January 2012 where a detailed coverage of EPCL’s CSR Performance: With the mutual and coordinated efforts of activities of the year 2009,2010 and 2011 were shown to stakeholders, the organization hopes to bring change to the the employees in the form of documentary presentation. underprivileged sectors of communities around its operations, society at large or those areas affected by natural calamities. The Company in collaboration with Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital, conducted anti-tobacco EPCL with the support of Pakistan Army launched the sessions, highlighting the basic harmful effects of smoking agriculture rehabilitation activities in the flood affected areas along with dangers of active and passive smoking. of Pakistan. The program has helped in balancing the economic sustainability by providing the farmers with a Along with other contributions, EPCL is considerable and chance of earning PKR 80,000 to 100,000 per 600 yards. frequent donor of various NGOs, hospitals and institutes. Institutions that have received donations include, The Aga The Company initiated an effort to provide medical Khan University, Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer assistance to the communities of flood affected regions. Hospital, Cardio-Vascular Institute, The Citizens Foundation, English Speaking Union of Pakistan, SOS Also initiated to install hydropower plants in Kalaam, so that Village, Hop, Behbud, Kidney Centre and Flood victims. the flood affected communities in that region could meet their power demand. The Company inaugurated its own nursery having a capacity of 90,000-100,000 plants with the purpose to generate its own plants and holding timely plantation. It also planted mix and broad leaves species on 60 acres of land in Palak village. Company also executed a Demand Based Irrigation Scheme aimed at implementing a system based on the wide usage of PVC pipes which guarantee no wastage of agriculture, eliminating the threat of water salinity or water scarcity by controlling the threat of ground water discharge. It was also instrumental at installing micro drip irrigation system in various villages in Swat for lands washed out in floods. Main focus was to certain the production of a high crop yield with minimum usage of water. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit COMMITMENT EPCL takes pride in installing a sense of ethics in human rights abuses. and integrity in all its operations ensuring transparency and accountability. 05 ETHICS Essential information pertaining to such activities is disseminated amongst the employees, stake holders, ACTIONS external bodies and the public. I. Obedience to Corporate Values Board Audit Committee (BAC) and Board Compensation Performance: Success for the company lies in practicing its Committee (BCC) have also been established to assist belief system and comprehending the core values giving EPCL board of directors in monitoring and analyzing critical business a strategic direction which is governed by the business risks. company’s board and spearheaded by its management. The Company ensures that every employee is a part of the Believing in the demonstration of honest business behavior, governance system and is required to adhere to clearly laid ethics and integrity in all activities. out policies and procedures. Ensures the business operates safely and in an All employees are trained companywide on ethics and environmental friendly manner. business control. Believes in striving for accepting the challenges that are An inquiry committee has been formulated to ensure that generated, nurtured and developed for the growth. no harassment or such derogatory act towards employees is carried out. Strongly believes in human resource as its prime asset. EPCL’s anti-restricted trade policy is in place and the Maintains its focus on active participation in social and company complies 100% with Competition ordinance, community development programs. 2007 regulations. II. Code of Corporate Governance Performance: Company has a monitoring and auditing framework which has been designed in accordance with the best practices observed with the industry and adheres to the Code of Corporate Governance. Employees actions are in compliance with policies, standards, procedures and applicable laws and regulation. The organization strictly believes in fair practices with its employees and its customers. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to COMMITMENT EPCL is dedicated to deal with issues, collective problems and complaints practically to standardize the Company’s operations bargaining. with dignity of labor, reduction of acrimony and promote a relationship of trust amongst employees. 07 INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS Performance: The company participates through proper government ministries and forums, e.g. Ministry of Industry, Commerce, OICCI and others. No trade union is present, therefore no agreement exists. Freedom of Association is a legal requirement. The rights of a worker to form collective bargaining agent (CBA) is also recognized including those who are working on contract. All employees of EPCL have the right by law to associate in order to protect their right. As an additional measure, a whistle blower system has also established. The Company expects its stakeholders to speak out about any concerns they have regarding business ethics, safety, environmental performance, harassment and other employment related matters or other possible breaches of compliance. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 4 labor. Principle 5 Principle Business should support the effective abolition of child COMMITMENT EPCL strongly contributes to the elimination labor. of child labor, forced labor and compulsory labor in all business operations. 09 RECRUITS III. Implementation of Minimum Wage Rate ACTIONS Performance: I. Prevention of under-age employment The organization has both permanent and contracted Performance: EPCL believes in prevention of hiring employees. Local minimum wage of Rs. 8000/month is under-age workers. observed across all locations of operation. Entry level wages apply at all locations; excluding bonuses, overtime, In order to ensure compliance with all child labor laws, the retirement and others. Company does not hire anybody having age less than 18 years whether on permanent, Training, Direct Contract, 3rd party contract and others(if any). To ensure prevention of recruiting under age workers, all relevant and proper documents are confirmed. II. Prevention of Forced or Compulsory Labor Performance: All contracts clearly include particular clauses prohibiting the usage of child labor in and all endeavors undertaken by EPCL. All contractors are expressively advised to comply with labor laws. Current contracts clause does not relate to any human right violation. 30 days time is provided to employees for Exit notice. An Exit Interview is conducted with a view to determine possible areas in the organization (if any) and assess employee's attitude and reaction Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and COMMITMENT EPCL strongly believes in providing equal occupation. opportunities to the members of the community it works in to become a part of the skilled and efficient Company of individuals. 11 RECRUITMENT ACTIONS I. Equal Opportunity Employment Performance: EPCL believes in equal opportunity employment, hiring criteria are as per procedures at all locations of its operations. All employees are selected and promoted on the basis of merit without any biases or prejudice. No distinction is based on gender for basic salary of men and women by employee category. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. EMPLOYEES ACTIONS I. Working Environment for diversified workforce Performance: The Company practices no discrimination on the basis of sex, color, religion, age etc. in the operations of business. Minorities’ cultural festivals and holidays are respected and are given holidays accordingly ensuring a fair working culture. Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental COMMITMENT EPCL is committed to its objective of challenges. environmental sustainability and conservation. 13 ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT The Head Office and Plant premises are declared as No Smoking Zones and a separate location is allocated for ACTIONS smokers. I. Environmental Changes IV. Environmental Impact Evaluation Performance Performance The management is engaged in identifying the risk and In accordance with the HSE policies of the organization, opportunities related to climate change and emphasis is HSE committee reviews HSE performances in all operations. given on streamlining the processes to reduce carbon Compliance towards results of safety audits, monitoring of emissions, effluent discharge and utilization of natural critical safety devices, analysis of the results of emergency resources below accepted levels response drills are conducted during the month. Initiatives have been taken to reduce Greenhouse Gas The Sub-SOC forum reviews the safety aspects of any emissions and reductions achieved. modification and change taking place in routine operations. The Company is spending towards the implementation of Forums such as D-Level and B-Level are implemented which the environmental initiatives. suggests measures to improve occupational health and safety programs with the help of joint-management-worker The Company participates through proper government committee. ministries and forums, e.g. Ministry of Industry, Commerce, OICI and others. Also, a committee named Industrial Hygiene Forum operates, reviewing changes and policies pertaining to Initiated Environment Management Plan which would lead occupational health and illness. the company to reduce its energy and water consumption. II. Health, Safety and Environment The Non Manufacturing HSE Committee sets out the clear objectives and top to bottom commitment to make HSE an Performance integral part of the culture. EPCL has always prioritized the health and safety of its employees and ensures the sustainability of the immediate V. Alleviate Workplace hazards environment. Performance The Company is dedicated to achieve excellence in safety by implementing the world class safety systems. Installation of smoke alarm system to detect smoke which is centrally connected The Corporate health safety environment committee monitors the enforcement of standards and practices in Installation of sprinkler system which is temperature censored. accordance with the organization’s HSE policies. Evacuation areas are marked for emergency exits. The company was awarded rating of 3.2 by the DuPont Safety Management System. Fire reels and extinguishers (CO2, Foam, & Dry Powder) are installed for fire incidents. The Non-Manufacturing Health, Safety and Environment Committee also won the first ever Engro’s Presidential Risk Management Audits on defined frequency are Award for Safety-Non Manufacturing in 2011. conducted which includes Leak Test, Hazardous Storage Audits, House Keeping Audits etc. The Head Office has been certified by WWF as a Green Office after in August, 2012. Safety Orientation Programs are conducted for enlightening employees on safety conditions. III. Developing Environmental Awareness Mock drills and Red Tag drills are conducted. Performance Inergen system has been installed for MCC to extinguish HSE awareness sessions are regularly conducted to fire without harming people. acquaint employees regarding perilous situations. Fire Water Network (Hydrant & Monitors) is installed to All concerned staff on fields is trained on additional HSE provide adequate water at required pressure for fire awareness sessions. fighting. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental COMMITMENT EPCL believes in environmental responsibility. responsibilities beyond protection and enhancement of its own facilities. 15 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY II. Product Safety ACTIONS Performance I.Initiatives for Environmental Management Health and safety impacts of products while manufacturing Systems are managed thoroughly by Manufacturing Division. Performance Safety related information is provided along with safe EPCL strongly believes in protecting the environment from the disposal of product through MSDA. adverse effects of human progression. Environment has a priority position amongst Company’s core values. Through its Customers are also provided caustic safe decanting various projects and programs, it ensures to mitigate the risks training and handling posters. MSDS also placed on of environmental degradation. website. The Company is ISO-14001 certified through United Registrar of Systems Ltd. (URS). Since then the company has increased its focus on Environmental system. The Company is using plant effluent for plantation of mangroves and has planted mangroves along the shorelines of the Arabian Sea. Installed the Aerobic Bacteria based system of water treatment ensuring the safe disposal of water causing no damage to the eco system. The Company has comprehensive Environmental Management System (EMS) in place, for regulating eco-friendly environment. The system is certified and regularly audited by ISO 14001-2004. Energy consumed by EPCL is generated from its own Combined Cycle Power Plants which are fuelled by natural gas. By managing the system for occupational health and medicine, the company provides the best possible protection for safety and health of employees by implementing Personnel safety Management, Process Safety & Risk management Safety System, Occupational health & Industrial hygiene program and Emergency Response Program. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly COMMITMENT EPCL believes in environmental technologies responsibilities beyond protection and enhancement of its own facilities. 17 ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES ACTIONS I.Conservation and Efficiency Improvements Performance EPCL believes that all environmental related projects leave no room for any environment mishap or damage and its facilities will have no environmental incidents. Initiatives to reduce the indirect energy consumption include reductions achieved through carefully selecting energy-efficient materials, substituting phone, video conferences for travel. The Company’s initiative for environment conservation includes wastes effluent handling; solid and liquid waste disposal, incinerator revamping, DCS control, CFC replacement and Hydrogen firing. The Company is inclined towards reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Reductions through hydrogen firing at VCM plant furnace in various projects. The major investment is done by installing Aerobic Bacteria system of water treatment where water is being treated in the plant before being disposed off. Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including COMMITMENT EPCL is committed to purge corruption through extortion and bribery. execution of ethical codes and policies that direct business operations and relationships with external stake holders. 19 EMPLOYEES Auditing operations and insurance measures are also upgraded continuously. ACTIONS I. Business Ethics The internal Audit function carries out reviews on the financial, operational and compliance controls. Performance: EPCL chooses the course of highest integrity and recognizes the local customs and traditions that The Internal Audit assures the adequacy of disclosure, differ from place to place. transparency of data, internal controls and risk management. The policy of the Company is one strict observance of all laws applicable to its business. EXTERNAL FRAMEWORK All employees are forbidden to achieve results at the cost ACTIONS of violation of laws or unscrupulous dealing. I. Investors and Stakeholders Engagement Adherence to compliance with the standards and integrity is followed throughout the organization Performance: Candor from managers at all levels and compliance with EPCL engages with shareholders through the Annual accounting rules and controls are given importance. General Meeting and the Annual and Sustainability Reports which include comprehensive matter on financial and non The system of management is transparent and works with financial matters related to the Company. honesty. The Annual report 2011 was awarded the fourth position in Prohibition of any sort of bribery from suppliers or vendors the Chemicals and Fertilizer sector by Institute of chartered for having a business relationship with the Company. Accountants and Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Pakistan. Frequency of risk evaluation exercise is on yearly basis as per COSO guidelines. The financial reports are audited by external auditors. Audit & compliance monitoring program is also in place. The quarterly financial statements submitted to the Board of Directors. No incidents of corruption have been recorded. The Board of Director meeting is held quarterly. II. Governance Framework The Company engages with vendors and customers from time to time though formal and informal meetings and Performance: The Company’s governance framework is conferences. designed to ensure that it lives up to its core values and principles, institutionalizing excellence in all operations. EPCL regularly interacts with local communities for understanding and improving the work in the areas of The Company pursues a policy of conformity to the education, livelihood and environmental projects. accepted guidelines of all the stock exchanges of Pakistan and the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan Engages with the print and visual media through regular (SECP). press releases on key achievements and disclosures. The Board of Directors is committed to honest, ethical, Timely payments of taxes are made by the Company. knowledgeable and comprehensive management. The Board regularly reviews the Company’s system of internal control and its effectiveness. The Company maintains an established control framework comprising clear structures, authority limits and accountabilities. The Company conducts its operations with a constant view of the risks involved and has instituted measures to control risk
