2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report Editorial Policy Contents The Oji Paper Group publishes this Environmental and Sustainability Report to deepen stakeholders’ understanding Message from the President 04 of its environmental management initiatives. We have designed our 2011 version to include two Overview of the Oji Paper Group 06 special features: Expanding Our Business Presence in Oji Paper Group Products 08 Southeast Asia and, continuing from our 2010 edition, the Coexistence with Forests special feature. The 2011 Pulp and Paper Products 10 version also consists of content that details Environmental Action Program 2015, our main environmental policy for Special Feature and Series fiscal 2015. We have also expanded content covering the The Oji Paper Group wishes to extend its Expanding Our Business Presence initiatives of each of our companies. in Southeast Asia 12 The information in this report is also available on our corporate website. Coexistence with Forests 18 heartfelt condolences to the victims of the http://www.ojipaper.co.jp/english/sustainability/e_report/index.html Management Corporate Philosophy and Code Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, of Conduct 24 Coverage of report Environmental Management System 25 2011 and the series of typhoons that hit This report covers the Oji Paper Group. Environmental Action Program 2015 Environmental Action Program 2015 26 Japan in the summer of 2011. Period of coverage Promotion of Forest Recycling 29 Promotion of Paper Recycling 30 April 1, 2010 – March 31, 2011 Except for numerical data, some sections may contain Promotion of Global Warming After the Great East Japan Earthquake struck the Oji Paper Group immediately Countermeasures 32 information from April 2011 and later. began providing relief supplies to areas affected by the disaster. In order Development of Production Technologies and Products that to conserve energy in line with the rise in power demand over the summer Minimize Environmental Impact 33 Published months, we also took measures to increase our in-house generation of Product Safety Management 33 November 2011 electricity and streamline our production structure, which helped us reduce Products Receiving FSC® 36 company-wide power usage by more than 25%. Reinforcement of Environmental Definitions of terms in this report Improvement Measures and Environmental Management Systems 38 In addition, at the request of the Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), we Oji Paper Co., Ltd.: Non-consolidated company Reduction and Effective Utilization restarted in-house power generation facilities that had been shut off in order Oji Paper Group: Oji Paper Co., Ltd. and of Waste 40 its Group companies to provide electricity to TEPCO. Oji Paper Group’s four papermaking companies: Transfer of Environmental Protection Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Technologies to Other Countries 41 Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. We sincerely hope that the many areas affected by these disasters will be able Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. Building Relationships of Trust with Stakeholders 42 to recover quickly and we stand committed to continuing with our Group-wide Oji Nepia Co., Ltd. provision of assistance to the reconstruction effort going forward. Company Initiatives Company Initiatives 43 Please send comments and inquiries to: Household and Industrial Materials Company 44 Environmental Management Department Environmental Management Division Printing and Communications Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Media Company 50 4-7-5 Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan 104-0061 Functional Materials Company 51 Fax: +81-3-3563-1139 Website: http://www.ojipaper.co.jp/english/index.html Oji Paper Group E-mail: info@ojipaper.co.jp Environmental Data 54 02 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 03 Message from the President First, on behalf of the Oji Paper Group, I would Specifically, we not only use timber to produce We have businesses engaged in paper processing like to extend our heartfelt condolences to those lumber and paper, we also promote the effective and papermaking in four Southeast Asian countries. affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of utilization of sawmill residue, thinned timber and Looking ahead, we hope to expand our business March 11, 2011 as well as extend our hope that low-grade lumber as part of our commitment to activities in this region further. At the same time, we the many areas affected by this disaster will be able strengthening our initiatives toward the pursuit of a have engaged in tree-planting activities in locations to rebuild and recover as soon as possible. total forestry business model. In addition, we carefully around the world, including Southeast Asia. This is The Oji Paper Group has provided relief manage and develop company-owned forests in meant to both secure future timber resources for raw supplies as well as charitable donations to those Japan, and by expanding our forest plantations materials and to help protect the global environment. affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and outside of Japan, we are making contributions to the Moving forward, we will make environmental has become involved in a variety of assistance global environment through the greater absorption of contributions by means of the absorption of carbon programs to help those in need in these local carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. dioxide through these overseas tree-planting activities. communities. In addition, we took standalone Furthermore, we promote the acquisition of We will also be considerate of biodiversity, and measures to help Japan conserve electricity in the forest certification and deliver products that are through communication with local communities, midst of peak summer demand, including reducing considerate of the environment to our customers, we will work to generate employment opportunities our power usage by 25% and supplying electricity including forest certified paper. We are committed and industry locally as well as spread tree-planting to the Tokyo Electric Power Company using our to expanding our supply structure further for technologies at our overseas locations. in-house power generation facilities. forest certified products as well as making further At the same time, we also encouraged our contributions to forest conservation. Undertaking R&D and redeveloping employees to help conserve energy in their homes technologies to accommodate the as part of our broader Group-wide effort to conserve Accelerating our business growth needs of a new era electricity. Going forward, we plan to continue in China and Southeast Asia to implement similar energy saving measures to With fears persisting about the hallowing out of curb our company-wide use of electricity and to Demand for paper is growing in China, Southeast technologies in Japan, we stand committed to our accommodate the needs of our society. Asia and other emerging countries. Therefore, the R&D and technological competencies, which have further growth of our overseas businesses is gaining been carefully developed over the previous 150 years Leveraging forest resources in in importance. since our founding, to developing engineers and Japan and overseas aimed at Full-scale production at our paper mill in to passing on technologies to future generations. Nantong, China commenced at the end of 2010. I also believe that rebuilding and developing these a total forestry business Going forward we plan to use this mill to build a technologies to accommodate the needs of a new era As a corporate group that makes use of timber structure to provide a broad range of paper products, represents one of our most important missions for the as raw materials, the Oji Paper Group practices including printing paper, industrial packaging paper future. We are ready to tackle the challenges of this sustainable forest management and implements and specialty paper, to neighboring markets with an new era. measures to maximize its utilization of forest eye on the growing demand from Southeast Asia and resources without waste. primarily China. Kazuhisa Shinoda President and Chief Executive Officer Oji Paper Group 04 00 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 05 Operations in Japan, Asia, Major Mills in Japan 2 Nayoro Overview of North America, Europe Oji Intertech Inc. (USA): Automotive interior materials 1 1 Kushiro the Oji Paper Group and Oceania Kanzaki Specialty Papers (USA): 1 Ebetsu Thermal paper 2 1 Tomakomai 6 Matsumoto 5 Fuji 4 Tokai 3 Kasugai 8 Sobue 2 Nagoya 3 Shiga 3 Nikko 5 Yonago 4 Edogawa Oji Interpack Korea (Korea): KANZAN Spezialpapiere (Germany): 6 Kure Corrugated board c Thermal paper 10 Oita A Group Headquarters B 7 Gifu 2 Nakatsu C E 4 Kanzaki 9 Osaka 11 Saga D F 7 Tomioka 3 Tokushima 8 Nichinan G Oji Papéis Especiais (Brazil): Thermal paper, carbonless paper Oji Paper Co., Ltd. 1 8 Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. 1 4 Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. 1 11 Oji Nepia Co., Ltd. 1 3 Major corrugated board mills b Overseas Forest Plantations H I J a A KPFL (China) F TTO (Vietnam) K SPFL (New Zealand) B CPFL (China) G KTH (Indonesia) a PAN PAC (New Zealand) K Major Mills in Asia C LPFL (Laos) H APFL (Australia) b CENIBRA (Brazil) D SLPFL (Laos) I GPFL (Australia) c AFPI (Canada) Dalian Mori Mitsui Packaging: Corrugated board E QPFL (Vietnam) J EPFL (Australia) Net sales Ordinary profit Qingdao Oji Packaging: Corrugated board Plantation business Plantation (¥billion)and pulp business (¥billion) 1,500 100 1,318.4 1,265.7 1,267.1 Kunshan Oji Filter: Components for HVAC equipment 1,147.3 1,180.1 80 1,200 Oji Paper Nepia (Suzhou): Household products Company Data Suzhou Oji Packaging: Corrugated board 900 60 64.1 64.7 60.2 Oji Specialty Paper (Shanghai): Paper processing China Name: Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Main business: Manufacturing and marketing of pulp, paper, 600 40 Shanghai Eastern Oji Packaging: Bag manufacturing Headquarters: 4-7-5 Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan 104-0061 and 38.1 converted paper products Oji Packaging (Shanghai): Bag manufacturing Jiangsu Oji Paper Nantong: Papermaking Net sales: 300 ¥1,180.1 billion 28.8(fiscal 2010, consolidated) 20 Oji Kinocloth (Shanghai): Non-woven fabric Established: August 1, 1949 Representative Number0 of 0 2006 2007 KS-Systems: Printing Director: Kazuhisa Shinoda employees: 21,987 (as of2008 March 31, 2009 2010 (Fiscal 2011, consolidated) year) President and Chief Executive Officer (Japan: 17,737, overseas: 4,250) Ojitex Haiphong: Corrugated board Harta Packaging (Cambodia): Corrugated board Net sales and ordinary profit (consolidated) Net sales by business (fiscal 2010, consolidated) Vietnam Ojitex (Vietnam): Corrugated board Functional Materials Company Net sales Ordinary profit ¥200.6 billion Other ¥129.9 billion Thailand Oji Paper (Thailand): Carbonless paper, thermal paper (¥billion) (¥billion) Oji Label (Thailand): Adhesive paper 1,500 100 1,318.4 1,265.7 1,267.1 Union and Oji Interpack: Corrugated board 1,147.3 1,180.1 80 Cambodia 1,200 S. Pack & Print Public: Carton, corrugated board Piraab Starch: Pharmaceuticals 900 60 Net sales 64.1 64.7 60.2 Malaysia GS Paper & Packaging: Paperboard, corrugated board 600 40 ¥1,180.1 United Kotak: Corrugated board 38.1 billion Oji Paper Asia Harta Packaging Industries: Paperboard, corrugated board 300 28.8 20 (Southeast Asia Regional Headquarters) Household 0 0 and Industrial 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Fiscal Printing and Materials year) Communications Company Media Company ¥519.2 330.4 billion billion 06 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 07 Functional Materials Company From products that are close and indispensible to people’s Printing and Communications Media Company p 50 Oji Paper Group lifestyles to functional Products materials, we provide products that better our lives. l Newsprint Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Business l Paper Business Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Paper Group products are used extensively in our everyday life Newsprint Printing paper Household and Industrial p 44 Functional Materials Company p 51 Materials Company Household products, disposable diapers Film material for capacitors Wound dressings Carrier bags l Imaging Media Business Oji Paper Co., Ltd. l Specialty Papers Business Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. l Adhesive Products Oji Tac Co., Ltd. Business New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd. Shinomura Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. l Non-woven Fabric Oji Kinocloth Co., Ltd. Business Corrugated boxes Cartons l Containerboard Materials Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. Business Oji Paper is also engaged in these businesses l Corrugated Board Oji Chiyoda Container Business Co., Ltd. Mori Shigyo Group Oji Interpack Co., Ltd., etc. l Boxboard and Packaging Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Papers Business l Carton Business Oji Packaging Co., Ltd., etc. l Bag Processing Business Oji Seitai Kaisha, Ltd. Oji Adba Co., Ltd., etc. Oji Forest & Products Oji Salmon Co., Ltd. APICA Co., Ltd. Oji Real Estate Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Shikotsu-no-Hisui and Hokkaido brand Student notepads Oji Homes Aoyama l Household Products, Oji Nepia Co., Ltd., etc. Disposable Diapers Forest management mineral water Business Smoked salmon 08 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 09 Paper products are made Pulp and Paper from a variety of pulp. Manufacturing Process Products Papermaking Processing Special Printing Bonding processing Pulp Made into Unbleached Assembling Finishing paper bags pulp Chips are boiled in alkaline solution at high temperature Plant Forest Grow Paper Products recycling Bleached pulp Unbleached pulp Bleached pulp Unbleached pulp is bleached Log Adhesive paper Disintegrated pulp Household products Carrier bags Recovered paper is dissolved in water Use paper in Collect recovered products paper Paper recycling De-inked Publications pulp Cartons Ink is removed Corrugated boxes from disintegrated Use recovered paper pulp as a raw material Disintegrated pulp De-inked pulp 10 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 11 On to the next region of Asia Special Feature Expanding Our Business Presence in Southeast Asia PaperConverted making paper Containerboard Corrugated boxes GSPP (Malaysia) GSPP Heavy-duty Paper Trio Paper (Malaysia) (Malaysia) packaging Harta Packaging containers (Malaysia, Cambodia) UOI United Kotak S. Pack Laos (Thailand) (Malaysia) (Thailand) Tree Ojitex (Vietnam) (Vietnam) Thailand Vietnam Presence in 6 Southeast planting Ojitex Haiphong Asian Countries (Vietnam) 18 Mills Cambodia LPFL TTO (Laos) (Vietnam) SLPFL KTH Functional materials / Printing Adhesive (Laos) (Indonesia) and communications paper paper 5 QPFL OPT OLT Forest (Vietnam) (Thailand) (Thailand) Plantations Interview with Malaysia the President Toward a total forestry business Expanding our presence in Southeast Asia (Lumber, plywood, chips, etc.) Lumber Shigeto Sano President Indonesia Oji Paper Asia (Regional Headquarters) In October 2010, Oji Paper established a regional headquarters company onsite at GS Paper & Packaging (GSPP) located in Kuala Langat on the outskirts of Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia to manage and oversee our existing businesses : Regional headquarters Furniture in Asia and to seek out new business opportunities. It will be essential to build : Paper mill our business presence in Southeast Asia in order to capitalize on new market : Paper processing plant growth taking place in the region. First, we plan to firmly establish the Oji brand : Forest plantation within Malaysia before moving on to the next region of Asia. 12 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 13 Special Feature Expanding Our Business Presence in Southeast Asia Papermaking Business — Containerboard Converted Paper Business — Packaging Materials GS Paper & Packaging Sdn Bhd (GSPP) The Oji Paper Group manufactures packaging materials such as corrugated boxes, cartons and plastic bags at 14 mills located (Malaysia) across Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Cambodia, and is fast becoming an integrated packaging provider in the region. We are quickly moving to establish the Oji brand in Southeast Asia as well as enhance our credibility with multinational companies, In April 2010, GSPP became a member of the Oji Paper Group. Japanese companies and local companies alike. GSPP is Malaysia’s largest paperboard and corrugated board manufacturer and operates a papermaking mill and two box plants. GSPP’s papermaking mill manufactures containerboard Corrugated boxes using two papermaking machines. The company has also received strong recognition from the market for its high quality liners used on the outer and inner surfaces of corrugated board. 30% market share in Malaysia Some 90% of GSPP’s raw materials are sourced from recovered paper. 70% of this is procured from contract In August 2011, Malaysian corrugated board manufacturer recovered paper collection providers located in 32 locations the Harta Packaging Group joined the Oji Paper Group, across Malaysia. Papermaking machine increasing our corrugated board market share in the country to some 30%. In addition, we also established a business location in Cambodia and added a plastic bag business to the Group. It’s important to separate Utilizing energy from incinerators recovered paper Ojitex (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. Incinerators are used to burn contaminants found in recovered Ojitex Haiphong Co., Ltd. (Vietnam) paper and sludge that is created during the wastewater treatment process. Energy produced from the heat of the The Oji Paper Group manufactures corrugated boxes incinerator is used as steam in the mill. While the Oji Paper at two plants, one located in Northern Vietnam and Group uses incinerators at most of its mills in Japan, the use the other in Southern Vietnam. Ojitex (Vietnam) in of incinerators in Malaysia is a relatively new initiative that the south sells its products to many of the Japanese was undertaken in a New Energy and Industrial Technology companies that have set up operations in Vietnam Development Organization (NEDO)-led project. and has earned a high level of credibility in the market for its transfer of technologies from Japan. Plastic bag manufacturing facilities Staff sorting by hand A resource sorting system is not yet fully functional in Malaysia today, so workers at Energy from the incinerator recovered paper collection stations need to sort in the form of steam is being used to power the recovered paper by hand. manufacturing process Converted Paper Business —Functional Materials, Communication Paper and Adhesive Paper Corrugating machine Assembly work Oji Paper (Thailand) Ltd. (OPT) Heavy-duty packaging Cartons Oji Label (Thailand) Ltd. (OLT) OPT and OLT manufacture thermal paper, carbonless paper and UNION AND OJI INTERPACK CO., LTD. S. Pack & Print Public Co., Ltd. adhesive paper for labels on the outskirts of Thailand’s capital (UOI) (Thailand) (Thailand) of Bangkok. OPT is focusing more energy on thermal paper, in The Oji Paper Group established a plant in Bangkok, In March 2011, the Oji Paper Group became involved particular, because of anticipated market growth in the future. Thailand in 1997. This plant primarily manufactures in the management of cartons and corrugated board On the manufacturing floor staff from Oji Paper in Japan high strength corrugated boxes used in the packaging manufacturer S. Pack & Print Public based in Thailand. are working to transfer technologies to the local staff. OPT and of automotive parts. It has also made automotive The company excels at decorative offset printing and OLT also sell their products not only to Asian countries, but also part boxes lighter and easier to handle by changing features an integrated production line from corrugated to the Middle East as well as Africa, and both companies have the material from wood to corrugated boxes. In most board sheets through to final box assembly. We are received recognition from the market for their superior quality. instances, these boxes are also exported overseas currently working to transfer our long-standing expertise together with the part, so the lighter weight also serves in quality as well as environmental management from Coater to reduce CO2 emissions during transport. Japan to the company. 14 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 15 Special Feature Expanding Our Business Presence in Southeast Asia Plantation Business Developing a forest plantation is a collaborative process with the local community Communication Job creation Industry creation Contributions to local communities The Oji Paper Group uses dialogue with local We provide a wide range of job opportunities for local Logging generally takes place between five In fiscal 2010, the Oji Paper Group helped to construct bridges communities to foster understanding about its communities, including seedling growing, planting and eight years after tree planting. Logged and roads for local communities. plantation business and seek cooperation during the and fertilization. The assistance of local communities, trees become raw materials for papermaking, selection of its land for tree planting. Discussions are including fire prevention, is also essential to the daily furniture and plywood, which pave the way for also held on how we can help local villages prosper. management of our forest plantations. new industries in the local community. 8 years after planting Road construction in Thong Noy Village, Laos Bridge construction in Nakha Village, Laos Being a part of the farm Immediately after planting village plantation program Kengsadok Village, Laos We are now able to utilize Local Oji Paper staff talking Members of the Assistant Village Chief grasslands that until now face-to-face local community were not used effectively. with villagers growing seedlings LPFL provided us with seedlings and instructed Roads leading to our forest Plantation trees are now being used Time well spent us on how to manage plantations are also used by to make furniture them after planting. We In Southeast Asia, certain land is used for the local community are excited that these traditional purposes by the local villagers, same seedlings will be so the cooperation and understanding bought back in the future of the local community is required when after they have grown determining a location for tree planting. and become a source of income for the village. Briefing about the farm village plantation Newcomers to the Oji Paper Group in fiscal 2010 Conducting research PT. Korintiga Hutani (KTH) aims to Oji South Lao Plantation Forest Co., Selecting Researching genetic pursue a total forestry business model Ltd. (SLPFL) commences tree planting premium quality information In fiscal 2010 we became involved in the management We established a new tree planting company in Laos and tree species We conduct research for the benefit of a tree planting company in Indonesia. With the planted a total of 700 hectares of trees in fiscal 2010. We select trees that mature of future generations that includes beginning of logging approaching, KTH is planning to quickly or that are highly mapping the genetic information launch operations at a chip mill with an annual capacity resistant to disease as the of trees to identify genes that help of 1 million tons by the year 2013. parent tree for breeding. trees mature quickly or are resistant Growing premium quality trees Tissue culturing (Indonesia) to dry climates. (Forestry Research Institute, Japan) Improving tree Developing breeding growing methods technologies We examine fertilizer types In order to promptly identify and weeding techniques premium quality trees, we Carefully planting that are best suited for conduct research into breeding a seedling each plantation. technologies using indicators for specific substances unique Eucalyptus forest plantation Fertilizer experiment (Laos) Analysis equipment to these trees. (Forestry Research Institute, Japan) 16 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 17 The Role of Forests Forests supply us with wood as well as retain water, absorb CO2, prevent soil erosion, support other plant and animal life, and act as places of recreation. Series O O O C O Absorption of Oxygen Carbon dioxide carbon dioxide Coexistence Through photosynthesis forests absorb CO2, the cause of global warming, and with Forests release oxygen. Wood supply Wood is used in nearly every aspect of our lives. Forest Owned by the Oji Paper Group (Japan and Overseas) Total Land Area 430,000 hectares Amount of CO2 Absorbed 10 million tons Water Soil erosion Biodiversity conservation Recreation prevention conservation Forest soil stores water Forests act as places where Trees extend out their root Rich forest ecosystems are and controls the amount we can camp or play sports systems while underbrush fostered by the growth of of water flowing into rivers. and also provide us with and fallen leaves cover the diverse plant and animal life. soothing spaces that bring forest floor, preventing soil us closer to nature. erosion from rainwater. 18 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 19 Series Coexistence Japan with Forests Safeguarding Company-Owned Forests Utilizing Company-Owned Forests Tree Thinning Pure Spring Water from Our Company-Owned Forests Thirty years after they are planted, we thin about 30% of the A river fed by all natural spring water flows through our company-owned Tomakomai Forest that extends to the southeast of trees in our forests once every 10 years. Tree thinning helps let Lake Shikotsu in Hokkaido. Water from this spring water that bubbles up to the surface in a nurtured natural environment is sunlight penetrate to the forest floor and create sound, healthy bottled without pasteurizing. In this regard, forest management is a key to safeguarding natural spring waters. forests. Moreover, the remaining trees actually absorb even more CO2 than before. In fiscal 2010, the Oji Paper Group thinned 3,380 hectares of company-owned forest. After being downed by a chainsaw, trees are cut into predetermined lengths using heavy machinery. Flowing spring water found in one of our company-owned forests Oji Salmon’s Shikotsu-no-Hisui brand mineral water was included in the shipments of relief supplies that the Oji Paper Group sent to the areas hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake. We are addressing rising demand for water using our own operational structure. Oji Salmon’s Shikotsu-no-Hisui and Hokkaido brand mineral water Houses Made with SGEC Forest Certified Lumber We published the brochure Creating Thinned Japanese cedar logged by Oji Forest & Products Forests that Generate Resources at our company-owned Kamiinako Forest in Shizuoka Prefecture is now being used in construction material for homes, including columns and joists, as a SGEC forest This informative brochure highlights the efforts of Uses for thinned timber certified material. We are making efforts to ensure that the Oji Paper Group to better utilize eco-friendly builders help us utilize this material as well as safeguard forest resources. The accompanying Q&A booklet Branches are trimmed from round, straight logs the forests of Japan. Our goal is to also have builders feel a also serves as a tool to broaden reader understandBefore tree thinning After tree thinning that are then transported to the mill. About 60% is greater sense of closeness to Oji brand forestry products. ing of forests. The brochure is handed out to our used in lumber and plywood, while the remaining Dark forest with Bright forest with sparse customers, who have remarked that it is very easy 40% is used as a raw material for making paper or closely-crowded trees trees allowing sunlight in to understand. a biomass fuel. Work Road Improvements Working to revitalize alpine flora The development of forest roads is essential to tree thinning work and the The Oji Paper Group transport of thinned timber. actively supports We constantly repair forest the Mount Apoi roads that have been Restoration damaged by rainwater or Committee, which have become overgrown with aims to revitalize weeds and underbrush. alpine flora on Mount Home made with certified lumber In fiscal 2010, we built Apoi in Hokkaido. What is SGEC? 12 km of new forest roads and made improvements to 370 SGEC is Japan’s own forest certification km of existing forest roads. Hypochaeris—feared to be on the program that verifies a forest is managed Newly built forest road brink of extinction sustainably. 20 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 21 Series Coexistence Overseas with Forests Utilizing Our Overseas Forest Plantations Our Overseas Plantations Help Absorb CO2 We are committed to the sustainable development of forests as we replant trees after they reach maturity and have been The Oji Paper Group plants trees on unused or harvested. These logged trees are utilized to make lumber, plywood and wood chips. degraded lands and by sustainably managing these forests it is helping to absorb CO2. Our commitment to sharing forestry technologies as well as creating jobs and industries locally Replanting Nurturing helps to prevent the logging of natural forest. We are also making efforts under the REDD+ Seedlings are planted in the area where trees were The planted seedlings grow to become trees. It takes mechanism which acts as a platform for developing logged. Occasionally we use natural germination or between five to 12 years until eucalyptus or acacia countries and developed countries to discuss introduce new species to the area. trees can be logged and 30 years for radiata pine. international forest issues. Eucalyptus forest plantation in Laos developed with consideration for the surrounding natural forest (background) Eucalyptus seedling Eucalyptus forest plantation Utilizing J-VER What is REDD+? Sustainable forest development Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and The Japan Verified Emission Reduction scheme, or J-VER, Forest Degradation (REDD) is an international works to certify as emission credits the amount of carbon mechanism involving developing countries and dioxide absorbed through proper forest management and Logging developed countries that forms part of the world’s the promotion of tree thinning. global warming measures for 2013 and beyond. The Oji Paper Group has plans to thin 5,000 hectares Trees are logged with machinery Discussions are now underway via of its company-owned forests in order to acquire J-VER or by hand. the REDD+ mechanism which adds forest emission credits. As of the end of July 2011, we had conservation, sustainable forest management acquired some 8,589 tons of CO2 emissions credits, and the creation of financial value for the representing the largest amount of any private-sector carbon stored in forests to the conventional company in Japan. We have also begun to sell our emissions Pan Pac Forest REDD mechanism. credits, and we are working to raise awareness of global Products Ltd. (PAN warming prevention measures and environmental issues. PAC) supports local conservation activities for kiwi bird chicks. Logging work Our overseas forest plantations help absorb large amounts of CO2 Utilization of renewable wood Trees absorb carbon dioxide in the air using photosynthesis and release O C O O O O O O O oxygen. They also store carbon in O C O O C O Use as wood chips Use aimed at a total forestry business their trunks, branches and roots. CO2 C A young forest that more actively absorption C Timber is processed into wood chips locally and is Timber is used to make lumber and plywood, while tree exported as a raw material for papermaking. bark and sawdust are also utilized as fuel. We are also uses photosynthesis can absorb larger and tree C Trees absorb CO2 amounts of carbon dioxide, while examining ways to use carbon credits for CO2 absorbed mature old-growth forests absorb less. growth and use carbon as a foundation Chips are being by our forest plantations. for growth. loaded onto a Company-owned forests in Japan ship for export consist of older and lower growth natural forests and planted forests, Overseas plantations Company-owned forests in Japan but our overseas forest plantations are Amount of being logged and replanted according to a shorter cycle than those in Japan. CO2 absorbed This is why our overseas forest by the Oji plantations absorb a larger amount of CO2 than our company-owned forests Paper Group 9.39 0.68 million tons / year million tons / year in Japan. Lumber products 22 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 23 Making contributions to Recognizing the importance of environmental Environmental Corporate Philosophy society as a leader in the Management System management in our corporate activities and striving for environmental compliance. and Code of Conduct papermaking industry As the importance of environmental management Oji Paper Group Environmental Management Organization in corporate activities increases, Oji Paper Group’s Corporate Philosophy Environmental Management Division oversees environmental conservation and product safety for Oji Paper Group CEO Contribution to the Environment and Culture, Innovation and Speed, the entire Group. Product Safety Committee We believe that environmental compliance is Global Reputation for Dependability a prerequisite for a company’s continued existence, Recovered Paper Use Audit Committee With pride in and recognition of its responsibilities as a leading paper company, motivating us to prevent trouble before it happens by significantly reducing environmental risk and Environmental Management Division Oji Paper will work to continuously improve itself and win greater trust worldwide. manufacturing liability risk through a Group-wide approach to management and oversight. Environmental Management Department At each of our sites, we appoint managers to administer environmental compliance and also Corporate monitor the status of our environmental compliance Global Warming Environment Product Safety Sustainable through environmental committees and regular Code of Conduct meetings. Affairs Office Management Office Management Office Management Office I. We, the management and employees of the Oji Paper Group, hereby adopt the Oji Paper Group Corporate Code Each Group Company and Mill of Conduct, as detailed below, as guiding principles for corporate activities based on an awareness of our Main responsibilities of the Environmental responsibilities as a good corporate citizen and on high Management Department ethical principles appropriate for an organization that The Oji Paper Group’s recycling-based business enjoys the trust of society. Global Warming Affairs Office II. We, the management and employees of the Oji Paper Promotion of measures Group, will strive at all times to implement this Code, and to combat climate to contribute to the genuine enrichment of society. Using black liquor change through further improvements in energy 1. Compliance with the law 5. Participation in social contribution activities as fuel efficiency and conservation 2. Harmony with the environment 6. Coexistence with the international community of the Oji Paper Group’s 3. Supply of safe, useful products and services 7. Contribution through manufacturing Boiler wealth of forest resources. 4. Communication with society 8. Achievement of employee satisfaction Global Biomass-derived warming Extracting Environment Management Office CO2 countermeasures Black CO2 liquor plant-derived fuel Support for improvement of CO 2 CO2 (Use of biomass fuel) environmental management structures through environCorporate Making paper mental problem prevention measures at mills and Product Safety Philosophy Environmental verification/guidance with respect to legal compliance. Using Charter Charter paper Creating The Oji Paper Group delivers safe The Oji Paper Group Environmental Charter forests Product Safety Management Office Wood chips products, fully recognizing that requires the Oji Paper Group to help create Ensure product safety its corporate social responsibility a truly enriched and sustainable society by entails providing quality and services developing business activities that harmonize Forest Paper through the management of chemicals and respond that enable customers to use its with the environment from a global Recycling Recycling to customer requests for information. products with peace of mind. perspective. The Charter calls for the Oji Paper Group to make autonomous efforts to achieve further environmental improvement, Nurturing Sustainable Management Office and aggressively drive its forest recycling, forests Using Communication of paper recycling, and global warming information about countermeasures forward. recovered environmental initiatives, Making use Collecting paper raw through means such of forests recovered paper as public reports and materials participation in exhibits. 24 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 25 The Oji Paper Group Environmental Action established Environmental Action Program 2015 covering Program 2015 Environmental audits the period up to fiscal 2015. Workshops See page 38 Reinforcement of Make into fuel Use environmental improvement measures and environmental Grow See page 29 management systems Promotion of forest recycling Develop a voluntary environmental management structure through the See page 40 Increase the land area of overseas forest acquisition of certification for our plantations to 300,000 hectares and See page 30 environmental management system as Reduction and effective move toward acquiring forest certification well as regular upkeep and operations. utilization of waste for all company-owned forests and forest Promotion of paper recycling (Target to acquire EMS certification for plantations. 150 mills) Reduce the total amount of waste for Manage company-owned forests in Encourage the use of recovered paper final disposal to under 50,000 tons (AD) Japan through tree thinning and other as a resource. per year. activities. (Target to achieve a 64% recovered paper (Oji Paper, Oji Paperboard, Oji Specialty utilization rate) Effectively utilize forests owned in Japan Paper, Oji Nepia) and overseas in promoting the total forestry business approach. Collect Plant Use Sort Effective use of ash Energy Boiler Product safety See page 32 See page 41 Promotion of global Transfer of environmental warming countermeasures See page 33 protection technology to Development of production other countries See page 42 Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by technologies and products that 15% relative to 1990 and carbon dioxide Building relationships of emissions from energy sources by 35%. minimize environmental impact Comply with relevant environmental standards in each country and trust with stakeholders Increase the amount of CO2 absorbed Properly manage compliance with voluntary share environmental management (offset credits, etc.) through forest standards as well as laws and regulations in technologies developed in Japan. management. product safety. Encourage greater communication with our stakeholders through Develop a larger supply structure for forest exhibitions and publications. certified products. Promote social contribution activities Encourage the development of new products rooted in the local community. O C O that help conserve resources and reduce CO2 emissions. Black liquor 26 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 27 As a forestry company we are committed to Promotion of Forest protecting company-owned forests, expanding the The Oji Paper Group Environmental Charter—Action Guidelines Recycling area of plantations and utilizing forests. Development of production Transfer of environmental Promotion of forest recycling Promotion of global warming technologies and products that protection technologies to countermeasures minimize environmental impact other countries Distribution of the Oji Paper Group Domestic Company-Owned Forests We will promote green procurement of resources In the area of global warming countermeasures, By using the accumulated results of the paperIn our international operations we are actively grown in sustainably managed forests. We will we will strive to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. related basic research area, we are working on promoting international transfers of environmental use the results of the broad research activities of As high-priority issues toward that end, we will the research and development of environmenttechnology, as well as observing environmental our forest research, and achievements made to promote energy conservation and conversion to friendly production technologies and new standards of the relevant countries. Forests that have Largest area date in the silviculture and management of our non-fossil fuels. We will also contribute to the products with the aim of helping to create company-owned forests in Japan, for the planned sequestration of carbon dioxide by proactively a recycling-oriented society. Also, we work development of overseas tree plantation projects. pursuing the development and maintenance to use environment-friendly materials, as well in Japan’s private sector acquired SGEC We will work to secure wood raw materials, which of forests. as ensure production safety based on our certification in Japan will result in global environmental conservation. company’s “Product Safety Charter” when we purchase materials. 190,000 ha Hokkaido: 126,594 ha (excluding profit-share forests) Reinforcement of environmental Promotion of paper recycling improvement measures and Reduction and effective Building relationships of trust environmental management systems utilization of waste with stakeholders Tohoku: 7,314 ha We will seek to advance the utilization of We will comply with environmental laws and We will reduce the amount of waste for final We will carry out active PR and educational recovered paper, making the most of the benefits regulations in our business activities and work disposal by enhancing measures such as the activities inside and outside the company and of our comprehensive manufacturing of paper to further reduce the environmental impact of reduction of waste generation from the production engage in dialogue with stakeholders concerning Kanto, Chubu: 17,715 ha Chugoku: 14,134 ha and paperboard. We will blend recovered paper our businesses. We will also continue to improve process and the effective utilization of waste. our environmental management initiatives. All of in ratios that are economical and suitable for the quality of our group-wide environmental our offices, both in and outside Japan, will work intended uses, giving due consideration to the management system. to protect the environment of local communities environment. In particular, as well as working and contribute to their development. on increasing the recovered paper usage in the 10,000 ha paper area, we will work on the development of technologies for recycling types of used paper Kyushu: 7,702 ha Kinki: 12,905 ha that are hard to recycle. 5,000 ha Shikoku: 2,679 ha 1,000 ha Fiscal 2010 Achievements Distribution of the Oji Paper Group Overseas Forest Plantations Action Guidelines Achievements (Fiscal 2010) Promotion of forest recycling Overseas forest plantations: 240,000 ha All of our overseas forest plantations CPFL (China): 5,976 ha KPFL (China): 22,978 ha Promotion of paper recycling Recovered paper utilization rate: 62.4% will acquire forest certification (currently 60% have acquired forest certification) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions: 20.5% reduction (relative to FY1990 levels) Promotion of global warming countermeasures CO2 emissions from energy sources: 38.4% reduction (relative to FY1990 levels) LPFL (Laos): 27,723 ha AFPI (Canada): 2,475 ha 240,000 ha EMS certified mills (subject to environmental oversight) (Fiscal 2010) Reinforcement of environmental ISO14001: 105 mills improvement measures and Certification in Japan: 6 mills environmental management systems (KES, Eco Action 21, etc.) KTH (Indonesia): 38,741 ha 300,000 ha (Fiscal 2015 Target) O-EMS: 13 mills SLPFL (Laos): 718 ha Development of production technologies and products that Comply with voluntary standards for food container packaging (product safety) PAN PAC (New Zealand): 33,505 ha minimize environmental impact Reduction and effective utilization QPFL (Vietnam): 12,282 ha of waste Final disposal amount: 74,000 tons (4 papermaking companies) CENIBRA (Brazil): 56,447 ha Transfer of environmental protection Expansion of business into China technologies to other countries APFL (Australia): 21,922 ha Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2010 SPFL (New Zealand): 10,047 ha Building relationships of trust Oji Forest Nature Schools “Groundwork” programs with stakeholders GPFL (Australia): 6,325 ha EPFL (Australia): 737 ha Exhibition at Eco-Products 2010 Community environmental monitor meetings 28 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 29 Maximizing the use of the Promotion of Paper world’s limited resources Recycling through the continued use The Process for Making Recovered Paper into a Raw Material of recovered paper. Recovered paper produced by consumers, supermarkets, offices or printing and binding plants is collected at schools or by municipal collection providers. This recovered paper is then sorted, compressed, and packed according to type by a recovered Recently, the volume of recovered paper exports has been Oji Paper Group’s Volume of Recovered Paper and Utilization Rate paper wholesaler. The processed recovered paper is then shipped off to a papermaking mill where it is then sorted by type, increasing. In 2010, some 20% of Japan’s recovered paper was (Thousand tons) (%) such as newspaper, magazine and corrugated box, depending on the usage. exported, with nearly 80% of this bound for China. 10,000 65 Japan’s recovered paper is known for its high quality as it has fewer contaminants when compared to recovered paper from the US or Europe, and because of the country’s 63.0 Target for fiscal 2015 Printing and 62.4 Consumers Supermarkets binding geographic proximity exports of recovered paper bound for China and Southeast Asia are on the rise. 61.5 64% and offices plants The Oji Paper Group believes in the importance of collecting and using recovered paper in Japan as well as 60.4 60.2 exporting recovered paper in a well-balanced manner. 5,000 60 With exports on the rise, we are now making efforts to use difficult-to-process recovered paper, which had once been Group collection / Municipal collection Collection by a vendor considered unusable as a raw material for papermaking, in order to continue to make use of recovered paper procured from domestic sources. Volume of recovered paper Recovered paper wholesaler (OJISAITOU SHIGYO PAPER RECYCLE and Kyokushin Shigyo) 62.4% Recovered Recovered paper Transported to paper 0 0 utilization rate the recovered utilization 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) paper yard rate* * Recovered paper utilization rate: Recovered paper consumption amount divided by total fiber raw material consumption amount To Utilizing Difficult-to-Process Recovered Paper paperDifficult-to-process recovered paper refers to paper that once was either disposed Receiving collected recovered paper making of or solely used as fuel because technologically it could not be used as a raw mills material for papermaking. Demand has risen for the use of difficult-to-process recovered paper on the back of efforts to reduce waste and heightened awareness of corporate social Paper unsuited as a raw responsibility. This paper includes highly confidential documents, released paper material for papermaking is removed from plasterboard and container packaging, all of which are used as a raw material Confidential documents are chemically dissolved for mainly paperboard. As difficult-to-process recovered paper only accounts for without being taken out of the several percent of all recovered paper usage, we are making efforts to increase this corrugated box 60% of all amount going forward. papermaking raw materials come from Recovered recovered paper paper is compressed We separate and collect recovered We promote the use of difficultand packaged paper at our papermaking mills to-process recovered paper Oji Paperboard engages in the manufacturing of Oji Paperboard’s Fuji Mill has installed specialized paperboard products that use recovered paper as equipment for difficult-to-process recovered paper. Sorting and separating are Don’t mix in contaminants! a primary raw material. Recovered paper recycling The company has actively received samples of dumpsters are placed at the front gate of each of recovered paper that was once difficult to recycle and critical work processes Paper that is not suitable for papermaking its mills so that the company can work together is also conducting tests repeatedly. In fiscal 2010, it raw material is referred to as contaminant. with members of the local community to help utilize Ota, General Manager One of the most important Quality troubles occur when sublimation was able to increase the usage amount of released jobs of a recovered paper resources effectively. Suginami Branch transfer paper (dyed printing and iron paper from plasterboard and vinyl laminated paper. wholesaler is quality control. OJISAITOU SHIGYO PAPER RECYCLE printing paper) and thermosenstive CO., LTD. Employees work hard paper foam board find their way into during hot summer days raw materials. or freezing cold winter days, to find contaminants from among mountains of recovered paper as well as sort through newspaper and magazine paper. We ask that consumers help to never mix in contaminants in their recyclables as well Specialized equipment for difficult-to-process as properly sort newspapers Recycling dumpster for recovered paper recovered paper (kneading pulper) and magazines. Sublimation transfer paper 30 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 31 We carefully screen the chemicals we use Promotion of We are promoting the reduction of greenhouse gases Development of Production Technologies and Products that from the selection process for compliance Global Warming (GHG) through energy conservation initiatives and the Minimize Environmental Impact with applicable laws, regulations and Countermeasures use of waste as fuel. —Product Safety Management— voluntary standards. Initiatives to Reduce GHG Emissions Informing Customers We have made our production system more energy Oji Paper Group’s GHG Emissions efficient, implemented 600 energy conservation A Information provision A Responding to customer inquiries (Thousand tons) (%) measures, and reduced our use of heavy oil by controlling 10,000 100 operations at our papermaking mills. In fiscal 2010, 96.4 We respond to inquiries from Oji Paper, Oji Paperboard and Oji Specialty Paper respond to a variety of we were able to reduce our GHG emissions by 7.8% 92.7 customers based on a variety inquiries from customers using Article Information Sheets (AIS), Investigation compared to fiscal 2009. of chemical safety information Reports, and Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). In fiscal 2010, we 9,000 88.6 90 87.3 verified through our pre-use responded to some 7,000 customer inquiries. Other Group companies also evaluation system and information respond to customer inquiries individually. updating system. GHG* Emissions 8,000 79.5 Target for 80 fiscal 2015 Reduced by 7,476 85% 20.5% 7,186 7,000 6,868 70 6,769 relative to fiscal 1990 6,227 6,000 60 GHG emissions (CO2 conversion) *GHG: CO2 emitted from energy sources in the manufacturing process and landfills, CO2 not emitted from energy sources, CH4 and N2O Relative to 1990 Inquiry through 0 0 sales channels Product Chemical 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Sales manageChemical safety company division ment Response through division division sales channels Customers Utilizing hydroelectric power since the early 1900s Oji Paper Group Oji Paper’s Tomakomai Mill owns nine and Oji Specialty Paper’s Tokai Mill and Nakatsu Mill own 10 hydroelectric power plants that combined can produce up to 70,000 kW of electricity with zero GHG emissions. Chitose No. 1 Domestic and Power Plant, which is the oldest and largest hydroelectric power plant owned by the Tomakomai Mill, was first A B overseas regulations and green procurement constructed as a power source for the mill when it began operations in 1910. A century later the power plant EU REACH Regulation, EU continues to generate power for the mill. Electricity generated by seven hydroelectric power plants, including Chitose RoHS Directive, JGPSSI, GADSL, etc. No. 1 Power Plant, is delivered to the mill using independently owned transmission lines. The 10,000 kW of electricity generated by Tomakomai Mill’s Shiribetsu No. 1 and No. 2 power plants are supplied all the way to Tokyo via a power company’s transmission network where it is utilized by commercialscale utility customers that are required to reduce their CO2 emissions under the Tokyo Metropolitan Government’s emissions trading scheme. Verification of Chemical Safety B Pre-use evaluation system B Information updating system Electricity is used by the Tomakomai Mill When beginning the use of a new chemical, 11 Group Chemical substance management requirements are and utility customers in Tokyo companies employ the Oji Paper Group’s proprietary being tightened in laws and regulations both in Japan New Raw Material Safety Sheets to verify relevant and overseas as well as in the green procurement regulations, customers’ green procurement practices, practices of our customers. In order to provide accurate and chemical toxicity with more detail than MSDS. The information, we need to promptly obtain the latest items on this sheet are revised when needed to maintain information on the chemicals we use. compliance with the latest laws and regulations. As a complement to our pre-use evaluation system, This system was launched by Oji Paper in 1994, the we employ the Oji Paper Group’s proprietary Regulatory year before the enactment of Japan’s Product Liability and Hazard Information Study Sheets to periodically Law, and afterward was extended to other companies collect the latest information from chemical companies within the Group. that manufacture the chemicals in use by the Group. Water is diverted to flow through these huge pipes 32 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 33 Personal hygiene products Implementing a Wide Range of Initiatives Performing quality control audits Oji Nepia manufactures and sells personal hygiene products used in the Corrugated cardboard home. As its products come into direct contact with consumers, the company maintains a steadfast commitment to product quality control. As part of this Making use of voluntary industry standards commitment, Oji Nepia performs quality control audits annually at each of its plants and its consigned manufacturing partners to verify their quality control Various industry organizations have developed structure and implementation status on the manufacturing floor. voluntary standards to ensure a higher level of The company also implements sure-fire preventative measures when security and safety for paper products that come and if product defects are found by its customers. into contact with foods. Base paper Quality control audit Performing product safety audits Medical device products We verify voluntary standards, product quality, and product safety management. Obtained ISO certification for medical devices Oji Paperboard manufactures and sells Oji Chiyoda Container and the Mori Shigyo Group New Tac Kasei manufactures and sells medical device containerboard. The company follows the manufacture and sell corrugated cardboard boxes used products, which demand an advanced quality control voluntary guidelines developed by the for fresh fruit and vegetables. They follow the voluntary structure be in place. As a result, the company has obtained Japan Paper Association and confirms the guidelines developed by the Japan Containerboard ISO13485 certification in medical devices as well as ISO9001 implementation of these standards using product Industry Association and confirm the implementation of certification in quality, and also conducts product safety safety audits. these standards using product safety audits. audits under Japan’s Pharmaceutical Affairs Act to ensure the safety of its medical device products Manufacturing wound dressings Paper containers Foodstuff Confirming the compliance of 10,000 products and parts Product Safety Obtained Hokkaido HACCP certification Oji Packaging processes paper and paperboard as well as manufactures and sells paper packaging, containers, and decorative cardboard and film. Committee Established Oji Salmon, which has acquired Hokkaido HACCP* certification, manufactures and sells processed salmon The company uses many complex processes and, products and mineral water. With the aim to further including unit companies, handles up to 10,000 The Committee consists of members from enhance its food hygiene controls, the company products and parts. Through the cooperation of a acquired Hokkaido HACCP certification for its mineral 13 Group companies that oversee the raw materials manufacturer that it consigns work to, water plant in June 2010, following its acquisition of management of product safety. the same certification for its salmon processing plant. the company verifies the presence of environmental load substances as well as compliance with the It also verifies initiatives of The company regularly holds meetings in order voluntary standards for food container packaging Group companies and develops to heighten its awareness toward making tastier and developed by industry organizations. safer food products. future policies. * HACCP: Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point Salmon processing work Oji Packaging’s product line up Food trays Product safety initiatives overseas ISO certification obtained for food applications GSPP, located in Malaysia, manufactures and sells paperboard and corrugated boxes. Many of GSPP’s clients are multinational Ginpo Pack manufactures and sells trays and containers for corporations from the electronic and electrical device industry, and foodstuff, including frozen foods and boxed lunches sold GSPP has received certification as a green partner from multiple at convenience stores. With growing social concern over customers. The company also receives many inquiries concerning packaging materials, the company has acquired ISO22000 its compliance with the EU’s various chemical substance certification for food safety as well as fully complies with regulations, such as REACH and RoHS, and is firmly committed to Japan’s Food Sanitation Act and voluntary standards fulfilling a global standard. developed by the industry. Workers check chemical substances in raw materials Final inspection of a food packaging container 34 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 35 We are helping conserve Development of Production Technologies forests through our supply and Products that Minimize Environmental Impact—Products Receiving FSC®— structure to provide forestOji Nepia certified products. Delivers FSC®-Certified Products Household paper products, including tissue paper and toilet paper, are some of the paper products The promise of the FSC certified logo most closely intertwined in our daily lives but are also difficult to recycle once used. Oji Nepia manufactures products that use certified pulp and chips from responsibly managed forests. The company has begun to produce products for consumers that are more considerate of the environment. Forests are properly A system to guarantee that maintained, properly utilized certified lumber is used in the and properly managed. distribution process stages. We are helping local A third party institution communities who nurture oversees the implementation forests as well as their social of this certification system. and economic activities. The logo for responsibly managed forests The FSC certified logo represents a guarantee that forests are being properly maintained by all parties in Products the value chain, from the people actually managing the forest to people making, selling and using lumber and products made from lumber. Requirements to display the FSC certified logo On the rise in Nepia deluxe series Europe and North America Forest resources or the forest environment is properly managed (FM* certification) The FSC certified logo is still Non-FM certified lumber is not mixed in with FM certified lumber during production, not widely recognized by processing and distribution (CoC* certification) general consumers in Japan. Nepi Nepi series Long roll series Nepia tissue The FSC certified logo can However, in Europe and be displayed after both of End user North America, especially these certifications have in the United States, the been obtained. FSC Ce rtif on ic at i FSC certified logo is one of the most widely recognized Delivering FSC certified products Consumer survey conducted Paper processing certification logos used in the The FSC certified logo is still not widely known by Forest mill construction industry. Kamematsu general consumers in Japan, but after they were given In Europe, reports Director and Sales Division an explanation about its meaning of the FSC certified indicate that lumber and General Manager logo many consumers responded that they would like Oji Nepia Co., Ltd. lumber products that have to buy FSC certified products. FM Integrated CoC received FSC certification Oji Nepia sells FSC certified Certif on ic at i Ce on account for between a 6% Q Do you know about the Q Would you like to buy management rtif i ic at tissue paper and toilet FSC certified logo? FSC certified products? and 7% share of the market, paper products that use (Asked after explaining about the and interest in the certification pulp and chips from I think about I think I may it it about know I may know meaning of the FSC certified logo) I know I know about about it it process and logo is increasing. responsibly managed 3% 3% 8% 8% In Brazil, consumer forests. Moving forward, Yes, Yes, I would I would recognition of the FSC certified we will continue our I cannot like to say say I cannot buy like to buy CoC 17 17 % % CoC on Ce rtif on i logo increased from 1% to marketing activities so 34% for sure for sure 34% Ce rtif ic at i ic at 22% in the span of three that customers are able to I do Inot do know not know about about it it I mayI may wantwant to buy to buy Chip mill Papermaking mill years. Going forward, this recognize that our company 89% 89% 45% 45% same increase in recognition is provides safe products that FM: Forest Management expected in Japan. are considerate of CoC: Chain of Custody the environment. 2011 Nepia survey Participants: 800 females between the ages of 20 and 69 from throughout Japan 36 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 37 Reinforcement of Environmental We are lessening our impact on the environment and strengthening Improvement Measures and our voluntary environmental Holding environmental workshops Environmental Management Systems management structure We hold environmental workshops throughout Japan for our environmental managers as a means to increase their knowledge and understanding of their environmental practices. These Looking back on my participation Use of environmental management systems workshops are used to identify challenges found in environmental in an environmental workshop audits and broaden understanding of relevant laws, ordinances and We are moving forward with the implementation of environmental management systems customized to mill conditions so environmental management practices. After the workshop, check that each mill can systematically practice its own environmental management activities. We have focused particular energy lists are used to verify each mill’s compliance with applicable laws on instituting a proprietary EMS developed by the Oji Paper Group known as the O-EMS. and ordinances, which is then followed up with remedial measures. O-EMS is a streamlined version of ISO14001 that we have developed for small-scale mills. O-EMS is more in tune In fiscal 2010, 16 workshops with a total of 274 participants with the actual conditions of small mills, helping these facilities to comply with laws and regulations as well as reduce were held targeting 186 of our manufacturing mills. In fiscal 2011, environmental risks. we plan to invite environmental managers from our mills to act as lecturers in order to make the workshops more organic. Performing mutual audits Fujita Foreman, Fukushima Office Managers from In December 2010, a mutual audit each Group Hokuyo Shiko Co., Ltd. Matsumoto was performed at the Sendai Mill company of Oji Seitai Kaisha. As an inspector, I had the opportunity participated in Assistant General Manager, Komatsu Plant workshops. Shin Nippon Feather Core Co., Ltd. to perform audits on other mills and was able to review their systems objectively and make use of their methods and The information provided on wastes at the initiatives in our own mill. In this regard, I feel keenly aware of workshop proved to be particularly useful from the need for these mutual audits. a working level standpoint. I plan to use what I learned to verify our environmental management practices and educate our employees on the The Oji Paper Group’s Environmental Management Systems (EMS) As of July 1, 2011 importance of environmental compliance. No. of mills certified Main mills certified Environmental Management (Mills subject to audits) Resolving problems and rolling out measures ISO14001 105 All papermaking mills Certification in Japan Nihon Seika Hoso, Chuetsu / Shiga, Whenever a problem or complaint regarding the environment occurs, we not only identify the reason 7 The Environmental Management Division (KES or Eco Action 21, etc.) Mori Kamihanbai / Kyoto and Nagoya and take remedial measures, but also roll out measures at our other mills that may be subject to similar assesses the situation surrounding all Group risks. This helps us prevent the same accident from occurring twice. Beginning in fiscal 2011, members Fuchigami Danbo-ru, Matsuda Aoi Danboru, O-EMS 15 mills and shares this information of the Environmental Management Division are visiting each of our mills to raise awareness and discuss Shiota Danbo-ru, Yamachu Sangyo at environmental conservation meetings. matters in order to eliminate problems that could occur before and after long-term operational shutdowns. Examples of measures rolled out for environmental problems Environmental audits Problem Measure rolled out On-site audits led by the Environmental Management Division have been performed since fiscal 1994, but Soot and dust Installation of soot and dust concentration meters starting in fiscal 2010 we enhanced our auditing system by adding paper audits. In fiscal 2010, we performed Leakage of oils • Installation of surface oil detectors on-site or paper audits for 205 mills within the Group. Although the number of remedial measures that need to be • Instituted redundancy system for detecting the level of chemicals in service tanks taken have decreased as a result of our ongoing environmental audits, we still face challenges with regards to waste and chemicals • Built and improved dikes disposal matters. Factors surrounding this include the lack of understanding regarding laws and regulations on the part of environmental managers or the lack of a handover when managers change. As a result, we are implementing measures to Exceeded legal limit Instituted redundant monitoring system (installed rotating warning lights) further raise awareness and understanding of environmental practices. We are taking measures to prevent leaks in small equipment Looking back on our environmental audit We have installed dikes Hosokawa for our chemical tanks, Aspiring for zero Manager, Yamamoto Plant Environmental New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd. audit and have also instituted environmental problems 205 mills leak prevention measures —Recent examples of environmental problems— After our first environmental audit by the for small tanks used to Environmental Management Division I felt store waste oil and alkali keenly aware of our shortcomings toward the that have the potential Environmental Management Division, Oji Paper Co., Ltd. environment. In particular, we found that are to cause harm to the labelling of wastes was inadequate. As we are On-site audit Paper audits 127 mills 78 mills environment if a leak planning to acquire ISO14001 in fiscal 2011, we Setting up Lectures are were to occur. will use what we have learned from this audit to safety fences around held at each mill reduce and effectively utilize wastes and operate containers for disposal forms part of our leak Inspection of wastewater neutralizing equipment the plant in a more eco-friendly manner. preparedness measures 38 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 39 We are actively rolling out advanced Reduction and We are working to reduce final disposal waste Transfer of Environmental environmental management practices and Effective Utilization by curbing the volume of wastes and effectively Protection Technologies product safety expertise amassed in Japan at our utilizing waste as a raw material of Waste to Other Countries production sites overseas. In May 2010, the new Nantong Mill, which forms the What is Waste-derived fuel Energy heart of the Oji Paper Group’s operations in China, RPF? commenced trial operations. In order to meet China’s strict Nantong Mill commences Refuse paper environmental regulations, the mill operates using the latest, operations most cutting edge facilities as well as our long-standing and plastic environmental management and product safety expertise fuel. Used at mills developed in Japan. What RPF Wood waste is paper sludge? Sludge emitted Incinerated ash from the papermaking process Paper sludge Used tires The mill manager talking about an emergency drill What Cheung is black Vice President and Mill Manager liquor? Effective utilization Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd. A by-product of For most of our employees this marked the first time The new Nantong Mill pulp production that they have ever operated a brand new mill. In this regard, we are making great efforts aimed at the growth of both the company and our employees. We Black liquor are operating the mill based on the guidelines laid out Raw material Raw material in the Environmental Charter and are providing ongoing for public works for cement training to our employees on the importance of the environment and safety. Landfill Currently engineers from Japan are providing us with a wide range of guidance, and going forward we Incineration will work hard so that our local Chinese staff can take on Final disposal waste (4 papermaking companies) more of a leadership role within the company. Boiler 74,000 tons Monitoring papermaking machine operations Using Waste as Fuel Sponsored a booth at As part of our commitment to combating global Japan-China Green Expo 2011 warming, we use refuse paper and waste plastic, or RPF, Using black liquor from as well as paper sludge and black liquor derived from chips as biomass energy chips from the paper manufacturing process as fuel at our papermaking mills. Japan-China Green Expo 2011 was held from June 1 In fiscal 2010, our CO2 emissions from energy to June 3 in Beijing under the theme of “Aspiring to Pulp, which is a raw material used to make sources were reduced by 38.4% relative to fiscal 1990. integrate the environment and economy.” A total of paper, is made from wood. Pulp is made by However, a large amount of ash was generated as a by92 exhibitors attended, including leading companies adding a chemical to wood chips that are from both Japan and China, local governments and product. This ash is mainly used as a raw material either then heated. Black liquor emitted from the presentation research institutions. The Oji Paper Group booth Shinoda during his in cement or public works projects, but parts of this same wood chips during this process is used as ash contain chlorine and lead, meaning that it cannot showcased the Group’s environmentally-conscious biomass energy, which does not generate CO2 be used without first being treated. We are currently recycling-based business. from fossil fuels. In this regard, we are also working to develop detoxifying technologies so that we President and CEO Kazuhisa Shinoda also gave effectively utilizing black liquor emitted during can effectively utilize the entire amount of this ash. a presentation at the event’s forum on the Oji Paper the pulp manufacturing process. Group’s recycling-based business model. The Oji Pape r Group boot h 40 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 41 Building We are committed to being a fixture in the local Implementing a variety of Relationships of Trust Company Initiatives with Stakeholders community going forward. initiatives to meet the needs of our customers. Since its inception, the Oji Paper Group has listened closely to feedback it has received through dialogue with its customers, the local community and employees. We stand committed to further enhancing our social action programs while strengthening our relationship with the local community through our environmental monitor system, groundwork program, disposable chopstick recycling initiative, mill tours and the Oji Forest Nature School. Tomakomai Mill celebrates its 100th anniversary Oji Paper Tomakomai Mill As part of a project to commemorate its 100th anniversary as a fixture in the local community, Construction of the Tomakomai Mill, which began the Tomakomai Mill helped develop the Hokkocho in 1907, would later be suspended due to a Future Forest Park. The 7.9 hectare park features shortage of gravel to mix in with the concrete. At a civic garden and dog park as well as offers great the time, the people of Tomakomai Village lent a views of Somei-yoshino and Sergeant’s cherry tree hand to collect gravel from the seashore, which blossoms during the middle of May each year. proved instrumental in the completion of the mill. Hokkocho Future Forest Park: 2.6 ha park, 4.3 ha civic garden and 0.5 ha dog park Park Dog park In June 2010 we planted 4,000 memorial trees together with Household and Industrial Materials Company members of the Takashi Ishida local community. President 44% The park is widely Civic garden used as a place The Household and Industrial Materials Company of recreation by manufactures paper products closely linked with our visitors of all ages. daily lives that are used to both wrap or wipe. We focus on creating value sought after by our customers and standby our customer-first motto in developing our business to meet eco friendly demands. Share of sales Printing and Communications Media Company Tadashi Watanabe Sponsored booth at Eco-Products 2010 Groundwork program recognized President Oji Paper, Oji Nepia, Oji Paperboard’s Nikko Mill 26% The Oji Paper Group sponsored a booth at Eco-Products The Printing and Communications Media Company 2010 focused on the theme of future coexistence with 15 years have passed since the Oji Paper Group became the manufactures a line up of paper products used as forests that showcased forest recycling and the creation first company to join the Japan Groundwork Association. information media, including newspaper as well as of new value from forest resources. Today, each of our business locations continues to actively printing and communications paper. We strive to meet take part in groundwork activities, with a total of 30,000 increasingly strict quality demands and operate our mills employees participating in fiscal 2010. Our many years of with a lessened impact on the environment. We are also Share of sales activities and contributions were recently recognized by the working to integrate our operations in the East Asia Association, which presented Oji Paper, Oji Nepia and Oji market centered on our Nantong Mill in China. Paperboard’s Nikko Mill with a certificate of appreciation. Functional Materials Company Shinichiro Kondo President The Functional Materials Company manufactures a wide range of value-added specialty and functional papers. 18% Together with cultivating new businesses that leverage our core sheeting and coating technologies, we are The exhibition also advancing the development of new products and attracted a large technologies that help create new value and reduce both Share of sales audience CO2 emissions as well as the use of natural resources. 42 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 43 We provide optimized and integrated Household and packaging solutions—from materials to Industrial Materials processing—that meet changing product sizes, Company Customer Relations weights, and proportions. Hosting booths at exhibitions Packaging 14 Oji Paper Group companies host booth at Tokyo Pack 2010 Theme: “Materials x Processing Innovation = The Future” — Proprietary Oji Innovation We are pursuing the development of new packaging materials and processing technologies with the ultimate goal of In October 2010, 14 Oji Paper Group companies joined forces to host a booth at Tokyo Pack 2010 (Tokyo International Packaging becoming an integrated provider of optimized packaging solutions that meet the form and functionality requirements Exhibition 2010) organized by the Japan Packaging Institute. The booth marketed the products of each Group company under the throughout the entire supply chain. key words of cost, the environment, decorative design, functionality and global. Containerboard Boxboard nges Ora Containers Cartons Fruit, vegetables, beverages, etc. Foods, snacks, daily essentials, etc. Ri Heavy-duty ce packaging Collaboration among Industrial bags Rice bags, cement bags, etc. Refrigerators, machinery components, etc. Oji Paper Group companies Thermoformed Flexible Consumer bags packaging packaging Shopping bags, etc. Food trays, etc. Foods, snacks, etc. Conver Plastic film ting bu Packaging siness sheets Papers Materia ls busin ess Websites showcasing products Hosting an educational class on paper and corrugated containers in our daily lives Integrated provider of optimized packaging solutions Oji Group solutions Wakayama Oji Container Co., Ltd. We run a website that showcases products made by Oji Paper Group companies, providing an opportunity for Wakayama Oji Container, which engages in the customers to view information on our recommended corrugated container business, hosted an educational Integrated Materials and Converting Business packaging materials. class for families who visited Mekkemon Plaza, http://www.ojigroup.net/index.html (Japanese) which is run by JA Kinosato as part of its sales promotion activities. Aiming to realize an efficient, synergistic effect from both vertical (materials to processing) and horizontal (various packaging forms and materials) operations, the Packaging Innovation Center fulfills the role of creator, collaborator and communicator. Corrugated Containers / Folding Cartons /Industrial Plastic Heavy-duty Packaging Bags / Consumer Bags Boxboard and Plastic Films and Sheets Containerboard Packaging Papers Kyokuyo Pulp & Paper Group Materials Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. Corrugated Container Business Boxboard Products Business Plastic Films and Sheet Converting Oji Chiyoda Container Co., Ltd. Oji Packaging Co., Ltd., etc. Converting-related Business Mori Shigyo Group Bag Processing Business Kyokuyo Pulp & Paper Group Oji Interpack Co., Ltd., etc. Oji Seitai Kaisha, Ltd., Oji Adba Co., Ltd., etc. Chuetsu Co., Ltd. Packaging Innovation Center Integrated solutions combining materials and processing 44 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 45 Initiatives with Our Customers The Oji Paper Group leverages its competencies in technologies and development to deliver value to its customers through Lion Corporation Mitsubishi Electric Corporation integrated solutions that combine initiatives in materials, engineering, design, processing and the environment. Refillable paper container boxes Made improvements to light Japan Tobacco Inc. / Kanagawa Kankitsu Kako Inc. / JT Beverage Inc. Nippon Flour Mills Co., Ltd. We jointly developed a refillable design where the fixture packaging folding carton for non-woven cooking paper can be A thorough revamping of our packaging designs reused after the original roll is used up. helped to significantly reduce the amount of DIET BOX New concept carrier bag materials used in light fixture packaging. Some of the —Bulge prevention packaging We designed the packaging materials are also used as buffer parts. new concept carrierImprovements We developed a corrugated container more closely bag using an industrial • Materials cost: 20.4% reduction • Materials weight: 27.7% reduction shaped to the products it carries that helps prevent the • CO2 emissions: 23.7% reduction bag for the transport *This design won an award at Japan Packaging Contest 2011. packaging from bulging. This new design is not only of rice, flour or other more aesthetically pleasing, but is also easier to carry raw food ingredients. and helps reduce the use of resources. The sewn bottom and *This design won an award at Japan Packaging Contest 2010. extra long string Before handle were well received at an exhibition where Nippon Flour Mills displayed the carrier bag. After Load Load Large bulge Oji Adba Co., Ltd., Packaging Innovation Center of Oji Paper Co., Ltd., Oji Seitai Packaging Innovation Center of Oji Paper Co., Ltd., Oji Packaging Co., Ltd., Kaisha, Ltd., Boxboard and Packaging Paper Business Division of Oji Paper Oji Kinocloth Co., Ltd., Boxboard and Packaging Papers Business Division Small bulge Co., Ltd. of Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Oji Container Co., Ltd., Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. Packaging Innovation Oji Chiyoda Container Co., Ltd. Panasonic Welding Systems Co., Ltd. Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. Made improvements to export packaging for robots Rinrei Wax Co., Ltd. We are able to reduce packaging weights and shorten Kikkoman Food Products Company Asahi Breweries, Ltd. work time by changing the conventional steel or wood Corrugated container solution packaging used for exporting robots to a heavy weight We helped improve Rirei Wax’s shipping efficiency by Pursuing greater usability FSC-certified paper bag paperboard product called HiPLE-ACE. The reduced weight of the packaging also helps to reduce CO2 changing the material used for wax packaging from We participated in the joint development of an air-tight emissions during shipment. metal cans to corrugated container (with an inner soy sauce package that developed a new plastic cover Improvements pouch). After use, the packaging solution can easily be and packaging solution. This ensured the usability of • Materials cost: 23% reduction disassembled. Enhanced shipping efficiency also means • Weight: 57% reduction; 109 kg 47 kg the package until its very last use. • Packaging time: 33% reduction a reduction in CO2 emissions. *This design won an award at Japan Packaging Contest 2011. 30 min. / unit 20 min. / unit Improvements • Air freight cost: 49% reduction • Enhanced shipping efficiency • Shipping container capacity: 66% increase; 12 units 20 units (1,500 metal cans 2,800 boxes per 4 ton truck) • Enhanced disposal efficiency (volume reduction) Oji Chiyoda Container Co., Ltd. Packaging Innovation Center of Oji Paper Co., Ltd., Oji Packaging Co., Ltd., Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. Ginpo Pack Co., Ltd. (Kyokuyo Pulp & Paper Group), Oji Chiyoda Container Co., Oji Adba Co., Ltd. Packaging Innovation Center, Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Ltd., Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. Boxboard and Packaging Papers Business Division of Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Interpack Co., Ltd. 46 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 47 Activity reports from groups receiving support Oji Nepia’s Social Contribution Programs Providing mental care for children Distributing supplies and preparing meals NPO One Family Sendai ARTS for HOPE Oji Nepia manufactures and sells household paper products most often used in our daily lives, including a variety of tissue paper and toilet paper as well as children’s diaper nepia Genki and adult diaper nepia Tender. Given its close connection with our lives, Oji Nepia is taking part in a wide range of social action programs as well as assistance activities for those in need following the Great East Japan Earthquake, under the slogan action with a kind heart. Assistance activities in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake Oji Nepia is currently donating a portion of its sales to help support the activities of NPOs and other organizations that are providing relief assistance to those in need. Details of campaign We are leveraging our experience and expertise in helping Period: May 2011 to March 2012 create more hospitable environments at medical facilities Target products: All Nepia national brand products Support scheme We distributed relief supplies received from throughout around Japan to provide mental care to children from Japan to facilities and homes of victims in Miyagi areas impacted by the quake. Prefecture. We also prepared meals upon request. Our program features an art workshop held for We provided safety and support services in Sendai children suffering from a serious mental burden in Customer purchases Nepia product City as part of a joint project with the local government evacuation centers, schools and children’s hall. We aim in which we offered consultations to senior citizens living to support their quick mental recovery through spending in temporary housing as well as victims experiencing quite and relaxing time building things or doing artwork. post-quake troubles or unease. Employees from Oji Nepia Employees from Oji Nepia also volunteered their time to also took part in this project as volunteers. help out with the program. Nepia donates a portion of the proceeds to the Japan Philanthropic Association Ongoing activities “nepia 1,000 Toilets Program” Launched in fiscal 2008, the nepia 1,000 Toilets Program seeks to save lives that would Further details about the company’s assistance activities can otherwise be lost due to sanitation and water problems by donating a portion of sales be found on the Oji Nepia corporate website. from specific Nepia products to UNICEF. http://www.nepia-sasaeru.com/ (Japanese) The Japan Philanthropic Association provides Over a two-year period from 2008, the program completed some 2,400 toilets assistance to groups helping those in need for local homes and 25 water supply facilities and school toilets in Asia’s youngest country Timor-Leste. Financial aid in fiscal 2010 is currently being used to construct Groups receiving support more than 1,500 additional toilets. We have also received more than 55,000 messages of support for the initiative. NPO One Family Sendai (Sendai City, Miyagi Pref.) *Only company donations will be provided to the program in fiscal 2011 because of the Great East NPO Terakoya Hojosha (Aizuwakamatsu City, Fukushima Pref.) Japan Earthquake. ARTS for HOPE (Shinagawa, Tokyo) Poo Class Donated funds are used to benefit NPO Kohaku no Izumi (Kuji City, Iwate Pref.) a wide range of activities in the In order to convey the fact that “excretion is part of life and good health,” in fiscal Hanamaki Civic Network Council (Hanamaki City, Iwate Pref.) disaster-affected areas 2007 we joined forces with Japan Toilet Labo to launch “Poo Class” to teach Japan’s NPO Network Orange (Kesennuma City, Miyagi Pref.) elementary school children about the importance of healthy bowel movements. In fiscal 2010, the class also included a talk on toilet conditions in Timor-Leste. As of fiscal 2010, a total of 7,934 elementary school children have participated in the class. In fiscal 2011, we plan to hold the class for elementary school children from New adult diaper plant set to be constructed disaster-affected areas in the Tohoku region. in Fukushima City during fiscal 2012 “nepia GENKI” supporting the Japan CliniClowns Association In fiscal 2010 we donated a portion of sales from nepia GENKI products to the The new plant will support Japan’s aging population by Japan CliniClowns Association, which helps invigorate hospitalized children with manufacturing a wide, re-sealable tape-type adult diaper fun and humor. developed using Oji Nepia’s proprietary technologies. In addition to assisting the Association’s 18-appearance schedule for 12 Oji Nepia is also excited to have the chance to help revitalize hospitals, we also introduced their activities on our website and product packaging. local employment in Fukushima Prefecture. We are also providing support for their special program being held in areas Conceptual image of the completed plant impacted by the Great East Japan Earthquake. 48 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 49 We continue to provide Printing and paper essential to We utilize our core proprietary Functional Materials Communications information media even technologies to develop valuetoday where the digitization Company added functional materials. Media Company of information is progressing. Newsprint Production In new Considerate of the For many generations the newspaper has played non-paper sectors Globally environment an essential role in society by delivering daily news and other pertinent information. The Oji Activities that lessen our impact Paper Group fulfills its mission to provide stable on the environment The Functional Materials Company utilizes its long-standing proprietary technologies to produce and deliver products in a supplies of newsprint to ensure that people wide range of sectors, from consumer staples to the extraordinary, to the world. The Company also works hand-in-hand throughout Japan can have access to their Shibata The Tomakomai Mill is a key with the research and development division to develop products that minimize the impact on the environment which our Production Coordination Manager manufacturer of newsprint customers demand. daily newspaper. Tomakomai Mill, Oji Paper Co., Ltd. within the Group. We run Today, the content ratio of recovered paper many of our facilities in an in our newsprint is about 60%. Our mills are on-and-off pattern based pushing forward with the use of waste-derived on the inflow of pulp raw energy and in fiscal 2010 we significantly materials and the energy reduced our use of heavy oil boilers by supply balance. In this regard, thoroughly managing our operations. This also we actively create the most helped reduce our use of fossil fuels. optimized production plan that We are developing a wide We are developing products can also help us lessen our range of products for the closely tied to consumers and environmental impact. industrial sector. These new eco solutions. technologies make products thinner, which helps reduce Launch of Printing Paper Production in China We are developing products for the automotive sector, the use of resources and energy. We are developing products compliant with the safety which demands long-lasting, demands required in health Our newly constructed Nantong Mill in China commenced full-scale high quality, that capitalize on care settings. We are operations in fiscal 2010. The production line ranges from A2 the latest in film-processing lessening our impact on the gloss/matte coated paper used in heatset web offset (HSWO) printing technologies. These products environment by reducing to A2 gloss/matte coated paper and uncoated wood-free paper. are also being used as the use of VOCs*1 in our Already renowned by the market for its high quality, the paper components in hybrid vehicles manufacturing processes. manufactured at the mill is used in a wide range of applications from *1 VOCs: Volatile Organic Compounds magazines and advertisements to art catalogues. In order to meet increasing demand in China and Southeast Asia, the Nantong Mill is aiming to establish a comprehensive supply system that will provide not only printing paper, but also a wider range of Nantong Mill’s product line up (A2 gloss paper “Zun Ma You Guang,” A2 matte coated paper paper products, from packaging paper to specialty paper, in the future. “Zun Ma Ya Guang” and wood-free paper “Wen Shi”) “Safety, the Environment and Compliance” is always positioned Involvement with our customers Core Technologies as a top priority in the management of the Nantong Mill. Product safety is managed in accordance with Oji Paper Group standards. In addition, raw materials are strictly selected and managed from the Hu General Manager quality design stage, in compliance with China’s laws as well as related Shanghai Lin Ye Paper Co., Ltd. international regulations. Papermaking Dry Web “We started our paper business in China’s domestic Coating Adhesives Formation market in 1999. Since then, we have established a We feature proprietary cooperative relationship with the Oji Paper Group. technologies that We possess proprietary Stretching Processing We have proprietary evenly disperse fibers Quality control at the Nantong Mill Our company aims to supply top-quality, reliable to create sheets. We technologies for evenly coating base materials We have proprietary We feature proprietary technologies for dispersing fibers into the paper products to our customers. We hope to are able to make technologies for technologies that coat air to form sheets, which Zhang Shu-Ying, Gong Shu-Ying, Ji Hui, Cai Jin-Juan develop a closer relationship with the Oji through sheets from various as well as controlling the manufacturing uniform, release paper with makes it possible to thickness of coating adhesives and layer it Production Technology Department, Environmental Management Office the Nantong project to provide our customers better fibers, such as wood thin films by stretching form bulky web without layer and degree of with paper or films. Jiangsu Oji Paper Co., Ltd. and more considerate services.” pulp, synthetic fibers plastics biaxially the use of water. penetration of coatings and mineral fibers. while applying heat. The new Nantong Mill into base materials. finally commenced operation. We stand firmly committed to managing product safety and quality so that our customers are always impressed by the paper they purchase. 50 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 51 In the Home Healthcare Sector Active in These Sectors as Well Automotive sector Industrial sector Adhesive labels Skin-friendly wound dressings We have utilized our adhesive processing technologies We have utilized our to eliminate the need for release paper by treating adhesive processing the back of the label with an adhesive. This helps to technologies to Films for capacitors Adhesive films for optical devices reduce waste as release paper is no longer discarded. develop a skin-friendly hypoallergenic wound We have utilized our stretching technologies to We have utilized our adhesive processing technologies dressings, which transform polypropylene film, once used as packaging to develop films that enable more advanced optical features a water-based material, into capacitor components used in hybrid qualities, are easier to process, and retain greater adhesive—selected vehicles. We are also helping the environment by durability. These films are manufactured in a plant fully after a series of tests— supporting hybrid vehicles that use less fuel and operate equipped with VOC treatment facilities. that ensures a secure fit. more efficiently than gas-powered automobiles. New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd. New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd. Cold compression pack Diagnostic imaging film We have utilized our dry web formation technologies We have utilized our coating technologies to develop to develop a bandana type cold compression pack. a direct thermal film for x-ray applications, which The cool sensation is sustained by slowly gasifying eliminates silver staining that occurs when developing the water content in superabsorbent polymers. images using the conventional halide method. This product helps to reduce energy usage during the hot summer. Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd. Anti-corrosive paper Glass paper We have utilized our coating technologies to create layers We have developed non-woven fabrics from that absorb hydrogen sulfide, which is a major cause for glass fibers that utilize our wet-laid papermaking silver corrosion by paper and paperboard. This prevents technologies. With superior qualities, including electronic components that use silver from corroding, being difficult to burn, corrode and damage, Imaging Media Business Division, Oji Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Kinocloth Co., Ltd. such as automotive fuses. No anti-corrosion chemicals non-woven fabrics are also used as a component in are needed as the desired effect can be achieved simply photovoltaic cells. by wrapping the component in anti-corrosive paper. Global presence of our Imaging Media Business In September 2011, Oji Paper acquired the thermal and carbonless paper business of Fibria Celulose S.A. of Brazil with which the company had an existing strategic and business agreement. The new company was named OPE. OPE will become one of our most OPE (Brazil) important manufacturing and marketing platforms for the Imaging Media Business in South America, following our existing locations in Japan, Asia, North America and Europe. The Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. company will also play a key role in expanding Current manufacturing and sales/marketing locations our presence globally. 52 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 53 Oji Paper Group Understanding the Environmental Impact environmental impact of Environmental impact on water Environmental impact on atmosphere Industrial waste Environmental Data our production activities to CO2 No. Production from Sulfur oxides Nitrogen oxides Volume Final of energy Wastewater COD BOD SS Soot disposal generated effect further improvement. mills sources Thousand Thousand Thousand SOx NOx rate tons tons m3 Tons Tons Tons Tons-SO2 Tons-NO2 Tons AD tons AD tons Oji Paper Co., Ltd. 9 4,280 2,483 440,107 24,514 2,457 12,075 4,127 7,364 315 1,043,668 59,390 Oji Paperboard Co., Ltd. 11 2,327 1,180 94,037 2,296 1,152 1,708 749 1,634 72 236,680 12,867 INPUT OUTPUT Oji Specialty Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Nepia Co., Ltd. 8 3 441 218 448 106 60,501 6,148 378 385 1,925 --1,203 87 1,137 230 777 33 146 11 81,762 14,380 1,046 257 Total: 4 Papermaking companies 31 7,266 4,217 600,793 27,573 5,534 15,073 6,243 9,808 544 1,376,490 73,560 Fossil fuel-derived energy Discharge to atmosphere Oji Paperboard Unit Company 8 34 2 10 --0 0 0 0 0 1,604 19 4,217 CO2 Oji Chiyoda Container Co., Ltd.* 58 1,243 93 249 2 38 85 66 33 59 109,937 1,092 1,531 From Oji Paper Group’s four papermaking companies (excluding Oi energy sources thousand tons Mori Shigyo Group* Paper Co., Ltd.) 37 966 78 197 1 11 3 111 46 7 76,863 593 thousand kl SOx 6 thousand tons Oi Paper Co., Ltd. Oji Forest & Products Co., Ltd.* 1 10 41 507 19 7 1,736 3 126 ----0 9 0 81 1 12 4 4 2 1,178 5,957 12 120 Renewable energy NOx 10 thousand tons Oji Cornstarch Co., Ltd. 3 300 83 9,628 56 86 55 5 42 2 2,963 303 0.5 Oji Packaging Co., Ltd.* 5 86 10 77 0 0 0 --0 --11,844 81 1,340 Soot thousand tons Oji Interpack Co., Ltd.* Oji Kinocloth Co., Ltd.* 6 3 40 31 16 3 10 7 0 9 --0 0 6 ----0 7 --0 2,629 2,755 51 9 thousand kl ------------Discharge to water Oji Setai Kaisha, Ltd.* 7 24 2 5 1,204 27 601 4 67 14 251 --0 0 0 3 0 7,070 25 Oji Tac Co., Ltd. Waste-derived energy Wastewater million m3 Total for 22 other affiliates* 76 135 57 756 --9 1 32 17 1 15,205 608 558 BOD 6 thousand tons Total 249 4,601 613,723 27,768 5,680 15,233 6,548 9,978 618 1,615,700 76,500 28 Notes: Asterisks indicate that data includes member companies of the unit company. thousand kl COD Starting from fiscal 2010, 30 mills of Chiyoda Container and 16 mills of Mori Shigyo are included in data aggregation. thousand tons 22 other affiliates: Shinomura Chemical Industry Co., Ltd., New Tac Kasei Co., Ltd., Chuetsu Co., Ltd., Shin Nippon Feather Core Co., Ltd., KS-PRINTEC, Medical Corporation Oji 15 General Hospital, DHC Ginza Co., Ltd., Tomakomai Energy Kosha Co., Ltd., HOTEL NEW OJI CO., LTD., Oji Real Estate Co., Ltd., OJISAITOU SHIGYO PAPER RECYCLE CO., LTD., SS Oji Logistics Co., Ltd., Hirata Warehouse Co., Ltd., Kikkou Tsuun Co., Ltd., OJI PIER TERMINAL Co., Ltd., Research Institute, APICA Co., Ltd., Shirogane Press Co.. Ltd., Kyushu thousand tons Packaging Co., Ltd., Oji Salmon Co., Ltd., Oji Adba Co., Ltd., Tomakomai Oji Shigyo Co., Ltd. Water used “Production” includes inter-company transactions. Hyphen indicates no data. 628 Data for emission of environmental load substances and PRTR chemical substances are available on our website ( http://www.ojipaper.co.jp/envi/report/) Volume of waste generated 1,376 Environmental Accounting (Unit: ¥ million) million m 3 Environmental conservation cost thousand tons Category Main initiatives Investment Costs Main raw materials Final disposal volume Environmental conservation costs for curbing 74 environmental impact generated by production 8,214 20,395 and service activities within business sites Wood chips 4,150 a. Environmental conservation 1,880 12,818 thousand tons (1) management costs Measures against air pollution, water pollution, noise and vibrations, etc. Breakb. Global environmental Cultivating company-owned forests in Japan, forest plantation operations outside Japan, thousand tons down conservation costs energy conservation investments 5,051 627 Recovered paper Production volume of paper and c. Resource circulation costs Efficient utilization of resources, costs for waste measures 1,282 6,950 4,351 paperboard 7,266 Costs for curbing environmental impact generated (2) upstream or downstream by production and Costs for purchasing low-sulfur fuel (balance amount) 0 547 thousand tons service activities thousand tons Employee education, ISO14001 costs, costs for air and water analysis, costs for operating Environmental conservation costs related to (3) administrative activities committees and other organizations, etc. 0 940 Environmental conservation costs related to Product development that contributes to environmental conservation by promoting utilization (4) R&D activities of recovered paper, curbing environmental impact that occurs during production, etc. 218 2,060 Company-owned Forests in Japan Overseas forest plantations Oji Paper Group (5) Environmental conservation costs related to Philanthropic programs, support for various environmental groups, environmental and 0 124 social activities sustainability reporting, environmental exhibitions, etc. CO2 (6) Costs related to environmental damage Pollution impact levy (SOx) 0 820 absorption Total 8,432 24,886 amount 680 thousand tons/year 9,390 thousand tons/year (Unit: ¥ million) Method and scope of data aggregation Definition of terms: Economic benefit associated with environmental conservation activities n • Data aggregation was performed in accordance with the Environmental Accounting CO2 from energy CO2 originating from fossil fuels and purchased electricity BOD (biochemical oxygen demand): The amount of oxygen consumed when Value Guidelines published by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. sources: that are consumed in the manufacturing process. microorganisms decompose organic Effect • Companies covered: Oji Paper and its main affiliates SOx (sulfur oxides): Oxides of sulfur included in the exhaust gas from boilers, compounds in water. BOD is an indicator of the amount of biodegradable Income from company-owned forests in Japan 340 (Oji Paperboard, Oji Specialty Paper, Oji Nepia, Oji Chiyoda Container, Mori Shigyo incinerators, and other combustion equipment, with Group’s main mills, Oji Cornstarch, and Oji Tac) sulfur oxide as the principal component. organic compounds in wastewater. COD (chemical oxygen demand): The amount of oxygen consumed to Cost reductions through energy conservation 2,242 • Period covered: April 1, 2010 – March 31, 2011 NOx (nitrogen oxides): Oxides of nitrogen included in the exhaust gas from decompose organic compounds in water boilers, incinerators, and other combustion equipment. through oxidation. Income from recycling 838 Soot: Particulate matter included in exhaust gas from boilers, incinerators, and other combustion equipment. SS (suspended solids): Insoluble material in wastewater. Total 3,419 54 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 Oji Paper Group Environmental and Sustainability Report 2011 55
