Link the World, Think the Future LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Link the World, Think the Future ABOUT THIS REPORT Purpose of our Reporting Upon the incorporation of the LS Group into a holding company in July 2008, LS Cable & System was reborn as an affiliate of the LS Group and has committed itself to sustainability management as a Creative Partner, responsible for the development of customers, society and future generations. It is our hope that this first sustainability report sparks the increasing dialogue with stakeholders and manifests a commitment to social responsibility by disclosing our contribution to the economy, society and environment with full transparency. Reporting Guidelines The ‘LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report’ has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G3 Guidelines1) and the BEST Guidelines2) . Reporting Period & Scope The report covers LS Cable & System’s performance from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010, including some achievements prior to 2010 or during the 1st half of 2011 which deemed to deserve reference herein. To enable a comparison of performance trends, performance data of 3 years from 2008 is provided. When it was not possible to collect relevant data, we specify these cases herein where necessary. Monetary data are presented in Korean Won(KRW) and US Dollar($). The report contains the performance of the head office of the LS Cable & System, its research institute, plants in Korea(Anyang, Gumi, Indong, Donghae) and including some activities from its subsidiaries in Korea and/or elsewhere in the world. We have a plan to publish sustainability reports annually and expand communication with stakeholders. GRI G3 Guideline Application Levels LS Cable & System has self-declared its reporting to be the level of ‘A+’ against the following[Criteria for the GRI Application Level]. A third-party assurance provider has confirmed that the report fulfills the requirements of Application Level A. [Criteria for the GRI Application Level] Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ G3 Profile Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Disclosures 1.1 Level C plus: Level B 2.1-2.10 1.2 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 Standard Disclosures 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 G3 Management Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Output Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category G3 Performance Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 and Sector Indicators & Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, at least one Supplement Indicator with due regard Sector Supplement including at least one from each of: from each of Economic, to the Materiality Principle by either : a) Performance Indicators Economic, Social and Environmental. Environmental, Human Rights, Labor, reporting on the Indicator or b) Society, Product Responsibility. explaining the reason for its omission. Assurance The information contained in the report has been subject to in-house management reviews, expert advisory services and 3rd party verification, The 3rd party assurance report is presented in the Appendix. Contact Information If you need additional information or have an inquiry in relation to this report, please refer to the following information to contact us. Address • 15F, LS Tower, 1026-6, Hogye-Dong, Dongan-Gu, Anyang-Si, Gyonggi Province, 431-080, Korea(ROK) E-mail • csr@lscns.com Tel • +82-2-2189-8842 Fax • +82-2-2189-9129 Contact Dept.• Sustainability Management Secretariat, LS Cable & System Website • http://www.lscns.com 1) GRI G3 Guidelines: The sustainability reporting guidelines, developed jointly by CERES, an international environmental organization and the UN Environment Program, in 1997 2) BEST Guidelines: The sustainability reporting guidelines, developed jointly by the Ministry of Knowledge & Economy, the Korean Chamber of Commerce & Industry and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, to promote sustainability reporting among Korean businesses Contents SUSTAINABILITY 004 Chairman Message MANAGEMENT 006 CEO Message 008 About LS Cable & System 018 Highlights & Lowlights 020 Sustainability Management Vision & Core Values Sustainability Management Strategy & Goals Issues having importance to the LS Cable & System Stakeholder Engagement 024 Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Creativity Management Patent Management Innovation Management SOCIETY 035 Topic 02. Customers Growth with Customers Customer Satisfaction Innovative Products & Services Considering Social/Environmental Issues 039 Topic 03. Suppliers Dialogue with Suppliers Fair Trade Environment Promotion Partnership for Sustainability Management 048 Topic 04. Employees People, Most Valuable Corporate Asset A Company Helping Employee Grow as Global Leader An Enjoyable Workplace, Harmonizing Life & Work Trust & Cooperation, Enabling Company and Employees to grow together 062 Topic 05. Local Community Social Contribution in Global Society Philanthropy Global Volunteering Activities Business-Academic Collaboration Environmental Conservation ENVIRONMENT 069 Topic 06. Green Management Green Management Policy & Investment Green Operation Efforts to Respond to Climate Change and Reduce Environmental Impacts Green Product Eco-Friendly Product Lineup Expansion Green Partnership Communication with customers and stakeholders ECONOMY 099 Topic 07. Financial Performance Financial Performance Highlights Efforts to Improve Financial Performance Values Distributed to Stakeholders 103 Topic 08. Risk Control & Ethical Management Corporate Compliance System for Fair Trade Ethics Management as our citizenship obligations 108 Appendix 004 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Chairman Message CEO & Chairman Christopher Koo Hoping for a sustainable future for mankind, our primary goal is to contribute to making a better world SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 005 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation 2011 marks the 49th anniversary of LS Cable & System. For the past half-century, We have been growing with stakeholders in energy and information & communications sectors. Our secret in growing to be the world’s 3rd largest cable supplier in 2010 in terms of sales is found in our commitment to diversifying markets and products on the basis of talent and technology. However, a cable market is expected to face more intensive competition throughout the world. The global community will strengthen multilateral efforts, such as climate change conventions, to keep our future sustainable. Accordingly, business capabilities to secure green energy sources, and efficient transmission and consumption of energy will become key determinants of corporate competitiveness. In terms of the information & communications sector, wireless telecommunication, ever-increasing data transfer volume and rate are fast becoming the norm of the day. Responding to such changes, we have been stepping up R&D initiatives to expand new product lineups and turning towards innovation in our business models, from distribution of cable to provision of total solutions. Furthermore, to ensure incumbency benefits in emerging economies such as China and India, we have been actively strengthening our global presence by acquiring local market players and expanding business coverage. Notably, in 2010, we build an overall framework of sustainability management. We developed a corporate vision and strategy for sustainability management, established organizational capabilities, assigned roles and conducted systematic activities in order to promote sustainability management. This report illustrates how we are working hard to improve our framework of policies and management system and what we are carrying out. We will strive to make our life more bountiful and valuable by implementing sustainability management as a foundation of business and developing better products and services in the energy and information & communications sectors. Based on preparation and competency for a better future, we will continue to communicate with stakeholders and carry out our social responsibility as a global corporate citizen. We ask for your continuous interests and support. 006 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report CEO Message CEO Jongho Son Sustainability management will pave the way for us to become the world’s leading cable manufacturer. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 007 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Implication of Sustainability Management for LS Cable & System You may find our products and services right beside you in your daily life. Consumption of energy and information will increase ever more, as urbanization and technological development continue to accelerate in the future. At the same time, stakeholders will require more efficient energy solutions and green products and services. Without communication with stakeholders throughout the world, we will be unable to globalize our business and presence, to the extent which we aim at. Against this backdrop, we fully understand the importance of sustainability management as the centerpiece of our competitive edge. Sustainability Management Implementation Strategy In 2010, LS Cable & System developed a midand long-term master plan(throughout 2015) to implement sustainability management and establish a full-scale implementation of organization consisting of the sustainability management secretariat and 6 sections. By year’s end, LS Cable & System will focus on further enhancing the sustainability management implementation system by solidifying a relevant framework from within, as well as expand to cover bases overseas from the next year on. In the long run, we will make sure that our sustainability management will be implemented in line with our business strategy at the global level. Features of Sustainability Report Upon publication of the 1st Sustainability Report, we will further expedite communication with stakeholders and enhance change and innovation from within. We will realize green management, customer satisfaction through quality management and a mutual cooperation with suppliers through fair trade. We will also continue to keep employees satisfied with enjoyable workplaces and remain committed to social contribution activities at the enterprise level. The revenue of LS Cable & System jumped up approximately 25% in 2010 from 2009, in spite of the rise in oil and other commodity prices. This is attributable to the global synergy with Superior Essex, acquired in 2008, successful innovation of our business model and enhancement of global capabilities. Going forward, we will continue to try to maximize synergy. We would like to ask your interests and encouragement for us to grow into a leading sustainable company, with contributions to global society. 008 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report About LS Cable & System Corporate Profile Established in 1962 as Korea Cable Industry Co., Ltd., and renamed to Gold Star Cable(1969~) and LG Cable(1995~), we was renamed as LS Cable in 2005 and separated from LS Mtron in July, 2008 when the LS Group transformed into a holding company. In 2011, we was renamed as LS Cable & System. Offering a variety of cable solutions ranging from extra high voltage cables and mid/low voltage power cables for energy transmission, to wireless/wire telecommunications cables, LS Cable & System has played a key role in building up the power grid and communication network, underpinning the national economy. Since the early 1990s, under the strategic objective of developing overseas bases, we have advanced into the global markets, starting from Vietnam to Europe, the U.S., China, India, Malaysia and so on, focusing on exporting and implementing energy and telecommunications infrastructure. In 2005, we became the world’s top ship cable manufacturer upon the acquisition of Jinro Industry(now JS Cable), and in 2009, the world’s No. 3 cable manufacturer upon the acquisition of Superior Essex, which was the biggest cable manufacturer in the U.S. and the biggest Magnet wire1) manufacturer in the world. Since the 2009 acquisition of Hongqi Electricity of China(now LS Hongqi Cable & System), which produced a full lineup of cable products, we have expanded our business coverage in China, the world’s biggest market. 1) Magnet wire: Insulated conductor(round wire, rectangular wire, etc.) made of copper and aluminum and coil-wound within electric/electronic device to convert electric energy to electromagnetic or mechanical energy and to convert mechanical energy to electric energy SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 009 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation In Korea, we have our head office in Anyang, manufacturing plants in Anyang, Gumi, Indong and Donghae, and research laboratories in Anyang. Elsewhere in the world, our global network consists of 28 plants and 37 sales bases in 23 countries. In addition, our domestic subsidiaries include JS Cable Co., Ltd., Global Cable Incorporated Co., Ltd., Alutek Co., Ltd., LS Global Incorporated Co., Ltd., Pountek, Co, Ltd. and Kospace Co., Ltd. Domestic subsidiaries Company name Major businesses Percentage of ownership (%) JS Cable Co., Ltd. Manufacturing & distribution of 69.91 cable and ship components Global Cable Incorporated Manufacturing of rolled, drawn 98.23 Co., Ltd. and folded copper products Alutek Co., Ltd. Windows & doors construction 100.00 LS Global Incorporated Co., Ltd. Wholesale & commodity brokerage 51.00 Pountek Co., Ltd. Manufacturing of synthetic resin 51.00 & other plastic substances Kospace Co., Ltd. Manufacturing of satellite 99.19 telecommunication system components Overseas subsidiaries Company name Major businesses Percentage of ownership (%) LS C&S Wuxi Ltd. Manufacturing of insulation wire 100.0 & cable LS-VINA Manufacturing of insulation wire 80.7 & cable LS C&S Malaysia Manufacturing of magnet wire 100.0 LS C&S Tianjin Ltd. Manufacturing of magnet wire 87.5 LS C&S America Inc Distribution of electric cable 100.0 LSIC(Shanghai) Ltd. Distribution of electric cable 100.0 LS C&S Vietnam Co., Ltd. Manufacturing of insulation wire 100.0 & cable LS C&S India Pvt., Ltd. Manufacturing of insulation wire 100.0 & cable LS C&S UK Ltd. Distribution of electric cable 100.0 LS C&S Japan Ltd. Distribution of electric cable 100.0 LS Hongqi C&S(Hubei) Ltd. Manufacturing of insulation wire 75.1 & cable Cyprus Investments, Inc. Holdings operation(in relation to 100.0 SPSX) -Superior Essex Inc. Manufacturing of magnet wire & 81.0 cable 010 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report About LS Cable & System Organization Our organization consists of 5 business groups, 5 supporting groups and other functions under direct control of CEO. As of 2010, total number of employees in domestic places of business amounts to 2,412 persons, with sales reaching KRW3,868 billion. Organization CEO Management Diagnostics Team Technology Corporate Strategic Corporate Business Global Business Development Management Planning Services Group Group Group Group Group Group •Power Cable •Telecommunication •Integrated Module & Cable •Industrial Material •Solution LS Cable & System in Numbers (As of the end of Dec, 2010, excluding domestic/overseas subsidiaries) Employees 2,412 persons Places of business 4 in Korea and 16 overseas Sales KRW 3,868.4 billion Operating income KRW 130.2 billion Shareholders’ equity KRW 115.0 billion Total assets KRW 3,319.8 billion Total liabilities KRW 2,466.5 billion Total shareholders’ equity KRW 854.3 billion Governance & board of directors Shareholders To maximize corporate value, we was divided into an investment As of the end of 2010, we were not listed, and the total number of management division, and cable and machinery(including components) shares issued is 23,000,000 common shares. Accordingly, the number manufacturing business divisions, which were split into LS Co., Ltd., of shares outstanding is 23,000,000 shares. Our largest shareholder is LS Cable & System Co., Ltd., and LS Mtron Co., Ltd., in July, 2008. LS Co., Ltd., which owns 86.95% of the shares of LS Cable & System as of the end of 2010. The balance 13.05% is owned by ordinary shareholders. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 011 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Board of Directors The Board of Directors consists of 3 members, including the Chairman, 2011. Remuneration of auditor consists of only salary and is capped at CEO and CFO. The board of directors resolves matters specified in KRW100 million as resolved by the general shareholders’ meeting in applicable laws and regulations or the articles of incorporation or 2011. delegated by the general shareholders’ meeting in regular or occasional board meetings. In addition, in accordance with clause 4 of The board meeting was held a total of five times in 2010 and voted for Article 37, of ‘the articles of incorporation’, directors with special the adoption of a self compliance program for fair trade and operation interest in pending resolutions of the board are restricted from voting of an internal accounting system. Notably, in September 2010, the rights to prevent conflicts of interest. Board of Directors resolved the adoption of a self compliance program for fair trade and appointment of the Managing Director Wonhyung Ahn Remunerations payable to directors and auditors are capped as as the Self-compliance Manager, kicking off the self-compliance approved by the general shareholders’ meeting. Remuneration of program for fair trade in earnest. director consists of salary, bonus and special bonus, and is capped at KRW2.5 billion as resolved by the general shareholders’ meeting in Board of directors (As of May, 2011) Name Position Responsibility Career highlights Christopher Koo CEO & Chairman Chairman BA of Business Administration, Korea University. The former Managing Director of LG International The former vice-president of LG Investment Securities LS Cable & System/LS Mtron Chairman of Business Division Jongho Son President CEO BA of Linguistics, Seoul National University. MBA, McGill University. LS Cable & System President Roehyun Myung Senior Managing Director CFO Master of International Business Administration, Yonsei University. LS Cable & System Senior Managing Director BOD activities Year Major agenda 2010 •Approval of financial statements and annual report of 2nd fiscal year •Approval of capital increase with consideration •Reporting on internal accounting system evaluation •CP(self-compliance program for fair trade) adoption & appointment of self-compliance manager •Approval of 2010 management performance estimation & 2011 business plan •Approval of 2011 commercial paper issuance cap •Repayment guarantee of borrowing by overseas subsidiary •ABS issuance plan of Anyang plant •Reporting of PLA agreement execution with holding company(conversion of RCPS to common shares) 012 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Major Products & Services Our business encompasses a route of energy and information. We try to maintain a profound insight of resources and creates new technologies with various R&D programs in the effort to deliver high-tech solutions. Our goal is to help a society to make a progress, caring for the future of mankind. As our environment changes, electric cable solutions will continue to evolve in different shapes and functions. We promote creative ideas and put such ideas and spirits into our products in order to achieve the goal. Energy Cable & Systems Setting the Standard of Total Solutions Delivering Light and Energy to the World Extra-high Voltage Cable System The cable system installed and operated in underground electric culvert to transmit electrical power at extrahigh voltage, conserving urban aesthetics. Submarine Cable System The 250kV DC MI(mass impregnated) extra-high voltage submarine cable, developed by LS Cable & System for the 1st time in Korea and the 4th time in the world, is used to transmit massive quantities of electric power between nations or between mainland and islands. The system is to be installed in the 105km-long seabed section between Jindo and Jeju islands in 2011. The submarine cable can be offered as a part of a total solution for submarine fiber optic telecommunication cable or special cables supplying gas or water to marine plants, bringing together the gems of cable technologies. Super-conduction Cable System Utilizing the super conduction phenomenon that reduces electrical resistance to an almost nonexistent level at extremely low temperatures(below minus 196°C), the super-conduction cable system is known as the ‘dream power cable’, transmitting massive volumes of energy with minimum electrical loss. LS Cable & System is stepping up its super-conduction cable business, with solution supply to the U.S. Tres Amigas Superstation Project, attempting to commercialize the super-conduction power grid for the first time in the world in partnership with AMSC(American Superconductor Corporation). IT Solutions for Electric This system collects transmission lines and installation environmental temperatures, thermal capacity and Power(R-TASTM: Real Time transmission load data in real time. It converts such data to transmittable power, and quantitatively provides Ampacity Estimation System) short/long-term load allocation to the administrator of the power transmission line. Over Head Transmission Line, Overhead lines usually installed in steel towers include overhead transmission lines and overhead ground wires. OPGW(Optical fiber overhead Transmission lines transmit power from power plants to primary substations near customers. Optical fiber Ground Wire) overhead ground wire not only performs its conventional functions of protecting transmission lines from lightning strikes and flow fault current, also serves as telecommunication line. Extra-high Voltage Cable Submarine Cable Super-conduction Cable Over Head Transmission Line ● ●● ●●● ●●●● SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 013 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Medium & Low Voltage Cable Power distribution cable from 0.6/1kV to 22.9kV is used to supply power to distribution circuits in residential, commercial or industrial buildings. Industrial Specialty Cable A variety of cables in maritime structures, commercial ships, military ships, nuclear power plants, wind turbines, railways, subways, high-speed rail rolling stocks and station buildings are used supply power, monitor and control diverse systems and provide telecommunication links. Used in confined spaces, they are resistant to oil, seawater, radioactivity and mud. They are also flame-retardant, and do not emit poisonous gases when burned. Busduct System This system has advantage of establishing additionally and relocating with easiness due to its capability of transmitting large volumes of electric power per unit and an easy load bifurcation and simple cabling structure. This system finds applications in a variety of locations, such as factories, buildings, apartment housing, discount outlets, research laboratories, department stores, golf courses, tunnels, extra-high voltage substations, LNG depots, airports, seaports, etc. Shipboard Cable Wind Power Cable Busduct System ● ●● ●●● Telecommunication Systems Providing High-Tech Network for a Ubiquitous World Optical Fiber, Optical fiber generates total reflection of light due to the reflexive index differential between the core and clad Optical Fiber Cable layer and transfers light containing information via its core layer. Optical fiber cable consists of several strands of optical fiber and performs a critical role in a wire/wireless telecommunications network in the wake of the rapid advancement of the IT industry. Local Area Network Cable System LAN cable systems are high-transfer rate telecommunication cables and wires used for voice, video and data (LAN cable systems), communications in a customer’s premise telecommunications link system. Coaxial cables are used as highCoaxial Cable frequency signal transfer links between transfer equipment and antenna within mobile telecommunications base stations. These include high-frequency cables for signal transfer and signal-radiating leaky coaxial cables that enable wireless telecommunications in basements or tunnels shielded from external radio signals. Fiber To The Home Solutions The FTTH solution is a total solution consisting of GPON(gigabit passive optical network)/EPON(ethernet passive optical network) linking optical fiber cable network between phone station and subscriber, optical fiber cable system linking a long-distance transfer network to subscriber home and network integration services offering network consulting, design and deployment to meet customer’s needs. Quadruple Play Service Solutions QPS system, the first of its kind in the world, developed by LS Cable & System, is a solution that concurrently enables a single line to support four different services including Internet, digital broadcasting, VoIP and mobile telecommunications. Optical Fiber Cable Local Area Network Cable Coaxial Cable Fiber To The Home Solutions ● ●● ●●● ●●●● 014 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Integrated Module & Cable Systems Offering optimum cable solutions to specialty requirements Industrial Cable & Module Industrial cable & modules include home appliance cables that link various electrical devices within electric/electronic appliances, factory automation cables to transfer signals and power for industrial robots used for factory automation, military cables to provide signal and power links in military weapon systems, such as tanks, aircraft and ships, as well as network cables used in industrial telecommunications and control system. Micro coaxial cable modules, used in mobile phones and ultrasonic medical instruments due to their compact size and flexibility, are increasing in great demand, as mobile phones support multimedia features, home appliances reduce in size, data transfer networks become faster and data transfer volume increases to massive levels. LS Cable & System now supplies the world’s finest 0.016mm-wide MCX cable to global mobile phone manufacturers. Automotive Wire & Cable Automotive wires & cables are used in providing power to various systems required by automobiles to run and activate/control diverse sensors. Notably, automotive wires & cables provided by LS Cable & System are highly durable and flexible, and thermal resistant up to 150~200°C. The Company is also stepping up its efforts to develop eco-friendly products such as recyclable PP(polypropylene) cable. Automotive Electric/Electronic High-voltage cables, which are thermal resistant up to 125~200°C, corrosion-resistant, flame-retardant, highly Component Solutions flexible and electromagnetically shielded, high-voltage sealing and shielding connectors and harness products, all developed by LS Cable & System, are used as critical components for high-efficient and eco-friendly vehicles(EV/HEV/FCEV). They also find increasingly more applications in other sectors where high-voltage and high amperage products are needed such as industrial heavy-duty equipment, ships and plants. Heat Shrinkable Tube Heat shrinkable tube is a polymer synthetic resin product that, when exposed to heat, shrinks at a prespecified rate from its original shape. Depending on specific product configurations, it shrinks 33% to over 75% widthwise and 10% or less lengthwise to adhere tightly to their target in order to provide insulation, to identify cores and to prevent corrosion. The applications are found in a wide variety of uses such as industrial, telecommunications, automobile, power distribution panel, ship, electric power, defense industry, household appliance, precision electronics and cable breakout, etc. Industrial Cable & Module Micro Coaxial Cable Modules High-voltage Cables & Connectors for Eco Friendly Vehicles Tube ● ●● ●●● ●●●● SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 015 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Industrial Materials Spearheading core technologies with high-tech materials Copper Rod LS Cable & System uses only copper cathodes to manufacture copper rods that minimize electric loss. The copper rods are mainly used for conductors to make cables and for other special uses(e.g., train wires and rectangular wires). In addition, the Company is enhancing its presence as a global player by developing cutting-edge new materials such as oxygen-free copper and a copper-replacing alloy and localizing operations in other countries. Magnet Wire Magnet wire is made by coating the surface of the wire(copper or aluminum) with a special varnish that has insulating properties. It is wrapped inside electrical or electronic devices in the form of a coil to convert electric energy to electromagnetic and mechanical energy, and to convert mechanical energy to electric energy. This product is required for any and all machines that consume electricity such as transformers, dynamos, vehicle components, TVs, refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioners, microwave ovens, and motors. Notably, fine rectangular wires for automobiles that are 1/10th as thick as conventional rectangular wires and suitable for small & high-throughput motor increase motor output by over 50% from conventional round magnet wire, thereby improving fuel-efficiency by reducing automobile weight. Aluminum Materials LS Cable & System succeeded in developing a variety of industrial materials such as those used for vehicle forgings, materials for ABS(anti-lock brake systems) and ESP(electronic stability program) housings, tubes for condensers, polyamide-coated aluminum tubes, and high strength heat-resistant alloy cables, entire quantity of which domestic businesses had imported from abroad. LS Cable & System has an efficient mass production system. Notably, the high-strength XTAL(extra thermal aluminum alloy) conductor for overhead transmission lines ensures a stable conductivity at a high temperature without changes in strength or form by using a new aluminum alloy. This type of advanced innovation shows our commitment to focus on our customers and innovation. Greenflor, Industrial Rubber LS Cable & System produces industrial-use rubber products and rubber tiles(flooring materials) based on its rubber compounding technology. In particular, the carpet tiles that we developed for the first time in Korea through the flocking method are premium commercial carpet tile featuring a high density that is ten times greater than conventional ones, preventing the entry of contaminants and reproduction of dust mites and bacteria. Copper Rod Magnet Wire Aluminum Materials PURGOTEX(Flocking Carpet) ● ●● ●●● ●●●● 016 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Business Solutions Offering optimum solutions by innovating business models with focus on solution and application Power Transmission & Distribution Solution Marine & Offshore Solution Busine Photovoltaic Solution Railway & Rolling Stock Solution Wind Power Solution Airport Solution We have engaged in a variety of successful businesses around the world, leveraging over 50-year experience in technological expertise and engineering capability in cable and system sectors. Since 2008, we implemented a customer-focused, application specific business model to offer more differentiated and competitive services to customers. Based on our core capabilities in energy and telecommunication, we have designated 1) energy and ecology business 2) wire/wireless solutions, and 3) automobile components as our three growth engines. One of the best-known business models is the Power transmission and distribution solution that transmits electricity from power plants to substations near customers and distributes it again from substations to customers. It also provides transmission operation systems and PD monitoring systems that help prevent power system failure and ensure stability of power transmission and distribution. The Marine and offshore solution provides the system to supply electrical power to maritime devices, control various equipment and enable wire/wireless telecommunications, and the customized system such as submarine cable systems suitable for specific features of maritime devices, including fire monitoring systems, flooring material and fire-resistant sealing materials. We also offer Photovoltaic solution(SolarSolTM) that encompass photovoltaic power generation complexes, BIPV(building integrated photovoltaic) systems, as well as various cables and relevant materials for photovoltaic modules, Wind power solution(WindSolTM) that offer not only cables and materials for wind power plants/turbines but also a real time condition monitoring system and Railway & rolling stock solution(RailSolTM) that cover power, telecommunication and signaling systems used for rolling stock, tracks and railroad stations and a power feed system for heavyweight subways. In addition, there is also an Airport solution(AirSolTM) that implements not only power and telecommunications infrastructure for airports and provides customized solutions for runway, loading bridge, luggage management system and airport railway. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 017 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation U-IBS Solution Metro Network Solution Inbuilding Solution ess Solutions OSP Solution Automotive Solution U-City Solution We provide the OSP(Outside Plant) solution which is a high speed wire/wireless backbone network linking maritime devices, power plants, overhead transmission grids, road networks, tunnels and buildings and controlling and monitoring relevant operation facilities. We also provide the Metro Network solution which is a next-generation broadband network infrastructure solution offering voice, video and data services to subscribers over broadband exceeding 100Mb through FTTH solution and LS-HFC(LS-hybrid fiber coaxial) solution. Besides, it is possible to integrate and operate all in-building applications including a datacenter with RF distribution system and LAN solution by the Inbuilding solution. There is also the Ubiquitous IBS(intelligent building system) solution for realizing a building automation that supports facility/power/lighting control in residential, commercial, business and public buildings, CCTV and access/parking control, an office automation for information system and teleconferencing system, and integrated intelligent system that implements a wire/wireless telecommunication environment. We provide U-City solution which covers: u-Green, controlling weather and pollution data, along with water leak management; u-Life Safety for prevention of crime, disaster and accidents; u-Traffic, offering traffic signal control, bus arrival announcements, transport transfer announcements and public parking lot control applications; u-Education providing e-learning, e-book and e-Campus, u-Portal consisting of mobile complaint filing, wire/wireless portal and media board solutions; u-Home supporting home care and e-Care; u-LED including LED lighting; as well as u-Gallery offering exhibitions, conventions and visitor data to deliver a convenient and safe modern city. Our Automotive solution includes PFC(parallel flow condenser) tube for onboard heat exchanger, magnet wire for motor, seat heating wire, GPS, HiPass terminals, power, signals, control and telecommunication cables, heat shrinkable tubes, aluminum panels and high-voltage components for hybrid and electric vehicles. 018 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Highlights New vision of ‘becoming global No.1 in the cable manufacturing sector by 2015’ •Entrench ourselves as global No.3 in the cable manufacturing sector •Strengthen the application & solutions businesses •Enhance global management synergies Sustainability management strategy •Establish implementation organization and governance structure •Implement 13 strategic initiatives and 61 implementation tasks Win-Win cooperation with suppliers •Promote on/off-line communication Adoption of self-compliance program •Extend practical support to enable suppliers to improve their competitiveness •Develop & enforce a global procurement policy A rise in sales by 24.5% in 2010 from 2009 Enjoyable work environment •Extend a variety of support to ensure a ‘balance between Environment management system work and life’ •Strengthen green management organization •Implement infrastructure to expand global diversity •Operate an environment management •Provide various counseling services to enable employees system & green worksites to enjoy their work •Expand green product lineup Social contribution for the underprivileged •Promote volunteer activities in partnership with local communities •Promote donations and academic-industrial partnerships •Operate undergraduate volunteer programs SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 019 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Lowlights Higher annual injury ratio 0.54% 0.20% 2009 2010 Increase in turnover rate 5.8% 3.5% 2009 2010 A fall in the ratio of operating profit 5.3% 3.4% 2009 2010 020 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Vision & Core Values We strive toward our new vision to become the ‘No.1 Global Company in Cable Sector by 2015’. The new vision represents our strong commitment to identifying the needs of markets and consumers, contributing to making our society more bountiful with continuous innovation and sustaining growth by enhancing global competitiveness. We enforce four strategic initiatives: enhancement of global presence, business model innovation in favor of solution businesses, improvement of management capability to a level corresponding to global presence and the enhancement of a financial structure in order to grow to be a global leader in the cable manufacturing sector in the face of intensive market competition. We encourage our employees to strengthen the corporate the 3 core capabilities, Market intelligence, Technology, Creative Executor. Market intelligence is to grasp the needs of the market and customers and create strategies to meet them. Also, we strive for pioneering technologies to meet market needs with products and services that optimize process efficiency, and being a creative executor who develop and implement the most efficient solutions. Besides, we underline ‘Trust’, ‘Passion’, and ‘Challenge’ as our core value, which form the foundation on which we perform work and conduct ourselves. ‘Trust’ means a respect for each individual and reliable cooperation with customers and colleagues. ‘Passion’ indicates continuous self motivation and immersion with a sense of ownership. ‘Challenge’ represents the spirit to set a stretch goal proceed with self confidence and a pioneering mindset. Sustainability Management Strategy and Goals We have established the ‘LS Cable & System Sustainability Management Strategy and Implementation Roadmap’ to share a corporate value system throughout our workplaces around the world and to strengthen global competitiveness. Since 2010, we aim to reflect sustainability management activities on our management processes and promote them to workplaces around the world, with the ultimate goal of integrating sustainability management strategies with our existing management strategy. We have developed a sustainability management master plan covering 2010~2015 in Phase I, II and III, each for 2 years. The master plan draws upon the enterprise sustainability management strategy roadmap and provides for implementation policies of the Sustainability Management Secretariat and 6 sections, 13 strategic initiatives and 61 implementation tasks and organizations and operation of the governing body-‘Sustainability Management Council’. Sustainability management strategy roadmap (Phase /2014~2015)-‘Integration & differentiation’ •Integrate sustainability management strategy with (Phase /2012~2013)-‘Internalization & promotion’ a corporate strategy •Enhance Plan-Do-See system •Implement CSR strategy at global level (Phase /2010~2011)-‘Build framework’ •Promote toward all workplaces around the world •Establish and operate enterprise sustainability management organization •Implement system to respond ISO 26000 standard (publish report, establish/operate implementation system) SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 021 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Sustainability management organization The Sustainability Management Organization is headed by the CEO and consists of the Sustainability Management Council of all executives and the Sustainability Management Secretariat responsible for hands-on operations and 6 sections, including Green Management, Suppliers, Employees, Ethical Management, Social Contribution and Risk Control. The ‘Sustainability Management Council’ is a corporate level of consultative body that decides on a corporate sustainability management policy, discusses pending issues and prompt implementation. It search for ways what we should do in order to carry sustainability strategy in practice. We hold the first council meeting in February, 2010 and shared an understanding of the ‘Sustainability Management Roadmap’ and the ‘section-specific roadmaps’ for Green Management, Ethical Management, and Social Contribution sections. In April, 2010, working-level sustainability management communities were formed to implement the Sustainability Management System, which was followed by efforts to share information on and promote sustainability management. In September, 2010, the ‘LS Cable & System Sustainability Management Strategy and Implementation Roadmap’ was finally reported to the Management Council which was the most senior enterprise decision-making body and accompanied by reporting of the 2010 Sustainability Management Progress and 2011 Implementation Plan by Green Management, Ethical Management, and Social Contribution sections. The Sustainability Management Secretariat runs the Plan-Do-See cycle of the Sustainability Management Strategy at the corporate level. Each section implements detailed strategies aligned with the corporate strategy in specific tasks to put the strategy into practice systematically. We will comply with global norms and standards such as ISO 26000 International Guidance on Corporate Social Responsibilities and Bali Roadmap, as well as promote sustainability management more specifically via our Sustainability Management Organization at the enterprise level. Sustainability Management Council Sustainability Management Secretariat Green Ethical Social Risk Supplier Employees Management Management Contribution Control Section Section Section Section Section Section 022 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Issues Having Importance to the LS Cable & System Approach to material issues Material issue identification process Prior to the publication of the ‘2010 Sustainability Report’, we integrated the Internal External Sustainability Management Strategy with the management strategy in an effort to overhaul our future strategy. Subsequently, We went into the process Laws and global norms to identify the issues that are significant to LS Cable & System for about 2 Stakeholder survey months from February 2011. In-house norms and policies (customers, suppliers) We conducted a comprehensive analysis of the material issues, considering Key sustainability management Benchmarking internal and external perspectives as well as the perspectives of our performance indicator (industry peers, customers) stakeholders in a balanced manner. Notably, applicable laws and regulations Stakeholder survey Media analysis in Korea and elsewhere in the world were reviewed to respond to regulatory (employees) risks. We also refer to not only cases of industry peers, but also major customers’ opinion to identify issues for a more comprehensive perspective. Material issues identified We identify the significant issues regarding our 8 sustainability topics and the Sustainability Management Implementation System through the materiality test stated above. The most material issues are found in the top right of the picture below, and performance and plans relating to each issue are reported in the topic section in detail. High Response to climate change Ethical, social, environmental products New market development Environment-friendly process Safety/health from product use Internal process Innovation Environmental impact Reduction Topic 2-Customers Fairness in procurement Distribution of economic values Topic 3-Suppliers Identify needs of local community Financial performance Responsibility for product and Topic 4-Employees quality CEO and management leadership Topic 5-Local Community Product competitiveness Compliance Implementation of sustainability Win-Win growth management strategy Merger and acquisition Fair trade with suppliers Communication with Fair treatment Technology and product innovation stakeholders Topic 6-Green Management Importance to Stakeholders Balance between work and life Risk control Respect for human rights and Fair competition diversity Governance Social contributions Reduction of hazardous substance Efficient use of resources and energy Topic 1-Creativity and Innovation Topic 7-Financial Performance Brand values Promotion of awareness of Labor/management relationship Creditworthiness ethical management Occupational health and safety Training and self-development Promotion of sustainability Job security Topic 0-Sustainability management toward suppliers Management Transparency in accounting Topic 8-Risk Control & Ethical Green procurement Contribution to local community Management Support for childcare and health of women Provision of accurate product information Green growth(renewable energy) Eco-system conservation Low Importance to Business High 023 Stakeholder Consumers, suppliers, employees, local communities, shareholders/ investors and environment are our key stakeholders, who affect our business or who are affected by our activities. Listening and responding Engagement stakeholders is a core pare of our sustainability management. We try to understand stakeholders’ needs and expectations through enhanced communication with stakeholders. Customers External customers, who produce, use products of the LS Cable & System and receive services and auxiliary customers including subsidiaries and agencies. Suppliers 195 suppliers providing raw materials and other equipment to LS Cable & System as of the end of 2010. Employees Executives, office workers and engineering workers totaling 2,412 persons as of the end of 2010. Local communities Anyang(including research laboratory), Gumi, Indong, Donghae, where the head office and domestic plants are located, and China, India, Vietnam, Malaysia, etc., where overseas plants are located. Shareholders and Shareholders mean the members of general shareholders’ meeting as an owners of equity of LS Cable & System, including individuals and investors institutions investing in the equity capital of the Company. Environment Area where the workplaces of LS Cable & System are located, indicating the coverage of products and services of LS Cable & System. Communication channel Category Channel Description Customers •Customers satisfaction Survey •Try to improve customer satisfaction level •CRM system •Share customer and technology information at enterprise level •Cyber Sinmungo(petition) center •Win-Win Growth Council •Share information with suppliers and support their improvement activities Suppliers •Open discussion meeting with suppliers(every February) •Discuss business plan and procurement strategy of LS Cable & System and try •Satisfaction survey to resolve grievances of suppliers •Trainings for suppliers(twice a year) •Conduct perception surveys on mutual cooperation •Conduct quality assurance and sustainability management training for suppliers •Share market intelligence •Diagnosis of organizational capability and culture •Conduct surveys on organizational capability and internalization level Employees •Son’s Book Cafe‵ •Promote internal communication and reading management •Field satisfaction survey •Identify implications for system improvement •Hotline/Ombudsman system •Resolve grievances of employees •Monthly meeting •Share management status and performance data •Council for Participation and cooperation promotion •Discuss pending management issues and matters relating to employees •Support for the neglected class of people •Promote volunteer activities in each workplace, salary odd-sum donation Local communities •Contribution to global community •Plan and run undergraduate overseas volunteer program •Business-Academic cooperation •Make a contribution by overseas subsidiaries •Environment conservation activities •Provide environment educations to children cultivate a professional of energy/electricity •Do Environmental cleanup activities •Shareholders’ meeting •Discuss corporate strategies and directions Shareholders and investors •Corporate IR activities •Respond to corporate credit evaluation •Public disclosure •Disclose corporate information through website, etc. •Green management committee(twice a year) •Expand internal communication to strengthen green management Environment •Climate change response committee, •Convene meeting once every quarter to determine implementation strategy and Green product committee, ESH committee direction •Operate ESH system •Internal communication Stakeholder Survey We conducted a Sustainability Management Survey on major consumers, suppliers and employees(2011.3.9~3.14) and reflect significant implications on the materiality test and the goals for the next year as well. Customers The result says that customers trust the products of LS Cable & System(83.3 point) and recognize the Company as an ethical corporation(79.2 point). Also, they point out that we need to pay attention to new growth drivers, technology development and prompt reaction to market for sustainable development. Also, we plan to step up communication more actively to further raise the customer satisfaction level. Suppliers The survey shows that our suppliers have recognized the implementation of environmental management most positively. On the other hand, it is found that we need to put further efforts on supports for suppliers in the area of mutual growth and sustainability management implementation. Employees It is found that employees are most concerned about customer satisfaction, quality improvement, manufacturing innovation and employee welfare improvement as the most critical issue for LS Cable & System to sustain its growth. The results are the same as those of the 2010, which indicated that the employees prioritize sustainability management issues from external and internal customer perspectives. 024 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report TOPIC 01. Creativity & Innovation We are aspiring to become a global No.1 cable manufacturer by 2015 beyond a top company in the Korean market. To achieve this challenging and future-oriented goal, we have a concrete plan to expand our global presence through business model innovation and development of new growth engines. We try to create values by accelerating global market management developing a new technology and product and innovating a corporate business model. To enhance global competitiveness, we will expand global presence, notably with a focus on Asia among emerging markets. We will also try to provide differentiated values to customers through a cutting edge technologies, new products and integrated solutions that match global expectations. Our efforts to create values help us not only to provide promoted service to stakeholders but also to have a key role in shaping a better world. Creativity Management ● Global Market Management Exploring global markets through M&A We have a plan to position us to be capable of meeting the needs of global demand, not just staying in domestic market. We have secured synergies by merging and acquiring market players that have a strong bearing on our business with significant technological savvy and market presence, so that we expect to improve profitability of the existing businesses and find future growth drivers. As part of this focus, we acquired Superior Essex, the largest cable manufacturer in North America, in 2008 and HongQi Electricity in China in 2009. Acquiring Superior Essex, the largest cable manufacturer in North America Superior Essex, headquartered in Atlanta, GA, is a 78 year-old cable manufacturer that posted annual revenues of about $2.99 billion as of 2007. It operates a magnet wire1) and telecommunication cable business comprising 20 plants located in 9 countries including the USA, Canada, Mexico, China, France, Germany, U.K., Italy and Portugal, etc. Upon acquisition of Superior Essex, we jumped to the world’s No.3 from No.7 and achieved not only an external growth but also enhanced capabilities through an access to the technological savvy, worldwide sales network and production capacity of Superior Essex. Greater synergies are expected from this combination. Notably, we are collaborating in various sectors in order to realize the vision to grow into a global player with Superior Essex. Our efforts are concentrated on stabilizing the operation of Superior Essex while we intend to boost sales through a cross-selling of the products, save purchasing costs through global sourcing and share best practices in R&D and production technology. In the telecommunication sector where both companies operate similar businesses, we cooperate with a focus on telecommunications solutions, while we have focus on high end products in the magnetic wire sector. This approach help us build a mutual cooperation in profitability improvement, not only in increase in sales. More than anything, we are developing new businesses by combining the production capacity and customer network of Superior Essex with the forward-looking technologies of LS Cable & System. 1) Magnet wire: Insulated conductor(round wire, rectangular wire, etc.) made of copper and aluminum and coil-wound within electric/electronic device to convert electric energy to electromagnetic or mechanical energy and to convert mechanical energy to electric energy SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 025 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Acquiring HongQi Electricity, a Chinese electric cable manufacturer We acquired Hubei Yongding HongQi Electricity, the cable manufacturing company of Yongding Group, China, in September 2009 and renamed it LS HongQi Cable & System in December. Hubei Yongding HongQi Electricity was a medium-sized cable manufacturer with annual sales revenue of about KRW100 billion. We have a plan to make it the China’s No.1 cable manufacturer with annual sales revenue of about KRW1 trillion by 2015. LS HongQi Cable & System is located in Yichang City, the 2nd biggest in Hubei Province around the midstream of the Yangtze River, producing various cable products including electric power cable including 220kV extra high voltage cable, submarine cable and industrial specialty cable etc. in a plant covering about 406.611m2. China has risen to be a great economic power and is expected to grow to have the word's largest economy in 2020 and possibly become twice as big as the U.S. economy by 2030. We believe that China will be a key market to realize our vision of becoming the global No.1 cable manufacturer, in that it accounts for 24% of the global electric power cable market. We will be assiduous in making LS HongQi Cable & System the biggest cable solution provider of China by 2015, based on our business experiences in China which made around the LSCT magnet wire plant located in Tianjin, the LSCW automotive cable, instrument cable and busduct plant located in Wuxi and the LSIC distribution branch located in Shanghai. ● Development of New Technology and Product In terms of R&D strategy, We continue to keep eye on technology trends from a mid-to-long-term perspective and reflects them into our mid-tolong-term product and technology roadmap, Furthermore, we manage a patent strategically in a corporate level. Managing a corporate core technology strategically We have selected a corporate global competitive-edge technology in consideration of market influence and technological importance to secure a foothold in global market and to get new customers. In addition, We monitor trends of market and technology regularly to select and develop more competitive-edge technologies. As a result, we have developed cutting edge technologies, and promoted an ability to respond flexibly to changes in business models and market environment with these technologies. As a representative example, there are an XLPE insulation material that enhances the insulation of extra high voltage cable, an ultra fine new wire manufacturing processes for manufacturing the fine conductors as thin as a human hair, a sheath design that prevent signal disruption from electric or electromagnetic waves, insulation materials changing from existing AC insulation to DC insulation, and a power system interlocking technology that better facilitates power supply between different electric power systems. 026 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Core strategic products In terms of the product promotion strategy, we seek to develop a core strategic product and establish a promotion program specialized in each product. This customer oriented product enable us to enter into the top global league and enhance competitiveness in line with the vision of becoming the global No.1. Energy transmission/distribution A growth of the current distribution networks and expansion of smart grids requires independent energy source networks or larger-capacity energy storage mechanisms. As AC networks are being transformed into DC networks, we need to respond to demands for DC cable and smart grid technology trends. High-temperature superconductor cable With regards to extra high voltage cable, we have continued to build a R&D and production framework for more than a decade, to prepare for mass production of future oriented high-temperature superconductor cables. Submarine cable To produce submarine cable that enables electric power transmission or telecommunication between countries or between islands and a nearby mainland, we have built the first submarine cable plant in Donghae since May, 2009. It is our long-desired goal to enter into the submarine cable market, where a few top global player have held a prominent position. Our entry into a submarine cable market will help meet domestic demands. The extra high voltage submarine cable developed by us is expected to substitute the imported cable worth KRW300 billion in cumulative terms by 2011 and post KRW750 billion in sales by 2015. Overhead transmission line cable We give a focus on the increasing capacity of power transmissions regarding overhead transmission line cable. We are in the development process of the lighter cable design and the system considering a way of transmitting power and products. Telecommunication In preparation for penetration of the various 4G telecommunication applications, we search for ways to diversify fiber optic cable products and bolster solutions to accommodate the increasing base stations. In terms of commercialization of the key corporate competitive-edge technologies, we concentrate on technology with more growth potential in each cycle, as each technology have a different product cycle from a development, and a growth to commercialization. In other words, we provided a single cable product to customer in the past, but adopted a new sales approach, in an effort to increase profitability. We diversify the product lineup into the solution business including equipments, connectors, accessories and integrated services to cater to new market needs and new industry. Recently, as customers have become increasingly interested in environment friendly products and marine cable, our focus is being placed on fostering such products intensively. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 027 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Patent Management Direction for patent management As intellectual property rights are increasingly emphasized these days, we continuously enhance a corporate patent management. We have implemented patent management activities notably in the following 3 aspects. First, our patent portfolio searches for and focuses on the practical technologies. To that end, we try to secure and manage intellectual property rights at the corporate level and obtain the rights of technology development as well. Second, the patent management is set to be offense-oriented rather than defense-oriented. An R&D framework transition is being implemented to shift from a simple conventional patent application to the more aggressive patent development, and studies and analyses are being conducted to innovate the patent dispute prevention system. Lastly, a patent application and dispute response will be driven at the enterprise scale rather than by researchers as was the case in the past. In so doing, we select practical technologies, analyze and review prior arts, develop a patent map, and exercise our right of technology. This process helps us choose an area of concentration in the patent management. Performance of patent management We are implementing our patent management strategically by identifying and securing the technology necessary for business in each business group in accordance with the patent management implementation direction. Notably, patents can be applied for by any employee, but usually are filed by a a researcher, a development and production process personnel. The result of our patent management shows that the patent in the area of research are made as a result of the researchers’ activities in the laboratory center, while in the production process area, team members of each business group play a key role in patent application by their organizational needs and strategic considerations. The patent management implementation is, in general, implemented along the 3 lines of concern. First is to secure the core competitiveness, We will make use of intellectual property rights to boost management performance. In other words, we determine if our intellectual property rights are worth maintaining and viable for utilization, and use them for royalty revenue, patent right transfer or marketing activities. Second is to secure the future growth drivers. The intellectual property rights are enhanced to support mid-to-long term growth and development of the Company. Key activities include the development of standard patents, and alternative patents, and patent application rating activities. Lastly, it is for responding to patent disputes. As patent disputes or patent suit can bring about enormous costs, the prevention through a study and analysis can be a way of cost control. You can refer to the case of base station antennas, electric vehicle rechargers and square magnet wire for electric motors. Notably, in terms of our patent portfolio, it is considered that we may be somewhat weak with regards to the standard technology but have strength in applications, thanks to intensive patent applications to that area. This is consistent with the corporate strategy to diversify the business model from product manufacturing to provision of solutions and applications as well. Patent applications (Unit: the number of patent application) Year Korea US China Others Overseas total 2008 179 14 17 45 76 2009 155 17 13 42 72 2010 140 11 6 21 38 028 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Innovation Management We have promoted the innovation management as a corporate key policy since 2003 when we were spun off from LG Group. Back then, we were at the end of a growth phase following several years of sluggish performance, suffering uncertain profitability and inadequate preparation for the future. To overcome a challenging situation, we implemented a corporate wide ‘Process Innovation’ activities and built an ERP system consistent with global standards for 2 years from 2003, completing a platform for the continued innovation management. Notably, we established a principle of the employee engagement as a key of corporate innovation, aiming at improving employee's comprehensive problem solving capabilities in statistical, logical and practical aspects. Our innovation programs are centered around 4 columns, 6-Sigma activities for innovating a way of working, a ‘Big Y’ of directors for better preparation for the future and a business model innovation, Cost reduction for improving internal efficiency, site/field innovations, Supports for innovation of subsidiaries both at home and abroad, and Organizational culture change. 6-Sigma activities as an innovative way of working 6-Sigma activities are zero-defect quality improvement activities that remove the causes of defects so that reduce errors to the level of 3.4 per 1 million on average by implementing statistical and logical innovations. We introduced the 6-Sigma in 1999 when we were still a part of the LG Group, but suspended it due to an inadequacy of underlying infrastructure such as a management information system. However, we build the required management information infrastructure through an introduction of ‘process innovation’ and ERP system, and then began to implement the 6-Sigma as a full-fledged policy in 2007. The 6-Sigma activities in which all employees participates have been internalized as an enterprise innovation program to ensure a quality level for customer satisfaction and contribute to eliminating wastes and improving the corporate culture. Since 2009, we make use of the 6-sigma as an innovation platform along with “knowledge management” practices for sharing of corporate knowledge resources. We try to suggest ‘the ability to solve a problem’, as a capability that employees need to obtain. We encourage our employees to approach to a problem and to be a people of action through the 6-Sigma techniques. It is expected that the 6-Sigma causes a fundamental change in our corporate culture. Image of workforce as envisioned by LS Cable & System Change of the image of the workforce Changes in perspective on ideal employee A person who knows how to solve problems •A person who can see a key point of the problem •A person who can identify solutions through an appropriate way •A person who applies the solutions in a timely manner and creates performance Linkage to a change in human resource management system Change of the way of working Internalize the 6-Sigma as the way to solve problems 6-Sigma as a way of working A person who knows how to work = Belt-certified person MBB) 1% BB) 10% or higher ✽Percentage ratio based on non-executives employees GB) 40% or higher ✽MBB = perceived as a candidate for executive Adoption Expansion Settlement Change of corporate culture Corporate culture focusing on responsiveness Internalized Innovation as a way of life SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 029 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation We emphasize the innovation by suggesting goals and directions of the 6-Sigma program from the perspective of customer satisfaction and the achievement of management goals. We need to focus on identifying optimum conditions that can maximize profits and efficiency via the 6-Sigma. Interview with Seoul Economic Daily, 2006 6-Sigma is not simply for performance disclosure but for our own survival. We must maximize performance and press on with innovation via the 6-Sigma. Innovation Promotion Conference, June, 2007 interview we plan to expand the scope of the 6-Sigma implementation to cover the entire business and nurture the 6-Sigma belt-certified employees, with a goal to cultivate employees to 6-Sigma experts as many as 40% of total regular position of employees by 2012. 6-Sigma belt-certified employees (Unit: number of person) Adoption Propagation Settlement Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Phase 5 Phase 6 Phase 7 Phase 8 616 Certified employees in cumulative terms (the ratio to the total employees in 547 regular position in previous year) 6-Sigma tasks 454 6-Sigma tasks in cumulative terms 401 214 352 (18.3%) 149 184 261 (14.5%) 110 (15.7%) (10.7%) 74 139 (7.1%) 112 43 90 (4.1%) 64 93 76 69 31 31 53 2007 2008 2009 2010 ‘Big Y’ for directors, as a tool for achieving mid/long term strategy We implement the ‘Big Y’ for directors in which the directors of each business group carry out the tasks on the basis of 6-Sigma activities. Every ‘Big Y’ task for directors is future-oriented and aligned with the Financial effects of innovation activities business group strategy, involving the directors not only in production, (Unit: 100 million of KRW) development and R&D group but also management and support Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 organizations and the presidents of the subsidiaries at home and abroad. ‘Big Y’ tasks for director 451 572 1,583 846 Since 2007,the 6-Sigma activities and the 'Big Y' tasks for directors 6-Sigma activities 86 118 84 157 have contributed significantly to business performance. Notably in 2010, financial achievements made by the 6-Sigma activities and the 'Big Y' tasks for directors accounted for more than 80% of the operating income of the company, which indicates how significantly our innovation activities have contributed to the business performance. 030 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Cost Innovation for Improving Internal Efficiency(COPQ: Cost of Poor Quality) We try to improve internal efficiency to enhance a product competitiveness in terms of price, quality and delivery in comparison with other competitors worldwide. To that end, COPQ activities are conducted, covering the entire spectrum of costs including materials, processing, sales & administration, procurement/logistics, R&D and general expenses. In addition, we manage the major tasks of COPQ as the 6 Sigma activities for implementing them in more systematical and effective manner. Also, we support for improvements throughout the all business site, using the ‘7 key management indicators’ including internal failure costs, execution losses and a long standing inventory, etc. The COPQ activities contributed to KRW70.6 billion of profitability in 2010, targeting KRW87 billion for 2011 at the enterprise level. Supports for innovation of the Subsidiaries and the Suppliers We have implemented the 6-Sigma activities jointly with the subsidiaries and the suppliers at home and abroad to improve the overall quality level of our supply chain. To that end, we began to provide a 6-Sigma ‘Green Belt’ training program for our domestic subsidiaries in 2009 and dispatch our MBB(master black belt) holders to provide a guidance on how to manage innovations and foster innovation talents to our subsidiaries. In addition, we have provided 6-Sigma trainings on task selections and management to the overseas subsidiaries in accordance with the same processes applied to the domestic ones since 2010. As of 2011, the 6-Sigma innovation activities of the 4 domestic subsidiaries and the 4 overseas subsidiaries of China, Malaysia and Vietnam are being supported. At the same time, the 6-Sigma training has been provided to 31 suppliers from the end of 2010 to help them upgrade their quality level, with GB training for 15 suppliers and a task selection/guidance for 5 suppliers. Therefore, it is our goal that all subsidiaries and suppliers at home and abroad implement a quality innovation and a enhance infrastructure via continued talent developments. In case of the overseas subsidiaries with a their different culture and work environment from those of domestic companies, we develop training materials considering best cases and capabilities of subsidiary employees, and try to apply training skills and way of managing tasks which are proven to be effective. Our innovation leaders are sent from Korea to provide a training and guidance for a specified period of time and employees of subsidiaries are trained to develop their capability for independent innovation activities. In addition, the employees of each subsidiary are becoming better aware of a value of the 6-Sigma and are engaging actively in the program to develop their personal capabilities and improve achievement, thus improving overall performance continuously. Site Innovation Activities 3-R, 5-S, Group Participation and communication Activates and Suggestion Program (Sharing, onsite decision making and obligations of team leaders) We have implemented 3-R, and 5-S activities onsite. The 3-R, Waste list ▶ Project resolution •Common tasks for resolution and 5-S pertain to “right product, right quantity, right place”(3-R) (Group leader, and and “soft, straighten, shine, standardize and sustain”(5-S). The Execution suggestion •Individual tasks for improvement team leader) activities are linked to ‘My Machine’ activities and ‘Our Area’ •Find waste elements in •Elements per area activities. The ‘My Machine’ activities require all employees to My Area Our Area •3-R(Right product, Right quantity, maintain their site production facilities with a sense of ownership •Waste=elements Right place) damaging a site indicator •2-S(Soft, Straighten) and the ‘Our Area’ activities urge them to keep their areas ▼ clean. •3-S(Shine, Standardize, Sustain) 3R 5S ▶ My Machine •Responsibility for their “owned” machine (prevention of failure/deterioration) Group activities make an active use of the 6-Sigma •Family Machine methodologies and manage a task in 5 steps designated as: •Comply with the work standards Define, Measure, Analyze, Improve and Control. Notably, the 6Comply with basics ▶ •Reflect and maintain best cases(engineer tasks, Sigma belt holders are appointed as a secretariat of the group group tasks) activities to support problem-solving activities, which helps •Multiple skills and necessary job training Improve job skills ▶ •Share department issues(failure cases, etc.) resolve group activity tasks in a simpler manner. •Propagate innovation via an innovation leader •Train skilled professionals and quality masters SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 031 Chairman Message CEO Message About LS Cable & System Highlights & Lowlights Sustainability Management Topic 01. Creativity & Innovation Innovation of corporate culture We operate a variety of corporate culture programs to make a ‘great place to work’ and ‘a company to which willing to go even in Monday’. Our corporate culture programs apply to every employee form the top to working level and include the ‘Talk with the CEO’ which is the forum where employees can engage in a dialogue with the CEO as an informal manner, ‘Son’s Book Cafe’ ′where employees can communicate with the CEO through sharing their thoughts on the books they read together, and ‘Imagination Island’ where employees actively engage in management with their own creative ideas. The ‘Talk with the CEO’ has been conducted annually since 2006. It is an open forum through which employees may present their ideas directly to the CEO and the CEO can share his management philosophy with them. The ‘Son’s Book Cafe’ ′facilitates communication with the CEO through an online channel, where anyone is encouraged to post his or her thoughts of the book recommended by the CEO. The CEO continues to have heart-to heart discussions and share ideas with our employees by replying to the suggested ideas on the book. The ‘Imagination Island’ is an organizational motivation program that allows the employees to post their creative ideas to our online menu consisting of 6 categories: business, products, sales, production, IT and organization culture. An outstanding ideas are rewarded through a process of evaluation and review. This system is regarded to contribute to invigorating a corporate culture and employee’s participation. At the same time, an in-house knowledge management system titled ‘Knowledge Union’, or ‘Knowledge Dure’ in Korean words, is under operation so that business knowledge and best practices can be shared in an effort to enhance overall knowledge management. Notably, to motivate employees, the employee who has made an outstanding achievement in sales, production, development, support, etc. is selected each month as the ‘Employee of the Month’ and duly rewarded. Photos and credits of ‘Employee of the Month’ are published on the front page of the ‘Knowledge Union’. Talk with the CEO Son’s Book Cafe′ Imagination island Knowledge management system SOCIETY LS Cable & System is spearheading commitments to make the world a better place where everyone can smile with heartfelt happiness. Sharing dreams and vision with stakeholders is what we desire to do. We aim at going together with customers, suppliers, employees under a common vision. We realize our responsibility to heighten the value of stakeholders by performing our duties as a corporate citizen. Social DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Division Policy Objectives Department in charge 2010 Achievements 2011 plan Customers •To walk with •Develop improvement •Each sales team, •Conduct a customer satisfaction survey •Continue the existing programs customers activities to better Quality & for quality, service, delivery(once a year) understand and raise environment •Reflect customer feedback by operating a the level of customer management comprehensive CRM system satisfaction office •Implement continuous improvement activities with the 6-sigma initiatives Suppliers •To realize a •Adopt a global •Purchasing •Enforce fair trade and Win-Win growth •Win-Win Growth Council every sustainable purchasing policy planning cooperation agreements quarter supply chain management team •Organize the Win-Win Growth Council •Propagate global purchasing policy management framework •Develop global purchasing policies to business partners framework •Provide business capability enhancement training for partner companies •Develop a sustainability management monitoring manual Employees •To create an •Build a global system •HR team •Expand mentoring •Improve work & life balance enjoyable to promote an •HR development •Develop and operate Biz. Master job •Build and expand infrastructure to workplace enjoyable work team training programs promote global diversity environment •Labor/management •Promote management objectives through planning team a reading a book program •Launch/develop a help desk for foreigners •Launch/develop a sexual harassment helpline Local •To build a •Establish a unified •PR team •Promote volunteer group activities in workplace •Develop social contribution strategy communities corporate social social contribution •Operate salary odd sum fund •Designate dedicated organization contribution platforms •Dispatch undergraduate volunteers overseas including volunteer groups and framework •Provide an environmental educations for promote activities children/foster engineering experts •Develop model social contribution •Conduct cleanup activities in each programs workplace [Suppliers] [Customers] Win-Win growth Responsibility for product High Fair trade with suppliers and quality Product competitiveness [Customers] Ethical, social, environmental products Safety/health from product use [Local Community] [Employees] [Suppliers] Social contributions Fair treatment Fairness in procurement Balance between work and life Importance to Stakeholders [Local Community] Respect for human rights and Identify needs of local community diversity [Customers] [Suppliers] [Employees] Provision of accurate product information Promotion of sustainability Labor/management relationship [Employees] management toward Occupational health and safety Support for childcare and health of women suppliers Training and self-development Job security [Local Community] Contribution to local community Low Importance to Business High SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 035 TOPIC 02. Customers Growth with Customers Guided by the management philosophy of ‘Walking with Customers’ and with the vision of being ‘Your No.1 Creative Partner,’ we seek to provide the best services to our current and future customers. We define our customers as both those entities buying and using our products in the narrow sense and all entities engaged in the entire process of production, use and service involving our products in the extended sense. Based on this definition, we seek to fulfill our customer requirements and conduct systematic customer satisfaction activities to build solid partnerships with the customers. Management policy Vision “Walking with customers” To be a company delivering leading solutions to customer Your No.1 and contributing to society through a employee's participation Creative Partner Your LS Cable & System for Internal and External customers Social as well as Present and Future Ones Contributions NO.1 Best and Only Leading Company Creative Unique, Creative Thinking for Providing the Best Solutions Partner Support for Continuous Partnership Toward Common Goal Leading Employee's Dream Solution 036 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction Listening to our customer In order to ensure customer satisfaction, we have built a framework to analyze customer requirements, identified and resolved relevant problems and shared the results with all relevant sales and engineering personnel. This customer information and feedback are also used as key inputs that help us formulate our sustainable growth strategy. Customer information, regional information and business information collected from various customers both at home and abroad are analyzed and shared with relevant business groups and notably, the market development team. We make strategic use of the analyzed information in improving an access to customer, exploring new markets and nurturing new growth engine. Customer information in the CRM system In addition, customer information is managed at the enterprise scale with the market development team in the center and the collected information is communicated to relevant departments to help improve our overall management activities. Furthermore, all employees are allowed to share customer information and technology trends via the enterprise portal system to better manage information at a corporate context. Furthermore, we developed a customer relationship management system, a CRM system, particularly for supporting a sales department, who listen to and serve customers in person. Customer information in the “Knowledge Union” Customer satisfaction process Each year we conduct a customer satisfaction survey to better understand the customer satisfaction level and identify areas for improvement. Notably, the survey measures covers the satisfaction level of not only domestic customers but also global customers in the area of quality, service and delivery and then satisfaction level improvements every year. Also, we manage identified areas for improvement using 6-sigma methodology. The figure and table below shows how the tasks for improving customer satisfaction level are selected and what tasks we have dealt with. Process to link customer requirements to 6-sigma projects Select target Segment Determine survey Conduct a Identify KCI(KBI)/ Carry out Identify CTQ customer customer method/period VOC(VOB) survey CCR(CBR) the task Listen to voice of the customers(VOC) VOC / VOB Collection Customer Voice of the Customers, Business Customer Customer issues & problems External customer Delphi UL certification of product, reasonable price, quality (VOC) DUNBAR Stable product supply, stable business relationship, extension of exclusive rights, delivery in installments LEONI/LEAR VOC collection NexenTech Reliable water tightness, prevention of defects in bond application Jungsung/THN Quick responsiveness to customer requirements(complaint handling and IMDS availability, etc.) Internal Production control Decrease in rework regarding quality issues, productivity improvement customer/process Tube team Higher yield, cost saving, high profitability and productivity, production of longer tube, increase in production (VOB) throughput, raw material quality, possible spec revision(extrusion inner diameter oversize), price competitiveness, acceleration of new product development, acceleration of UL certification SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 037 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Customer segmentation & customer core requirements(CCR) Select CTQ(Critical to quality) based on CCR CCR identification Pulling output indicator & CTQ out of CCR Voice of customers ▶ Key customer issues ▶ Customer core requirements Output (VOC) (KCI) (CCR) CCR ▶ ▶ Upper CTQ ▶ Sub CTQ indicator ▶ •Need to improve productivity 1. Gain in productivity 1. Gain in productivity •Need to increase production •Raise extrusion flux •Raise extrusion flux 1. Improve •Extrusion flux •Extrusion flux •Extrusion inner volume •Raise expansion flux •Raise expansion flux productivity •Expansion flux diameter(bond) •Need to stabilize delivery •Optimize spec.(product structure) •Optimize design •Improve extrusion •Extrusion inner •Extrusion productivity volume •Produce longer product (extrusion inner diameter) diameter thickness(bond) •Improve expansion •Need to assure product quality •Minimize rework •Increase product length by securing •Extrusion thickness productivity •Need to secure price sales Improve productivity without •Lengthwise competitiveness 2. Quality sacrificing quality contraction rate 1. Quality •Expansion flux •Lengthwise •Need to obtain product •Water tightness •Expansion inner productivity contraction rate certification •Lengthwise contraction rate 2. Quality •Uniform diameter •Expansion inner •Need to secure product reliability •Inner diameter defect •Water tightness : See ES91409-Rev00 extrusion/ •Water leak diameter •Need to decrease rework •Appearance defect •Lengthwise contraction rate : -10~0% expansion •Bond bubble •Bond application •Need to be more responsive to •Raw material quality (R 10) •Quality of finished •Uniformed bond product status customers •Appearance : Hot-melt unequal application •Need to review specifications 3. Responsiveness to customer application and bubble •Need to control raw material •Delivery schedule •Raw material : Review material spec. 1. The attempt to increase extrusion flux with the existing applicator resulted in a quality •Delivery volume change in the inner diameter of the extrusion Installed new dedicated large•Need to review other customer •Product certification(UL) 3. Responsiveness to customer capacity applicator Measured and verified improvement requirements •Data request(PPAP, IMDS, etc.) •Meet delivery schedule and volume 2. Measured current CTQ level at the targeted expansion flux •Need to comply with delivery requirement by improving productivity 3. Fixed extrusion/expansion flux targeted herein at upper CTQ and finalized key schedules •Delivery volume quality elements from the Output Indicator as sub CTQ gauge R&R and measure •Obtain product UL certification current level We collect customer requirements on quality, delivery and prevention of defect recurrence. In addition, we respond to customer needs and improve customer satisfaction by making a systematic analysis of each requirement methodically by the step based process. To conduct customer satisfaction improvement initiatives, we select customer requirements to be managed as 6-sigma project first. In the next step, we prioritize the requirements and identify important issues from analysis and review of the customer needs. Finally, core customer issues are identified and managed under the goal of improvement initiatives. Customer satisfaction trend by year Notably, we reflects the customer satisfaction results into management (Unit: Point) activities and has operated ‘The customer satisfaction management Biz. unit Item 2007 2008 2009 2010 rules’ since 2004 to provide guidelines for customer satisfaction Automotive Quality 3.5 3.5 3.8 3.9 activities. Against this backdrop, we continually improve the customer cable Delivery 3.4 3.7 3.8 3.9 satisfaction survey method, reflect survey outcomes, provide feedback Service 3.5 3.6 3.8 3.9 to customers and operate systematic follow-up processes in an effort to Average 3.5 3.6 3.8 3.9 deliver better values to customers. Thanks to such efforts, the level of customer satisfaction has steadily improved. We reinforce the customer satisfaction management system with a goal of achieving a satisfaction level of at least 4.0 point on a scale of 5.0 point by 2011. As we measure customer satisfaction in accordance with our own in-house criteria, it is hard to compare it with competitors. However, we analyze annual trends and the extent of overall customer satisfaction improvement. 038 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Management of customer complaints We continually try to improve customer safety and reliability with quality innovation activities seeking zero-defects and address quality issues responsively in accordance with enterprise management regulations. Notably, we address customer feedback and grievances through the established management system that methodically manages the entire process from problem occurrence, complaint receiving, determination of a handling process and final judgment on a customer grievance. After resolving a complaint, we are able to check a record of complaint reporting and incurred costs from the complaint handling through the system. Customer grievance handling details ERP screenshot Upon receipt, customer complaint is handled in accordance with customer grievance control regulations. Roles and responsibilities are clearly specified for each procedure and process. In addition, a customer grievance history is maintained and updated in the enterprise resource management system and improvement activities are implemented innovatively to prevent recurrence of a similar quality problem. Innovative Products & Services Considering Social/Environmental Issues We deeply consider social and environmental issues when developing products and services. Notably, we seek to raise the ratio of environment friendly products to 90% of the total product portfolio by 2013 as part of our comprehensive green product policy and to develop a variety of innovative products to improve their environment-friendly value with a focus on customer needs. For example, we replace copper with aluminum in the conductor for power line transmission cable. This has significantly increased product reliability and efficiency by securing a stable conduction ratio at 230°C or more. For telecommunication cables, we have developed a lead-free indoor cable. The Integrated Module & Cable business group has developed and commercialized a next-generation green heat shrinkable tube that does not contain any red phosphorous or halogen thus addressing the key concern of using conventional green tube products. In addition, we are developing and commercializing a variety of innovative products with a keen consideration on social and environmental issues and are continuously concentrating on R&D initiatives to meet customer interests and needs for green products and raise the ratio of green products to 90% of the total product portfolio by 2013. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 039 TOPIC 03. Suppliers Our suppliers are vital to the ongoing global operations of the company as they provide the key materials and services needed for efficient and profitable production. Generally suppliers are classified into four main categories according to the kind of provided products or service: suppliers of (1) raw materials, (2) commodities, (3) non-ferrous metals, and (4) maintenance service. As they have a significant impact on the quality, delivery and cost of products manufactured and marketed by us, mutual cooperation and trust are critical. In 2010, we maintained transactions with 1,819 suppliers manufacturing or supplying goods or services, including overseas vendors, large domestic businesses, agencies, subsidiaries and contracted suppliers. Among them, we select 195 suppliers as major suppliers and seek to grow with them by building a reciprocal network of evaluation and management. Mid-term roadmap Establishment of the framework Strategy promotion Global SCM development 2010~2011 2012 2013 Promote sustainability •Sustainability management •Monitor sustainability management •Establish a framework for sustainmanagement among monitoring criteria were developed performance ability management of suppliers suppliers •Green procurement management •Disseminate sustainability manage•Establish a green SCM1) system was developed ment know-how among suppliers •Promote green procurement & green partnership Fair trade •Ensure fairness in trade by selecting suppliers through transparent processes, implementation of a fair evaluation and management system, and develop a system to continually upgrade both. •Implement a virtuous Win-Win cycle •Expand customized support •Establish partnership system Win-Win Growth •Expand communication channels program •Internalize communication outcomes Operating organization in charge of building partnership with supplier The purchase planning team is a dedicated department that focuses on mutual growth with suppliers and is responsible for supporting and managing them. CEO Corporate Management Group(CFO) CPO2) Purchasing Planning team Non-ferrous metal Material & equipment Products Global logistics purchasing team purchasing team purchasing team team 1) SCM: Refers to Supply Chain Management 2) CPO: Refers to Chief Purchasing Officer 040 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Dialogue with Suppliers We are keen to listen carefully to the ideas and suggestions of our suppliers via a variety of communication channels such as the Win-Win Growth Council, online procurement site, public meeting, open discussions meeting and surveys. These channels help strengthen mutual communication with the suppliers. Win-Win Growth Council We established and operate a Win-Win Growth Council with a purpose of understanding our suppliers’ current situation and finding ways to growth together. In other words, the Win-Win Growth Council is expected to carry out an important role in supporting the suppliers and helping them share our corporate strategy. Against this backdrop, starting from the end of 2010, we began to benchmark best practice cases of business partner councils of other industry leaders and design an organization plan. We selected a participant, who deemed eligible for a strategic relationship with us in consideration of trade volume and the Q-Partner certification & Win-Win Growth Council inauguration ceremony importance of trade. We invited the suppliers who admitted our participation to the set sail in April, 2011 and will meet 4 times a year. As the council does not limit discussions to official agendas, we expect the council members to produce productive synergies through a mutual cooperation. E-Procurement system(http://eproc.lscable.com) We operate an E-Procurement site to enable suppliers to access our procurement system with ease. Thanks to the E-Procurement system, suppliers may openly share their opinions concerning transaction with us, with our limit in space and time while preventing sensitive transaction information from 3rd parties. Open discussion with suppliers We have open discussions meeting among our business groups and suppliers every February. The meetings have proven to be productive venues for partners to discuss the business plans and our procurement strategies in an open and honest manner. We listen to challenges/problems that suppliers face, and try to deal with them through the meetings. In addition, we shares the result of market analysis with suppliers to help them develop their mid-term business strategies while also disclosing quality performance metrics of the previous year and quality control plans of the current year to provide guidance to suppliers. In 2010, 14 suppliers for the Integrated Module and Cable business group joined the open discussions. We plan to extend the agenda and expand the scope of discussion to a corporate level, in an effort to help improve the overall quality of management of suppliers. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 041 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Survey of suppliers In December, 2010, the Purchase Planning Team conducted a survey of suppliers to better understand their awareness of our assistance and their preparation for sustainable. Targeting around 200 suppliers having a significant business relationship with us, the survey asked a total of 49 questions in 4 categories(Transaction Processes, Management of suppliers, Level of Satisfaction with the ‘Win-Win Growth Initiatives’ and Awareness of Sustainability Management of suppliers). Satisfaction level in each category of Survey findings the 2010 survey In the survey, more than 70% of respondents responded positively with regards to how transaction processes are handled and with how suppliers are managed3). However, the Satisfaction with transaction processes 81% satisfaction level with the win-win growth initiatives consisting of awareness of ‘Win-Win Growth’ of LS Cable & System(20%) and willingness to join such initiatives in the future Satisfaction with (88%) was about 52%. As about 50% of the respondents were newly registered management of 70% suppliers suppliers with little access to our support program, they accounted for rather low awareness. However, as they were willing to join the initiatives in the future and as we Satisfaction with also plans to promote them actively, the level of satisfaction with win-win growth win-win growth 52% initiatives is expected to go up. It should be noted that most suppliers are not adequately initiatives interested in sustainability management so this is an area that should be improved upon. Preparation level of sustainability We plan to monitor the sustainability management of suppliers continuously in the 2nd management 5% half of 2011, providing supports to them wherever possible. (Suppliers) 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Fair Trade Environment Promotion We place top priority on transparency and mutual trust among our suppliers. We operate a global procurement guideline set forth in the company’s internal code of ethics and promulgate the guidelines among the suppliers. In addition, we issue electronic copies and hard copies of standard terms and conditions in relation to trade with suppliers and request statements of commitment to ethical management promising not to engage in unfair trade practices. A trustworthy and dependable company In 2009, we signed off on a ‘Triangle Cooperation Program(TCP)’ established by the Fair Trade Commission to promote mutual cooperation and fair trade among small, medium and large size enterprises and our suppliers with a view to promoting a win-win growth. We developed the program to more specific supporting and laid the groundwork for fair trade in the implementation process with regards to improving payment terms and conditions, technological support and protection. In addition, to promote best trade practices between small and large enterprises and to adopt the top 3 guidelines for cooperation between small and large businesses4) developed by the Fair Trade Commission, we reviewed the existing procurement regulation and developed new guidelines for contracts process, and selecting & registering of suppliers, and established an in-house subcontracting review committee. Notably, we introduced a fair trade self-compliance program(CP) encouraging our employees to comply with fair trade laws and regulations at their initiative. 3) Positive Response: In a scale of 1~5, 4 or more was deemed to be a positive response. 4) Top 3 guidelines for cooperation between small and large businesses : Guidelines on business contracting practices, suppliers selection/management and in-house review committee establishment/operation 042 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Accordingly, we have implemented a system that should prevent noncompliance in advance and promote fairness and transparency in all business transactions, and posted the code of ethics applicable to transactions with suppliers on the ethical management site. Furthermore, our fair trade performance is reviewed with the win-win growth index that the Win-Win Growth Committee introduced in 2011, so that we establish global standard-compatible best practice of transactions. Win-Win Growth & Fair Trade Agreement declaration ceremony Our partners of co-prosperity Features We executed business transactions worth about KRW3.126 trillion with 195 suppliers in 2010, which accounted for around 97% of the total purchases. In terms of the significance of materials to be purchased, the suppliers can be broken down into large businesses supplying non-ferrous metals and petrochemical products accounting for a significant portion of the procurement amount and other small and medium-size businesses supplying other materials. As the suppliers are clearly divided into two distinct groups, we consider the size of the suppliers and features of items that they supply in relations with suppliers. As suppliers are highly susceptible to the fluctuation of raw material prices and market conditions, our support and cooperation is critical for ensuring their stability. We are to grow together with our suppliers by sharing market information and increasing company-furnished free materials5). Selection We select suppliers through a fair and transparent process, with comprehensive consideration of economic and environmental conditions. Selection process Search for new suppliers ▶ 01 •Subscribe to the e-procurement site for suppliers •Document submission: reason for registration, product specification(s), business profile Registration ▼ •Documents are reviewed and a facility inspection arranged(if applicable) by a 02 ’Supplier evaluation team’ which will include the purchasing team + other stakeholder departments. Evaluation •Items to be inspected/reviewed: corporate profile, management, finances, facilities, production process(es), quality control(evaluation checklist), etc. •Green cooperator certification ▼ •Registration documents are collected, evaluation scores are summed up and 03 viability reviewed •If approved, the supplier is assigned a ‘partner code’ and registered in the ▶ Selection of suppliers Approval (Conclusion of ERP system. contract) 5) Company-furnished free materials: materials furnished by LS Cable & System free of charge SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 043 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Evaluation We operate an evaluation system to encourage the growth of suppliers. Evaluations are conducted annually focusing primarily on the suppliers that have transaction with more than KRW500 million in amount of money 10 deliveries in number of cases annually. There are three main steps to each evaluation: EG classification(evaluation group6)), QCDS evaluation7) and Reflection of results. First, we classify all suppliers subject to evaluation according to business line and material profile to ensure fairness with consideration given to the profile of the suppliers. Following classification, we conduct an evaluation in accordance with objective and fair QCDS evaluation criteria that assign different weights across evaluation categories. Furthermore, suppliers are also entitled to additional credits in relation to the Win-Win growth cooperation so that second-tier suppliers may enjoy the benefits of Win-Win growth. Evaluation and management process Select goodEvaluation of the suppliers 1. EG classification 2. QCDS evaluation 3. Reflection of results performing suppliers Q-Partner More▲ Classification Item Description Evaluation method Evaluation topic Market competition Focus in each step Quality Quality defect ratio and improvement ratio BI system QM SHOP LEVERAGE Shop: Minimize purchase process Price Unit price reduction ratio Manual evaluation CPO Manage risk: Secure reliability Manage and Delivery Delivery schedule compliance ratio BI system CPO supply source Basic improve (The number of suppliers) Service Responsiveness to delivery on short Manual evaluation CPO, Production Partner: Form sustainable low-performers MANAGE PARTNER notice Management relationship RISK Leverage: Establish Strategic Cooperation with development Design Fewer▼ cooperation ◀ ▶ Corrective action compliance QA/QM Small Product criticality Large (purchase amount) Additional Joint improvement initiative Manual evaluation CPO credit Support for 2nd-tier partners Management We believe that the competitive suppliers are a starting point of The number of annual cumulative certified Q-Partner competitiveness. From this point of view, we customize our (Unit: the number of supplier) management approach considering the capability profile of each supplier. First, we have been certifying suppliers that excel in evaluation 34 29 pursuant to internal evaluation criteria as Q-Partners since 2007. Q23 Partners are entitled to prize money, certificates, medals and overseas training, supports for quality certification expenses as well as other 13 incentives such as in-house training programs, marketing support and acceleration of payment due dates. Suppliers certified as Q-Partners 2007 2008 2010 2011 are entitled to such benefits for 2 years. In 2010, a total of 6 suppliers were certified as Q-Partners with 5 more added in 2011. Q-Partner certificate ceremony 6) EG classification: classification of evaluation group by business line and material profile 6) QCDS evaluation: evaluation approach to weighting each evaluation item with comprehensive consideration of quality(Q), commercial terms(C), delivery terms(D) and service(S) 044 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report On the other hand, suppliers who fail to meet the evaluation criteria are required to implement capability enhancement programs. First, a joint workshop is conducted with us to determine items and methods for improvement. An improvement plan is then developed and implemented for 6 months after which the suppliers are re-evaluated. This management process has proven to be effective by not only helping low-performers catch up but also holding them accountable for the success of collaborative initiatives. Low-performer management process Improvement Activity description Activity enforcer Remarks process Applicable partners •Partner that scored below 70 points •Purchase planning selected team in evaluation ▼ Evaluation team •Purchase+production management+QA •Contact of purchase organized (or QM) evaluation team ▼ On site inspection •Evaluation by checklist •Evaluation team •Checklist of suppliers ▼ Y Completed ◀ 70 points or more ▼N Improvement plan •Development of improvement plan •Evaluation team •Improvement plan developed (item+schedule) after evaluation report ▼ Improvement plan implemented •Suppliers ▼ Improvement evaluated •Evaluation of improvement plan compliance •Evaluation team SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 045 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community ‘Partnership’ for Sustainability Management We provides support for and cooperates with suppliers in a variety of sectors including management, financing, technology, training and sustainability management in line with the mutual cooperation and win-win growth policy drive of the government. Such commitment helps plant a sense of trust among suppliers, we intend to strengthen communication with the suppliers and develop initiatives for mutual development to ensure substantial cooperation beyond perfunctory support. Furthermore, we will continue to seek partnerships with suppliers for sustainability management. Support for management improvement Joint innovation initiatives Coupon-based consulting We improve the competitiveness of the suppliers by supporting their Coupon-based consulting is a management consulting program for innovation programs with proprietary know-how and processes. About SMEs implemented by the Korea Consultants Association and the 20 suppliers are selected each year who are encouraged to identify Small and Medium Business Administration to improve the global and resolve issues requiring improvement. In 2010, 27 raw material competitiveness of smalland medium-sized businesses. Up to 55% of and commodity suppliers were selected to be entitled to support for consulting costs are funded by the government and smalland innovation. Innovation activities across the entire business spectrum medium-sized companies are given expert diagnosis and guidance on from quality, processes, sales, delivery and specifications for a viable strategy to cope with changes in management and technology development are covered to enhance product improvement. landscapes. For the 2nd half of 2010, we requested a service-proven consultant to Support for job recruitment exhibition support 4 suppliers of which two qualified for the consulting program. The job fair hosted by the Federation of Korean Industries and The two suppliers will receive advice from professional consultants on sponsored by the Special Committee on Job Creation of the National the development of their vision and mid-long-term growth strategies Assembly, the Ministry of Employment and Labor and mass media with a goal to achieve productivity gains by 60% within 4 to 5 months. presents windows of opportunity to promote the growth potential and We will continue to provide management consulting support to improve reliability of entrant businesses. In this year’s event joined by 12 the competitiveness of the suppliers. business groups, 296 enterprises and about 15,000 job seekers, we donated KRW5 million to help 3 suppliers interview prospective TPS: Toyota Production System training candidates for their job openings. We also prepared presentation We provided the TPS(Toyota Production System) training opportunities materials, assigned staff members to help at the suppliers’ booths, and to good-performing suppliers via the Korea Standards Association and paid for the exhibition admission expenses of the suppliers as well as with the sponsorship of GyeongGi Province. During the programs, gifts to be handed out to booth visitors. trainees from 6 suppliers studied in classroom lectures and field tours. The trainees learned the TPS philosophy as well as the JIT8) system, smart automation with a human touch, multi-skilling and toured the Joint entry into overseas market Toyota Gato plant in an effort to benchmark the TPS system of Japan. We support the suppliers in their efforts to make inroads into global As our suppliers applied lessons learned from the TPS training program markets by arranging transactions between Superior Essex and our to improve their own processes, we found the field tour program to be suppliers. In 2010, we supported 8 suppliers in total of which 5, more helpful than classroom training sessions. Considering including Hanhwa and SKC Inc., have already posted about KRW8 effectiveness of the program, we will continue to offer overseas billion in sales from mass-production delivery while the other 3 are benchmarking tours to suppliers in the future. undergoing quality tests. 8) JIT(Just In Time): production system to supply products as necessary rather than stocking inventory 046 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Supports for fund raising We try to ease funding shortage issues of the suppliers by extending credit at low interest rates and offering mutual cooperation funds and shared growth financing pools, etc.. Notably, we have paid cash or cash equivalents9) for delivery for all transactions since 2010 and reduced the payment lead time from 60 to 45 days, improving the cash flow position of the suppliers. We will further expand the scope of financial assistance and reduce the payment lead time to the suppliers to facilitate their financial operations. Financial assistance available to suppliers Item Financial assistance in 2010 Financial assistance target in 2011(pending) Financing Direct assistance KRW600 million in direct loans(commercially available at 5% interest) KRW1.75 billion(0% interest rate) (funding) KRW10 billion in network loans(agreement with IBK) Indirect assistance Maintain current level assistance Hybrid assistance KRW15 billion in Mutual Cooperation Fund(KRW3 billion in capital KRW26 billion in Mutual Cooperation Funds contribution) (KRW13 billion in capital contribution) Improvement of payment terms 100% cash equivalent payment(trade receivable-secured loan 100% cash equivalent payment without recourse) Cash payment ratio(16 → 35%) Improvement of payment lead Reduction of payment lead time(60 → 45 days) Within 30 days time/frequency Support for technical development Believing that supplier’s technology development lead our competitiveness, we help the suppliers with technology localization, joint Localized development programs, research services and commissioned R&D technologies at activities. So far we have implement the technology localization project KRW140 million Developed worth KRW140 million for 4 suppliers and developed technologies jointly for 4 suppliers technologies with 9 suppliers worth KRW470 million. We also extended KRW160 jointly with 9 suppliers at million to fund 6 research projects of 5 suppliers and will remain 2010 Suppliers KRW470 million supportive of technology development and assistance throughout 2011 Technology & Development Assistance as a key part of the global growth strategy. We also aims to enable the Extended suppliers to be as competitive as their global rivals by developing KRW160 million technologies jointly, conducting technology transfer and guidance, to fund 6 research projects of 5 suppliers sharing technology information in relation to R&D, and assisting with production process and quality improvement. Purchase-conditional new product development project We participate in the purchase-conditional new product development of SMEs. Currently, we are is localizing an LVDS10)/TMDS11) interface program sponsored by the Large & Small Business Cooperation connector for next generation FPD12) jointly with suppliers and planning Foundation. The program is 55% funded by the government up to a to develop a vertical type pitch connector for Micro Coaxial cables13). total program investment of KRW500 million, with large businesses funding about 20% to participate in new product development projects 9) Cash equivalent payment: payment in assets that are almost as liquid as cash 10) LVDS(Low Voltage Differential Signaling): transmission of signals at 2 different voltages from one transmitter 11) TMDS(Transition Minimized Differential Signaling): TMDS transmits data in parallel at a high transfer rate 12) FPD(Flat Panel Display): flat panel display thinner and lighter than a computer monitor or conventional CRT(Cathode Ray Tube) TV 13) Micro Coaxial cable: ultra fine coaxial cable about a quarter the thickness of a strand of hair capable of transferring large volumes of multimedia data with applications for portable multimedia devices such as mobile phones and digital cameras SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 047 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Support of trainings We provide training programs for the suppliers at least twice a year. The training program covers transformational leadership, domestic/global economy outlook, patent management, non-ferrous metals/petrochemical/logistics market outlook, sustainability management, and the AEO (authorized economic operator) certification14) system, etc., all of which are needed for the suppliers to grow into global players. As both in-house and 3rd party instructors with various backgrounds are invited and training contents and intensity are controlled, suppliers participate in the program with more enthusiasm. 2009~2010 Suppliers training Category Training schedule Venue Training topics Trainees Remark Training 21~23, Oct 2009 Korea Professional Education Transformational leadership 26 persons from Dialogue with CPO Center, Chungnam Province 25 companies (2 2nd-tier suppliers participated) 25~26, May 2010 LS Cable & System AEO certification system, 26 persons from Introduction of the company Geumwang Training Sustainability management, 25 companies evaluation system and dialogue Center Environmental management with CPO 98~09, Nov 2010 LS Future Center 2011 domestic/global economy outlook, 28 persons from Understanding 6 sigma, 28 companies Patent management, Making enjoyable workplace Seminar 16 Jun 2010 LS Tower Training Center Domestic/global economy outlook, Non-ferrous 14 companies metals/petrochemical/steel market outlook 3rd party instruction invitation 10 Nov 2010 LS Tower Training Center Domestic/global economy outlook, Non-ferrous 5 companies metals/petrochemical/logistics market outlook In 2011, to provide more professional training, we provided quality control training programs for 22 suppliers in the 1st half of the year, forging a consortium with Eretec Inc.(a professional training center) with the sponsorship of HRD Korea. As the trainees evaluated the program with a relatively high 4.15 points on a scale of 5, we plan to continue to provide the training programs. In the 2nd half of the year, we will use a business-academia collaboration program available to our affiliates as a training venue for the suppliers. Enhanced quality control training for suppliers Walking together for sustainability management Promotion of global purchasing regulations Our purchasing division has enforced global-standard purchasing regulations to facilitate support operations, ensure fairness in business trade and support sustainability management. The new purchasing regulations are differentiated from the existing one in that they consider not only fairness of the purchasing process but also economic, social and environmental considerations such as the ethical conduct of the purchasing staff and “green” purchase practices. The regulations will not only be used as an in-house guideline but also help the suppliers implement sustainability management. Global purchasing regulations of LS Cable & System Sustainability management monitoring We try to understand the status of sustainability management of the suppliers and encourage their development by monitoring the progress of their sustainability management initiatives. To achieve this, we will develop an applicable manual and checklist within the 1st half of the year and conduct an on-site inspection from the 2nd half, for improving monitoring activities. We currently intend to monitor the 10 suppliers in 2010 to help them become aware of the needs for sustainability management and realize it in their operations. 14) AEO certification: customs clearance process is streamlined for AEO-certified exporters meeting specified criteria 048 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report TOPIC 04. Employees People, Most Valuable Corporate Asset We hire a variety of talent from around the globe without discrimination and enable them to become global leaders through a rational incentive system and systematic development support. In addition, labor and management mutually trust and cooperate with each other to promote a creative and innovative corporate culture. A Variety of Talent Working Together with Mutual Trust Overview of employees As of the end of 2010, the number of employees in domestic worksite totaled 2,412. In terms of breakdown of workplace, the head office employed 627 persons, the Anyang plant 362, the research laboratory 204, the Gumi & Indong plants 1,001 and the Donghae plant 218. Advancing actively in global markets with a vision of becoming the No.1 global leader in the cable industry by 2015, we have grown to a global company with 5,641 employees in 20 countries throughout Asia, Europe, America, the Middle East, Africa and Oceania. The number of employees By workplace in Korea (Unit: the number of person) 2008 2009 2010 (Unit: the number of person) 1,001 996 967 2,412 2,251 627 2,047 564 467 467 363 362 218 204 168 160 146 2008 2009 2010 Head office Anyang Laboratory Gumi/Indong Donghae* ✽ No 2008 data available for Donghae plant as it went into the operation in 2009 By employee group Job creation & turnover ratio 2008 2009 2010 (Unit: the number of person) 2009 2010 (Unit : %) 1,308 1,030 1,169 920 8.0 897 7.8 879 184 5.8 168 138 3.5 Office workers Production workers Contractors Job creation Turnover ✽ Job creation/turnover ratio, number of newly hired employees have been collected since 2009, when data collection criteria was revised because of the separate from LS Mtron in July, 2008 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 049 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community The number of employees overseas(total 5,641 employees) (As of the end of 2010) (Unit: the number of person) ME/Africa Americas Asia 5 3 7 116 1,879 512 1,281 5 4 116 616 99 4 Country Country Country UAE 7 USA 1,879 China 1,281 Saudi Arabia 3 Canada 116 Japan 5 Egypt 5 Mexico 512 Vietnam 616 Brazil 4 Singapore 4 India 116 Malaysia 99 Europe Oceania 5 59 408 4 122 286 110 Country Country Russia 5 Australia 4 UK 59 Italy 286 Germany 408 Portugal 110 France 122 050 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Respects for diversity & pursue for steady job creation & security Recruiting talents with diverse backgrounds We hired talented resources in Korea and elsewhere in the world via America and Europe. Furthermore, we provide a variety of training on various recruitment channels, without discrimination based on gender, Korean language and culture and operate a global help desk to enable education, nationality or religion, but solely on the basis of skills and foreign employees to settle down in Korea in far more improved qualifications. environment. We also provide an opportunity to get a position and short-term training packages in Korea to the employees working in Notably, with the goal of increasing the share of foreign employees to other regions, with a purpose to nurture them to global leaders. In the 10% of office employees in total, we try to procure global pool of talent meanwhile, all employees in Korea are required to get global culture with partnership with search firms in key strategic spots around the training, in order to promote respect for diversity and understanding of world and with campus recruits in prestigious universities in North global culture, so to become global citizens. Global resources (Unit: the number of person) Category 2008 2009 2010 Foreign employees 10 25 30 Ratio of foreign employees to the total office employees 1.0% 2.1% 2.3% Given the nature of the industry, a material manufacturing industry, social activities among female employees and listens to their opinions female workers are still a minority in portion, however their number via open discussion with the CEO, etc. We have a plan to recruit female continues to increase. Thanks to the evaluation and remuneration talent without discrimination and support female leaders via specialized system based on performance and female leadership programs, the leadership training programs, etc. female managers increase to 2.5% of the total of management positions, up 0.3% from the previous year. We also make an effort to develop a career of female talents. Notably, each workplace supports Female resources (Unit: the number of person) Category 2008 2009 2010 Number of Share Number of Share Number of Share employees employees employees Female employees 193 9.4% 197 8.8% 218 9.0% Female managers 9 1.5% 14 2.2% 17 2.5% ✽ Share of female managers: share of female managers among all managers Given the specific requirements of the cable manufacturing industry for health & safety, we have relatively a few employees with physical handicaps, accounting for only 1.1% of the total of human resources. However, we plan to provide more job opportunities for those with physical handicaps and actively try to recruit them with a focus on office positions. Employees with handicaps (Unit: the number of person) Category 2008 2009 2010 Number of Share Number of Share Number of Share employees employees employees Employees with handicaps 22 1.2% 23 1.1% 25 1.1% SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 051 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Anti-sexual harassment and human rights training We provide anti-sexual harassment and ethical management training programs to the entire employees every year, in order to promote respects for diversity and prevent discrimination. In 2009, an online ethics training program was provided to all employees in the all domestic and overseas subsidiaries. A total of 1,167 persons completed the program. In 2010, we conducted an anti-sexual harassment training for all employees and 2,400 persons completed the program. In 2011, a fair trade self compliance An oath on ethical management and fair trade self compliance in 2011 program was conducted in all the workplaces and all employees signed a pledge on self compliance. In addition, we conduct anti-sexual harassment and ethical management training in the corporate core training programs for new hires, overseas transferees and newly appointed managers. Cyber ombudsman & sexual harassment helpline We provide a variety of channel through which discriminatory practices can be reported, such as the cyber ombudsman(called Sinmungo in Korean), hotline and helpline for preventing any kind of sexual harassment. In 2010, one case was reported regarding a discrimination, we deal with it in accordance with corporate regulations. Contribution to local community by creating jobs We contribute to the local community by local hiring up to 50% of job openings. Local talents hired at each local workplace 2009 2010 (Unit: the number of person) 60% 50% 118 106 54 50 38 36 32 14 Anyang Gumi/Indong Donghae Total System for more job security By an agreement with the labor union in 2007, we adopted a wage Average employment duration peak system and extended the retirement age to create more jobs for (As of the end of 2010, domestic workplaces) (Unit: year) the elderly in an effort to prepare aging society. As the retirement age is now extended from the age of 58 to 60, workers are better supported 13.3 Total financially and organization culture improved through a boosted loyalty 5.7 Female to company. Also, this system has resulted in gains in production efficiency. 13.6 Male The average year of employees’ service is 13.3 years, which is above the national average of 6.2 years of the domestic manufacturing industry(as published by the Statistics Korea). 052 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report A Company helping Employee Growth as a Global Leader The professional development of the workforce underpins the corporate competitiveness for us to join the league of global leaders. We establish a human resource development system to nurture global talents. The ‘Human Resource Development Committee’ in which top manager participate, continues to review corporate activities for selecting and developing employees with potentials, who will implement the corporate business strategies and enhance the company’s global competitiveness. Rational rewards for performance We have a SPCM(Strategy Performance Competency Management System) to manage and improve the performance of our employees. The SPCM system set up a KPI(Key Performance Index) and competency metrics focused on the performance of individuals to ensure effective achievement of business strategies and facilitate improvement through regular review and feedback. The performance management system provides a clear guideline on competency and performance evaluation criteria in accordance with human resources management regulations and the company’s code of conduct, so that ensures strict compliance to promote fair competition. The system requires complying with established processes to ensure fairness and accuracy of evaluation and allows supervisors to provide feedback on evaluation results. Furthermore, it guarantees employees the opportunity to raise an appeal as necessary to prevent distortion of the evaluation and ensure transparency. According to determined principles of the evaluation, equal rewards are provided for equal performance, and there is no discrimination in salary between male and female employees. The performance management system encourages performance improvement with a link to an incentive system that provides merit pay per team or a corporate performance. In addition, top level managers are also subject to performance evaluation system. Performance indicators are selected for each manager and final evaluation results are reflected in the rewards via regular feedback and process management in conjunction with business plan and evaluation direction. The evaluation system overview SPCM system Fundamental framework of new system Business plan •Strategic alignment ▼ Strategic management focus with KPI management ▶ Group goals ◀ •Integration ▼ MBO combining performance and competency KPI ◀ ▶ Competency, ◀ ▶ Department goals ◀ ▶ knowledge, •Convert knowledge into resources database ◀ ▶ learning support data ▼ database of KPI and competency/knowledge Communication/Agreement Communication/Agreement ▶ ◀ Personal goals resources •Authority delegation Performance improvement Competency development Feedback and coaching/communication/ •Assign works set •Set competency discussion performance goals Feedback development goals •Adjust goals/interim & Coaching •Support/provide guidance, review interim review •Estimate performance •Estimate competency ▼ Talent development commission of business group ▼ Growth Organization Individual SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 053 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Talent development and training system to produce global leaders We have defined the image of a leader by specifying qualifications that global business leaders must possess. To cultivate the global leader, we have developed a customized leadership program comprising courses that are specifically designed to develop each competency such as a Leading Innovation, Energizing People, Accelerating Execution and Developing Global Capabilities. In addition, we have the development training programs and courses not only for inside employees but also those of the subsidiaries and suppliers. All employees are given equal opportunities to improve their capabilities in accordance with human resources management regulations and the company’s code of conduct. The image of the leader Leading Innovation Energizing People Indicate direction and make decisions Coaching and mentoring Lead change Cooperation Sharing Values Trust/ Challenge/ Passion Accelerating Execution Developing Global Capability Optimize organization/works Facilitate achievement Globalization Leadership development system Classification Leadership track Key talent track Common track1) Manager’s reading forum Top Expert coaching management Leadership workshop Group Expert coaching director New executive: A course for new executive Course for challenge Personalized learning (an expectant executive heir) Team manager workshop 3 yrs or more Executive coaching Team Team manager development center 2 yrs Course for challenge A course for new senior manager manager New team manager 1 yr Assessment center Introduction course (an expectant team managers/ next generation leaders) A course for new deputy senior manager Manager Basic management course Team manager preparation course A course for new manager course Asst. manager Team Junior MBA A course for new assistant manager 3~4 yrs member New hire/experienced A course for new hire/experienced hire hire introduction course 1) Common courses for promoted employees in LS Group 054 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Global talent development system Global expert All employees Global expert candidate Before dispatch During dispatch After return President Global strategist course Online discussion with of subsidiary •Online course Global mind company HR for 6 months •Strategic tasks performing •Consultation •Discussion(feedback Branch for system improvement) manager/ Basic global course Global expert course Function •Cross function •Local site OJT Settlement program Language leader Cross-cultural understanding Local language intensive proficiency Business communication course using a foreign language Transferee classroom Workshop by function Good performers to tour training •Share issues of each overseas subsidiaries •Self-learning function Local employee •Conduct necessary Professionalism Overseas employees with training leader to be dispatched improvement excellent talents to visit Korea to head office in Korea Proactive training for talent development We continually provide a variety of training programs to achieve the corporate vision and to foster the growth of employees. In 2009, the training time per capita was 8.57 hours with training expense of KRW834,500 a per capita. For 2010, both training time and expenses jumped significantly to 16 hours and KRW1,436,300. Notably, a training credit system has been put into place to ensure training opportunities for every employee. As a company policy, each individual is required to complete 32 hours of training as an annual minimum. We consider whether employees complete the courses as an important evaluation item of their supervisor. Counseling system geared for performance and career development We have set up a counseling system that enables employees to meet with their supervisors early every year to discuss their goals and development strategy. The interview with the supervisor helps employees to develop their career with a link to corporate development direction. The meeting also provides a venue through which grievances of each individual can be addressed in a private manner. We promote this kind of interviews by reflecting how many interview supervisors conduct onto their evaluation. For the newly hired rookies and experienced hires, mentors are designated to provide counseling on career development and job responsibilities to help them adjust to the organization with ease. Talent development counseling process End of Dec, previous year End of Feb. End of Sep. Competency Self development Development Development Development evaluation plan counseling implementation monitoring •Job competency •Prepare individual •Discuss short/mid-term •Support •Review development evaluation plan on the basis of development strategy/plan implementation of implementation Core values competency between team manager and the plan developed results of the current Job competency evaluation results team member on the basis of the as a result of year self development goals counseling •Enter discussion results in the HR system SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 055 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community An Enjoyable Workplace, Harmonizing Life and Work The welfare system for a better life We offer industry-best rewards and benefits to ensure a better life for all employees. Our welfare system 6 goals to be achieved, healthy life, cultural life, energetic life, stable life, promising life and affluent life, giving comprehensive consideration on physical, mental and economical health. The employee benefit system provides various programs to achieve the target of keeping employees and their family members healthy, supporting leisure activities and encouraging network among colleagues so that employees can refresh themselves. In addition, children scholastic benefits and housing assistance programs keep employees financially secured so that they can focus on their jobs with a sense of self-esteem. Benefit descriptions Disbursement highlights Healthy life •Medical expenses reimbursed for employees •In-house welfare fund disbursement(2010) •Medical expenses reimbursed for family members by the in-house welfare fund Workplace Beneficiaries(persons) Amount(millions of KRW) •Medical checkup funded for employees/spouses Head office 60 108 •Sports facilities Laboratory 19 30 •Medical clinic/first-aid room Anyang 28 49 •Counseling program Gumi 76 114 Indong 25 39 Donghae 19 26 Enterprise total 227 365 KRW1.61 million per capita on average Cultural life •Club activities(46 clubs) •Anniversary celebration(birthdays, weddings): gift cards offered •Culture events: movie tickets, family invitation, tickets for sports event such as football/baseball matches, family day(once a month) Energetic life •Refresh leave: twice a year, 1st & 2nd annual half for 3 days or more •Family refresh grant: for employees working 15 and 20 years consecutively •Condominiums •Resort •Free lodging at the Baekam training center •Overseas tour for the employees of great performance Stable life •Allowance for congratulations & condolences: allowances and leave for •Scholarship disbursement(2010) congratulations & condolences of employees and their family members Workplace Beneficiaries(persons) Amount(millions of KRW) •Housing loan Head office 72 424 •Dormitory and/or apartment housing Laboratory 22 100 •Scholarships: full scholarship for children of middle/high school/university students Anyang 105 608 (No limits in number of child) Gumi 281 1,343 •Insurance: group life insurance(covering death, incapacitation due to disease) Indong 93 454 Donghae 63 412 Enterprise total 636 3,341 KRW5.25 million per capita on average Promising •Online training course: in-house online training course available each month(job life skills, leadership, foreign language, etc.) •Mid/long-term education support: master’s degree course, MBA, intensive foreign language course, etc. •Outside training courses: job skills(professional qualification) education, foreign language course fees Affluent life •Discount on products manufacture by the group(all products of LS Networks) •Awards for long-term employees •Gift for the retired employee 056 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Family-friendly management Happy families ensure business success We have implemented various initiatives to ensure family-friendly management. We designates one day per month as family day on which employees may go home on time to have time with their family members. We also hosts various family day events engaging employee family members, and invites parents of employees to various events on a regular basis. For example, in 2010, 140 parents and family members of employees were invited to visit and tour the plants. We have also hosted a variety of family-centered event such as the FIFA World-Cup supporting event, sunrise festival, retiree executive homecoming events, etc. Donghae plant family sunrise festival (Jan.1, 2010) Family day events Jan. ▶ Feb. ▶ Mar. ▶ Apr. ▶ May.▶ Jun. ▶ Free theme park Free chocolate for 100 nighttime ticket for 100 Camping journal contest Family day for team employees at the end of 50% discount at family Open camping zone employees at the end → Camping car rental manager couples business hours(first restaurants in Anyang in Anyang of business hours(first benefit come, first served basis) come, first served basis) Jul. ▶ Aug. ▶ Sep. ▶ Oct. ▶ Nov. ▶ Dec. Free cultural performance Free wine for 100 Free X-mas tree for Team manager referral ticket for 100 employees 50% discount at employees at the end 50% discount for 100 employees at the event : hotel room at the end of business swimming pools in of business hours movie tickets end of business hours ticket for winning team hours(first come, first Anyang (first come, first served (first come, first served manager served basis) basis) basis) Creating an enjoyable working environment We provide clean and safe workplaces along with various counseling rooms and lounges to provide an enjoyable working environment for all employees. Providing clean and safe workplaces As we try to provide clean and safe workplaces, we appoint the health involving all employees, regular medical checkups for all employees & safety supervisors with an entire responsibility in workplace safety in and operation of in-house medical clinics to keep employees healthy, every plants and take initiative for making the workplace free of etc. In addition, a process safety control system is operated to monitor accidents through a cooperation of the every employee. Notably, we the processes using large amounts of flammable gases and have obtained OHSAS 18001 certification to implement health & safety combustible substances. Importantly, 3rd party specialist agencies management activities in a systematic manner. Our key health & safety conduct a review and inspection on facilities to help prevent management practices include a ‘zero-accident operation’ declaration, occupational accidents each year. seasonal efforts to identify and remove potential risks at worksites Safety control training by 3rd party Safety audit by 3rd party specialist On-site inspection by 3rd party specialist agencies specialist agencies agencies SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 057 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Occupational Health and Safety Committee We operate the Occupational Health and Safety Committee, in which employees; ensures that statutory, regulatory and customer equal numbers of labor and management representatives participate, requirements are incorporated into daily operations; performs labor and including labor union leaders, honorary health & safety supervisors, management joint safety inspections; improves safety conditions; safety managers and health managers. The Occupational Health and conducts measurements necessary for improving working conditions; Safety Committee is convened once every quarter but a special ensures that safety hazards are removed; helps improve the health of session can be called when needed with a role of improving the entire employees and arranges medical checkups for them; and implements level of safety by collecting feedback and making decisions to mitigate a joint safety culture campaign to improve safety awareness. safety risks on the site. Also, the committee collects inputs from Occupational Health and Safety Committee Zero-accident declaration Hazard detection exercise Health & safety training We are aware that health & safety training is a foundation of all health & safety activities. Accordingly, we conduct health & safety trainings on the regular basis for employees and suppliers. We ask a 3 rd party training agency for safety management trainings for safety supervisors and for trainings focused on case studies for onsite workers every year, in order to enhance the effectiveness of health & safety. Notably, Regular health & safety training Business partner health & safety training workers handling hazardous/dangerous materials or machinery /equipment are required to have applicable qualifications and complete a training to maintain their qualifications. Also, for ensuring the health & safety of the suppliers, we quality suppliers with the permit of safe work and provide safety training. Health & safety training Category Courses Target Training hours Employees Regular training Production workers 2 hrs per month Office employees 1 hr per month Managers/supervisors 16 hrs or more per year Course for new hires New hires 8 hrs Course at the change in works Newly appointed employees to safety related works 2 hrs Special training Workers handling hazardous/dangerous machinery/equipment 16 hrs or more Suppliers Regular training In-house construction contractors 1 hr per month 058 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Improvement of working conditions The Occupational Health and Safety Committee request the 3 rd party noise and local ventilation equipment installed for chemical processes expert agencies for inspection of manufacturing process treating in an effort to promote a more pleasant working environment. hazardous substances or generating excessive noise twice a year. A Unfortunately, for 2010 the occupational accident ratio actually result of the inspections, including all measured data, is disclosed to all increased to 0.54%, due to inadequate response in facility employees in each department transparently and is an important maintenance and commissioning operations, etc. agenda of the Occupational Health and Safety Committee. For example, sound barriers have been installed to insulate mechanical Occupational accident count and ratio (Unit: the number of case) Category 2008 2009 2010 Industry accident Gumi 1 3 4 Indong 3 0 3 Anyang 2 0 1 Donghae 0 1 Enterprise total 6 3 9 Enterprise accident ratio(%) 0.41 0.20 0.54 The average accident ratio in cable manufacturing industry(%) 0.62 0.55 0.61 2010 absences due to injury or illness (Unit: the number of person) Leave duration Below 2 weeks Below 5 weeks Below 10 weeks Below 15 weeks Below 20 weeks Total Anyang 1 1 Gumi 2 1 2 2 7 Indong 1 1 1 3 Donghae 1 1 Enterprise total 1 3 2 3 3 12 ✽ 2010 absence ratio: 0.118%(days off duty / annual days on duty of all employees=710 days ÷ 600,000 days(5 days per week × 50 weeks × 2,400 employees)) Grievance counseling service Psychological counseling service We provide a counseling service to employees in every workplace to To help keep employees psychologically healthy, the corporate mitigate their grievance. It encourages employees to discuss any issues laboratory and the Gumi plant provide a psychological counseling that regarded to be difficult to be addressed through formal service. Professional psychiatrists provide one-on-one counseling for all communication channels with their supervisors. Representatives of employees who may want counseling on a continual basis. labor, management and the employees association serve as secretaries and listen to employees in person to address their grievances. Counseling service Leadership/coaching Interview skills Interpersonal skills Psychological counseling Psychological test Stress diagnosis Organization manager Manager/supervisor All employees Self control Personality test Stress diagnosis Family management Capability test Stress management program Emotional management Learning test Interpersonal relationship test SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 059 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Space for female employees Each workplace has a formula room and lounge where female workers may relax and enjoy their break times. Space for creativity We encourage each workplace to improve the working environment in various ways so that employees may enjoy their work time. As part of Space for creativity on the 13th floor of Employees enjoying playing games the head office during break in the space for creativity such efforts, we launched the ‘Door to Imagination’ in 2010, which serves as a space where employees can read books, do culture activities, have a discussion, and take a rest as an activity for improving creativity. Trust & Cooperation, Enabling Company and Employees to Grow Together Overview of the labor union Since its beginning as the Anyang Branch of the National Metal Workers Union in 1967, the labor union has played an important role in improving the working conditions of employees while also facilitating corporate growth. Both labor and management continue to work together to create values for the future on the basis of mutual trust and mutual growth, enabling participation of employees in corporate management, joint collaboration initiatives and onsite improvement programs. The by-law of the labor union defines a labor union member as ‘any employee working in any workplace of LS Cable & System’ who submits an application for admission to the labor union. As of the end of 2010, 920 out of 2,201 permanent employees are members of the labor union. Participation of Union membership by workplace employees in corporate (Unit: the number of person) management 920 Mutual Trust/Mutual Growth Labor/ Onsite 436 improvement management activities cooperation activities 172 175 137 Participation of employees in the corporate management Anyang Gumi Indong Donghae Enterprise Total The Cooperation Promotion Commission, the Labor/Management Council, sharing of the status of the business in monthly enterprise/group morning meetings ● Onsite improvement activities Worker satisfaction surveys, open discussions, dialogue with employees, grievance counseling ● Labor/management cooperation activities Onsite grievance handling, local community service, environmental conservation programs 060 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Management information sharing and communication channels with employees We provide a corporate management information to employees via various channels and communicates actively with them to promote mutual understanding. We share ideas on a corporate policy and way of improving business performance etc. with employees regularly in monthly morning meetings and enterprise training programs, collect their feedback via various channels such as the Labor/Management Council and Employees Association, as well. Notably, we are subject to discuss an issues related to changes in working conditions with the labor union in an effort to prevent degradation of working conditions and ensure job security. As a result, both labor and management have been able to maintain a value-creating corporate culture on the foundation of mutual trust, suffering no labor disputes for the past 22 years in a row. [Collective Employment The company shall try as much as possible to ensure job security of the members and discuss matters having an important Agreement Article 20] effect on job security(new HRM system, wages, benefits, organizational restructuring and downsizing, etc.) via the Participation & Cooperation Promotion Council in each workplace before implementation. Key communication channels Category Attendants Frequency Description Monthly morning meeting All employees Monthly Share business status and performance Group morning meeting All employees of each group Monthly Share business status and performance Talk with CEO Employees picked for specific topic Monthly Share opinions on specific topics with the CEO Junior Strategy Board Selected 20 employees Monthly Discuss corporate culture & strategies and provide feedback to management Participation & Cooperation Labor union leader & 7 others Quarterly Discuss present management issues Promotion Council CEO & 7 others Discuss issues related to employees Working-Level Council between Union Secretary General & 3 others Quarterly Discuss issues related to employees Labor and Management Labor relations planning team manager & 3 others Employees Association All employees Monthly Address grievances and improve the HR system Organize various events Son’s Book Cafe′ All employees Ongoing Share ideas and provide feedback on corporate management Honoring principles and fundamentals We comply with all labor laws and regulations and continue to monitor them. We establish a labor union website on an independent 3rd party server to prevent unfair labor practices and to provide a channel to make suggestions. Any employees can access to online bulletin boards and post their ideas anonymously, without log-in. Furthermore, employees may report unfair labor practices through the cyber hotline without identifying themselves. In addition, we guarantee the right to collective bargaining and the right to collective action as set forth in Article 33 of the Constitution and bans child labor and forced labor. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 061 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Communication based on trust To listen to the views of employees regarding corporate management, we operate various communication channels and conduct surveys every year to measure the satisfaction level of employees for diagnosing the organization culture. Management through reading Organizational capability diagnosis We support for a way of management through reading to facilitate Since 2004, we have conducted an organizational capability survey internal communication and improve the capabilities of employees. each year in an attempt to improve the employees’ satisfaction level Notably, selected books by the CEO are distributed to all employees and organization culture. Findings from the survey are critical inputs to regularly and the employees are encouraged to post their ideas of the be reflected into the evaluation of individual executives and to books on the website, titled ‘Son’s Book Cafe’. ′ The ‘Son’s Book Cafe’ ′ implement improvement activities. Recent findings indicate that the is used as a channel for employees to share their ideas on corporate organizational capability and activity have risen steadily for 3 years in a management. The ‘Son’s Book Cafe’ ′ received the Reading row since 2008. Management Grand Prize in 2010(1,636 articles were posted in just 2 years from its launch in March, 2009 to April, 2011). Question structure Onsite satisfaction survey Organizational capability •Direction of organization To better manage the working conditions at the production sites, the •Functional capability labor/management joint council conducts an onsite satisfaction survey •System capability every year. The satisfaction level of the employees is measured and •Leadership capability analyzed year-on-year results to identify areas of improvement. In •Individual member’s capability Organizational addition, the satisfaction trend by workplace and year is compared to capability Organizational activity draw out implications for system improvement from a long-term survey •Personal effectiveness perspective. •Relational effectiveness •Effectiveness in works •Organizational effectiveness Organization culture Organizational capability index(positive response ratio) Organizational activity index(positive response ratio) (Unit: %) (Unit: %) 78 79 69 69 74 66 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 062 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report TOPIC 05. Local Community Social Contribution in Global Society We define the cities of Anyang, Gumi, Indong and Donghae where domestic business sites locate, and China, India and Vietnam, where our overseas subsidiaries operate, as the local communities. We carry on a wide variety of social contribution activities in our local community. We make a contribution to the local communities with a focus in 4 categories: philanthropy, global volunteering, business-academic collaboration and environmental conservation. Philanthropy Global volunteering Volunteer group Undergraduate overseas volunteers Donations for welfare centers and orphanages Undergraduate volunteers program twice year Salary-odd sum donation International relief activities Regular donations for needy neighbors Social contributions by overseas subsidiaries Sponsorship for children with physical handicaps Promotion of social contribution activities of at the Bono Welfare Center, Ansan Chinese subsidiaries Expansion into India and Vietnam LS Cable & System Business-academic collaboration Social Contributions Environmental conservation Environment trainings on children Anyang Stream cleanup activities Environmental/ecological activities and training Geumo Mountain cleanup activities for elementary school students Environmental cleanup activities of Trainings for specialists of the energy & utility employee clubs On-site training for students from high school of technology Preferred job opportunities for students with potentials For 2011, we plan to establish a corporate social contribution strategy for more systematic supports. Besides, we are going to organize employee’s volunteer groups in the corporate level. Notably, we are going to develop a representative contribution program considering our business characteristics and improve existing programs. Our plan aims at encouraging more employees to participate in the programs. Social contribution in numbers (Unit: thousand of KRW) Category Funding source 2008 2009 2010 Corporate Donation, matching grant 461,988 663,421 1,576,296 Volunteer group Membership fees, in-house reserve 26,788 24,747 22,821 Employees Odd sum of salary 20,982 21,902 23,385 Total 509,758 710,070 1,622,502 ✽ Approximately KRW1.6 billion was spent on social contribution activities in 2010. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 063 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Philanthropy Volunteer groups at each plant We have promoted social contribution activities through the volunteer remained in operation until the plant was relocated in October 2010. groups organized at each plant in Anyang, Gumi, Indong and Donghae The major activities of the ‘Chamsarang Society’ and ‘Sarang-Silcheon cities. They pursue for long-term relationship and partnership with local Society’ are as follows: neighbors through an activity considering local community’s needs. The volunteer groups, called ‘Chamsarang Society’ of the Gumi and Indong plants were born in June 1999 and have grown to include 470 members at the end of 2010. The volunteer group, called ‘SarangSilcheon Society’ of the Anyang plant made a start in April 1997 and Major activities of the ‘Chamsarang Society’ and ‘Sarang-Silcheon Society’ (Unit: thousand of KRW) Group Description Beneficiary Frequency 2008 2009 2010 Free meals for the elderly Gumi Social Welfare Center Monthly 4,478 2,923 2,883 Kimchi-making campaign for neighbors Once a year(Nov.) 2,594 2,789 3,000 Birthday parties for orphans, volunteer labor, invitation Gimcheon Welfare Home Monthly 4,354 5,125 4,654 programs, children activity sponsorships, etc. Chamsarang Provision of lunch for needy children Booksam Elementary School, Monthly 1,854 664 800 (Gumi/Indong) Yesan Elementary School 310 900 Briquette donation for needy neighbors Once a year(Nov.) 3,475 3,050 2,764 Birthday party for the elderly, hair cut and treatment Seongsim Elderly Home, Twice a month service, heating expense donation Ansa Elderly Community Living expense donation for needy neighbors Monthly 1,320 1,440 1,320 Housing renovation service for needy neighbors Ad-hoc 913 646 Sarang-Silcheon Regular sponsorship for local welfare organizations Children Foundation Monthly 5,400 5,400 4,500 (Anyang) St. Lazarus Village, etc. 2,400 2,400 2,000 Total 26,788 24,747 22,821 The Donghae plant established the ‘Love-Sharing Society’ in December 2009 and had 121 members at the end of 2010. Though it is still in the early stage, it has a plan to find more activities in partnership with local communities. Volunteer activities at the Gimcheon Welfare Home Heating coal briquette donation for needy neighbors Kimchi-making campaign for neighbors 064 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Salary-odd sum donation Upon the voluntary consent of employees, we collect odd sums Salary-odd sum fund amounting to less than KRW1,000 from their salaries and bonuses on a (Unit: thousand of KRW) monthly basis. We donates a matching sum to fund that adds the same Category 2008 2009 2010 amount of grant as employees’ offer. With the odd sum donation, we Supporting the neglected group 36,000 36,000 40,800 grants about KRW3.4 million in sponsorship every month to 76 needy Sponsoring the Bono 5,964 7,804 5,970 neighbors including senior citizens living alone, people with physical Welfare Center handicaps or children living with their grandparents in Anyang, Gumi, Total 41,964 43,804 46,770 Indong and Donghae(as of 2010). In addition, we support the Bono Welfare Center in Ansan City which takes care of children with physical handicaps through salary-odd sum donation program. Every summer, we invite children with physical handicaps and their family members to a two-day summer camp and hosts cultural activity events at resorts and museums three times or more each year. Such programs enable children with handicaps to communicate better with the rest of the world and hold on to their dreams. Culture event for the Ansan Bono Summer camp, for the Ansan Bono Welfare Center Welfare Center Global volunteering activities Undergraduate overseas volunteers Social contribution by overseas subsidiaries We provide undergraduate students of Korea with opportunities to join We are expanding social contribution activities into our overseas overseas volunteer programs twice a year during vacation seasons. subsidiaries as a global program. From 2005, we have sponsored (The program was previously run by LS Cable & System independently scholarship programs of Qingdao University of Technology and Harbin from August, 2007 to August, 2009 and then jointly with other LS University of Technology in China. In 2006, we donated RMB1 Group affiliates from August, 2010.) Such opportunities have enabled million(approximately KRW120 million) to the China Disabled Persons some youth of Korea to share their love with the rest of the world and Association. In July 2010, we support for 55 undergraduate students in develop a global mindset. Yichang City, Hubei Province, to visit the 2010 Shanghai Expo. The Since 2008 we have sent over 100 undergraduates together with 11 students were also given opportunities to tour the LS Industrial employees to Vietnam(twice), Bangladesh, Cambodia and India to help Complex in Wuxi and the Superior Essex plant in Suzhou. educate children, improve the community environment and renovate parts of the community infrastructure. In addition, we organize the We plan to offer a variety of self-development opportunities to talented communities of volunteers and help them engage in local volunteer local youth and reach out to local communities by developing and programs and workshops. expanding social contribution activities tailored to the regional needs. Undergraduate overseas volunteer: Undergraduate overseas volunteer: Chinese undergraduates EXPO tour local community environment children’s education program enhancement program SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 065 Topic 02. Customers Topic 03. Suppliers Topic 04. Employees Topic 05. Local Community Business-academic collaboration Promoting dream trees of the environment Educating talented youth in the energy & utility sectors We contribute to the development of youth in the area of environment We signed an MOU with Sudo High School of technology in July, 2010 and energy, which have a close relationship with our business in order to nurture a specialist of the energy and utility and promote development, by promoting business-academic collaborations. The exchanges. We selected 5 students and granted them opportunities environment training program, titled the Dream Trees of the onsite training for 23 weeks in August 2010. Excellent performers in the environment, which we have promoted jointly with Yesan Elementary program will be hired preferably over other candidates when job School in Gumi City since 2007 openings are available. aims to help elementary school students to understand more about environmental issues so that they have interests in environment protection. We select 10 students from the 3rd~5th grades each year and gives them opportunities to join expert instructor lectures, ecological field observations, seasonal experience programs, participate in environment contests and preparation of study reports. For our environment education programs for children, we received a letter of appreciation from Yesan Elementary School in June, 2008. Environment education program Business-academic collaboration MOU signing ceremony Environmental conservation As the cities in which we have the plants, such as Anyang, Gumi, etc., are already packed with industrial factories, they are highly concerned about environmental issues. Accordingly, we have carried out a variety of activities to conserve the local environment. In Anyang plant, ‘Saving Anyang Stream’ campaign is conducted at least once a quarter as part of the ‘Green Anyang’ initiative, while the Gumi and Indong plants perform the cleanup activities in Mountain Geumo regularly. These programs have the distinct characteristic of the Anyang stream cleanup Taean oil spill cleanup participation of both labor and the management. In addition, employee clubs such as the mountain climbers club and scuba diver club also participate in environmental cleanup campaigns. In January, 2008, 55 employees joined in oil spill cleanup program at the Gureumpo Beach in the Taean area. LS Cable & System is committed to keeping our environment green and clean. The technology has an important role in carrying out our responsibility of making green society. We are committed to keeping our planet green by investing in eco-friendly R&D initiatives and complying with all applicable laws and regulations. We do our best with the belief that green management will give us the most competitive edge delivering the greatest potentials. ENVIRONMENT Environmental DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Division Policy Direction Department in charge 2010 Achievements 2011 Plan Green •Minimize •Expand •Environment •Re-designate and newly designate •Expand ISO14001 certification to Management environmental ‘green practices’ at planning team ‘a green company’ overseas sites impacts and workplaces •Facility (Gumi, Indong, Donghae) •Build end-to-end process recycling energy •Reduce energy planning team •Use of ’green’ drums for cable system consumption consumption/green packaging/shipping •Establish green house gas reduction house gas emissions •Implementation/verification of green targets and continuous effort to house gas inventory achieve the target. •Maintain ISO 14001 certification in all workplaces in Korea •Expand lineup of •Expand green •Environment •Eco-Design system implementation •Expand Eco-Design system to green product lineup planning team •8 new green product certification subsidiaries and business partners technologies •Build green product •Technology (GreenflorTM1) models, the most •Expand new green product and products infrastructure management team certification in number in Korea.) certification •Promote green •Build green supply •Environment •Build green supply chain management •Disseminate green supply chain partnerships chain management planning team system with green purchase policy management system •Purchasing •Disclose carbon emission data subsidiaries and business partners •Disclose environment planning team •Disclose a green product and policy •Disclose environment and carbon information suggestion venue data transparently •Received Global Green Management Grand Prize 1) GreenflorTM: environment-friendly PVC-free rubber flooring material that contain neither formaldehyde which damage the environment nor halogen(HCL, HCN) Response to climate change High Environment friendly processes Environmental impact reduction Reduction of hazardous substance Efficient use of resources and energy Expand green product lineup Importance to Stakeholders Green procurement Green growth(renewable energy) Eco-system conservation Low Importance to Business High SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 069 TOPIC 06. Green Management Green Management Policy & Investment Green Management Policy We have implemented green management policies to achieve sustainable growth through green businesses and green products. More specifically, we always look for ways to minimize detrimental loads of environment and energy, reduce energy consumption and enhance green technology and product development. We actively encourage employees to become “green professionals,” disclose green data transparently and pursue sustainable green policies. Notably, from 2010, we implemented a green purchasing system and Eco-Design processes and focused on green product production to respond to climate change preemptively by minimizing the environmental impacts of the products and maximizing energy efficiency. Furthermore, we are fully aware that green workplaces and improved energy efficiency from reduction of greenhouse gas emission will lead directly to the global competitiveness of our products. From this point of view, we have implemented green management policies as our key strategy to ensure sustainability. Green Management Organization CEO To enhance green management and facilitate internal communication, we have a green management steering committee Sustainability Management meeting twice a year under the leadership of the CEO. The green Secretariat management policies and implementations are overseen by the Steering Committee Environmental Planning Team within the Quality Environment (Chairman: CEO) Management Office which itself is under the control of the Director of the Technology Development group. Three committees, the Quality Environment Management Office Climate Change Committee, Green Product Committee and the (Environmental Planning Team) Environment Safety & Health Committee operate green management with a deep consideration of group-specific role/characteristics. The Climate Change Committee has an Energy Climate Change Committee Green Product Committee Environment Safety & Health (Chairman: Production (Chairman: Technology Committee(Chairman: Management Committee under its control since 1991. 2) Technology Center Director) Development Group Director) Gumi/Indong plant Executives) Each committee is convened every quarter to determine an Energy Management Committee implementation strategy and direction. (Chairman: Production Technology Center Director) In 2010, the Climate Change Committee vote for the establishment of greenhouse gas inventory system and its verification, 2011 greenhouse gas emission reduction target and CDP(carbon disclosure program) for customers. The Green Product Committee revised the existing definition of green products and apply an Eco-Design process to our product development in order to boost green business. The Environment Safety & Health Committee initiated a green workplace designation program for all our workplaces in Korea, decided to use specially designated drums made from woods harvested from certified forests for packing and shipping cable and resolved on an ‘Implementation of Voluntary Agreement to Collect and Recycle Waste’ to facilitate resource recovery in the waste treatment process. Thanks to such green management activities at the corporate level, we received the Global Green Management Grand Prize in 2010. For 2011, we will operate a greenhouse gas and energy target management task force team to reduce environmental impacts of products and enhance green partnership with suppliers. We will also implement green accounting system and recycling program with a purpose of reducing energy consumption and green house gas emission. 2) Energy Management Committee: Responsible for identifying energy saving opportunities mostly in the utility sector and manages efficiency of key energy sources(electricity, steam, LNG) intensively. 070 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Mid-term green management roadmap We are expanding our green communication and green supply chain management by implementing a green strategy, responding to climate change, building green workplaces and developing green products and technologies. We aim to build a global green management system integrating both domestic and overseas workplaces by 2015 as part of our mid-term roadmap. Mid-term green management roadmap Establish green management system Expand green management into Establish a global green management all subsidiaries/supplier system 2010~2011 2012~2013 2014~2015 Global green management •Establish green management strategy •Disseminate a green management system •Expand the green management system system •Acquire a reputation of a green company (subsidiaries/business partners) to overseas workplaces •Build a green accounting and training system •Integrate green management of all workplaces at home and abroad Green •Build a greenhouse gas inventory in all domestic •Build and expand an integrated energy/green•Integrate energy/greenhouse gas target Response to workplaces house gas management system management for all global workplaces Operation climate change •Define and achieve energy/greenhouse gas •Review adoption of CDM •Establish the green house gas inventory reduction targets at all workplaces at home and abroad •Designate all domestic workplaces as green companies •Have all domestic/overseas workplaces ESH •Integrate ESH system operation at home and abroad Global green •Expand ESH system certification to overseas workplaces system-certified •Integrate ESH target management for all global workplaces •Implement an integrated ESH evaluation system •Expand the integrated ESH evaluation system to workplaces subsidiaries/suppliers Green •Define green product management processes •Integrate a green design system for all groups at home •Integrate global green product management Green product •Build an environmentally hazardous substance and abroad •Expand low-carbon green product certification Product management management system •Adopt an in-house green product label •Expand green product certification Green Green •Expand CDP •Expand carbon partnerships •Publish a carbon management report Partnership communication •Disclose environmental data transparently •Disclose environment data transparently •Disclose environment data of all global workplaces •Implement a green purchase system •Expand the green purchasing system •Apply green purchasing to all global workplaces Green supply •Provide green management training to suppliers •Expand green management training to suppliers •Manage green purchasing targets chain Green management activities Green Operation Green Product Green Partnership Implementation •Enhance response to climate change •Expand lineup of green products •Enhance the green supply chain •Expand green workspaces •Enhance low-carbon products •Expand the strategic carbon agreement •Build recycling system •Build a hazardous substance management system •Increase corporate social responsibility activities •Introduce clean development mechanism •Publish a carbon management report Achievements •Green company certification(Gumi, Indong, •Green product certification(Greenflor models) •Won the Global Green Management Grand Prize Donghae) •Built an Eco-Design system •Expanded CDP supply chain •Green drums for packaging and shipping •Develop green products/ technologies and •ISO 14001 100% suggest policies •Build and verify greenhouse gas inventory •Build a green purchasing system Risks •Carbon credit trading system •Stronger Environment regulation(REACH, •Expansion of the product life cycle assessment •Greenhouse gas emissions target ROHS, WEEE) •More customer demands for carbon data management system •More demand for green products •Expansion of environmental conservation activities •Expansion of raw/incidental material recycling Department in charge •Facility planning team, Facility management team, •Technology management team, Purchase •Purchase planning team, PR team, Environmental safety team, Production team planning team, Development/Design team Development/Design team To realize the mid-term roadmap, we analyze global regulations, international conventions, requirements of customers and stakeholders and risk factors such as depletion of natural resources. To address the identified risks, we coordinate relevant departments in each sector, achieving tangible returns. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 071 Topic 06. Green Management Life cycle assessment activities We try to reduce environmental impacts in accordance with the mid-term roadmap by considering green purchases, green processes and ecofriendly product design all along the end to-end product lifecycle from product design to waste treatment. In addition, such end-to-end environmental management activities will be expanded to cover the suppliers and subsidiaries at home and abroad. INPUT Raw materials Energy Water •Copper : 243,033 ton •Electricity : 52,580 TOE •Industrial water : 184,912 ton •Aluminum : 27,289 ton •LNG : 16,210 TOE •Residential water : 523,940 ton •PE : 21,370 ton •Steam : 3,489 TOE Purchased Handling and Disposal and goods ▶ Processes ▶ Products ▶ Packaging ▶ use ▶ recycling •Environmental •Use green materials •Product •Wood packaging •Product tags •Voluntary waste substance control •Reduce loss environmental quality material heat •Handling manual recovery agreement criteria •Recycle assurance criteria treatment Environmental life cycle assessment •Amendment of purchase •Reduce machine •Designation of •Green drums agreements failure rate international certified •Recycling mark •Diagnosis and analysis/test agencies consulting of green environment management system of suppliers Recycle/reuse (International certified (Green purchase (ISO 14001, environmental analysis (Green drum, recycling) (Handling caution) (Voluntary agreement) agreement) Green company) •Copper : 600 ton laboratory) •Waste recovery : 26,000 ton Reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission OUTPUT Air Water Wastes •Dust : 3,940 ㎏ •Water discharge : 150,500 ton •General wastes : 12,859 ton •NOx : 20,355 ㎏ •COD : 1,158 ㎏ •Designated : 2,297 ton •Greenhouse gas : 260,000 tonCO₂eq •Suspended solids : 613 ㎏ (Wastes consigned for recycling: 10,636 ton) 072 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Investment in environment Environmental investment & expense We continue to make investments to reduce environmental impacts of our (Unit: millions of KRW) products, facilitate transition to green processes and improve the health Category 2008 2009 2010 and safety of employees. In 2010, we invested KRW18 billion in aggregate Investment 848 3,849 1,117 for environment and safety, including KRW15.2 billion for green R&D Maintenance expense 1,706 1,589 1,735 initiatives, KRW1.1 billion to transition to green processes and other R&D expenses 5,000 9,300 15,200 environment-friendly facilities and KRW1.7 billion for improvement of health Total 7,554 14,738 18,052 and safety of employees. ①Environmental investment: investment in environmental facilities, green processes, health/safety facilities ②Environmental maintenance expense: labor costs for environmental safety, health administration costs, employee training costs, environmental safety facility maintenance costs ③Environmental R&D expense: green product development costs, New renewable energy investment costs Green Operation : Efforts to Respond to Climate Change and Reduce Environmental Impacts Efficient Energy Use & Efforts to Alleviate Climate Change Reducing climate change risks and exploring opportunities We are exposed to both risks and opportunities associated with climate change. The key risks include a rise in yellow dust from desertification of western China, reduction of manufacturing days due to a rise in extreme weather conditions(excessive hot summer days, excessive rainy days) and a hike of commodity prices. However, such risks are expected to be outweighed by business opportunities arising from increase in demand for green products minimizing energy loss and cable products used for wind farms and electric vehicles, etc. Given the nature of the business, our volume of green house gas emission is not great, posing little regulatory risks. However, we continue to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by disclosing carbon data through voluntary greenhouse gas inventory3) and improving the overall energy-efficiency of all facilities. Risks analysis and mitigation activities Category Analysis description Key activities Regulatory risks •Korean government’s target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% from •Signed the voluntary energy reduction agreement with KEMCO BAU4) by 2020 (1999-2009) and carried out reduction activities •The total volume of workplace greenhouse gas emission target management •Built climate change response system system from 2012 Climate Change Committee •Introduction of Carbon credit trading system in 2015 Establishment and verification of greenhouse gas inventory •Stronger green purchase criteria for low-carbon products Energy saving and greenhouse gas reduction activities •Built green purchasing system(procured energy-efficient facilities) Physical risks •Stability of 94m-long VCV5) tower structure due to increased frequency and •Operate the crisis handling process in each workplace intensity of typhoons from climate change •Enhanced the clean room safety measures •Decreased construction-ready days due to a rise in rainy days from climate change •Increased yellow dust from desertification of western China increase: fiber optic cable clean room maintenance costs defects caused by dust •Increased cable durability risk due to climate changes and increased number of typhoons Other risks •Rise in costs due to fuel and commodity price increases resulting from climate •Built Eco-Design system change •Responded to CDP supply chain program •Increase in customer demands for low-carbon products •Customer requirements for CDP 3) Green House Gas Inventory: a series of greenhouse gas statistical data to poll, record, estimate and control emission and absorption volumes of 6 greenhouse gas substances specified in the Kyoto Protocol 4) BAU(Business As Usual): emission volume projected in BAU without mitigation activities 5) VCV: Vertical Continuous Vulcanization SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 073 Topic 06. Green Management Opportunity analysis and activities Category Opportunities Key activities Regulatory •Expansion of smart grid market to secure stable power and •Produce wind power cables and busducts opportunities minimize power loss •Develop EV harness & modules •Increase in green business opportunities relating to new •Produce superconductor cables and terminals renewable energy such as EV, wind farms, green buildings, LED •Install EV recharging systems(EMC, Jeju) lighting, etc. •Expansion of energy-efficient infrastructure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Physical •Increased demand for submarine and wind power cables due to •Go into new businesses of submarine cable(Jindo-Jeju cable opportunities typhoons and rise in sea levels project underway) •Increased demand for reliable and durable cable resistant to •Get opportunity to prove product quality from outstanding sudden weather change production technology and strict in-house testing Other •Stable commodity sources •Secure stable copper source with acquisition of copper mine in opportunities •Increase in preference for green products and green companies Chile by LS-Nikko Copper Inc. •Promote green supply chain through green partnership •Expand green product certification(Greenflor flooring material, etc.) •Expand green cable and product lineup •Get green company certification(Gumi, Indong, Donghae) Energy use We have managed the use of energy sources such as LNG, electricity, steam and some LPG since 2000. The energy consumption level is managed by the facility management team of the production technology center. Total energy consumption in 2010 was 72,279 TOE 6), representing an increase from 2009, due to the establishment of the Donghae plant and increased production. Energy consumed directly by production, operation processes and company vehicles was 71,606 TOE in 2010, using LNG, electricity, steam and vehicle fuel as the main source. In addition, energy used indirectly in leased buildings such as the head office and the solution business group building was 673 TOE in 2010. We are not making use of renewable energy resources strategically yet, but operate two solar power generators at the Gumi plant on a pilot basis. Going forward, we have a plan to increase the use of renewable energy such as solar and wind energy. Energy use (Unit: TOE/Year) Category 2008 2009 2010 LNG 12,373 13,784 16,210 Electrical power 44,342 47,877 52,580 Steam 3,532 3,268 3,489 Enterprise total 60,247 64,929 72,279 6) TOE(Tonnage of Oil Equivalent): As a unit of energy, 1 TOE represents the energy produced with one ton of oil. 074 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Greenhouse gas management We implemented a corporate-wide greenhouse gas management system in response to global climate change and customer requirements for carbon data disclosure. We also aim to expand our carbon partnership with suppliers, so that manage the greenhouse gasses systematically in the entire supply chain. In addition, we will phase in a standardized greenhouse gas management system to cover subsidiaries at home and abroad step-by step. Greenhouse gas inventory GHG Emission 7) We have built up a greenhouse inventory for 5 years from 2005 to 2009 The total GHG emissions in 2010 was 260,000 tonCO2eq and the basic and received a 3rd party verification from the Korea Energy Management unit of in-house production was 0.39 tonCO2eq/ton. Out of this, GHG Corporation, KEMCO in August, 2010. We managed the inventory on a emissions attributable to energy consumption was 166,000 tons or monthly basis and have completed in-house reviews with the additional 13% up from the previous year and the basic unit of in-house data of 2010. production was 0.25 tonCO2eq/ton or 8.7% up from the previous year, Our greenhouse gas inventory covers 4 domestic worksites(Anyang, which resulted from an increase in production capacity following Gumi, Indong, Donghae), the head office, 2 training institutes and the relocation of the Anyang Plant to Indong and expansion of submarine solution business group on the basis of the World Resource Institute cable production capacity at the Donghae Plant. GHG Protocol. While we managed our own vehicle fleet fuel use(gasoline, diesel) and As for target emission sources, we measured the Scope 1(direct fuel for forklifts(diesel), the energy consumed in delivery and transport emissions) and the Scope 2(indirect emissions) as defined in ISO operations conducted by 3 rd party contractors is not an item of 14064-1 and the WRI GHG Protocol first. The Scope 3(other indirect management of LS Cable & System. Emissions from commuter fleets emissions) and emission of ozone-layer depleting substances(CFCs, and transport vehicles operated by 3rd party contractors and public HCFCs) subject to optional management are also managed in the transportation modes used by employees on business trips are also not inventory system. included in our management system. Going forward, we are going to manage emissions by business partners and 3rd party contract fleets under our systematic system. We manage GHG emissions from heating energy used in the head office and buildings rented by the solution business group as Scope 3(other indirect emissions). Total GHG emissions and basic unit of emission GHG emissions from energy consumption and (Unit: 1,000 tonCO2eq) basic unit of emission (Unit: 1,000 tonCO2eq) Category 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 Emissions Direct emission(Scope 1)8) 108 81 130 Emission 134 147 166 Indirect emission(Scope 2)9) 105 113 128 Basic unit(tonCO₂eq/ton of product) 0.21 0.23 0.25 Other indirect emission(Scope 3)10) 1 2 2 Total 214 196 260 Basic unit(tonCO₂eq/ton of product) 0.34 0.30 0.39 Other GHG emission We also track R-11(CFC11), R-22(HCFC22) and R-123(HCFC123), as They are mostly used as refrigerants in air conditioners and chillers. optional gases, which are not included in the 6 GHGs specified in the Total emissions in 2010 were 2,283 tonCO 2 eq. No remarkable Kyoto Protocol, yet these substances have a significant impact on fluctuation in annual emission was observed, as facilities using them are climate change and damage the ozone layer. rarely replaced. 7) The emission coefficient applied to the GHG estimation is derived from the Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories(IPCC, 2006) 8) Direct emission(Scope 1): Fixed(combustion in boilers, etc.) mobile(operational vehicles), leakage(fire extinguishers, etc.) and process emissions(production processes) 9) Indirect emission(Scope 2): Emissions by electricity and steam. GHG is emitted directly in 3 rd party production and actual users count it as an indirect emission 10) Other indirect emission(Scope 3): Emissions by leased buildings, 3 rd party contract fleets(commuter vehicles, transport fleet), business trips SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 075 Topic 06. Green Management GHG reduction activities Starting with the Gumi plant in 1999, the Anyang and Indong plants signed a voluntary agreement on energy saving and GHG emission reduction with Korea Energy Management Corporation, KEMCO in 2000 to press on with GHG reduction activities. Notably, we improved the investment and management framework to reduce GHG emissions from facilities using lots of energy and production processes. Thanks to such efforts, 3,916 TOE of energy was saved and 7,768 tonCO2eq per year of GHG was reduced in 2010. Energy saving and GHG reduction by voluntary agreement Category 2008 2009 2010 Energy saving(TOE) 704 1,053 3,916 GHG reduction(tonCO₂eq) 1,124 2,618 7,768 Investment(millions of KRW) 164 335 1,439 Energy saving value(millions of KRW) 420 1,090 1,740 Reduction highlights We invest in energy-efficient facilities and alternative fuels to reduce GHG emissions from major GHG sources. Year Reduction case Energy saving Saving value(millions of KRW) Plant 2009 Modified iron melting furnace burner to improve LNG efficiency 202 km3 429 Gumi Changed energy source of company cafeteria/ 443 km 3 300 Anyang washrooms from diesel to LNG Recovered wasted heat from the heat storage combustion system 263 km3 156 Indong Reduced SF6 consumption to reduce GHG emissions GHG 22,000 ton 20 Gumi 2010 Improved the draw heat discharging method to reduce energy consumption Electricity 206 MW/hr, LNG 101 km 3 93 Indong Reduced chiller energy consumption by using a natural cooling arrangement 365 kW 170 Indong Replaced 250W metal ramps in plants with energy efficient LED lighting GHG 470 ton 117 Gumi Best case: Iron melting furnace burner modification Best case: SF6 recovery mechanism improvement We modified the iron melting furnace burner of the Gumi plant in We improved the recovery mechanism in 2009 to reduce 2009 to improve LNG efficiency, investing KRW1.4 billion to save consumption of SF6 used in the power cable insulation voltage energy worth KRW0.43 billion per year. The modification involved resistance test. The initiative reduced SF6 by 20 drums(48kg) and installation of a heat storage chamber to recover wasted heat. GHG by about 22,000 tons in comparison with 2008. Combustion takes place in one burner while combustion heat is To be more specific, an SF6 liquefier was installed to improve absorbed in the other, storing wasted heat in ceramic balls and recovery performance as the volume of SF6 liquid filling the causing it to be released at the time of combustion to reduce recovery mechanism shrinks to 1/220th of its gaseous form under energy consumption. compression. In addition, causes of frequent recovery mechanism failures were eliminated and the recovery mechanism capacity was enlarged to significantly reduce the frequency of SF6 gas filling and recovery and thereby reduce overall SF6 consumption. 076 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Efforts to reduce GHG during logistics We disburse over KRW40 billion per year for export/import of developed and commercialized. Our superconductor cable, also products. Given product characteristics, both maritime and air known as the dream power cables as it features zero electrical transport are used. Air transport, which has the larger GHG emissions resistance, is being supplied as a key component for the U.S. Tres footprint, is used at a minimum level to reduce environmental impacts. Amigas project, the world’s first superconductor grid commercialization The share of maritime transport has increased year by year to account project. At the same time, we continue to try to provide customers with for 91% of the total export/import transport in 2010. Notably, 125 tons GHG and energy reduction solutions. or 66% of the total of fiber optic import volume of 190 ton was switched from air transport to maritime transport, saving about Other GHG reduction efforts KRW210 million in logistics costs. Furthermore, 53% of optical fiber We continue to save energy and reduce GHG emission at the and fiber optic cable exported to China(96 tons out of 181 tons in total) corporate level. We operate commuter buses to serve employees at all was switched from air transport to maritime transport, saving about 4 domestic worksites to minimize GHG emissions. We have also KRW110 million in logistics costs. In addition, an integrated logistics signed a railroad fair discount agreement with Korail, Korea railroad team was newly organized in 2010 to press on with integrated service company, to encourage employees to use public transport and fleet management not only for cost savings but also transportation modes rather than their own vehicles on business trips. operational efficiency. Inside offices, we saves energy by controlling electrical system by turning off lights and air-conditioners in empty offices, cutting screen Efforts to develop new renewable energy technologies saver running time of PCs and installing lighting sensors in toilets. We have pressed on with new renewable energy development Furthermore, we try to improve the awareness of employees on the programs for wind energy, etc.. Notably, a superconductor cable importance of energy conservation through a variety on public system that can serve as the backbone of a smart grid has been campaign and training program. Efforts to Reduce Environmental Impacts Environmental management system & green worksite operation We announced an corporate-wide environmental health and safety policy and established the ESH(environment, safety and health) management system(ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001) integrating the environmental management system with the health and safety management system at all worksites. Also, we identify environment and safety risks related to business activities and conduct improvement activities each year. We carry out ESH management activities involving voluntary engagement of all corporate members by enhancing ESH training for employees and suppliers, expanding the scope of ESH management to our subsidiaries and suppliers both at home and abroad. ESH integrated management system(ISO 14001 & OHSAS 18001) Following ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification of the Gumi, Ministry of the Environment in 2002 with the Donghae plant included in Indong and Anyang plants in 1997, we have continued to improve the 2010, indicating their self-governed focus on ESH improvement. In system in subsequent reviews and re-certification assessments by the addition to the dedicated ESH department, we also assign dedicated certification authorities each year. In 2009, the Donghae plant also ESH personnel to each department who evaluate the environmental obtained the certification, completing the corporate initiative to practice impacts and risks of all activities of each department. global standard of ESH management in all domestic plants. In addition, They help to develop the ESH improvement program about identified we plan to have our subsidiaries at home and abroad ISO14001risk every year to minimize ESH risk. In addition, we implemented an certified by 2013. ICT platform for integrated ESH management system for more efficient In recognition of integrated ESH management capability by system, the operation in 2007. Gumi and Indong plants were designated as ‘green’ companies by the SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 077 Topic 06. Green Management Integrated ESH management system framework ESH policy ESH policy •Evaluation of environmental aspects and risks ▲ •Regulations and other requirements Plan •Goals and objectives •ESH program Continual Improvement •Organization and responsibility Practice and operation •Training and qualification Management •Consultation and communication review •Documentation •Document and data control Check and •Operation control •ESH performance respond •Preparation for and respond to reporting emergencies •Monitoring and measurement •Corrective and preventive actions •Record of important data •Audit ESH integrated management system in our business site Category Description Domestic worksites Domestic subsidiaries Global subsidiaries Certification ISO 14001 Gumi, Indong, Anyang, Donghae JS Cable, Global Cable Inc., Pountek LSCW, LSCI, LS-VINA, LSHQ OHSAS 18001 Gumi, Indong, Anyang, Donghae JS Cable, Alutek LSHQ Agreement ‘Green Company’ recognition Gumi, Indong, Donghae with Government Self-Inspecting Company Anyang ESH ICT system We have operated the ESH ICT system since 2007 to maximize the administration, environmental impact and risk assessment management efficiency of the integrated ESH management system, ensure by department and development of goals and improvement program transparency of relevant data and indicators and inform employees and management by department. The system will be renewed to cover suppliers of the ESH management. The system supports worksite GHG management and environmentally hazardous substances in environment pollutant control, ESH improvements, in-house training products as a complete portal of green management information. ESH management system screenshots 078 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report ESH risks evaluation and continuous improvement Every year we evaluate the environmental impacts and health and ESH risks are quantified into 4 steps in accordance with in-house safety risks of the entire end-to-end product lifecycle from raw material evaluation criteria. The identified risks deemed to be significant are purchasing, product manufacturing and transport. According to the incorporated into improvement programs in consideration of economic, evaluation, we mitigate significant environmental impacts and risk regulatory and customer requirements in addition to technological factors. Each department is supposed to develop, execute and monitor conditions, etc. Major improvement programs include green process its ESH improvement plan to mitigate ESH impacts. development/application to substitute Freon gas destroying ozone To evaluate ESH impacts and risks, all activities are broken down into layer, SF6 recovery mechanism development/application to reduce processes that can be measured and evaluated, and inputs and GHG emission and facilitate efficient resource use, the improvement of emissions from each process, pollutant emissions and the health and devices processing NOx to reduce air pollutants and cadmium-free safety hazards of process input materials, risks of operational Messenger Wire11) development to reduce environmental impacts of processes and applicable regulatory requirements are identified and product, etc.. evaluated. Environment impact assessment and risk evaluation process ESH improvement program (Unit : the number of program) Evaluate environmental Prepare material Category 2008 2009 2010 aspect and balance Establish Process Process impacts Continue to Environment improvement program 60 63 60 ▶ ▶ ▶ ▶ improvement ▶ diagram details improve Safety & health improvement program 104 94 89 Identify ESH Evaluate ESH program risks risks Total 164 157 149 Environmental pollutants control We comply with all domestic regulations and customer requirements on the basis of our ESH system(ISO 14001) implementation and official designation as a ‘green company’ at all worksites. We also operate a pre-ESH review system to evaluate and improve potential environmental impacts prior to investing in new production facilities or modifying existing processes. We strive continually to reduce the environmental impacts of our operations and products by facilitating transitions to more environment friendly processes, utilizing resources ever more efficiently and minimizing the emission of environmental pollutants as much as possible. Air pollutants control The major air pollutants emitted from our operation include dust and Pollutants are monitored continuously to evaluate compliance level with NOx. To control and eliminate air pollutants as much as possible, we applicable criteria and transitions to more environmentally friendly operate air pollution control equipments such as a pollutant filtering and processes are facilitated to improve pollution prevention facilities and collection facility, an absorption column, an RTO(regenerative thermal replace outdated facilities in order to minimize air pollutant emission. At oxidizer) and an SCR(selective catalytic reducer), etc.. the same time, the in-house pollutant emission tolerance limit is set at 30% of legal requirements to ensure even stricter compliance. Total air pollutant emission and basic unit of emission Key air pollutants emissions 2008 2009 2010 (Unit: kg) (Unit: ton) Category 51.3 2008 2009 2010 50 50 42.3 Dust 5,470 4,803 3,940 40 40 38.1 32.8 NOx 24,870 20,982 20,355 30 27.3 25.5 30 HCL 1,530 1,245 1,033 20 20 HF 346 156 142 10 10 0 0 Total Basic unit [emissions(kg) / product output(1,000 ton)] 11) Messenger Wire: wire used for supporting catenary wire and maintaining its tension SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 079 Topic 06. Green Management The significant air pollutants emitted from our operation include NOx emitted during the magnetic wire manufacturing processes and dust emitted from the SCR12)(Southwire Continuous Rod) production system. About 20.3 tons of NOx is emitted per year, accounting for about 80% of total emissions. Dust emission is 3.9 tons per year, accounting for about 16%. We continue to invest in RTO and SCR to further reduce NOx emissions as well as dust collectors to handle dust from the SCR furnace. NOx removal facility(RTO+ SCR) Dust collection facility in the melting furnace process Water resource management We use industrial water as a coolant for cable manufacturing processes Cooling water is recycled for about 6 months before it is sent to the and residential water for all workers. To reduce water consumption, we wastewater treatment plant. Total water consumption has risen a little operate a cooling water recycling system that transfers waste cooling over the past 3 years due to increased production throughput. Notably, water discharged from the cooling process following extrusion in 2010, water consumption increased as a result of investment in processes to a cooling tower where it is filtered and cooled before production capacity at the Donghae plant completed in 2009 and being fed back into the extrusion process. development of new products for business diversification. Water consumption and basic unit of use (Unit: ton) 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 1,058.0 1,000 952.6 914.3 Consumption Residential water 492,897 527,094 523,940 800 Industrial use 91,335 88,309 184,912 600 Enterprise total 584,232 615,403 708,852 400 ✽ Gumi plant use only residential water 200 0 Basic unit [water consumption(ton) / product output(1,000 ton)] Water use and its impact The Anyang plant is provided with water from Paldang reservoir, the The water consumption is deemed to have only a minor impact on Gumi & Indong plants from the Nakdong River and the Donghae plant each water source(reservoir/river). from the Dalbang reservoir. We use about 2,000 tons of water per day. Water pollutant control The most wastewater generated from our worksite consists of cooling discharge. In addition, the in-house water pollutant discharge tolerance water following the extrusion process for cable manufacturing. Key limit is set at 30% of legal requirements to ensure stricter compliance. pollutants usually found in the cooling water are COD and SS, and Pollutant treatment is monitored by a 3rd party contractor at least once poisonous substances and heavy metals detrimental to the eco system a month and wastewater discharged is measured by a wastewater flow are not discharged into the environment. meter every day. In 2010, because of investment in increased capacity To reduce wastewater, the production processes have been improved of the Donghae plant and an increase in production, there was a small to minimize water consumption and cooling water is recycled to a increase in wastewater discharge. cooling tank to minimize overall water consumption and wastewater 12) SCR(Southwire Continuous Rod): Continuous copper rod production system developed and patented by U.S. Southwire(USA) 080 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Wastewater discharge and basic unit Water pollutant discharge and basic unit (Unit: ton) 2008 2009 2010 (Unit: kg) 2008 2009 2010 256.2 2,916.9 200,000 163,700 250 224.6 300,000 2,704.5 5.0 4.4 150,500 4.2 150,000 200 192.1 200,000 1,833.8 4.0 100,000 124,100 150 100,000 3.0 2.8 50,000 100 50,000 2.0 10,000 50 10,000 1.0 0 0 0 0 Enterprise total Basic unit Enterprise total Basic unit [discharge volume(ton)/product [discharge volume(kg)/product output(1,000 ton)] output(1,000 ton)] Key water pollutant discharge volume (Unit: kg) Category 2008 2009 2010 BOD 95.3 41.1 89.0 COD 940.2 863.3 1,158.2 SS 352.7 138.6 613.0 T-N 892.1 421.1 351.1 Impact of wastewater discharge into public waters We do not have our plants in or near any special water protection zone, Wastewater treatment and discharge by plant special control zone or protected area for biodiversity. In addition, wastewater at the Gumi, Indong and Anyang plants are Category Discharged to treated at the wastewater treatment facility after the production Anyang Sewage treatment plant processes before being discharged into the local sewage treatment Gumi Sewage treatment plant plants. The wastewater from the Donghae plant is discharged directly Indong Sewage treatment plant into the sewage treatment plant. The wastewater does not contain any Donghae Sewage treatment plant toxic materials or heavy metals and is treated to a lower pollutant density of 30% or lower of legal requirements. To judge from our inspection, wastewater discharge from our worksite has little impact on public waters and the eco system. Waste management Key wastes generated in our operation include wasted oil and organic solvents from production processes, and general industrial wastes such as discarded synthetic resins, synthetic rubber, wood and other materials used in the production processes. To ensure an appropriate disposal of wastes from worksites, we monitor the entire process of treating wastes from generation to treatment in real time and transparently by the government online system(Olbaro System: www.allbaro.or.kr). Additionally, we carry out a thorough inspection and assessment on the waste disposal practices of the outside contractors regularly at least once a year. The wastes are sorted according to their type and form in compliance with relevant laws and regulations and stored in a proper waste yard or facility at each plant where they are then handed over to specialized waste disposal contractors. Wastes are incinerated, reclaimed or recycled. To expand the scope of recycling, technologies to recycle incinerated wastes are being utilized for now and new recycling contractors are being explored. In 2010, the total waste volume increased about 10% from the previous year to 15,156 tons due to increased production throughput and investment in capacity of the Donghae plant. Specifically, wastes such as wasted oil and organic solvents amounted to 2,297 tons and general wastes such as scrap wire weighed 12,859 tons. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 081 Topic 06. Green Management Waste volume and basic unit (Unit: ton) 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 25 22.6 Waste Designated wastes 2,109 2,033 2,297 20 21.6 21.3 volume General wastes 11,688 11,710 12,859 15 Enterprise total 13,797 13,743 15,156 10 5 •Waste oils/chemicals: Waste oils, organic solvents, paints, acids, etc. 0 •General wastes: Scrap wire, synthetic resins, synthetic rubber, wood, waste in office etc. Basic unit [waste volume(ton)/product output(1,000 ton)] To conserve natural resources, we try to recover useful resources from wasted products as much as possible. As a result of such efforts, about 70% of wastes generated in all plants are now recycled by specialized 3rd party waste disposal contractors. A fair amount of useful Cu, PVC and PE, etc. are recovered from about 10,000 tons of waste per year. Waste disposal 2008 2009 2010 (Unit: ton, %) 10,336 10,636 5,000 1,000 10,000 9,821 100 4,000 3,810 800 710 8,000 80 3,498 71% 75% 70% 3,000 2,964 600 6,000 60 458 438 2,000 400 4,000 40 1,000 200 2,000 20 0 0 0 0 Incineration Reclamation Recycled volume Recycling ratio •Incinerated wastes include waste oils, waste organic solvents and sludge from •Reclaimed wastes include dust from air pollution control facilities and daily life wastewater treatment, etc. garbage. •Recycled wastes include scrap materials from production processes and activated •Data of the Donghae plant is not collected, as it went into operation in the 2nd half carbon from air pollution control facilities, etc. of 2009. Chemical substance management We classify materials according to their use in the manufacturing process and in consideration of Hazardous chemical use their properties and by environmental hazards they potentially pose. We also operate a hazardous (Unit: ton) materials system to carefully handle and control dangerous substances to prevent any accidents related to toxic chemicals 2,000 1,826 Within every each plant, a comprehensive accident prevention system has been put into place to 1,800 eliminate any risk of an occurrence of accident. The system covers storage of materials and strict 1,600 1,539 guidelines for handling each substance. Employees responsible for transporting and handling 1,401 1,400 hazardous chemicals are required to obtain the proper qualification to do so. In addition, for 1,200 mission-critical facilities, regular emergency drills are devised around possible scenarios to train 1,000 employees to respond to chemical related accident. 0 2008 2009 2010 Hazardous chemicals used in our operation include cresol, xylene, ammonia and NaOH of which cresol and xylene used in magnetic wire manufacturing account for 73% of all hazardous materials used. We are trying to reduce our cresol consumption by developing alternative substances, etc. 082 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Efforts to reduce chemical discharge Thanks to continuous efforts to reduce the volume of chemical Investment in RTO greatly contribute to reduced discharge of organic substance discharge following the signing of a voluntary agreement solvents and consulting by a 3rd party expert help the development of with the Ministry of the Environment in 2005, we surpass our chemical in-house operation criteria and optimization of manufacturing processes discharge reduction goal to 50% of 2001 levels in 2009 and won the to further reduce discharge volumes. In addition, loss reduction honor of being selected as a leader for chemical discharge reduction. initiatives in the manufacturing process are also aligned with the chemical use reduction program. Efforts to use resources efficiently We use Cu, Al, PE and PVC to manufacture our products as a main resource. We are expanding the scope of recycled materials to a variety of applications by aligning recycling technologies with product design in collaboration with the R&D group to ensure ever more efficient resource consumption. In addition, to reduce resource use for packaging materials, we improve a design of the wooden drums, which are main packaging material, and optimize the number and size of the drums by securing cutting edge technologies, in order to minimize resource consumption. The Wooden drums used in packaging and transporting products are recovered from major customers upon agreement and recycled after a repair and maintenance operation. In 2010, about 13.4% of all the wooden drums were recycled. Scrap wire is also recovered from products disposed of at the end of their lifecycle as a result of a voluntary waste recovery and recycling agreement with the Ministry of the Environment. Notably, in case of scrap copper from the product manufacturing process about 50 tons of scrap copper is fed back annually into the production process to reduce resource consumption. Major resource consumption (Unit: ) Category 2008 2009 2010 Cu 195,540 249,941 243,033 Al 15,580 19,398 27,289 PE 19,181 19,490 21,370 PVC 7,986 7,720 6,467 Major resource consumption reduction activities Discarded Cu is recycled into Cu tape Wooden pallets and drums are SF6 is recovered and reused 01 02 recovered and reused 03 •Scrap copper from production processes is •Wooden pallets and drums used in product •SF6 used during power inspection is recovered by a contractor, melted and transport are recovered and reused recovered and reused extruded into recycled Cu tape and then delivered back to LS Cable & System Discarded compounds are recycled Scrap and discarded materials are Lightweight drum design is adopted 04 05 recovered and recycled voluntarily 06 to reduce resource consumption •To reduce resource consumption during the •To recover resources from products to be •The design of the wooden drums used for production process, recyclable material is disposed of, a voluntary agreement was signed shipping cables was optimized to reduce the reviewed and used wherever possible if they with the Ministry of the Environment in 2008 to amount of wood required and the amount of meet design/manufacturing criteria. recover and recycle as much scrap cable and wooden packaging materials so that help save discarded materials resulting from the costs and reduce environmental impacts. manufacturing process as possible. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 083 Topic 06. Green Management Green product-Eco-Friendly Product Lineup Expansion Green product strategy and direction To become a leader of the “green race” accelerating around the world, we developed a green business R&D strategy in 2008 for the 1st time in the cable manufacturing industry and pressed ahead with green R&D innovation and investment so that grow to a green business leader. Our green product strategy goes beyond simple production of green products to an expansion of the green business. In other words, from the perspective of a green solution provider encompassing eco materials, green technology, eco products and eco applications/solutions, the strategic green product goals to deliver more value to customers were defined. In reference to the following in-house green product definitions, we have developed and operated a green product management system. 1. Eco basic products: products complying with environmental regulations 2. Eco value-added products: products satisfying Eco-Design Processes 3. Eco new products: products aligned with new market needs We aim to raise the share of green products satisfying the in-house definitions and criteria to 90% by 2013(51% in 2009). To that end, about 42% of the total development project budget in 2010 was invested in green product development, with 63% of the budget to be invested in 2011. Green product targets & achievements With the challenging goal of raising the ratio of green products from 50% in 2009 to 90% by 2013, we have continued to invest increasingly in R&D programs for green product development. Thanks to such efforts, the ratio of green products has been raised to 70% in 2010. LS Cable & System’s green product Rise in R&D disbursement for green products in total R&D investment target ratio(ratio of number of products) 90% 80% 50% 2010 Eco basic 2011 Eco basic 12% 11% Eco value-added 16% Eco value-added 14% Eco new 14% Eco new 38% 2009 2011 2013 Non-green 58% Non-green 37% 084 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Implementation of the Green Product Management System Definition & management of green products Our green products satisfy the generic definition of green products covering gains in energy efficiency, elimination or reduction of hazardous substances, saving of resources and improvement of recyclability. We break down our green products into 3 categories which are eco basic products that require a preemptive response to sustain business, eco value-added products that can ensure a differentiated competitive edge in markets, and eco new products. We have established a development roadmap and requisite system for each product and application to accelerate technology development. We are leveraging the system to step up our technology development drive with a focus on DC based intelligent transmission solutions, which emerge as a new growth driver, smart grid solutions using superconductor cables and renewable energy solutions such as wind power cables and operation systems. We also focus on R&D initiatives for submarine cables, which we developed as only the 4th cable manufacturer in the world, and other maritime businesses. As green product development has become a crucial factor in corporate competitiveness, we develop green products and technologies and has adopted a systematic ERP monitoring system, in-house green mark certification system and eco-index in an effort to build a more sophisticated management system. Generic definition Strategic conditions Category Item Description Category Purpose Description •Reduce energy consumption/ •Products complying with regulations Product standby energy consumption Products complying with global standards/regulations Gain energy such as EuP, RoHS, REACH, WEEE, ELV, etc. performance/ •Less GHG emission efficiency Eco-basic Sustainable functionality •Use renewable energy •Products meeting customer requirements for product business •Optimize service life eco-friendliness •Eliminate use of 6 hazardous Products meeting customer requirements for substances(Pb, mercury, cadmium, eco-friendliness in the absence of regulations chromium-6, PBB1), PBDE2)) •Products offering green features, maximizing eco-friendly Elimination/reduction •Halogen-free image of hazardous •Less use of dangerous substances Products with green certifications/marks at home and abroad substance to health Eco-value Ensure •Products developed with eco-friendly design and deemed •Ban use of 4 heavy metals in added competitive to be superior to competitor products or the existing Product packaging materials(Pb, mercury, product edge products in terms of eco-friendliness configuration cadmium, chromium-6) Products passing in-house eco index evaluation as features •Lighter/smaller products developed in compliance with green development goals Reduction of •Use natural materials via PLEAT at the development planning stage resource •Use recycled materials •Products creating/promoting new markets(growth drivers) consumption •Use recyclable materials Products developed as sponsored by the government •Reduce product components Products contributing to revenue from carbon credit trading, etc. Increased •Products innovating the green product business model •Improve ease of disassembly recyclability Existing green products creating revenue via business. model Create Eco-new innovation new product •Products finding applications in(government-designated) business green industries Products specialized for the needs of government-designated green businesses in terms of features, development purpose and intended application 1) PBB: Polybrominated biphenyl 2) PBDE: Polybrominated diphenyl ether SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 085 Topic 06. Green Management Eco-Basic Product In relation to eco-basic product development, our strategy has been to implement a monitoring system to anticipate global trends and possible development of regional regulations such as RoH3) and REACH4) regarding the use of hazardous substances, incorporate the findings into the product and technology development roadmap for each region and conduct mid-to-long-term R&D activities accordingly. If the technology development project kicks off after enforcement of the regulation, we must have 1~2 years of lead time before commercialization of an applicable product. Hence, we judge that it would be important to develop products satisfying basic requirements in advance so that our business can be sustained and deliver values to customers without interruption. To that end, we stepped up our efforts to respond to hazardous substance regulation trends by implementing a hazmat analysis system and even won the honor of being designated as the analysis and test agency .. for RoHS-regulated substances by the UL5) in the U.S. and TUV6) in Germany. In line with this roadmap, we have developed completely lead-free indoor green cable products including ZeLos, HFCO and HFIX and applied halogen-free technology to the TPE(thermoplastic elastomer) for the first time in Korea, so to contribute to the localization of cables for the defense industry by launching products satisfying global standards both in terms of functionality and eco-friendliness. In addition, we developed an LCD back-light power cable that emits no hazardous substances when burning and maintains elasticity of its insulation material at high temperatures, for the first time in Korea. We also commercialized cable products for electric/electronic devices that adopted nano technology to reduce the content of flame retardants by 30% from the existing products but satisfy strict flame retardant requirements while preventing from losing strength which was one of the weaknesses of halogen-free green flame retardants. The cables deliver excellent flame retardant performance, eco-friendly features and mechanical strength. At the same time, we continue to develop green technologies that are halogen free(HF) and satisfy RoHS and REACH requirements in all product categories covering cables for electronic, electrical, industrial, automotive, energy and data transfer applications. Product highlights LCD back-light power cable Cables for electronic/industrial devices Maritime NEK606/2004 cable Maintains elasticity of insulation at high temperatures Green product development processes were adopted to Maritime cables are used for power, control, and emits no hazardous substances if on fire. satisfy RoHS and REACH requirements and facilitate green Instrumentation7) and telecommunication product/technology innovation. systems(in a variety of sea craft such as LNG tankers and maritime structures like FPSO8) facilities). Our NEK606 cable is manufactured with Norwegian specifications and has proven to be highly resistant to muddy environments. 0.6/1kV HFCCO, 0.6/1kV HFCCO-S, 0.6/1kV HFCCO-SB Control cables used in residential and commercial buildings and control circuits. These cables made of non-toxic materials and be flame-retardant to withstand temperatures up to 90°C to ensure superb thermal resistance and eco-friendliness. 3) RoHS(Restriction of Hazardous Substances): Directive for restrictions on hazardous substances published by EU 4) REACH(Registration, Evaluation, Authorization & Restriction of Chemicals): Chemical substance control regulations providing for registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of all chemicals manufactured or imported in quantities of one ton or more per year, subject to their manufacturing or import volume and criticality. 5) UL(Underwriters .. Laboratories): .. Certification authority ensuring the safety of consumer goods and promoting consumer protection 6) TUV(Technischer Uberwachungsverein): German quality standards organization 7) Instrumentation: installation of measurement instruments or control devices at a centralized location under a comprehensive plan 8) FPSO(Floating Production Storage Offloading): floating crude oil drilling and storage facility 086 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Compliance with We are actively trying to comply with global environmental regulations that are reinforced throughout the world, so that remain competitive in global markets. global environmental Notably, to comply with RoHS and REACH requirements, we have stepped up our efforts to develop products free of hazardous substances and maintain a list of chemical substance data for all materials we regulations uses including packaging materials. In addition, we intend to upgrade our analytics capability to global standards so that we are able to fully comply with global environmental regulations with ease. Compliance with RoHS(ELV9), WEEE10)) We have developed technologies to use materials free of hazardous substances in production while maintaining required features and functions, to ensure compliance with legal requirements. In addition, when products are released from the plants, they are screened using XRF11) analysis devices in advance to determine the possible content of any hazardous substance. We also request a 3rd party certification agency to conduct an analysis at least once a year and provide customers with the certified analysis reports. Thanks to such efforts, we have developed not only lead-free PVC coating materials but also high Lead and halogen-free cable performance halogen-free cable products using polyethylene as an alternative to PVC to comply with new, increasingly stringent RoHS requirements. Compliance with REACH Our green product committee investigates Substances of Very High Concern12) specified by REACH every month. Experts in every worksite collect MSDS, MILL sheet and material ingredient analysis from the suppliers and list the chemical substance data for all materials used. In addition, we incorporate the list of substances of very high concern specified by REACH in our environmental hazard substance control criteria and control the use of substances of very high concern specified in REACH by the suppliers by requiring certified statements of nonuse of substances of very high concern and content certificates for applicable materials before going into transactions with them. As such, chemical substance data on all products are maintained and made available promptly to customers upon request. The product containing substances of very high concern, if applicable, is notified to customers immediately and, if customers require replacement of substances of very high concern, we determine whether it is possible to meet such requirements and be supplied with alternative materials if possible. In addition, we continue to try to develop alternative materials to ultimately phase out substances of very high concern. Analysis Lab We have upgraded our analysis laboratory to join the league of globallyrenowned certification agencies in order to build a strategic platform for green products. Thanks to such efforts, the analysis laboratory was certified as a ‘certified analysis agency’ in September, 2005 by the UL .. (USA), the world’s oldest product certification agency, and by the TUV (Germany), as well. We also obtained the KOLAS13) certification(the official Korean agency equating to UL). .. We now have industry-best analytics capabilities that fully comply with UL certificate KOLAS certificate TUV certificate global standards and a comprehensive database that provides reliable and objective data to our corporate laboratory and supplier as well. 9) ELV(European Union’s End-of-Life-Vehicle Direction): These are guidelines and regulations covering how a car manufacturer recovers and recycles scrap vehicles. 10) WEEE(Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment): System requiring producers to pay for recycling of waste electrical/electronic equipment 11) XRF(X-ray fluorescence): A non-destructive testing technology using X-ray fluorescence to analyze various aspects of metals with precision 12) Substances of Very High Concern: High Risk Hazardous Substances 13) KOLAS(Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme): A system for accrediting test and inspection laboratories in accordance with objective assessment criteria SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 087 Topic 06. Green Management Eco-Value Added Product Our strategy for eco-value added products is to enhance product development programs by instilling such values as reducing resource consumption and hazardous substance use and improving efficiency and recyclability into products that are not subject to mandatory regulation requirements. Furthermore, we rate the level of product value satisfying Eco-Design processes that take into account environmental factors, so to ensure a competitive edge and improve the brand image. We have expanded the focus of our R&D from single items to application businesses in order to deliver more value to our customers. One of the .. strategy is to obtain green mark certifications not only from agencies at home but also from agencies abroad such as the UL and the TUV and therefore differentiate our global competitive edge. We want to take a high-efficiency magnetic wire for automotive application as an example. These wires are only 1/10th the thickness(cross section of 4 ㎟ or less) of the conventional straight angle magnetic wire and thus are ideal for small, high-power motors as they increase power output by 50% or more by eliminating empty spaces created when conventional round magnetic wire is wound over a motor. Next-generation green shrink tubes have been developed to overcome the limitation of conventional green tube products that, though free of halogen, contained red phosphorous. As the new shrink tubes can be manufactured in various colors, they offer the added benefit of preventing confusion by being able to be color-coded. We developed recyclable polypropylene insulated cable for the 2nd time in the world. Furthermore, the scope of application of non-cross-linked polypropylene has been expanded to cover medium voltage distribution cables, with continuous operation temperature raised from 90°C to 110°C, power transmission capacity improved 35% from conventional products and flexibility enhanced from conventional polypropylene products, which all deliver improved values based on differentiated green properties. In addition, we are developing a variety of solutions and applications for improving energy efficiency. For example, an electric power conduit cooling system has been developed to prevent transmission capacity from fading when heat rises resulting from an increase in electrical load and/or rise in ground/ ambient temperature. The electric power conduit cooling system consists of a water cooling module including a freezer, pump, water tank, valve and water circulation module. The unit is expected to increase transmission efficiency by 14%~20% per year, through a temperature monitoring and control module. We have completed the project involving 345kV line construction as part of a contract awarded by the South Region Construction Division of Korea Electric Power Corporation. Product highlights HEV fine rectangular Next-generation green heal 22.9kV recyclable cable Electric power conduit magnet wire shrinkable tube cooling system 088 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report As green product development is critical for corporate competitiveness, we strive for green product Eco-Design development. Hence, we apply our Eco-Design process and a product design methodology with a purpose of reducing environmental impacts over the entire product lifecycle and improving product functionality and quality competitiveness. Eco-Design System Direction of eco-design applications The Eco-Design is significant in that it considers legal requirements for product safety and both predictable and unpredictable risks for the entire lifecycle of the product, from product development to disposal. Also it contributes to developing eco-friendly products with little hazardous substances and improved energy efficiency so that continue to mitigate environmental impacts. Direction of eco-design application Product safety Lifecycle Strategic green considerations Development table •Elimination of hazardous Unpredic ri s k s substances le Procurement Predictab •Reduction of resource risks consumption Product •High energy efficiency ses manufacturing Best ca •Recycling •Decomposition and disposal ework Use u la t o ry fram vel •Green certification Reg gy le chnolo ion •Green business and te e, competit Disposal li a n c -comp Eco-design application process The Eco-Design practice is implemented in accordance with the PDCA(Plan-Do-Check-Action) process. In the product planning stage, the environmental safety of the product is analyzed by using the PLEAT(Product Liability Environment Assessment Table) and is then designed in consideration of material recyclability and impact on human health. Upon completion of development, product quality is controlled throughout not only the entire manufacturing process but during delivery, installation and even while the product is in use and being maintained. During the disposal stage, which is the end of the product lifecycle, recycling information is provided. Eco-Design application process Plan Do Product/Development Material/Parts Product/Process Completion of Quality Use/Disposal planning project proposal development development development control Check •PLEAT •Recycling, Reuse, •Green product/ •Classification by •Inspection on •Provision of & Regulation/market •Impact on human process design materials, materials/parts/ information Action trends/competition, etc. health processes, and products Import Use Considerations on products Recycle product lifecycle SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 089 Topic 06. Green Management Eco-Design Implementation Stage Eco-Design PLEAT14) Step 1: Analyze development requirements •Applying to the environment-considered design of IEC 6243015) framework, PLEAT step 1 analyze customer/stakeholder requirements and regulatory framework governing environmental and safety concerns by the quality and environmental system and end-to-end product lifecycle. PLEAT Step 2: Define development goals •ISO/TR 1406216) DfE(Design for Environment) is an analytics tool for analyzing environmental impacts across the end-to-end product lifecycle. It considers Eco-Design evaluation criteria in the development planning stage to evaluate environmental loads and define green strategy goals. PLEAT Stage 3: Eco-Index •We evaluate if an Eco-Design-applied product satisfies the environmental goals developed in the planning stage in reference to answers to 20 specific questions in 5 categories. The Eco-Index quantitatively measures a level of achievement of goal and only products surpassing the prescribed Eco-Index level are awarded a value-added product rating. Category Description in detail Hazardous substances Elimination of halogen, insulation oil, phthalate and red phosphorous, reduction of flammability and air pollution substances Resource consumption Reduction of volume/weight(outer diameter/thickness), material use(insulation material, etc.) and material loss Extension of service life(durability), Possibility of upgrade and upcycling17) Energy efficiency Increase in transmission capacity, tolerable current and data transfer efficiency Reduction of GHG emissions and standby power consumption Recycling Increased use of reusable/recyclable materials Improved recyclability Disposal Use of biodegradable materials when/where possible At the completion of development, environment goal which is set up at the beginning of development is evaluated quantitatively by each environmental impact evaluation category in accordance with DfE evaluation criteria. In 5 evaluation categories in total, no index must be lower than the existing product and indices in at least 2 categories must be higher than the existing products. Products satisfying such requirements are assigned an EVAP rating and classified as green products. PLEAT Stage 4: Select and reward best cases •We evaluate products developed through the Eco-Design agenda and classify them in 2 categories. The products developed in accordance with Eco-Design process are classified first as ‘eco products’ and the best ones among them are classified as ‘global eco products’ to provide further motivation to green product R&D efforts. Eco-Design Development Projects As of 2010, eco R&D projects accounted for 86.2% of the total projects and the projects implemented in accordance with Eco-Design principles under green strategy goals amounted to 23%. For 2011, we plan to raise the ratio of Eco-Design product development projects to 30%. 14) PLEAT: product liability environment assessment table developed by LS Cable & System on its own 15) IEC 62430: Eco-Design management system application methodology specified by the IEC 16) ISO/TR 14062: Standard environmental design requirements specified by the ISO 17) Up-cycling: recycling materials without degrading their original quality/specifications 090 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Eco-New Product The Eco-New business strategy is about securing first-mover advantage in the market and innovating business models by studying and developing green products in future growth driver sectors such as renewable energy. Related studies have focused on a variety of solutions including smart grids consisting of superconductor cables and intelligent transmission solutions for maximum energy efficiency and solar, wind and nuclear energy production as well as electric vehicles, etc. The superconductor cable developed by us is an eco-friendly energy transmission technology that uses superconductors in place of copper to transmit far more energy at the same time without any loss. We commenced superconductor cable development in 2000 and succeeded in developing distribution superconductor cable systems, rated at 22.9kV, 50MVA in 2006. We demonstrated the safety of the product in a type test and long-term reliability evaluation conducted at the Gochang Electric Power Test Center of KEPCO for 2 years. In 2010, the superconductor cable system went into pilot operation at the Icheon Power Plant in Gyonggi Province. We have already succeeded in developing the world’s most advanced 154kV level transmission superconductor cable terminal and are stepping up a superconductor business in earnest, supplying the cable products to the Tres Amigas project in the U.S., which is a large superconductor grid system commercialization project that will link three of the nation’s largest grids. The superconductor cable terminal developed in 2010 consists of an ultra-low temperature module, temperature gradient module and normal temperature module. It serves as a connector linking the conventional power grid with superconductor cables that reduce electrical resistance to zero at or below -196°C, minimizing energy loss and enabling energy transmission in large volumes. The key solar power solutions studied and developed by us include ribbon wire for connecting photovoltaic cells and junction box kits that transfer DC current generated by crystalline/noncrystalline solar power modules -developed for the 1st time in Koreato the power grid. All these systems are offered as the complete customizable packages with a grid connection system and operation solutions. In addition, we provide cable products and an condition monitoring system for wind power generators, wind power solutions combining maritime wind power system interconnectivity and construction technologies, high-voltage cable components for HEV and rapid battery rechargers for EVs, and participates in government led EV development programs and smart grid test bed projects as well. Product highlights Superconductor cable system Tres Amigas superconductor project Next-generation large-capacity cable system capable of Supply of cable to the Tres Amigas superconductor grid project in the U.S. transmitting 5 times more energy than conventional cables, yet reducing loss by 66% and required conduits by 80%. Terminal and connection box Cooling system SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 091 Topic 06. Green Management 22.9kV superconductor test bed HVDC MI submarine cable & 3core AC XLPE submarine cable Cable system used for transmitting extra high voltage between an island and a nearby mainland or across national boundaries. Korea’s first 180kV/250kV submarine cable(official certification test completed by KERI) Development of technology for manufacturing cable in extended length of 50km or more at the Donghae plant. Solar power solution EV solutions Power solution that converts sunlight to electric power directly Junction box: Transmission of DC power to the load system, attached to the back of a crystalline or noncrystalline solar power module Ribbon wire: HV connector for EV Coupler for EV Rectangular conductor wire used for connecting photovoltaic solar cells Wind power solution Wind generators converting wind energy to rotator force to generate electricity by induction Maritime wind farm power cable: Wind power cable: Cables for transmitting power Cable designed to transmit power from the Rapid EV battery recharger EV recharging station generated from wind farms built wind generator to the grid. These cables offshore to the mainland. must be exceptionally durable and able to withstand excessive torsion. Wind power monitoring system: The system designed to optimize operational efficiency by making it possible to monitor the status of all the key mechanical and electrical components of the wind power system via the computer network in real time. EV recharging operation system Awards We received the Chang, Young-Shil Awards, Korea’s awards for achievement of outstanding science technology, in 2008, 2009 and 2010 for largecapacity overhead transmission line, European-style wind power cable and high-heat resistant eco-friendly cable for automotive applications respectively. In 2010, we obtained green technology accreditation for an eco-friendly automotive harness18) with extended service life and new technology certification for development of flame-retardant and hazardous substance-free micro coaxial cable manufacturing technology. Product exhibition at the 1st Green Trade Fair High-efficiency and eco-friendly products Participation in the International Electric at KINTEX. exhibition at international trade fairs. Power Expo, China. 18) Harness: Wire assembly that aggregates connectors attached to multiple strands of wires coded by usage and electrical characteristics. 092 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Green Partnership-Communication with Customers and Stakeholders To build up green partnership with our customers, we remain committed to green communication and establish a green purchasing system in 2010 that was further enhanced with a hazardous substance management system to better manage the green supply chain jointly with suppliers. Green Communication We try to disclose all possible environmental data to customers and stakeholders in a transparent manner. After publishing the environment reports in 2002, we have reported green worksite operation data to the government since 2005. We have also participated actively in the CDP(carbon disclosure program) to disclose the GHG data verified by the Korea Energy Management Corporation to key customers via the CDP supply chain program. We also plan to disclose carbon footprint data to key customers, the government and other stakeholders in 2011, and publish green management activity data and objective information via our sustainability report and website each year. The GHG energy target management statement verified by a 3rd party will be submitted to the government on an annual basis. Furthermore, we provide policy suggestions of the technology roadmap to the government organizations and academic societies regarding green technology and product development. We also conduct an environmental management diagnosis and a training for the suppliers regularly along with recommendations for improvements to help them upgrade their environmental management. Environmental data disclosure Green communication with suppliers/government/local government EHS report Eco-friendly company 2010 CDP responses Environmental management training for suppliers Green technology/ implementation report product policy suggestions Green Purchasing System Operation We have implemented a green purchasing system to promote production and consumption of eco-friendly products and to reduce environmental impacts of our products across the entire product lifecycle. In addition, we enforce hazardous substance control criteria with the 3 step approach of restricting, phasing out and banning the use of hazardous substances. We are currently operating a ‘Green Cooperator’ certification scheme on a pilot basis involving 9 suppliers of the for key products to boost green supply chain operation even further in 2011 and plan to expand the scope of the scheme to eventually include all suppliers. With such efforts, we are working hard to completely prevent hazardous substances from making their way into products so that customers will not be exposed to them at all. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 093 Topic 06. Green Management Definition of eco commodity In reference to the Green Product Purchase Promotion Act and the Green Growth Framework Act promulgated by the Korean government, we break down an eco commodity into 2 categories, subject to purchase type and intended use. Green procurement: Green purchasing of raw materials/packaging Green purchasing: Purchasing of general goods and office materials, outsourced products, etc.(OEM, ODM) supplies with consideration given to environmental criteria. Procurement of raw materials/used as inputs for product Purchase of office supplies and general goods used in office life as manufacturing through a contract with suppliers a corporate MROs19) according to the environmental guidelines. The above 2 categories further divide into 6 specific codes. We provide a clear definition of the eco commodity and criteria are specified by the code. Category Code Scope of acceptance Green purchasing EC-1 Eco-mark certified products(Green mark) EC-2 Products bearing the GR mark(Recycling mark) EC-3 Energy-saving products(Energy mark) EC-4 Products bearing other environmental marks, Products bearing global environmental marks Green procurement EC-5 Hazardous substance reduced products EC-6 Waste-saving products (EC: Eco-Commodity) Green procurement : raw materials, packaging materials, and outsourced products Hazardous substance control criteria We have established hazardous substance control criteria consisting of is found, the related transaction is suspended and the substitution of 3 phases in consideration of global regulatory frameworks and the concerned raw material is enforced. Such control criteria customer requirements. Hazardous substances are investigated contributes to reducing overall environmental impact of products as according to the hazardous substance control criteria specified in LS well as complying with global environmental regulations, conventions Cable & System documents and, if any specified hazardous substance and customer requirements. Hazardous substance control criteria Phase Substance Method 6 substances regulated •Analysis data by the certified agencies are collected so that eco-friendly products are Phase 1 according to RoHS safeguarded completely from adulteration by these substances Substances regulated by Phase 2 •These substances are banned from being used for specific industrial products and green global regulatory frameworks products specified by LS Cable & System and/or green cable criteria Substances to be Phase 3 controlled/reduced/eliminated •These substances are designated to be reduced or phased out on a voluntary basis voluntarily 19) MRO: This stands for maintenance, repair and operation and concerns expendables and overhead items required for corporate operation, excluding raw materials directly required for product manufacturing. 094 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Implementation of the Hazardous Substance Control System Development Material selection Inspection In-depth inspection Eco design Green purchasing criteria Screened using XRF An inspection by the certified Detection of analysis agency suspicious Determination of Eco materials Inspected to determine if there is substances In-depth inspection with hazardous substance registered in the ERP any hazardous substance contents cutting-edge equipment contents Green packaging material As global environment regulatory frameworks apply not only to products but also packaging materials, we control hazardous substances in relation to packaging materials as well, applying the same criteria as for products. We apply not only hazardous substance control criteria but also global fumigation standards such as ISPM No.1520) to the packaging materials, fumigating packaging materials for export items in advance. Since illegal logging has resulted in significant damage to precious forests around the globe, we use only FSC 21)-certified wood for the wooden Wooden drum made of FSC-certified wood drums to contribute to forestry conservation efforts. Use of the FSC-certified wooden drums In addition to efforts to develop green products, we have also been using only FSC-certified wood for the wooden drums for product packaging since March, 2011, to reduce environmental impacts of the packaging process as well. Given the availability of FSC-certified wood, such wood has been applied to export items first and will be phased in over time to cover the rest of the product lineup. Green purchasing: purchase of general goods and office supplies in accordance with environmentally friendly considerations Preferential eco-product purchasing system As our employee searches for products to purchase through our purchasing system, they can see eco-products displayed at the top of the search results. When the purchaser checks the product characteristics and details, green marks are displayed and applicable products are flagged as preferential purchase items automatically. Additionally, a banner that only allows search returns of eco-products is placed on the Preferential eco-product purchasing system right of the screen to facilitate eco-product purchases. Eco-product price preference system Eco-product preference system makes it mandatory to buy eco-products if the price differential between an eco-product and a comparable conventional product is within 10%. That system encourages purchasers to favor eco-products more actively regardless of the price differential. 20) ISPM No15: International standard governing wood-based packaging materials 21) FSC(Forest Stewardship Council) certification: This indicates that a product has been manufactured or processed from wood sourced from legally-grown forests. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 095 Topic 06. Green Management Green Supply Chain Management We require that all objective evidence data be secured for eco-friendly raw materials, packaging materials and outsourced products and that the suppliers supplying eco-friendly raw materials obtain the ‘Green Cooperator’ certification. As of May, 2011, the 9 largest suppliers have been successfully certified, but this requirement will eventually be applied to all suppliers around the world. To enhance operation of the Green Cooperator certification scheme, Green Cooperator auditors are selected from each department responsible for environment, quality and procurement to provide professional trainings on the environmental and quality management system. We seek win-win growth with our suppliers by providing them with opportunities to build an environment and quality management system via the Green Cooperator certification system. The Green Cooperator system is a supply chain management system intended to completely prevent hazardous substances from making their way into materials supplied to us, so that products containing such substances may not be delivered to any customers. The Suppliers are always encouraged to Green Cooperator Auditor Training Program implement such an environmental management system. To be certified as a Green Cooperator, the suppliers must pass the LS Cable & System Green Cooperator Audit which consists of 3 steps in total for a comprehensive evaluation of the environmental hazardous substance control system of each supplier. When a supplier secures an official analysis data, a substance content analysis sheet, and certification of non-use of hazardous substances from a raw material vendor and submits an environmental hazardous substance control checklist, we evaluate the submitted data and samples to determine whether the applicant is qualified for Green Cooperator certification. Once certified, Green Cooperators are entitled to continuous trainings and management so that they may maintain the quality of their green management system at or above specified levels. In addition, we select Q-Partners among suppliers certified as Green Cooperators for additional benefits. Step Step Step Green cooperator certification audit phases 1 2 3 Green Cooperator certification process: we audit the supplier’s ability to Environmental hazardous Environmental hazardous Environment hazardous supply green materials in 3 steps. substance administration substance inspection substance control system system system •Policies and strategies •Material selection management •Material inspection management •Operation standards •Supplier management •Product inspection management Green cooperator certification assessment process •Control criteria •Manufacturing process controls •Management of the suppliers who fail to satisfy our criteria We control hazardous substances by assessing the environmental •Education and training •Shipment controls •Change management management system of the suppliers on the basis of the analysis data certified to be objective. We certify the suppliers performed well in such •Environmental management system audit assessment as Green Cooperators to encourage them to implement a •Environmental substance management systematic environmental and quality management framework. criteria audit ▲ LS Cable & System •Samples inspection using XRF and gas chromatograph-weight analyzer •Environmental hazardous substance control checklist •Official analysis data •Content analysis sheet Tier 1 •Non-use of hazardous material certificate suppliers ▲ requirements: ▲ Green •Official analysis data ▲ ▲ Cooperator(GC) •Content analysis sheet Certification •Non-use of hazardous Raw material vendor material certificate requirements: •GC certificate is issued •GC certified business partners are registered as a Q-partner candidate. •Exemption of onsite inspection during 2 years ECONOMY Ensuring sound financial integrity and ethical compliance in management, we are venturing into a greater world and a brighter future. We are going for brighter future of the global cable industry. With strong financial performance and principle-oriented ethics management, we are growing to join the league of global leaders in both appearance and performance. We are doing our best to be a global leading company by diversifying our business, expanding our product and services portfolio and localizing operations worldwide. Economic DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Division Policy Objectives Department in Charge 2010 Achievements 2011 plan Financial •Be global •Enhance global presence •Management Planning •Global No.3 in cable manufacturing •Improve performance performance No.1 by 2015 •Innovate business model Team industry •Strengthen global •Strengthen global •Business group •(Sales) KRW3.10 trillion in 2009 competitiveness management capabilities Planning Team KRW3.87 trillion in 2010 •Innovate business model •Improve financial structure Risk control •Promote ‘fair •Introduce and operate a •Legal affairs •Make CEO’s declaration of self•Carry out in-house auditing trade’ culture fair trade self compliance team compliance commitment and corrective actions program •Provide self compliance training •Distribute document sessions for employees in all plants management guidelines •Publish self compliance manual [Creativity & Innovation] New market development Internal process innovation High [Creativity & Innovation] [Finance] Merger and acquisition Distribution of economic values Technology and product innovation Financial performance [Risk Control & Ethics Management] Importance to Stakeholders Risk control [Risk Control & Ethics Management] Fair competition Compliance [Finance] Brand values Creditworthiness [Risk Control & Ethics Management] Promotion of awareness of [Risk Control & Ethics Management] ethical management Transparency in accounting Low Importance to Business High SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 099 TOPIC 07. Financial Performance Financial Performance Highlights On July 1st, 2008, we were spun off with the cable business division of LS Cable Ltd. separating from LS Mtron and being a daughter company of LS Group. In the same year, we jumped to the global No.3 cable manufacturer, with a merger with Superior Essex, the largest cable manufacturer in North America. We aim at achieving our vision of the global No.1 in the cable industry by 2015 through diversification of the global market, business model innovation and investment in R&D. Key financial performance In 2010, we posted KRW3.87 trillion in sales with KRW130.2 billion in operating income and KRW59.4 billion in net current profit. In terms of consolidated profits including our subsidiaries, we reported KRW7.77 trillion in sales, KRW208.9 billion in operating income and KRW57.4 billion in net current profit. While the world economy remained sluggish from 2008 as a result of the fallout of the global financial crisis, our sales actually increased year over year both at home and abroad, by 25% in 2010, from KRW3.1 trillion of 2009. However, due to rises in the price of copper and petrochemical products(resulting from hikes in the price of oil), the operating income slipped from the previous year. Growth Sales growth ratio (Unit: %) In 2010, our revenue jumped by 24.5% from the previous year and consolidated revenue including our subsidiaries rose by 20.8% thanks 2008 14.9 to the focus on business model innovation, new green product 2009 5.9 launches, global market presence extension, synergies from mergers 2010 24.5 and acquisitions and our commitments to win-win growth with the suppliers. •As LS Cable Ltd. was divided into LS, LS Cable & System and LS Mtron on July 1, figures posted in 2007 and 2008 are the performance of the LS Cable Ltd.’s corresponding business unit. Profitability Operating income ratio Throughout 2010, competition in the electrical power and (Unit: %) telecommunication markets became even more intense and costs 2008 14.9 5.2 continued to elevate in the wake of rising commodity prices of which 2009 5.3 copper was certainly not an exception. Never the less, we managed to 2010 3.4 maintain profitability by promoting our 6-sigma program at the corporate level, improving productivity via on-site innovation, saving •As LS Cable Ltd. was divided into LS, LS Cable & System and LS Mtron on July 1, figures posted in 2008 are the performance of the LS Cable Ltd.’s corresponding business unit. costs and launching new environment friendly products. Stability Debt to equity ratio While our debt to equity ratio jumped to 406% due to the acquisition of (Unit: %) Superior Essex in August, 2008, we have been improving the ratio 2008 406 continuously by enhancing our financial structure and posting an 2009 398 earnings surplus by making profit following the acquisition. 2010 289 Activeness Total asset turnover ratio (Unit: times) Total asset turnover ratio continues to improve each year. 2008 0.9 2009 1.0 2010 1.2 •As LS Cable Ltd. was divided into LS, LS Cable & System and LS Mtron on July 1, figures posted in 2008 are the performance of the LS Cable Ltd.’s corresponding business unit. 100 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Statement of income (In millions of KRW) Account 3 Period rd 2 Period nd (2010.1.1~12.31) (2009.1.1~12.31) Sales 3,868,365 3,106,494 Cost of sales 3,521,282 2,753,502 Gross profit 347,083 352,992 Selling & administrative expenses 216,893 189,327 Operating income 130,190 163,665 Non-operating income 269,113 528,080 Non-operating expenses 329,498 601,781 Income before income taxes 69,805 89,964 Income tax expenses 10,423 17,345 Net income 59,382 72,619 Sales Operating income Net income (In millions of KRW) (In millions of KRW) (In millions of KRW) 3,868,365 163,665 3,106,494 72,619 130,190 59,382 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Total assets Statement of financial position (In millions of KRW) (In millions of KRW) Account 3 Period rd 2 Period nd 1 period st 3,319,805 3,165,241 (2010.1.1~12.31) (2009.1.1~12.31) (2008.7.1~12.31) 3,116,295 Current assets 1,392,538 1,260,186 1,324,559 Quick assets 1,106,284 1,055,888 1,145,357 Inventories 286,254 204,298 179,202 Non-current assets 1,927,267 1,905,055 1,791,736 Investments 679,523 678,012 523,042 2008 2009 2010 Tangible assets 1,145,282 1,102,435 987,553 Intangible assets 33,427 33,506 37,827 Other non-current assets 69,035 91,102 243,314 Total assets 3,319,805 3,165,241 3,116,295 Total shareholder’s equity Current liabilities 1,528,119 1,566,005 1,357,836 (In millions of KRW) Non-current liabilities 937,388 963,210 1,143,031 854,298 Total liabilities 2,465,507 2,529,215 2,500,867 615,428 636,026 Capital stock 115,000 100,000 100,000 Capital surplus 797,922 644,257 642,598 Capital adjustments (11,406) (11,406) 1,274 Accumulated other comprehensive income (23,902) (14,127) 24,650 Accumulated deficit before disposition 23,316 82,698 153,094 Total shareholder’s equity 854,298 636,026 615,428 2008 2009 2010 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 101 Topic 07. Financial Performance Topic 08. Risk Control & Ethical Management Consolidated statement of income (In millions of KRW) Account 3 Period rd 2 Period nd (2010.1.1~12.31) (2009.1.1~12.31) Sales revenue 7,771,138 6,433,306 Cost of sales 7,016,141 5,649,482 Gross profit 754,997 783,824 Selling & administrative expenses 546,108 505,245 Operating income 208,889 278,579 Non-operating income 350,591 628,685 Non-operating expenses 522,024 765,496 Income before income taxes 37,456 141,768 Income tax expenses(Income) (19,903) 56,601 Net income 57,359 84,214 In terms of performance by the business group, the electrical power, cable and telecommunication business group all posted year-of-year revenue gains in 2010. However, operating incomes of the electrical power and telecommunication business groups declined due not only to an increase in costs but also a decrease in orders from the Middle East and Europe in the wake of the economic slowdown. Performance by business group (In millions of KRW) Category Cable Electrical power Telecommunication Total 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Sales 2,802,642 2,227,942 739,582 572,461 326,141 306,091 3,868,365 3,106,494 Operating income 43,972 32,677 84,936 117,269 1,282 13,719 130,190 163,665 Efforts to Improve Financial Performance We continue to try to diversify our market presence and product lineup in order to improve overall financial performance and to achieve the vision of the Global No.1 in the cable manufacturing industry by 2015. Global market presence diversification As demand for cable is closely related to the construction of infrastructure of city or nation, our business in a certain region have a close relation with economic condition in that region. Therefore, we try to secure stability in business by minimizing a fluctuation of performance through improved global presence portfolio. We are able to establish a foothold in North America and Europe by merging Superior Essex(U.S) and have advanced into the Chinese electrical power market by acquiring HongQi Electricity. We are also planning to break ground for an electrical power cable business in India with a focus on existing production bases. Going forward, we are going to promote a localization policy in promising emerging markets for a market presence diversification. 102 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Business model innovation We are going to bolster our customer-oriented solution/application business provider through a business model innovation, from a simple cable product manufacturer to a solution provider. The applications business is a customer-centric business combining cable-related all products and services needed in entire project, including electrical power, railroad and telecommunication, etc. The solutions business is a turnkey-based business that provides not only cable products but also management services, support, integration systems, necessary ancillary equipments and even construction service to customers. We remain committed to enhancing our business and product competitiveness and improving business performance by innovating business model. R&D investment for sustainable growth Since 2009, we have invested over KRW100 billion in R&D programs to develop high-value-added products such as submarine cables, alternative ‘green’ materials and future technologies. Notably, we are implementing our ‘Green Business R&D Strategy’ to raise the ratio of green products in the product portfolio from 50% as of 2009 to 90% by 2013 in an effort to become a ‘green business leader’. Commodity risk management During 2010, the average price of copper, which accounts for the highest portion of our raw material costs, jumped by about 46% from 2009. To minimize the impact of the commodity price, we have a “Copper Operation Council” meeting in a regular basis, to seek ways to hedge raw material related risks. Besides, we try to manage the risks through a variety of preventive programs including copper futures contracts. Values Distributed to Stakeholders (Unit: millions of KRW) Suppliers(Raw material costs, outsourcing costs, repair and maintenance costs, etc.) 30,113 Employees(wages, severance pay, Sales pensions, welfare expenses, training 38,684 expenses) 1,716 Economic value Economic value Local communities created Total distributed (local taxes, contributions) 41,375 180 Non-operating Shareholders and investors income (interest expenses) 2,691 889 Others(amortization, royalties, others) 8,477 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 103 TOPIC 08. Risk Control & Ethical Management Corporate Compliance System for Fair Trade Adoption of the fair trade self compliance program Not only in Korea but also in other overseas countries including U.S. and E.U. member states, the regulations on unfair trade practices such as cartel are more tightened. International society imposes heavy fines on those who violate fair trade regulations, to the extent the violators may be endangered. In August of 2009, we were subject to just such an order for corrective action from the Korea Fair Trade Commission(KFTC) for engaging in unfair trade practices with regards to a cable1) purchase tendering process of the public organizations. Taking this opportunity, we have adopted a comprehensive fair trade self compliance program as a preventative measure to ensure fairness and transparency in all business trade as a global company. History The fair trade self compliance program is a corporate compliance management program that aims at complying with laws and regulations. The KFTC provides a benefit such as a reduction in fines and other incentives to the companies with great performance in the fair trade self compliance system. In August 2010, we received a consulting from the KFCF for more effective implementation of the program. In September, 2010, the board of directors voted for the adoption of comprehensive self compliance program and appointed a “self compliance manager” responsible for overseeing and managing the program. In addition, we established a corporate self compliance organization headed by the CEO(see the organization chart below), published a self compliance manual. In line with these efforts, we provided the guidelines that employees are able to refer to, as necessary. Fair trade self compliance management organization CEO Self Compliance Manager: CHO Self Compliance Secretariat Support Sales Production Purchasing Self Compliance staff: One person per each deportment 1) It refers to OPGW(OPtical fiber Ground Wire) 104 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Programs We are working to implement action plans for all 7 key items which required being included for enhancing the effectiveness of the fair trade self program. The 7 items include (1) an open “declaration of commitment to self compliance” promulgated by the top level managers, (2) an appointment of the self-compliance manager and his/her actions, (3) a publication of a comprehensive self compliance manual, (4) a provision of a training program, (5) an implementation of internal controls, (6) a punishment system for violating any of the fair trade laws/regulations and (7) a deployment of the document control system. Among them, we are in the implementation process of 4 items as of end of 2010 and have a plan to complete an implementation of diagnosis and an establishment of document control system by June, 2011. CP Training(Head Office) To explain in detail, the board of directors appointed Managing Director Wonhyung Ahn(Director of the Corporate Services Group/CHO) as the SelfCompliance Manager in September, 2010, and the CEO declared the company’s commitment to self compliance in the morning meeting of employees in December 2009. Furthermore, all employees signed off their commitment to self compliance with fair trade and the self compliance secretariat distributed ‘the note of ethics and fair trade’ which specifies the action principles for fair trade to all the workplaces. In addition, we invited professional 3rd party instructors to provide the five rounds of a “self compliance training sessions” on the overview of the program, employee’s action principles and future plan, etc. Going forward, we will fulfill our responsibilities for fairness and transparency as an industry leader, placing the self compliance secretariat at the center, enhancing in-house auditing and examination of unfair trade practices, and imposing strict penalties for violations based on the regulations. 7 Core items of the fair trade self compliance program Items Our plan Implementation status Declaration of self compliance •The CEO declared the program adoption at the morning meeting of employees Completed in 13 commitment •Presentation of the program December, 2010 Appointment of the self compliance •Appointed a self compliance manager Completed in 12 manager & organizational preparation •Designated one(1) self compliance staff in each department December, 2010 Fair trade self compliance secretariat(legal affairs team) Registration of a self compliance •Distributed the self compliance manual Completed in 12 manual & regulations •Registered the operating regulations(containing penalty provisions for employees upon violation) December, 2010 Regular training program •Conducted the fair trade self compliance training programs at all workplaces(5 times in total) Completed in 12 •Launched an online training program requiring all employees to sign off for the mandatory courses November, 2010 Diagnosis & auditing •In-house diagnosis Planned by June 2011 Inspection by the legal affairs team/management diagnosis team once a quarter ⇒ Organize the Review Committee upon violation, Disciplinary & corrective action •3rd party expert diagnosis General operation •Launched a knowledge-sharing community(intranet) Planned by June 2011 (document control system) •Distributed the document control guidelines SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 105 Topic 07. Financial Performance Topic 08. Risk Control & Ethical Management Ethics Management as our Citizenship Obligations We recognize the importance of ‘integrity’(meaning a behavior of honesty and rational thinking) as the most fundamental driver of performance. We established the ethical management system based on the principle of ‘integrity’ and put a great deal of effort to promote an ethical culture, across the company. We try to earn the ethical legitimacy beyond mere legal compliance by enforcing a strict code of ethics and guidelines so that become an esteemed company. History Beginning with the implementation of ethical management in 2004 in earnest, we built a supporting infrastructure through the introduction of ethics regulations and programs to 2006. Since then, we have focused on raising the awareness level of the ethics management and forming a consensus among employees with a continuous provision of training programs and campaigns. Recently, we conducted the ethics level survey of the employees and identified the areas for improvements from the survey findings. Ethical management program 2010~ 2007~2009 2004~2006 Form a consensus Implement a monitoring system Build a platform •Amendment of code of ethics/implementation guideline •Ethical management promotion forum activities(’06~) •Evaluate the ethical level of all employees •Organization of the ethics secretariat •Letter of cooperation to the suppliers •Collect the ethical conduct commitment •Launched an ethical management website •Ethics training for newcomers/experienced statements(all employees, business partners) •The cyber ombudsman, called Shinmungo in hires/overseas transferees(’06~) Korean •Group training for production workers(Anyang, Gumi) •A violation reporting system(“whistle blowing”) and •Online ethics training program for all office employees a reward program •Self-diagnostic ethics quiz •A “clean company” scheme Ethical management organization CEO Ethics Secretariat Business Group Business Group Business Group Supporting Group Ethical management promotion activities We have posted a variety of articles on ethical management updates, the corporate code of ethics and 2008~2010 Ethical management ethical management schemes on the intranet board since 2006. We also send a letter of corporation under articles & letter of cooperation the President’s name that asks suppliers for cooperating with the anti-bribery campaign, reporting violation (Unit: the number of case) case of the code of ethics by our employees, and joining in the fair trade system, in holidays such as lunar Articles the letter of cooperation Calendar New Year’s day and thanks giving day. 174 6 We continue to encourage employees and our suppliers to internalize ethical management with ethical management promotion activities. 106 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Ethical management training program for all employees We require newcomers and experienced career hires to complete a corporate ethics training program as a mandatory course, with a purpose of improving their awareness of corporate ethics. We also provide the case-study programs for overseas transferees to improve their ability to resolve ethical dilemmas. In addition, since 2009 we have provided online training for both our office staffs and staffs of subsidiaries and onsite training programs by external professionals for production workers. Ethical management training (Unit: number of hour(s)) Year Newcomers Experienced hires Overseas transferees Production workers Office employees 2008 1 (2) 2 (4) 2 (4) 2009 1 (2) 3 (3) 1 (2) 1 (2) 1 (14) 2010 3 (6) Clean company program Reported financial favor acceptance We encourage employees to report the acceptance of financial favor from 3rd parties at the voluntary manner to promote a clean corporate 2008 2009 2010 culture. The items collected from the self-reporting scheme that are not Number of case 3 3 returnable are donated to social welfare facilities of local communities. Reporting system We have a cyber reporting channel, called Sinmungo in Korean and a counseling office for resolving ethical problems and guarantee (1) confidentiality (2) job security and (3) waiver of liability for the reporters in reporting channels. We also reward the reports up to 5 times of the sum received(up to KRW5 million). The case reported to date have all been handled and concluded properly. Reporting type (Unit: number of case) Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total Unfair trade 3 1 2 4 10 Inappropriate work behavior 2 2 7 11 Corruption 1 1 1 2 5 Product defect/AS 1 3 4 Others 5 5 5 4 19 Total 9 10 13 17 49 Type of reporters (Unit: number of case) Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total Customer 5 2 6 13 Business partner 2 2 2 10 16 employee 1 1 2 1 5 Others 1 5 3 6 15 Total 9 10 13 17 49 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 107 Topic 07. Financial Performance Topic 08. Risk Control & Ethical Management Statement of ethical management commitment We require all employees and even suppliers to sign a statement of ethical management commitment. Statement of ethical management commitment form Ethics level evaluation In November of 2010, we conducted an ‘Ethics Level Evaluation’ survey of the all Ethical level evaluation results in 2010 employees in an attempt to measure the corporate ethical level as perceived by the (Unit: points) employees and identify a direction for improvement. The evaluation metrics were 84.6 designed in reference to diagnostic models used by international and domestic Average : 78.2 organizations and the LS Cable & System’s code of ethics as well. The evaluation 74.6 75.3 covers the 3 main categories, (1) an ethical management framework (2) a corporate ethics implementation and (3) ethics implementation in works. The average evaluation score was 78.2 points, with 74.6 points for ethical management framework, 75.3 points for corporate ethics implementation, and 84.6 points for occupational ethics implementation. Ethical management Corporate ethics Ethics implementation framework implementation in works The relatively low score in the ethical management framework category was Individual Organizational ethics ethics deemed attributable to the slow development of the system in comparison with the ethical management commitment of individuals and organizations. We plan to develop proactive countermeasures including, among others, enhanced promotion of the ethical management system, establishment and amendment of the code of ethics, and preparation of the implementation manual. Policy on political lobbying & donations Although our Code of Conduct does not stipulate a restrictions on political lobbying, we neither engaged in political lobbying practices nor made any contributions to any political party or organization sponsoring a political party between 2008 and 2010. APPENDIX Environmental Performance Index by Plant Green Mark-Certified Products Awards & Accreditations Membership in Industry & Business Associations, Domestic & Global ISO 26000, International Standard on Social Responsibility Third Party’s Assurance Report GRI Guideline Index APPENDIX 109 Environmental Performance Index by Plant Total air emission Hazardous chemical substance use (Unit: ton) (Unit: ton) Category 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 Gumi 14.3 17.2 16.5 Gumi 1,126 1,149 1,317 Indong 5.6 5.6 5.4 Indong 116 108 211 Anyang 12.9 4.3 3.0 Anyang 584 144 11 Donghae 0.2 0.6 Donghae 0 0 0 Water use (Unit: ton) Category 2008 2009 2010 Gumi Residential water 294,758 317,111 296,381 Industrial water 0 0 Indong Residential water 38,897 61,440 79,775 Industrial water 937 73 26,068 Anyang Residential water 159,242 118,371 103,963 Industrial water 90,398 61,164 80,128 Donghae Residential water 30,172 43,821 Industrial water 27,072 78,716 ✽ Gumi Plant uses only residential water Wastewater discharge Water pollutant discharge (Unit: ton) (Unit: kg) Category 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 Gumi 31,900 35,300 29,200 Gumi 157 204.8 249 Indong 63,700 45,700 61,300 Indong 659.8 569.1 1049.2 Anyang 68,100 30,900 35,600 Anyang 1,887.7 685.3 1,054.0 Donghae 12,200 24,400 Donghae 374.6 564.7 Waste volume (Unit: ton) Category 2008 2009 2010 Gumi Designated wastes 1,764 1,674 1,918 Ordinary wastes 6,974 6,418 6,900 Indong Designated wastes 176 187 263 Ordinary wastes 1,850 1,779 2,508 Anyang Designated wastes 169 136 59 Ordinary wastes 2,864 2,769 2,198 Donghae Designated wastes 0 36 57 Ordinary wastes 0 744 1,253 Waste disposal (Unit: ton, %) Category 2008 2009 2010 Category 2008 2009 2010 Gumi Incinerated 1,572 1,375 1,763 Anyang Incinerated 1,104 978 952 Reclaimed 262 208 241 Reclaimed 110 95 146 Recycled 6,884 6,509 6,814 Recycled 1,819 1,827 1,159 Recycling ratio 79 80 77 Recycling ratio 60 63 51 Indong Incinerated 822 508 594 Donghae Incinerated 103 501 Reclaimed 86 135 323 Reclaimed 0 0 Recycled 1,118 1,323 1,854 Recycled 677 809 Recycling ratio 55 67 67 Recycling ratio 87 62 110 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Green Mark-Certified Products Biz. Group Prod. Line Prod. Name Certificate Cert. Body Date of Cert. 450/750V HFIX 0.6/1kV NFR-8 NFR-3 Power Cable 0.6/1kV HFCCO Green Mark 2005.8.18. Business MV Cable 0.6/1kV LS-HFCCO Certificate KEITI (renewable Group 6/10kV HFCO (No.3235) biannually) 6/10kV LS-HFCO 0.6/1kV HFCO 0.6/1kV LS-HFCO Soft long green(tiles/steps) 3mm Industrial Soft long green(tiles/steps) 4mm Green Mark Business Greenflor Soft long green(tiles/steps) 5mm Certificate KEITI 2010.5.17 Group Soft long green(rolls) 2mm (No.7669) Soft long green(rolls) 3mm Awards & Accreditations •Apr. 2008 : 2008 16th Week ‘IR52 Chang, Young-Shil Award’ for Overhead Transmission Line with Increased Capacity / organized by the Maeil Economic Daily, Korea Industrial Technology Association(KITA) and sponsored by the Ministry of Education, Science & Technology •Aug. 2008 : 2008 34th Week ‘IR52 Chang, Young-Shil Award’ for a compact busduct •Oct. 2008 : A Bronze Award for the English brochure at the US ARC(Annual Report Competition) / hosted by US MerComm Inc. •Feb. 2009 : A Commendation for Contributing to Local Industry / the Governor of Gyonggi Province •Apr. 2009 : The ‘Gold Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit’ at the ‘44th Day of Electricity Celebration Ceremony’(received by Chairman Koo) •Jul. 2009 : The ‘Most Admired Workplace in the Cable Manufacturing Sector’ through a survey of 4,400 senior year college students / Korea Management Association(KMA) •Jul. 2009 : 2008 30th week ‘IR52 Chang, Young-Shil Award’ for an environmentally friendly cable for wind turbines •Sep. 2009 : ‘Global Leader Award’ in the Global Strategic Management Category / organized by the Korea Economic Daily and managed by the Korea Sustainability Management Evaluation(KSME) •Oct. 2009 : Chairman Koo's designation as an honorary citizen of Anyang at the ‘36th Anyang Citizens’ Day Celebration Ceremony’ •Nov. 2009 : Presidential Commendation at the ‘New Technology Commercialization Promotion Contest,’ / hosted by the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards, Ministry of Knowledge Economy and organized by the Korea New Excellent Product Certification Association(Dongwook Kim, Principal Research engineer) •Dec. 2009 : ‘Silver Prize’ at the ‘Korea Sharing Service Awards’ / co-organized by the Hankookilbo and Good Neighbors and sponsored by the Ministry of Health, Welfare & Family Affairs and the Federation of Korean Industries. •Jan. 2010 : 2010 4th week ‘IR52 Chang, Young-Shil Award’ for an environmentally friendly thermal-resistant electrical cable for automotive applications •Feb. 2010 : Grand Prize in the Knowledge Management category / managed by the FKI International Management Institute, Sponsored by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy •Apr. 2010 : A commendation by the Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science & Technology at the ‘43rd Science Day Celebration Ceremony’ / Youngil Kwon, Managing Director and Daegi Kim, Principal Research engineer •Jul. 2010 : Prize for encouragement at the ‘28th Jeong Jin-Ki Journalism Culture Awards’ /sponsored by the Jeong Jin-Ki Journalism Culture Foundation •Sep. 2010 : Korea Quality Management Grand Prize awarded to President Jongho Son by the Korean Society for Quality Management(KSQM) •Oct. 2010 : ‘Grand Prize’ at the ‘9th Global Green Management Awards’ / the KMA Certification Board •Oct . 2010 : ‘2010 Green Energy Award’ at the Energy Leaders Integration Forum / organized by the MKE, managed by the Korea Institute of Energy Technology Evaluation and Planning(KETEP) •Nov. 2010 : A Commendation from the Prime Minister at the ‘New Technology Commercialization Facilitation Contest’ /organized by the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards(KATS) and managed by the Korea New Excellent Product Certification Association(KNEP) (Kijoon Nam, Principal Research engineer) •Nov. 2010 : ‘National Quality 6-Sigma Innovation Award’ and ‘Presidential Commendation’ at the ‘36th National Quality Management Contest’ /organized by the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards(KATS) and managed by the Korean Standards Association(KSA) SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 111 Membership in Industry & Business Associations, Domestic & Global Association & Organization Membership Gyonggi Employers Federation Korea Management Institute Korea Electric Wire Industry Cooperative Gyonggi Province Conference of Environmental Korea Employers Federation Korea Radio Promotion Association Engineers Korea Fair Competition Federation(KFCF) Korea Information & Communication Contractors Conseil International des Grands Reseaux Korea Customs Logistics Association Association Electriques(CIGRE) Korea Network Research Association(KNRA) Korea Telecommunication Technology International Wrought Copper Council(IWCC) Korea Management Association(KMA) Association(TTA) Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Association of Information & Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Korea Invention Promotion Association Telecommunication(KAIT) Korea Electric Association Korea Industrial Technology Association(KOITA) Korea CFO Association Seoul Economist Club Korea Productivity Center(KPC) Korea HRD Center Anyang Chamber of Commerce Korea Fire Safety Association Gyonggi Chapter FTTH Council Asia-Pacific Anyang Green Technology Council Korea Software Industry Association FTTH Industry Council Korea Association of Energy Service Companies Korea Engineering Services Association IBS Korea Reserve Forces Officers Council Korean Personnel Improvement Association(KPI) ITS Korea Federation of Korean Industries Korea Electrical Contractors Association KIMPA(Korea Intellectual Property Association) Korea Securities Depository Korea Electrical Manufacturers Association SERICEO MKE Emergency Planning Council Korea Railroad Electricity Technology Association Global ISO26000 Standard Compliance in relation to Social Responsibilities ISO 26000, International Standard on Social Responsibility With the November 2010 launch of ISO 260001), the international standard providing guidance on social responsibility, LS Cable & System realized that it had to respond quickly in order to become a responsible player on the global market and remain competitive. Consequently, it embarked on a self-diagnostic assessment to take stock of its strengths and weaknesses relative to the core subjects, issues, and recommendations outlined in the ISO 26000 to improve upon its shortfall areas as part of a response that was on par with global standards. By using the BIDS-IPS SR self-diagnostic index that was developed for industrial application, the Company was able to obtain a frank assessment of its internal operations. According to the self-assessment, although the Company was found to be providing a certain level of responsiveness in the dimensions of stakeholder engagement and environment, findings indicated a weakness in community involvement and development as well as governance. The Company intends to address the shortfalls as key task areas for the Organizational governance(64) Company, with plans to incorporate them into the future work plans of the 100 responsible organization. Community involvement and 80 •Integrating social responsibility throughout the organization: Fulfilling its Stakeholder development(56) Engagement(94) social responsibilities with participation from all management and 60 employees. 40 •Community involvement and development: Contributing to the advancement of the local community-social, cultural, and environmental20 including economic development. 0 •Human rights and labor practices: Upgrading the Company’s human Consumer Human rights(87) issues(74) rights and labor practices, given that the geographic scope of its social responsibilities are becoming more global while its business partnerships are expanding into the second and third tier levels. Labour practices(88) Fair operating practices(86) Environment(93) (Scores that converted into points out of 100) 1) ISO 26000: The international standard on social responsibility launched by the International Organization for Standards, which has a network of 159 member countries, that provides guidance for all organizations on SR in the seven core subject areas of governance, human rights, labor practices, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. 112 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Third Party’s Assurance Report To the Management of the LS Cable & System Sustainability Report Scope and Methodology 2010 The Assurance Provider carried out the following activities in order to (1) Upon request of LS Cable & System, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies review the extent to which The Report applies the principles of Inclusivity, as a “third party assurance provider”(hereinafter referred to as the Materiality and Responsiveness and (2) assess the Report’s application level “Assurance Provider”) presents the following third party’s assurance report of the GRI/BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. on the “LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report(hereinafter referred to Evaluating the sources of publicly disclosed information and internal parties as the “Report”)”. involved Verifying the performance data collection systems and processes Accountability and Objective Ensuring the financial data in the Report and LS Cable & System’s audited LS Cable & System is held accountable for all information and claims financial reports correspond contained in the Report including sustainability management goal setting, Data sampling and a review on stakeholder’s participation process performance management, data collection and report preparation. The Reviewing the LS Cable & System’s response system for material issues objective of this assurance report is to check whether the Report is free of Conducting interviews with managers and staffs responsible for dimensionmaterial misstatement or bias and whether the data collection systems used specific performance are robust, and to offer advice on improving the quality of the Report through Completing on-site due diligence focusing on the head office(April 28, 2011) identifying sustainability management issues and reviewing its reporting Evaluating the Report for the extent of adherence to the GRI/BEST Guidelines process. Limitations Independence A review of the accuracy and reliability of data and interviews with persons in The Assurance Provider has no relations with LS Cable & System regarding charge of data collection and performance-related information at management any of its forprofit operations and activities. In addition, the Assurance levels Provider has carried out its assurance process with independence and Verifying the data and inquiries into each functional manager and information autonomy as it was not involved in the preparation of the Report except for collection manager offering comments in the process. On-site validation focused on the Seoul office Assurance engagement based on data and publicly available information only Criteria for Assurance during the current reporting period The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the following Evaluation of the reliability of the performance data being excluded guidelines: AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008)1) Conclusions BEST Guideline2) The Assurance Provider did not find the Report to contain any material Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines3) misstatements or bias on the basis of the scope, methodology and criteria described above. All material findings of the Assurance Provider are provided Type and Level of Assurance herein, and detailed findings and follow-up recommendations have been The Assurance Provider conducted assurance process for the Report in submitted to the LS Cable & System. accordance with Type 1 and Moderate Level of AA1000AS(2008). The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled in the [Inclusivity]: Is LS Cable & System’s strategy-setting and engagement Report for Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly disclosed information, process for stakeholder participation adequate? reporting system and performance management process based on the three It is the Assurance Provider’s view that LS Cable & System is committed to core principles of AA1000AS(2008), namely Inclusivity, Materiality and strengthening its engagement with stakeholders based on the recognition that Responsiveness. However, this assurance engagement does not provide the stakeholder participation is essential in pursuing sustainability management. The evaluation of the credibility of the offered data. Company has implemented a stakeholder-specific engagement process after The Assurance Provider pursued moderate level of assurance where sufficient defining and categorizing its key stakeholders, to identify their areas of highevidence has been obtained and limited sampling has been conducted at interest and has engaged them to be a part of the Company’s sustainability each performance sector to support its assurance report such that the risk of management program and responsible counter-response. The following points its conclusion being in error is reduced but not reduced to very low or not were found to be particularly commendable. zero. Implemented a regular channel of communication with stakeholders. Incorporated stakeholder views in its materiality test while reflecting key material issues into the Company’s targets for the following year. Going forward, the Assurance Provider suggests providing a fuller account of its strategies and program for strengthening stakeholder engagement, while explaining how stakeholder views are being reflected in LS Cable & System’s management activities. 1) AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) is a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in its pursuit to promote overall organizational performance and accountability by improving the quality of social and ethical accounting. As a U.K. based not-for-profit organization focusing on corporate social responsibility and business ethics, Accountability first developed AA1000AS in 1999 and amended the standards in 2008 for application in 2010. 2) BEST Guideline or BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline is a guideline for the preparation and assurance of sustainability reporting and offers five levels of reporting quality assessment. It was jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy(MKE), the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies(IPS), and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in the Business Ethics Sustainability Management for Top Performers(BEST) forum in their endeavor to promote sustainability reporting among local companies. 3) GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines were jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies(CERES) and UNEP in 1997. GRI announced the G3 Guideline, the third edition of its sustainability reporting guidelines, in October 2006. APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY 113 [Materiality]: Does the Report contain information of the highest material Recommendations importance to LS Cable & System’s stakeholders? The Assurance Provider found “LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability It is the Assurance Provider’s view that the Report neither omits nor excludes Report,” the Company’s first Report, commendable on the following counts. issues of material importance to the stakeholders of LS Cable & System. We The Report 1) identifies issues of material importance through a materiality verified the company’s efforts to identify and report on key material issues test process; 2) presents the Company’s strategies and goals for through its systematic 6-level materiality test process, which covers sustainability management; and; 3) reflects efforts to present stakeholder company policies, key performance indicators, laws and regulations, views. stakeholder surveys, peer industry benchmarking, and news reports, to provide its stakeholders with performance data necessary in forming a For future reports, the Assurance Provider suggests the following judgment, decision, and action plan. The following points were found to be considerations. particularly commendable. Present company-wide sustainability management performance indicators. Identifies key sustainability management issues through a systematic Provide stronger linkage between management strategies and goals, material materiality test method that incorporates diverse assessment factors. issues, and performance indicators. Provides a cross reference between material issues and the Report’s top eight Provide additional emphasis on material issues by strengthening linkage with themes so that readers can look up performance outcomes easily. reported contents. Provide greater coverage of negative issues and weak performance results. In future reports, however, the Assurance Provider recommends that greater emphasis be placed on key material issues as well as any negative Based on the findings of this assurance report as well as the recommendation performance outcomes as well as relevant countermeasures for letter that was submitted separately, the Assurance Provider recommends improvement. that LS Cable & System establish a more systematic system for sustainability management and reporting. [Responsiveness]: Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and areas of interest? Eligibility of IPS as an Assurance Provider It is the Assurance Provide’s view that LS Cable & System has been Established in 1993, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) has responsive to stakeholder expectations by implementing a dedicated accumulated broad expertise in the areas of ethics management, corporate organization, as well as formulating policies and programs. Recognizing the social responsibility and sustainability management since 2002, and serves key role of stakeholder communication in underlying a company’s as a third party assurance provider for the sustainability reports published by responsiveness, LS Cable & System has been identifying stakeholder local companies. IPS has conducted the assurance engagement upon demands and areas of interest through round-table meetings, consultative request of LS Cable & System, and assembled a team of five assurance forums, satisfaction surveys, etc. while reporting on various programs providers who are professors at Korea’s top universities or professionals with designed to respond to stakeholder requirements as well as their outcomes. accreditation and extensive experience in sustainability management after The following points were found to be particularly commendable. majoring in business management, accounting or environmental science. The Report provides information on the company policies, performance outcomes, and future plans for issues identified to be of material importance through the Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA). The Report presents stakeholder survey findings and provides a format where June 09, 2011 readers can look up performance outcomes for key issues with ease. Jae-eun Kim President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Going forward, the Assurance Provider will suggest providing more detailed coverage on stakeholder-specific areas of interest as well LS Cable & System’s relevant policies and future plans for response. [GRI Application Levels] The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3 Reporting Framework at the level of A+. [BEST Fulfillment Levels] Relative to the BEST Guidelines, which provides for 5 levels of reporting rigor, the Assurance Provider finds the Report to fulfill 96.04% of the reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 3 report (expansion phase) in view of the rate of compliance against reporting standards and the depth of information provided. <Trend of the LS Cable & System Sustainability Report Fulfillment> Reporting Year 2011 Publications 1st Level Level 3 Fulfillment 96.04% 114 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report GRI Guideline Index ●fully covered ◐partially covered ○N/A ◇not covered GRI Reporting Indicators Page BEST Index Index Status 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 4~5, 6~7 A_1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 5, 20, 72~73 A_2 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● Cover, 8 A_3 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 12~17 A_4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, ● 8, 9, 10 A_5 and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters ● 8 A_7 2.5 Number of countries in operation ● 8~9 A_7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● Annual Report, 10 A_8 2.7 Markets served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of ● Annual Report, A_9 customers/beneficiaries) 8~9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 10 A_10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ◇ B_8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● Appendix CO8 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period(e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● 2 B_3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report(if any) ◇ B_8 3.3 Reporting cycle(annual, biennial, etc.) ● 2 B_6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● 2 B_9 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 22 B_4 3.6 Boundary of the report ● 2 B_1 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report(“see completeness principle for ● 2 B_2 explanation of scope”) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other ● 8~9 A_6 entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques ● 2, 50, 58, 72 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the ◇ reasons for such re-statement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement ◇ B_5 methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● Appendix B_10 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● Appendix, 2 B_7 APPENDIX 115 ●fully covered ◐partially covered ○N/A ◇not covered GRI Reporting Indicators Page BEST Index Index Status 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body ● 10~11 GR1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 11 GR1 GR3 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest ◇ GR2 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest ● 23, 60~61 GR12 governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and ● 11, 52 GR7 executives 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 11 GR13 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance ◐ 11 GR4 body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Web Site economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and ◐ 11, 21 GR5 management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect ◐ 11, 52 GR6 to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the ● 102, 103~107 GR11 organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to ● Web Site GR10 which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy ● Appendix A_11 organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 23 C_1 C_2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 23 C_1 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by ● 23 C_2 stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the ● 23 C_3 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Economic Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 98 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 102 EC1 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate ● 72~73 EC2 change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations ● Annual Report EC3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ● Annual Report EC5 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations ◐ 52 EM4 of operation EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of ○ EC4 operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at ● 48~49, 50, 51 EC4 significant locations of operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public ○ EC6 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ◐ 51 EC7 116 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report ●fully covered ◐partially covered ○N/A ◇not covered GRI Reporting Indicators Page BEST Index Index Status Environmental Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 68 EC1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 82 EV10 EC2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● 82 EV11 EC3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 73 EV7 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ● 73 EV8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 73, 75~76 EV5 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and ● 83~91 EV5 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 75~76 EV5 EV25 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 79 EV9 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● 79 EV20 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 79 EV18 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of ◇ EV22 high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected ◇ EV22 EV26 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◇ EV27 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ◇ EV6/EV26 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas ◇ EV28 affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 74 EV12 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 74 EV13 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions ● 72~76 EV4 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ● 74 EV14 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ● 71, 78 EV15 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 80 EV17 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 71, 80~81 EV16 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● Supplementary EV21 Explanation EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of ◇ EV29 the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly ● 80 EV19 affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ● 70~71 EV23 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ◐ 81 EV24 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance ● Supplementary EV31 with environmental laws and regulations Explanation EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for ● 76 EV30 the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 72 EV1 APPENDIX 117 ●fully covered ◐partially covered ○N/A ◇not covered GRI Reporting Indicators Page BEST Index Index Status Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 34 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ● 48~49 EM1 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 48 EM5 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, ● 55 EM20 by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 59 EM12 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in ● 60 EM13 collective agreements LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety ● 57 EM14 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related ● 58 EM19 fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce ● 56~58 EM18 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 56~57 EM15 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ● 54 EM27 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of ● 51, 53~54 EM28 employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ● 54 EM29 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, ● 48, 50 EM2 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 52 EM3 Human Rights Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 34 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses ○ PN2 or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights ● 42 PN2/PN3 and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that ● 51, 106 EM30 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● 51 EM7 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining ● 59~60 EM8 may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to ● 60 EM9 contribute to the elimination of child labor HR7 Operations that are likely to have forced labor and measures taken ● 60 EM10 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning ○ EM31 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ◇ CO2 118 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report ●fully covered ◐partially coverd ○N/A ◇not covered GRI Reporting Indicators Page BEST Index Index Status Social Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 34 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the ● 23, 34, 62 CO2 impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ◐ 104, 105~106 CO5 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 51, 106 EM30 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 105~106 CO5 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● 107 CO6 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions ● 107 CO7 by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and ● 103~104 CS3 their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance ● Supplementary CO9 with laws and regulations Explanation Product Responsibility Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 34 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for ● 37~38 CS4 improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health ● Supplementary CS11 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Explanation PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant ● 36~37 CS5 products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning ● Supplementary CS12 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Explanation PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer ● 36~38 CS9 satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing ○ CS13 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning ● Supplementary CS14 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Explanation PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of ◇ CS15 customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the ● Supplementary CS12 provision and use of products and services Explanation APPENDIX 119 Supplementary Explanation GRI Reporting Indicators Index Status EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or ◇ adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas We do not own, lease or manage land in, or adjacent to, EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and ◇ protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value. services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◇ EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing ◇ There has been no indication that our activities have had a impacts on biodiversity negative impact on biodiversity in adjacent areas. Moving Environmental EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national ◇ forward, we continue to make a close investigation into the Performance conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by impacts on an ecosystem and manage them. operations, by level of extinction risk EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste ◇ There was no case of significant spills and cross-border deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel transactions of hazardous wastes during the reporting Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of period. transported waste shipped internationally EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non● There was no violation of environmental law and regulations monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental during the reporting period. laws and regulations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of ◇ No business activities were identified that violated the rights indigenous people and action taken of indigenous populations. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non● We were subjected to neither violation nor penalties in monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and 2010. regulations ● PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with We comply with all legal and regulatory requirements regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and including health and safety regulations in the markets in safety impacts of products and services during their life ● which it operates. cycle, by type of outcomes PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Social regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and ● Performance service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Regarding information provision and marketing Total number of incidents of non-compliance with communication activities including advertisement, sales PR7 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing ● promotions, and sponsorship requests, we are abiding by communications, including advertising, promotion, and the voluntary guidelines and regulations on product and sponsorship by type of outcomes service provision. We were not subjected to any penalty PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with ◇ due to violation of the relevant rules and regulations. laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding No complaints about customer information security were breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data made in 2010. 120 LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Participants who helped prepare the LS Cable & System 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Council CEO Jongho Son Verification Committee : 3rd party Internal management review supervision consultants CSO Yonghyun Shin Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Sustainability Secretariat Planning & Authoring Oversight : Byungwook Park Data Review, Administration : Youngjun Oh Report Overview Social Performance Environmental Performance Economic Performance Advisory Team •Corporate Overview, •Customer Satisfaction •Green Management •Financial Performance •Domestic/global Governance Structure Sooyoun Kim Bonghyo Kim, Byungwook Park, compliance Youngjun Oh •Business Partners Iseop Shin Soonkeun Seo •Stakeholder issues •Creation & Innovation Inhyoo Shin, Minsoo Kwak, •Risk Control •Advisory service for Sooyoun Kim Youngheon Goo, Gayoung Kim Haewoon Choi, material issue identification •Patent Management Soochang Kim •R&D Goohwan Nam •ISO 26000 preparation Jeongwon Park •Executives/Employees Byungyoon Kang, •Ethical Management status check Kookhwan Koh, Jaehoon Jeong Seonchul Kim, •Analysis of other Hwan Kim, Woojin Choi outcomes Seungkeun Ahn, Namseok Oh, Taehyun Kim, Daehee Hwang •Social Contribution Inmook Cho, Seungyong Park * Titles are skipped. We would also like to thank all other participants who contributed to the Sustainability Report. Contributors: Changbong Kang, Hyunwoo Kang, Bonhak Goo, Jeongdong Kim, Cheolmin Kim, Hansoo Kim, Hyuk Kim, Hyeseon Kim, Dongchun Ryu, Sangwook Park, Sangjoon Bae, Joonho Song, Doseop Eom, Seokhoon Oh, Heejoon Yoon, Kangyoung Lee, Yongseong Lee, Kyuseong Jang, Keepung Joo, Byungjoon Choi, Seongwook Choi, Jongmoon Choi, Youngmin Hah, Jeongwon Han, Youngho Hong LS Cable & System will create a more beautiful future through sustainability management LS Cable & System will take the lead in protecting the environment and achieving harmonious coexistence with nature through sustainability management. We will ceaselessly innovate and improve ourselves. LS Cable & System invites you to keep an eye on us as we advance into the bright future. This report has been printed using soy bean ink on recyclable paper. 15F, LS Tower, 1026-6, Hogye-Dong, Dongan-Gu, Anyang-Si, Gyonggi Province, 431-080, Korea(ROK) Tel. +82-2-2189-8842 http://www.lscns.com
