Overview Purpose of the Report This report is the first sustainability management report published by Korea Land & of the Report Housing Corporation (LH) since our integration. It details LH’s efforts to promote sustainability management and the company’s performance in the areas of the economy, environment, and society. LH intends to take the publication of this report as an opportunity to conduct an interim review of our sustainability management . In addition, we hope that this report will promote communication with our stakeholders as LH wishes to grow together with them. Scope and Period This report is based on the period of 2 years and 3 months from October 1, 2009 to December 31, 2011 and focuses on the major status and performance of LH’s sustainability management. The currency of this report is the Korean won(KRW). However, for qualitative performance, this report is based on the period of 2 years from 2010 to 2011 while the year 2009 performance and 2012 targets are partly presented. Meanwhile, the 2012 targets are subject to changes according to LH’s management conditions and business progress. Principles and Standards This report was written in accordance with the GRI 3.1 guidelines and consolidated the content on ISO 26000, international standards for social responsibility, and the GRI Index. In order to enhance the report’s quality and reliability, its verification was made according to the standards of DNV’s Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting V.3.0. Detailed content about the verification results can be found in the third party verification opinion in the report’s appendix. Inquiry Please refer to the following for additional information on LH’s sustainability management report. Department : Management Innovation Team, Business Management Department Email : byungsoo99@lh.or.kr Phone : 82-31-738-7239 Fax : 82-31-738-8665 Homepage : world.lh.or.kr CONTENTS CEO Message LH Highlight 003 005 Happy LH 007 Company Introduction 009 Vision and Strategies 010 Corporate Governance 013 Risk Management 015 Stakeholder Engagement 017 Happy Economy 019 Effective National Land Management & National Housing Stabilization 023 Management Innovation 029 R&D 033 Economic Performance 037 Happy Environment 039 Environmental Management System 043 Eco-friendly R&D 045 Business Planning with Environmental Consideration 048 Eco-friendly Design 050 Eco-friendly Onsite Management 051 Eco-friendly Operation 053 Happy Society 055 Ethical Management 059 Transparent Management 061 Employees 063 Customers 069 Partner Companies 071 Local Community 075 Appendix 079 CEO Message “ LH, which finds a path amid crises, will be reborn into the nation’ s top sustainable corporation.” Our respected and beloved stakeholders! We deeply appreciate your unsparing and continuous encouragement and love toward LH (Korea Land & Housing Corporation). LH was founded in October 1, 2009. However, our survival was threatened shortly after this monumental birth, due to excessive debts, a liquidity crisis, and business development beyond our financial capacity. Nonetheless, we have strived to normalize our business management by taking such crises as opportunities to change ourselves and gain a foothold to take on new challenges. As a result, we have built the foundation for financial stability and faithfully performed our public roles of economic vitalization, job creation, and so forth. Based on our performance so far, as a public corporation that deals with national land and housing, which form the base of national development and people’s lives, LH is committed to the following resolves: First, we will become an even more sound and trusted top company of the nation. For financial stability, we will successfully finalize the measures for the normalization of business management, which are currently underway, thereby completing the foundation for self-management. In addition, under the slogan‘Clean LH’, LH will become a company that the country’ s citizens can trust and rely on further by spearheading transparent management and ethical management. Secondly, we will open up the country’s future through eco-friendly housing and a green national land. In order to respond to climate change, we will actively promote the construction of green cities, energy-saving ecofriendly housing, development of renewable energy technologies, as well as CDM projects. Based on this, we put forth greater efforts to have green growth permeate into our land, cities, and every living space. Thirdly, we will lead symbiotic development where all parties can smile together. LH businesses involve a number of partnerships and stakes among local communities, small and medium corporate partners, customers, and employees. Therefore, trust is an essential element. Having the mindset of‘no trust, no existence’, meaning that we cannot exist without trust, we will walk our journey as a faithful companion. Fourthly, we will always think and behave from the position of the country’s citizens. LH’s mission is to build pleasant housing, workplaces, and rest areas where culture, livelihood, community, and convenience blend in harmony. Therefore, in any business affair, we will put top priority on citizen-centered management where we always think and act on the side of the public. We put together our philosophy and activities with regard to the economy, environment, and society in the‘2012 Sustainability Management Report’, which is the first published since our foundation. Under the corporate value of ‘green eco-friendliness', LH will continue to do our best to become the nation’s top corporation that heads the stable housing provision for our citizens and the efficient utilization of the national land. We sincerely ask for your continued LH Highlight i01 Launch of Integrated LH In October 1, 2009, through the integration of Korea Land Corporation and Korea Housing Corporation, Korea Land and Housing Corporation was newly launched. LH will do our best to be reborn as a corporate player that is trusted and loved by the country’s people as South Korea’s representative public corporation that works for the construction and supply of housing, the creation of cities, the development of the national land, and the realization of advanced housing welfare. i02 Debts Down, Profits Up As for our serious accumulation of debts, centered on the CEO’s leadership with the slogan“Change all but our mission”, we have accomplished a decline in debt ratios and the slowdown in the growth rate of debts with intensive self-saving efforts. These efforts include the operation of the financial improvement special committee, the declaration of emergency management, business restructuring, all-out sales, and wage return. In addition, with enhanced sales and collection performances, our financial structure has been improved. i03 Stabilization of the Real Estate Market LH is playing a leading role in the supply of 1.5 million‘nest housing’units and contributing to the stabilization of housing prices through the supply of affordable houses and small-sized houses. In addition, we are leading the efforts to resolve the shortage of deposit-based or monthly leases by offering various customized rental houses suited to the needs of consumers. i04 Introduction of the LH Clean Review System In 2010 March, LH introduced the LH Clean Review System that entirely publicizes the review process of corporate bidders and currently applies the system to all reviews on turnkey projects. LH has removed all the controversy over transparency and fairness, and eradicated any likelihood for bidding corruptions by announcing the names of reviewers on our homepage in advance and relaying the whole review process through CCTV. LH will strive to take such unprecedented attempts focused on the facilitation of transparency and fairness as a critical opportunity to eradicate construction irregularities and establish a fair bidding system that promotes competition based on technical competitiveness. i05 The Country’ s First Registration of a Tenement Housing CDM Business In order to live up to the government’ s‘low-carbon, green growth’policy and actively respond to the crisis of climate change, a worldwide imminent agenda and task, LH registered our national lease photovoltaic distribution project as a CDM business in the UNFCCC(UN Framework Convention on Climate Change) for the first time in Korea for a tenement housing project. Through this, i07 The First Designation as a High-Performing Organization in Integrity Evaluation LH introduced the‘One Strike-Out’system that immediately weeds out personnel who accepted a bribe in relation to their work. In addition, for the first time as a public corporation, LH installed a‘special inspection team’and‘provincial inspection branch offices’composed of external experts, aimed at eradicating indigenous corruption. LH also operates an autonomous property registration system . With such efforts, we are renewing ourselves into a public corporation that is trusted by the country’s people, shown by the designation as a high-performing organization in the anticorruption policy evaluation of the Civil Rights Commission for two consecutive years and as the first high-performing organization in the integrity evaluation in 2011. i08 Job Creation for the Elderly through the Hiring of Silver Employees LH has operated the‘Silver Employee System’which hires elderly workers from 60 years of age or older since the country’s first introduction of this kind in 2010. LH has employed elderly people as rental apartment management staff, as these individuals have the ability to work and accumulated experience, but rarely have opportunities to re-enter the labor market. We have thereby placed them in a supporting role that fills the insufficient workforce of leasing projects, such as the receipt of defect repair requests, safety and walk-around inspections on the facilities within blocks, and support for vulnerable households. We will continue our efforts to grow together with the community, including job creation. i09 Achievement of the 3-Year Consecutive‘High-Grade Customer Satisfaction’Corporation In the 2011 public corporation customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, LH was selected as the three-year consecutive high-performing organization since our integrated launch in 2009. LH has strengthened customer service through communication with customers, including the KS certification of our call center for the first time in the construction industry, the installation of a general civil service office, and the operation of a housewife customer evaluation group for the improvement of housing quality and service. LH will make a greater effort ahead to become the nation’s leading company loved by its people by delivering customer satisfaction. i10 The First-Rate Female Departmental Head, the First time among Public Corporations In February 2011, the first female departmental head (head of center) was appointed in LH’s regular personnel reshuffle, which is the first time for a public corporation. This was the first case of a female departmental head, including during the time of LH’s former entities, Korea Land Corporation and Korea Housing Corporation, as well as the first promotion by selection among openlyrecruited females in public corporations. LH makes it a rule that any employee is entitled to a position commensurate with one’s ability regardless of class, background or age. LH is also making substantial efforts on the governmental policy to resolve the social issue of the low birth rate and on maternity protection activities to improve the working conditions of female employees. HAPPY LH The company whose yesterday, today and tomorrow are happy. LAND & HOUSING LIFE & HUMAN LOVE& HAPPINESS Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Company Introduction Purpose of Establishment Company Outline Korea Land Corporation and Korea Housing Corporation had continued to [ Company Status ] ( as of December, 2011 ) discuss and attempt their integration since the need for integration was first addressed in 1993. In 1975, Korea Land Corporation was founded under the CEO Ji-Song Lee name Land Savings and Finance Company. Since then, the company had Headquarters 172 Dolma-Ro, Bundang-Gu, Sungnam, Gyeonggi-Do changed its business role into the area of balanced national land development. Korea Housing Corporation, established in 1962, had also Housing construction and customized housing welfare projects for the stable housing of non-homeowners and changed its business area and role into housing welfare based on the low-income people transition from quantitative improvement to qualitative improvement. In City development projects such as housing site August, 2008, according the government’s public corporation advancement Major development /new city/city renewal projects enhancement measures, the integration of the two corporations was finally Businesses Balanced national land development projects such as decided upon. In April 2009, as the No. 9706 Korea Land & Housing Sejong City and innovative cities Industrial/distributional complex, Kaesong Industrial Corporation Law passed the National Assembly, the legal foundation for their Complex, free economic zone, and overseas projects for merge was provided. In October 1, 2009, they were newly born into the Korea the growth of national competitiveness and job creation Land & Housing Corporation. Land banking/management, rental housing management, informatization projects [ Legal Ground for Establishment ] Date of October 1, 2009. Establishment Korea Land & Housing Corporation Law (No. 9706, May 22, 2009) Capital Legal capital: KRW 30 trillion Paid-in capital: KRW 22.4 trillion Total Assets KRW 158,473 billion [ Purpose of Establishment ] Turnover KRW 15,260 billion To contribute to the development of the national economy by seeking to improve Headquarters : 7 divisions, 2 sectors, 46 teams/centers housing lifestyles and effectively utilize the national land through land Organizational Provinces : 12 regional headquarters, 6 business headquarters, acquisition / development / banking/supply, urban redevelopment / Structure 12 direct business agencies, 1 researcher improvement, and housing construction / supply / management. Korea Investors Service Inc. : AAA Moody’s : A1 Credit Rating Korea Ratings Corporation : AAA S&P : A [ Role and Function of LH ] [ Status of Major Investment Companies ] ( as of December, 2011 ) Capital Shareholding Company name Major Business (KRW) (%) Korea Housing Multifamily housing Management management & maintenance, 7 billion 100% Co., Ltd etc Accommodation and energy Hannuri Co., Ltd sales business for the 12 billion 62.5% Kaesong Industrial Complex Korea Real Estate LH Sustainability Report 2012 Vision & Strategies Mission & Vision According to the establishment of an integrated corporation, LH set up and declared our new vision framework‘Look High 2020’, which reflects the corporation’s role and future prospects.‘Look High’has the meaning of gazing (aiming) at a higher place, implying LH’s new vision that strives to be a top-class land and housing service corporation. According to the integration of land and housing businesses, LH has a new mission to‘lead the improvement of the quality of life and the development of the national economy by realizing housing stability for the country’s citizens and efficiently utilizing the national land.’ In addition, LH’s new vision,‘a top-class land and housing service corporation that creates happy living environments’, reflects LH’s will to contribute to national economic development and national welfare through the creation of beautiful and enriched lands/cities/living spaces, strive to be a global corporation equipped with the world’s best technical expertise and competitiveness in land and housing, as well as continuously serve to improve the quality of people’s lives and create a foundation for national advancement. [ Look High 2020 Framework ] LH 2020 Future Prospect Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Management Strategy Management Policy In order to fulfill the external demand to be reborn into a nation’s top public corporation through continuous management innovation and the internal demand to resolve financial difficulties and stabilize the organization after our integration, four management policies have been established : citizen-oriented, task-oriented, onsite-oriented, and future-oriented. Based on these, LH has made efforts on the stable execution of businesses and the chemical integration of the organization. Core Management Policy LH is progressing the early stabilization of our organization, improvement of the financial structure, concentration on core functions, enhancement of management efficiency, advancement of labor-management relations, and the growth of future strategic businesses as our top 6 management strategies. LH will be reborn into the best corporation that receives public love and trust by serving the country’s people and raising our future values through a complete overhaul based on open management and continuous management innovations. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Management Strategy Sustainability Management Strategy related to Management Strategy LH has established and operated a sustainability management strategy in relation to the company’s management strategy based on the requests and concerns of stakeholders. LH has derived the top 3 strategy development areas, 15 implementation strategies, and 30 practical tasks in order to enhance our sustainability and the values of stakeholders through the balanced growth of the economy, environment, and society. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Corporate Governance Shareholders LH’ s stocks are owned by the government and the Korea Finance New Installment of BOD(Board of Directors) Affiliated Corporation. The amount of investment and the percentage of shareholding Subcommittees by each shareholder are as below. LH newly installed subcommittees(planning management. housing welfare, [ Capital & Shareholders ] (Unit: KRW million) green development) within the BOD, as well as an audit committee in 2011, in order to facilitate the BOD through the deliberation on the issues whose Shareholder Legal Capital Paid-in Capital Ratio(%) preliminary deliberation is acknowledged as necessary among the issues Government 19,321,842 86.2 requiring deliberation and voting. Through this, LH is putting forth efforts on 30,000,000 facilitating the function to perform in-depth deliberation and management checks. Korea Finance Corporation 3,095,750 13.8 Total 30,000,000 22,417,592 100.0 [ Operational Status of Subcommittees ] As of December, 2011 Composition of Category Function Members Planning Management 2 Non-Executive Deliberation on the areas of planning/management Formation and Function of the Board of Directors Subcommittee 1 Executive support/research/marketing communication Housing Welfare 3 Non-Executive Deliberation on the areas of‘nest housing’/housing Subcommittee 2 Executive welfare/housing business/sales compensation Formation of the Board of Directors Green Development 3 Non-Executive Deliberation on the areas of green city/industrial The board of directors is the supreme decision-making organization that votes Subcommittee 2 Executive economy/construction technology for major management policies, and LH has pursued sustainability management through the transparent and independent operation of the 2 Non-executive Audits on the organization’ s operation Audit Committee 1 Executive and accounting board of directors. The board of directors consists of seven executive directors and eight non-executive directors, and by appointing a senior non-executive director to the role of chairman, the chairman of the board of directors and the head of organization are separated. In addition, non-executive directors Operation of the BOD(Board of Directors) comprise more than half of the board of directors. As a result, major decisions across all the corporate areas such as the economy, environment, and society LH holds regular BOD meetings(monthly) and temporary BOD meetings, and are made through checks and balances to the management in a manner to thereby deliberates and make decisions on the agendas specified in legislations maximize the benefits of all stakeholders. or the articles of association, as well as important agendas about corporate management. For these activities, a BOD operational procedure is drawn up. [ Formation of the Board of Directors ] ( as of December 31, 2011 ) [ Operational Procedure of the BOD ] Area of Category Name Current Position Gender Expertise Ji-Song Lee President M Young-Jin Kim Executive auditor M Seong-Sik Gang Vice President M Executive Jeung-Soo, Seong Head of the green city division M Seong-Phil Cho Head of the housing welfare division M LH Sustainability Report 2012 LH is strengthening the roles of the BOD(board of directors) as part of the Strengthening Management Consultation & Support Activities measures to achieve the normalization of management early. For the facilitation Non-executive directors are participating in management activities across of the deliberation function in the BOD(Board of Directors), we are making efforts various areas including the recommendation of executives, legal consultation, to run the BOD more soundly, including our newly set goal to host over 13 annual media contribution, legal/financial audit, and onsite management supports. LH BOD meetings. In 2011, a total of 14 BOD meetings were held including 3 plans to further strengthen non-executive roles ahead in order to best utilize temporary meetings. Revised resolutions also increased to 6 cases, up 5 cases their expertise by each field from the previous year, accounting for 21.4% of total resolutions. [ Performance of Non-executive Directors ] [ Outcome of the BOD meetings ] Category Content Time Category Unit 2009 2010 2011 (Oct. ~Dec.) Disposal Review on Iincheon Nonhyeon mass Review 2010. 3 No. of BOD meetings No. of times 4 13 15 energy facilities Committee % of Preliminary Deliberation % 46 26 32 Executives The members of the executives recommendation Recommendation committee participate and appoint executives 2011. 5/7/8 Revised Resolutions No.ofcases 1 1 6 Committee from specialized fields % of attendance % 91.1 96.4 93.6 Consultation on regulation enactment for 2010. 9 Ratio of statements of the emergency management committee % 40.3 40.4 58.8 Legal Consultation in relation to the IHP 2011. 4 non-executive directors Consultation (Integrated Housing Plan) participation Consultation on the reflection of detailed rules into 2011. 6 the revision of personnel regulations Strengthening the Role & Utilizing the Expertise of 「LH, should preserve the loss of unprofitable 2010. 9 Media national projects?」(Seoul Newspaper) Non-executive Directors Contribution 「Media contribution on the Naju Innovative 2011.11 City」(Kukmin Ilbo) Constitution of Non-executive Directors by the Area of Expertise. Legal/Financia Participate as audit committee members 2011. 11/12 l Audit Non-executive directors are composed of the experts with expertise and experience in management/administration, accounting, law, technology, Visit the Sejong Multifunctional Administration City 2010. 2 Enhancement in Visit the rental complex of Pangyo New City 2010. 5 society, and media. LH is performing the role of enhancing management understanding of Visit the Gwangju Innovative City in Jeonnam 2010. 6 efficiency and management checks through experts’consultation on major governmental Visit the Jinju Pyeongeo Nest Housing District 2010.11 management issues. projects through Visit the Euwang Cheongye National Rental Complex 2011. 3 onsite visits 2011.12 Visit the Gyeongnam Innovative City A Support System for Non-executive Directors. LH is supporting the early management engagement of nonexecutive directors by [ Performance of Non-executive Management Consultation ] providing newly appointed nonexecutive directors with information such as the organization’ s current status and issues. Also, through arranging the meetings Category 2009 2010 2011 with departments and visits to regional head offices or onsite projects, LH is raising understanding about our operations. In addition, various on/offline Management consultation by 2 2 2 channels are operated for the provision of management information, thereby non-executive directors(no. of times) laying the groundwork for the use of their expertise. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Risk Management Risk Management System Crisis Management System Risk Management Guidelines Crisis Management Guidelines LH is operating the‘Risk Management Guidelines’that is established to realize LH is managing risks by separating the concept of risk from the concept of sustainability management by enhancing our risk management ability and crisis. According to the‘Risk Management Guidelines’, a‘crisis’is an event management stability. LH has defined‘risk’as all threats, uncertainties, or that can cause serious damage to LH’s management activities and image lost opportunities that hinder the achievement of goals. Under this definition, while meaning the actualization of a risk. According to this, LH manages crises LH has established a risk management system, and thereby performed by classifying them into 4 different types; management crisis, disaster crisis, activities to prevent the occurrences of risks and manage identified risks at an communication(public relations) crisis, and conflict crisis. acceptable level. [ LH Crisis Types ] Risk Management Organization Having the risk management committee as a decision making body, the CEO established a total risk management team that is in full charge of LH’s risks and corresponding support activities. In addition, in each department, a staff member is appointed to be responsible for risk management as well as expected to manage risks on a constant alert and react promptly when risks occur. In the event of risk management, each departmental staff in charge of risk management, the total risk management team, and the risk management committee share important issues and form a close collaboration. Risk Management Process Risk management is performed in a loop structure of risk identification, risk evaluation, risk response, risk monitoring, and risk re-identification. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Crisis Management Organization Crisis Management Activities by Phase LH’s crisis management organization is composed of the risk management Crisis management activities are carried out by classifying them into committee, the crisis response headquarters that is an emergency response prevention, preparation, response, and recovery. At the termination of a crisis, body, the total crisis management team, task forces, and other subsidiary LH performs post-crisis management, and thereby derives the evaluation and organizations. improvement directions on due crisis management activities and reflects them The crisis response headquarters performs the comprehensive roles of in future crisis management activities. analyzing crisis situations that LH faces, preparing crisis response measures, and monitoring the responses to crisis situations. The task forces provide detailed crisis-related information and perform tasks to respond to the crises that are finally confirmed by the committee. Subsidiary organizations provide the total risk management team and task forces with the cooperation or support related to crisis management activities. In the event of a crisis, the task forces engage in activities to react to it within their own work scope. Response Strategy by Crisis Alert Levels For systematic crisis management, the first phase is to determine whether a potential sign of crisis falls into the criteria for crisis management. Then, its crisis alert level should be classified into one of attention(Blue), caution(Yellow), warning(Orange), and seriousness(Red), and then generate respective crisis management activities. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Stakeholder Engagement LH Stakeholders LH has consolidated cooperative ties with stakeholders by paying attention to their voices in order to fulfill our social responsibility as a public corporation under the belief that sustainability management is identical with the management of stakeholders. LH classified our stakeholders that substantially influence the organization’s management activities economically, environmentally, and socially into 6 types; customers, the country’s citizens, the government/municipal governments, local communities, and corporate partners. According to this classification, LH has operated various communication platforms from smartphones to physical contact in order to create a wide network of relationships with our stakeholders. By paying attention to the precious opinions of stakeholders, LH will further consolidate our foundation for sustainability management. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Materiality Test The materiality test is a method employed to derive the issues of high interest among stakeholders and use them to classify the priorities of various issues. LH derived major sustainability management issues through the analysis of management strategies and current status, participation of stakeholders, media analysis, and benchmarking. Such issues were applied to the evaluation of materiality through the analysis of influence on the organization and the interest levels of stakeholders. This report focused on reporting the major issues identified through the materiality test. In particular, the participation of stakeholders covered interviews with three external experts in the areas of the economy, environment, and society, as well as a survey of internal and external stakeholders involving 786 respondents(from February to March, 2012, internal 690 and external 96 stakeholders). The research results were included in the DMA of each part. The results of the survey and interviews are planned to be applied to our operations, in line with the major projects and management directions that LH is to develop for the future. LAND HAPPY Economy A happy tomorrow that DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Management Principle LH has performed public projects such as housing construction and supply, urban improvement, national land development, and housing welfare. By effectively carrying out such projects, LH will stabilize the housing market, provide the low income class with advanced housing welfare services, and raise social added values by a happy living environment created through the effective utilization of the national land. Based on such efforts, LH will not only perform our public roles, but also lay the foundation for future growth through financial stability. Key Performance Category Unit 2010 2011 Construction of‘Nest Housing’ Ten thousand 13.1 9.9 Effective National (based on business approval) units Land Management & Supply of Rental One thousand 56 40 National Housing units Housing Stabilization Supply of Public ㎢ 14.5 15.6 Housing Sites Increase in KRW 17 6 Management Financial Debts trillion Innovation KRW Decrease in Costs 1.2 3.6 trillion R&D KRW 258 266 Investment 100 million R&D Execution of R&D No. of 97 121 Stakeholder Survey Internal and external stakeholders who participated in this survey highly appreciated LH’s efforts on financial soundness & securing profitability and business restructuring & management innovation. On the other hand, they evaluated that LH needs more efforts on the creation of future new growth engines and financial soundness & securing profitability. Indeed, financial soundness & securing profitability turned out to be the area that generated both a good evaluation and the demand for improvement, which indicates a keen interest in this area from both inside and outside the organization. LH will do our best to ease public concerns and enhance the synergy of integration through the tangible results derived from the activities of intensive restructuring and management innovation, which have been carried out since our integration. Areas Areas for of Good Improvement Performance Interview “ Based on LH’ s long-established technical expertise and knowhow, I expect LH to take a leading role in overseas expansion and restoring the order of the domestic construction industry.” LH is a representative public corporation that has led Korea’s land and housing development businesses. This corporation owns outstanding technologies and knowhow parallel to its long history. With its business development methods where all practices are subject to the cautious decision making process of‘looking to the end’, and its knowhow based on contractor management, training capability, and architectural planning expertise obtained from a long experience in project proceedings with small and medium construction companies, LH is leading the country’s construction industry. As the country’s largest construction player and a public corporation, the roles expected for LH are as Ji-Hwan Gang follows: First, it is fundamental for it to faithfully perform governmental policy projects such as‘nest Director of Daewoo Construction housing’, and now, LH should strengthen its efforts on the expansion of its business scope through (Onsite construction manager of the overseas entries. In particular, LH’s overseas expansion will not only take it a step closer to its vision of Gangnam Nest Housing) becoming a‘top-class land and housing service company’ , but will also create larger effects of enabling Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Effective National Land Management & National Housing Stabilization Introduction of LH Business Divisions LH has four main business areas. Firstly, we operate housing construction/rental housing management/customized housing welfare businesses for the home ownership of low-income non-homeowners and the improvement of housing quality for the socially underprivileged. Secondly, we run housing site/Sejong businesses to create national housing spaces and urban environments. Thirdly, and fourthly, we operate industrial & distribution complexes/the Kaesong Industrial Complex/free economic zones /overseas development businesses, and land banking/national land informatization businesses in order to strengthen national competitiveness and create jobs. Since the establishment of Korea Housing Corporation in 1962 and Korea Land Corporation in 1979, the two corporations have contributed to housing stabilization and the expansion of social safety nets for the low-income class through the construction of 2,354 housing units by 2011. In addition, they had developed and supplied land in a total area of 1070 ㎢ thereby playing an the integration of the two corporations as a momentum, LH has been able to comprehensively implement national policies at the national land management level, by liaising between the businesses of housing construction & urban development and land development & management. Through such efforts, LH is striving to further contribute to the nation’s economic development. [ Major Operations & Roles ] [ Development Status by Business Area ] LH Sustainability Report 2012 Realization of the Dreams and Hopes for Housing Stabilization & Housing Quality Improvement House Ownership ‘ Nest Housing’ for People of Low Income Concept of‘Nest Housing’ Housing Construction Business Nest housing is a key housing policy, indicating the housing type that the public sector constructs/ purchases and supplies in cities or the vicinity of cities such In order to resolve the housing problems of non-homeowners and the lowas greenbelts. In fact, it is a comprehensive concept that encompasses small income class, the government established its basic housing policy direction as and medium installment-sale housing and rental housing. the prompt construction and supply of quality housing in the vicinity of cities and has carried forward the plan to supply 1.5 million‘nest housing’units from Housing Types 2009 to 2018. Installment-sale Public installment-sale Public installment-sale housing The government is supplying various types of rental housing, such as permanent leases, national leases, 10-year leases, and long-term leases, as Public lease in Public lease(10-year) installment payment well as small and medium installment sales (85㎡or below). Through Lease reasonable pricing, the government has eased housing burdens for people of Long-term lease(20-year) Long-term lease housing low-income and facilitated the home ownership of non-homeowners. Long-term lease National lease (30-year) (30-year or longer) Permanent lease Permanent leases are supplied at 30% of their market value and national leases are at 55~83% of their market value. In addition, 10-year leases, longIn addition, nest housing is the consumer-centric housing that the public sector term deposit-based rental housing leases, or installment-sale leases are swiftly supplies in various types in urban outskirts, which fulfill consumer supplied at the C-level of their respective market values. demands by income level or residential type. This goes beyond the former supplier-centric concept where suppliers unilaterally provided housing in certain parts of the Seoul metropolitan area. [ Development by Business Area ] Supplier-centric Housing Policies Consumer-centric Housing Policies Category Development Sprawl development of urban outskirts Infill development within cities Stabilizing the supply of‘nest housing’ Ease of tenant burdens(Increased ‘Nest Housing’ Ill-preparation for tenant burdens Diversifying the methods for development projects low-interest financial support) Construction and improving business feasibility Supplier-centric supply systems Customized supply (advance reservation system) Developing various small & medium housing floor plans Housing Design & Rental housing-centric supply Customized supply (various rental housing types) and energy-saving eco-friendly housing Planning Improving the design quality of public housing Advantage of Nest Housing Strengthening customer-oriented land-housing It is a comprehensive consumer-oriented housing policy that enables the Housing Sale integrated marketing country’s citizens to reside in their choice of house in their choice of location at & Supply Efforts for system improvement to form reasonable reasonable prices. installment-sale prices and a stable housing market Technology Development/ Efforts to strengthen eco-friendly technology capacity Quality Improvement/ Establishing collaboration systems for mutual growth Construction Management Preparation for efficient construction support systems Even amid our financial setbacks, LH has continuously expanded the‘nest housing’for the low-income bracket in order to stabilize their housing conditions. Even in 2001, LH supplied 58% of our total housing units in rental form and 59% in small-sized form. On the other hand, LH has faithfully fulfilled our role by supplying various forms of housing by income level or Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Creation of Settlement Space & Urban Environments Housing Welfare Business Urban/Housing Site Development Business The purpose of this business is to stabilize housing conditions for the lowThe purpose of this business is to resolve the shortage of housing sites in income class by supplying more affordable housing prices than market values urban areas, promote the stable housing market, and improve residential and improving residential environments in order to ensure the minimum qualities through the creation of well-planned and systematic cities. Under residential quality that our society members deserve. In order to enhance such various purposes as the balanced supply and demand of housing sites, workplace-residence accessibility and supply housing at low rental fees, LH stabilization of housing market, and expansion of the housing base for people has continuously executed purchased housing lease and deposit-based rental of low-income, LH has continuously created housing sites and cities. housing lease projects. [ Development Status by Business Area ] [ Development Content by Business Area ] Category Development Status Category Development Content Dissolve/develop greenbelt zones to prevent thoughtless development in urban ‘Nest Housing’ outskirts and urban sprawl, and create a residential base in the vicinity of cities Supply customized rental housing of various types Realize governmental support for the stable supply of purchased & Demolish and develop an 78.8㎢ area of greenbelt with low preservatory Converted values in Seoul Metropolitan Area from 2009 to 2018 housing leases Support housing Zones Currently developing 13 nest housing zones in an area of 36.9㎢ Expand the supply of rental housing for residential support for stabilization for college students from low-income households Currently developing 29 nest housing conversion zones in an area of 37.1㎢ the socially Improve systems to expand beneficiaries underprivileged Improve the residential environment of private housing for people Create new cities in a total area of over 3.3 million ㎡ through resolving the overcof low-income (Remodeling of homeowners’housing, implementing the rowding and congestion of large cities and supplying a large volume of housing ‘happy house’project) 1st phase: developed a 50.2㎢ area in Bundang, Ilsan, Pyeongchon, New Cities Various promotional activities suited to customer needs Sanbon, and Joongdong (1989 ~ 1996) 2nd phase: currently developing 17 districts in an 120.9㎢ area in Rental housing Advanced rental housing operation systems in preparation for Dongtan2, Wirye, etc. supply & 1 million units of rental housing management/ Operate welfare support programs for lowincome new residents Develop according to regional demands for the balanced supply and Improve the residential environment of outdated rental housing Development of Operation demand of housing sites and the construction of national rental housing Housing Sites & for the low-income National Rental Currently developing 40 housing site zones in an area of 45.9㎢ and 18 As explained above, LH has set up the supply and operation systems for Complexes national rental complexes in an area of 16.9㎢ customized rental housing and constructed rental housing for the socially Create various multifunctional city environments such as residential, underprivileged as the major development directions for our housing City commercial, industrial, distributional, and cultural welfare business. Development Developing 21 districts in an area of 23.2㎢ [ Major Operations & Roles ] In line with the government’s policy direction to realize green growth through the creation of eco-friendly and low-carbon green cities, LH’s business direction for urban and housing site developments has been steered into building high-quality green settlement systems to enhance the quality of life. LH has strived to provide the measures to embody green cities by each planning element, which suit the conditions of respective project zones. Such efforts include applying urban disaster prevention designs in preparation for abnormal climates, suggesting a green city model in the resources recycling type by building a water recycling system, establishing a transportation system centered on public transport for the creation of low-carbon green cities, and LH Sustainability Report 2012 Balanced Regional Development Business Urban Revitalization Business The purpose of this business is to resolve overpopulation in the Seoul This business aims to improve poor urban residential areas, renovate metropolitan area through a balance in national development and promote outdated and defective buildings, recover urban functions, and secure win-win developments between the Seoul metropolitan area and provinces housing spaces for people of lowincome. through the ease of regional imbalance. According to this purpose, LH has According to the residential conditions of the urban poor in terms of dense carried out the Sejong City and innovative city construction projects, as well as habitation/infra facilities, various projects are being performed, including comprehensive regional development projects. residential housing improvement, redevelopment, reconstruction, urban environmental improvement, and wide-area rearrangement. ● Sejong City The Sejong City development project, which is underway according to the [ Development Status by Business Area ] Happy City Construction Special Legislation, develops a city that can accommodate 500,000 residents in an area of 72.91㎢ from 2005 to 2030, with Category Development Status an investment of KRW 15.1 trillion. This project is fully focusing its capacity on Improve the residential environment of collective residential areas for urban the relocation of administrative institutions and the support for new residents Improvement of low-income areas, which are characteristic of extremely poor infra facilities to move-in. In addition, the project is putting forth efforts for the early Residential and densely gathered old/defective buildings. facilitation of Sejong City and the creation of the environmental conditions for Environments Currently operating in full charge of tenement housing methods Completed 83 zones since the 1990 Incheon detention center project early settlement. Improve the residential environment of built-up areas including poor infra [ Performance of the Sejong City Development Project ] (Unit :KRW billion) Redevelopment facilities and old/defective buildings. Completed 5 zones since the 1985 Daegu Dongsanproject Improve the residential environment of built-up areas consisting of Reconstruction old/defective buildings while infra facilities are fine. Completed 5 zones since the 1999 Seongnam Hadaewon project. Improve the urban environment of commercial/industrial areas in case they Improvement of require efficient land utilization, the recovery of urban functions in urban Urban centers or sub-centers, or the revitalization of commercial districts. Environments Completed 4 zones since 1983. Improve urban residential environments and functions through the ‘development after planning’method at the wide-area level in order to ● Innovative Cities Wide-Area resolve the urban sprawl and imbalance from small improvement projects Improvement Designated as the comprehensive project manager in 24 zones out of The innovative city project that commenced in March, 2007 is currently nationwide 75 renewal promotion zones. underway in total 9 zones including Ulsan, Gangwon, and Chungbuk, with a total development area of 34.0㎢ and a project cost of KRW 11.6 trillion. According to the government’s strong will to carry this project forward, LH has [ Performance of Urban Revitalization Projects ] (Unit: units) established and operated a speedy project implementation strategy. Out of 86 public institutions in the list of relocation, 72 institutions had been relocated by 2011. In this way, LH has contributed to urban revitalization and fuelled the early facilitation of innovative cities through private investment. [ Performance of the Innovative City Project ] (Unit :KRW billion) Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Strengthening National Competitiveness Industrial and Economic Support Business This business aims to prepare a foundation for economic development through the creation of competitive industrial infra, strengthen regional competitiveness through the expansion of wide-area based facilities and the Laying a foundation for support for national policy projects, as well as strengthen industrial economic development through competitiveness through the facilitation of investments. Under such purposes, LH is making progress on the creation of industrial/distribution/R&D the creation of the complexes, development of free economic zones, and the Kaesong Industrial Gunsan National Industrial Complex Complex and overseas projects. [ Development Status by Business Area ] Category Development Status Established an industry-university-institute collaboration system and collectively installed comprehensive residential/commercial support Industrial facilities according to comprehensive plans Complex Completed 51 complexes since the 1977 Sooncheon Industrial Complex while currently developing 22 complexes Smoothly supply distribution facility sites for reasonable Distributi placement/operation on Complex Completed 6 complexes and currently developing 1(Ojeong, Bucheon) complex since the Gwangju Poongam project. Landscape of the Gunsan National Industrial Complex Facilitate foreign investment through the improvement of business LH ’ s Role Free environments for foreign investment companies and foreigners’ living conditions In order to raise the efficiency of land utilization in a small-sized country like Economic Zone Korea and lay a foundation for the nation’ s economic development, it is Have developed 10 zones(1 completed, 4 underway, 5 new) in an area of 50㎢ since the 2003 Cheongra project necessary to establish an industrial location policy, and thereby secure spaces for industrial production and relevant activities. Aiming at the smooth supply of industrial sites, reasonable allocation of Provide small and medium companies with a production base industries, balanced national land development, the facilitation of continued Inter-Korean through the benefit of North Korea’s low wages industrial development, and the harmony between industrial sites and Economic Win-win economic revitalization projects by combining South Korea’ s environments, LH has contributed to the national economy by undertaking Corporati on capital/technology and North Korea’ s land/labor force through the industrial complex development projects. Business first inter-Korean large-scale investment. (Kaesong Developd 3.3 million ㎡ as the first phase (2002.12 ~ 2007.12, KRW Industrial 267.6 billion) Gunsan National Industrial Complex Complex) Decision pending on progressing the second phase (4.95 million ㎡) in The Gunsan Industrial Complex was created in an area of 13,702,000㎡ liaise with the government’s policy (4,145,000 pyeong) in Soryong-dong, Gunsan, Jeollabuk-do during 1988 to 1994 as a large marine industrial complex. The main purpose of this complex was to accommodate a new industrial site in response to the Pacific Era and the Serve as a bridge for the overseas entries of private companies based advanced industrial society. Overseas on abundant experience in new city construction and public confidence This complex has contributed to the facilitation of local development as well as Business Newly developing or currently undertaking 11 projects in 9 countries the economic revitalization of the country’ s central region along with the LH Sustainability Report 2012 Other Major Businesses Land Banking & Management Business The purpose of this business is to keep the balance of supply and demand for lands and support governmental policies by securing and managing various purposes of lands in advance, which require future utilization and development for public purposes. The current status of such businesses now underway is as follows: Category Content & Status Supply lands necessary for public services smoothly and promote the stability of the land market Enacted‘The Public Land Banking Legislation’in February 6, 2009 Land Bank Designated and approved 24 projects with a total cost of KRW 2 trillion by 2011 SOC projects including roads and industrial complex banking Purchase/bank lands to use directly for public services, or sell or lease to end users General Land Managed the land consisting of 615 lots and 7.5㎢, worth KRW 632.3 billion as of the end of 2011 Engage in the trustee business for land purchases and management in development-susceptible areas and environmental conservation regions to curb the pressure for greenbelt development and greenbelt destruction Greenbelt Land Purchased lands are used for the development projects for leisure or substitute green spaces Purchased 1,103 lots with a total area of 19㎢ at KRW 376 billion and managed as a trustee agent from 2004 to the end of 2011 Trustee business in managing and purchasing the lands that are under the special accounting standards applied to wide-area/region developments Land under wide-area specific accounting Have sold a 3.8㎢ area at KRW 704.8 billion since 1994 Managing lands consisting of 53 lots and 56,000㎡, worth KRW 28.3 billion as of the end of 2011 Purchase of the Former Real Estates of Facilitate the provincial relocations of public institutions through the purchase of their former real estates Year 2010 : Signed a purchase contract with the Korean National Police University Relocated Institutions Year 2011 : Signed a purchase contract with the Legal Research & Training Institute Support for the Government and Private Companies & Other Businesses LH is performing or supporting various governmental policy projects related to land and housing businesses. The projects that are currently underway are as below. Category Project Name Content & Status Yeosu Expo The development project for the site and accommodation facilities for the Expo 2012 Yeosu Korea The US Military Base The construction project for the relocation of the Yongsan US military base to Pyeongtaek Relocation Project The Four Major Rivers Support governmental policies in terms of compensatory trustee, spoil treatment, and the development Restoration Project of other affiliated businesses Government Support National land informatization Expand/operate national space information infra and support national land/housing/urban policies Project Certify eco-friendly buildings, approve housing performances, certify BF(Barrier Free), approve the performance of Certification, approval, floor impact sound insulation structures, and evaluate energy efficiency ratings and ecofriendly housing performances research support Support national-level R&D projects (U-Eco City, urban revitalization research projects, etc) Among national or municipal public projects, engage as a trustee agent in compensation and project implementation Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Management Innovation Background LH had faced strong demand for the normalization of management due to aggravated management conditions from an early period since our foundation. To resolve this, LH newly opened an office for the financial improvement special committee under the direct control of the CEO in October 2008, and at the same time, with the resolve of‘changing all but our mission’ , embarked on the establishment of the measures to achieve management normalization early. With the determination that the only means of survival is a painful but thorough management reform, LH announced the‘Management Normalization Plan’in December 2009, which included special measures to heighten management efficiency. Since then, by fulfilling 110 practical tasks over 7 areas, LH reached a turning point to grow into a sustainable company. [ Management Environment at Establishment ] [ Implementation Steps of Management Normalization ] Management Normalization Plan [ Detailed Implementation Plans ] LH Sustainability Report 2012 Improvement of the Financial Structure Internal Reform LH is putting forth our efforts to enhance financial stability and improve LH has been fueling internal management reforms through the sacrifice business efficiency by performing top 110 management normalization and pain of our organizational members under their active participation. tasks after setting up our financial goals in line with LH’s medium and long-term plans. Clearance of Redundant Workforce In order to ease the organizational burden and impact from temporary Efforts for Corporate-level Sales & Liquidity Securing restructuring, LH had reduced a total of 872 employees by 2011 through special honorary or voluntary retirements, the career transfer to Kamco, Major Implementations Quantitative Outcome regular retirement, or dismissal at one’s own request. LH plans an Sale Sale through the reform of medium-sized tenement housing sites KRW 1.4 trillion additional reduction of 283 employees by 2012 in order to resolve the Growth problem of the excessive workforce through stepwise implementation. Early sale of the relocation sites of public institutions within‘innovative cities’ KRW 408.6 billion KRW 3.3trillion Successful installment-sale of the first village in the Sejong City KRW 1.89 trillion Sales of housings sites scheduled to be self-constructed to the private sector KRW 430.7 billion Promotion by Selection Constant project cost reduction through management investment reviews KRW 487.9 billion LH carried out large-scale promotions including 130 people in 2010 and 140 Downscaling high-cost & low-efficiency facilities such as automatic clean-nets KRW 584.0 billion people in 2011 through our seven-phase personnel verification system. Cost Reduction Appropriate spending on arterial facility costs KRW 2,527.1 billion Through these unprecedented personnel changes, LH has renewed our KRW Cost reduction by increasing the efficiency of tasks related to cultural assets KRW 118.6 billion human resources structure and promoted next-generation leaders. 4.1trillion Reduction in project costs through design VE and contract reviews KRW 300.0 billion 10% reduction in operating costs KRW 124.1 billion Organizational Efficiency Issuance of land profit linked bonds KRW 1.15 trillion LH placed 57% of our total workforce into onsite project teams, Securing accomplishing the sweeping reorganization into the responsible Issuance of rental housing ABS KRW 1 trillion Liquidity KRW Issuance of overseas bonds KRW 450.3 billion management system based on each project site. By providing the transfer of 3.1trillion Early redemption of bonds and refunding issuance KRW 510.0 billion authority and managerial responsibility to such reorganized and reinforced onsite project teams, we executed the onsite-centered and task-centered organizational restructuring that enables the onsite project teams to independently carry out the whole process of their projects, from land Business Restructuring compensation to sales. [ Status of Organizational Efficiency ] Enhance investment efficiency through rescheduling such as the adjustment Zones in of the construction completion ratio and schedules according to demands Progress and collection potential Category Content (276 zones) The investment timing for the project budgets of KRW 15.4 trillion that had been concentrated on the period of 2010 to 2013 was deferred to after 2014 Slimming down 6 directors 4 divisions 41 teams/centers the headquarters (1 division up, 4 teams/centers down) Slimming down the office Projects were adjusted in terms of timing, stepwise proceeding, scale, Organizational reduction 40% (20 teams, 58 departments) workforce in regional method, and the projects are carried out sequentially according to Staff reduction 46% (1,481 people) New Zones headquarters financial conditions after taking into account policy-related importance (138 zones) Of KRW 143 trillion, project budget reduction KRW 68 trillion and Expansion of project teams: 37 → 60 (23 teams up) Strengthening project budget deference KRW 38 trillion 57% of total workforce, 3,750 employees are assigned onsite project teams (Headquarters 21%, Regional Headquarters 22%, Onsite 57%) Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Cost Reduction Adjustment of Business Functions Cost Reduction Measures by Project Stage Adjustment Directions for Business Functions LH has reestablished our project implementation phases into a total of 6 LH has adjusted business functions according to our newly proposed future phases that cover planning, compensation, construction, supply development directions since the corporate integration. According to the three management, asset management, and completed construction zone directions, which are enhancing financial stability, maintaining public interest, management. According to this, LH is pursuing improvement in profitability by and been reorganized. stepwise cost reduction measures. [ Cost Reduction Measures by Phase ] Reengineering Organizational Tasks According to Functional Adjustment Following the adjustment of business functions, the reengineering of organizational tasks have been implemented. As a result, five business functions including the collective energy business and PF business have already been closed down or are being removed. [ Reengineering Directions for Organizational Tasks ] Reduction of Land Acquisition Costs LH identified excessive compensation as one of the causes for corporate deficits. As a result, we declared the year 2011 as‘the first year for the realization of fair compensation’in February 2011 through a management meeting hosted by the CEO. This meeting reviewed the current status of compensation practices and the overall compensation system, including the evaluation standards that the Board of Audit and Inspection applied to the audit results on compensation practices, relocation measures, and compensation-related speculations. In addition, the meeting addressed the necessary elements to improve the current compensation system. According to this, LH comprehensively revised related Adjustment of Business Functions guidelines by project phase in a bid to realize fair FRP which are the response to LH has maximized cash flows through the collection of land prices worth speculation, cost reduction, and transparent management, LH has laid the base for about KRW 225 billion in the alpha-dome city project in Pangyo, Seongnam cost reduction at the phase of land compensation. and the sales of collective energy facilities. In addition, we are further improving our financial structure by collecting investment capital through the Reduction of Construction Costs liquidation of six banking lease companies that we invested in. LH established the measures to minimize design changes and improved the [ Expected Effects from Business Functions ] operational and management systems on preproject processes, thereby preventing cost increases due to frequent design changes. In addition, by LH Sustainability Report 2012 Expense Reduction Performance of Management Normalization Improvement for the Operational Structure of Budget LH marked a turning point in improving our financial structure by practicing Formulation strong management normalization measures. With this momentum, we are witnessing positive signals, such as a dramatic slowdown in debt increase To organize budgets more reasonably, LH has established and operated rates, increased turnover and current net income, and improved sales and budget formulation and execution control systems that strengthen the payment collection. In addition, through a new legal provision that guarantees review function. The basic direction of budget formulation is to comply the recovery of the loss from governmental policy projects, the expansion of with governmental guidelines, including the successful implementation the loss recovery business, as well as turning borrowings from the of policy projects, securing financial soundness, and managing labor government including funds into junior convertible bonds, LH’ s bonds are in costs. Under these directions, LH has made efforts to heighten fact being recognized as non-risk assets at the level of government bonds. management efficiency and minimize waste elements. This has consequently enabled our smoother financing. [ Operational Framework of Budget Formulation ] [ Pace of Debt Increase ] ( Unit : KRW trillion) Upward Adjustment and Fulfillment of Cost Reduction Goal For austerity management, LH adjusted our cost reduction goal upward from 11.5% in 2010 to 12% in 2011, and fulfilled this goal by removing waste elements through our efforts such as the inspection of actual spending conditions. This is the result of drawing effective budget cuts by removing waste elements of expendable costs as much as possible, flexibly adjusting business implementation costs, and removing duplicate elements in sales activity costs such as integrated advertising. [ Profitability Indicator ] Expanded Budget Reduction through Design-Build Bids In 2011, LH increased budget reduction effects by integrating our budget management through unifying the individual onsite purchase method into the central control of a department in full charge of the function in the headquarters. [ Content of Budget Reduction ] Category Former Improvement Reduction Car Rental KRW 4.2 billion KRW 3.1 billion △ KRW 1.1 billion Car Insurance KRW 103 million KRW 65 million △ KRW 38 million [ Sales Recovery Performance ] Rental Housing KRW 2.9 billion KRW 2.4 billion △ KRW 0.5 billion Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix R&D Establishment of Medium and Long-term R&D Plans R&D Vision LH has established a medium and long-term R&D master plan to build up a sustainability management system. In addition to this, under the goal of fostering LH’ s affiliated R&D institute‘LHI (Land and Housing Institute)’into one of the world’s top 10 institutes, LH has declared an R&D vision called‘Global Top Leader as Innovator & Creator’. The medium and long-term R&D plan was directed to establish an advanced and goal-oriented R&D plan that can improve LH’ s management conditions, create future growth engines, effectively respond to the changes in management environments and technological demands, in link with LH’s long-term strategy management plan. It can also help establish practical plans to guarantee the capability of R&D execution based on R&D resources and capacity, as well as build up a feedback system. This plan also includes R&D strategies to embody LH’s vision, a stepwise roadmap, and lower-level practical plans. R&D Strategic Directions & Position LHI reviewed four strategic directions by conducting an analysis of internal and external environments and the benchmarking of top R&D institutes. Based on this, LHI set our future position and strategic directions. First, two strategic directions were reviewed: corporate affiliation-oriented(market-oriented) vs. government policy-oriented(public interest-oriented) and LH strategy support(current business-centered) vs. LH strategy leading(future-centered). As a result, to overcome LH’s financial crisis, in the short term, LHI is directed to establish its base for existence based on the efforts to strengthen our role and function as the support of current business and a corporate affiliated R&D institute. However, in the long term, LH is directed to strengthen R&D to secure future growth engines and lead governmental policies. In addition, through the review of two strategic directions of follower vs. leader and inner-directed vs. open, LHI established the plan to make the leap to become the country’s best as well as the world’s best comprehensive land and housing R&D institute by the means of pursuing followerstyle/inner-directed R&D while strengthening leader-style/open R&D in the consideration of LH’s limitedness in resources and inner capacity. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Roadmap for Medium and Long-term Technology Development In order to accomplish our vision ‘Global Top Leader as Innovator & Creator’, LH set the goal to grow into the country’s best R&D institute by 2016 and the world’s best R&D institute by 2022 by passing through three phases: the foundation building phase(2011~ 2012), takeoff phase(2013 ~ 2014), and settlement phase(2015 ~ 2016). According to this goal. LH is building up a strategic R&D proceeding system, evaluating the performance of the stepwise proceeding, and revising and compensating for medium and long-term R&D plans every three years. R&D Organizational Structure LHI is facilitating collaborative researches by installing an exclusive R&D center for hybrid strategic projects apart from R&D divisions in order to LHI is composed of an R&D assistance office, a R&D planning office, three perform hybrid R&D projects effectively. Its research team is formed by R&D offices (eight R&D groups), two national policy project (R&D) groups, temporarily dispatching R&D staff from their own R&D divisions according to and a corporate university (education assistance office, professor office). hybrid R&D project periods. In addition, LHI is operating its R&D evaluation The R&D offices are operated in a mixed type of project organization and system by separating the criteria into hybrid projects and original projects, matrix organization based on the organizations formed by research area which is in the consideration of the level of difficulty involved in hybrid projects and function. that typically require the collaboration of various specialized fields, as well as the need for the hybrid research operation. [ LHI Organizational Structure ] [ Cooperative R&D Structure ] Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix R&D Areas R&D Workforce LHI is performing R&D in a total of 8 areas: strategy management, national LHI has a total of 93 staff members as of the end of 2011, with 26% of them land/land policy, housing policy, urban planning/renewal, housing engaged in policy management, 40% in planning design, and 34% in planning/design, construction technology, national/urban infra technology, construction technology. LHI estimated the M·M (Man·Month) and manpower and environment/energy. necessary for the implementation of the LH medium and long-term R&D plan once it is completed. As a result, between 2011 and 2013, 3,334M·M and 168 members were revealed to be in excess and deficiency respectively, compared with the existing workforce. In the short-term, LH will continue to optimally utilize the existing workforce in light of our ongoing restructuring efforts under the management plan. In the long term, however, in order to smoothly execute the medium and long-term R&D plan, LH is planning to resolve the deficiency of human resources by efficiently utilizing the existing workforce, strengthening the networking and collaborative research with external R&D institutes, and enhancing the productivity of the R&D workforce. From 2012, LH is scheduled to supplement new R&D personnel by reestimating the medium and long-term necessary workforce and identifying insufficient workforce by each R&D area. R&D Investment LH invested KRW 25.8 billion in 2010 and KRW 26.6 billion in 2011 in R&D. LHI now faces an urgent need to expand not only R&D budgets, but also R&D infra that spans human resources and facilities in order to make a leap to become a worldrenowned R&D institute in the housing and urban research area. As for the investment in humans resources, LH plans to substitute the improvement of productivity in the light of current financial conditions. For the investment in R&D costs and facilities, LH is scheduled to carry out stepwise expansion from 2012 in line with the progress of the company’ s management performance. [ R&D Investment ] LH Sustainability Report 2012 R&D Information System R&D Performance LHI has progressed the sweeping innovation of its control and management As a corporate affiliated R&D institute, LHI needs to perform R&D projects system for the efficiency of R&D and its management. As part of it, LHI has aimed at supporting actual businesses. In a good balance with this, LHI is been building up a R&D management information system based on also required to promote the R&D activities that create new future growth PI(Process Innovation). The is engines through the improvement of research performance. As a result, LHI scheduled to be complete in has evaluated and managed its R&D performance based on the four criteria: September, 2012. As a result, R&D projects, commercialization, intellectual property rights, and LH is expected to make all R&D internal/external presentation. activities computerized and efficient. [ Performance of R&D Tasks ] (Unit: no.of cases) Category 2010 2011 Own Projects 54 72 Commissioned Projects 30 34 Strategic Projects 13 15 (Total) 97 121 A Screen of R&D Management Information System Building [ Performance of Commercialization ] (Unit: no.of cases) Category 2010 2011 Selection Process for R&D Projects Policy Support 351 205 LHI has prepared and operated a selection procedure for R&D projects. This is Utilization in actual business 273 643 designed to enhance organization and efficiency in the course of selecting R&D Institutional Improvement 110 142 projects in order to discover the R&D projects that respond to the changes in internal and external management conditions. (Total) 734 990 Regular projects mean the projects carried out for 6 months or longer after selecting them through an annual R&D project contest. Such projects are screened by going through a series of processes including a project contest, [ Registration of Intellectual Property Rights ] (Unit: no.of cases) project selection, and R&D team selection. In order to derive timely R&D projects by paying attention to actual business issues and difficulties, LHI is Category 2010 2011 making a presentation tour through the actual business divisions, and as an Patents 27 20 effort to increase fairness, it is also operating a selection committee for regular projects, which also includes external experts. Designs 7 2 Trademarks 46 2 [ Selection Procedure for Regular Projects ] Copyrights 5 5 Programs 2 4 Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Economic Performance Creation & Distribution of Economic Values LH is distributing the economic values created from our business activities to shareholders in various forms such as tax payment, job creation, contribution to local communities, and win-win cooperation with corporate partners. (Unit : KRW 100 million) Category Content 2010 2011 Economic Values Created Turnover 131,606 152,600 Shareholders Dividend 624 Government Corporate Income Tax 9 Employees Salary & Welfare 5,429 5,620 Local Communities Local Tax & Investment for Social Contribution 2,898 2,521 Corporate Partners Construction Costs 118,108 103,395 Surplus Economic Values 5,171 40,431 Local Tax : Residence tax based on corporate tax criteria & Land property tax Surplus Economic Values : Economic values created minus the values distributed to stakeholders Indirect Economic Contribution Expansion of Social Overhead Capital(SOC) within Regions. LH has also led in the creation of SOC incidental to housing construction and city creation. By 2010, LH had constructed roads that are 13 times the Gyeongbu Express in length, created 2,461 parks that comprise 16.5% of national urban parks, and developed green fields, 1.9 times the area of Yeouido. With such efforts, LH has contributed to the expansion of regional infra facilities. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Management Performance Summary Balance Sheet (Unit: KRW 100 million) Sales by Business Area (Unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2010 2011 Category 2010 2011 Current Assets 853,800 922,496 Land Business 59,692 76,379 Assets Fixed Assets 624,987 662,234 Housing Business 62,002 65,219 Total Assets 1,478,787 1,584,730 Housing Welfare 6,438 7,499 Current Liabilities 302,127 341,089 Incidental Business 3,474 3,503 Liabilities Fixed Liabilities 913,138 964,623 (Total) 131,606 152,600 Total Liabilities 1,215,265 1,305,712 Capital 216,400 224,139 Equity Other 47,122 54,880 Major Financial Indicators (Unit : %) Total Capital 263,522 279,019 Category 2010 2011 Growth Sales growth rate 16.0 Indicator Net income growth rate 55.0 Summary Income Statement (Unit : KRW 100 million) Return on assets 0.3 0.5 Profitability Category 2010 2011 Indicator Return on equity 1.9 2.8 Sales 131,606 152,600 Current ratio 282.6 270.5 Cost of goods sold 124,106 137,315 Stability Debt ratio 461.2 468.0 Gross profit on sales 7,500 15,285 Indicator Equity ratio 17.8 17.6 Other profit 12,168 8,332 Productivity Gross-value added to tot Selling & administrative ex pense 3,998 4,387 3.5 4.0 Indicator al assets Other expense 5,412 6,140 Since 2010, IFRS has been applied to produce financial statements, therefore, Other income(loss) 328 (168) the 2010 growth indicator is omitted for calculation is not possible. Operating profit 10,587 12,921 Financial income 3,544 4,446 Financial cost 8,137 5,861 Loss related to affiliated companies (268) (223) under the equipty method Net income before deducting HAPPY Environment We are unfolding a green tomorrow DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Management Principle LH is making efforts to take the lead in green growth in the construction field by implementing the construction of green cities and energysaving eco-friendly houses, the development of renewable energy technologies, and the introduction of green construction materials. Through such efforts, LH aims to become a leader in the era of new technologies by continuously promoting green management in order to have green growth and green technologies permeate into every bit of the national land, cities, and housing environments. Key Performance Category Unit 2010 2011 Scale KRW million 505 976 Eco-Friendly R&D R&D projects No. of cases 10 11 Electricity 276.6 247.2 Heating 28.6 21.8 Energy TJ City Gas 45.7 36.6 Fossil Fuels 48.1 24.2 Water Supply 177,140 180,317 tons Water Recycling Water 12,682 10,422 Stakeholder Survey LH is making efforts to take the lead in green growth in the construction field by implementing the construction of green cities and energysaving eco-friendly houses, the development of renewable energy technologies, and the introduction of green construction materials. Through such efforts, LH aims to become a leader in the era of new technologies by continuously promoting green management in order to have green growth and green technologies permeate into every bit of the national land, cities, and housing environments. Areas Areas for of Good Improvement Performance Interview “We need to develop and implement the business areas that promise win-win growth, reasonably reconcile conflicts in the course of development, expand the use of renewable energy, establish eco-friendly construction plans that consider LCA(Life Cycle Assessment), and practice the protection and management of the natural environment in the consideration of regional characteristics.” LH is actively carrying out environmental management activities such as the development of Korean-style green homes, the establishment of carbon emission inventories for green cities, and CDM businesses. However, it will take time for industry players to produce tangible outcomes in the green growth field, and therefore, preparations will be required in many aspects . First of all, we will be required to develop and implement the businesses that enable win-win growth and reestablish guidelines to suit regional characteristics, such as the development of CDM businesses. In addition, Moon-Hyeong Lee certain elements should be actively reflected from the phase of the creation of a complex, which include the CEO of the Environmental Impact creation of water-paths or wind-paths, and the design of an eco-friendly transport system. Assessment Association(IIAA) In addition, in the LCA that spans construction, operation, and disposal, we will be required to establish an ecofriendly construction plan that minimizes energy use and waste matters. My further expectation is that we realize the protection and management of the natural environment, which considers the characteristics of individual project zones by preparing the most suitable project plan for the protection and management of representative wildlife in each development zone, and actively carrying out promotional and educational Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Environmental Management System Green Growth Strategy Green Growth Implementation Strategies In order to achieve the national greenhouse gas reduction plan and generate future growth engines, LH has established a vision‘leading green growth through the construction of the word’s best green cities and housing’along with the top 4 strategies and top 10 implementation tasks. Based on the above, LH is carrying forward the management activities for green growth, where, since 2010, we have selected and spontaneously performed 31 lower-level practical tasks and 60 unit tasks including green cities and eco-friendly housing. By building such an implementation structure, LH has enhanced a corporate-level awareness for green growth and generated synergy, such as the prevention of duplicate investments and the formation of a departmental collaboration system, through an integrated green growth management under the operation of the green growth implementation committee. LH will take an active leadership role in implementing the government’s green growth policies, including the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the city and housing areas. Life Cycle Assessment LH is reflecting green elements into our whole business processes through the LCA(Life Cycle Assessment). We secure new growth engines through eco-friendly R&D activities and minimize environmental damages through the business plans that consider the environment. In the design phase, we apply eco-friendly design guidelines as well as high energy-efficiency designs. In addition, we are expanding onsite management by bolstering the environmental education for onsite supervisors and collecting the data about onsite environment management. LH is also pursuing eco-friendly operations of housing and land through the management of tenement housing environment infra and the expanded creation of green spaces and natural-form streams. In addition, LH is carrying out ecofriendly corporate operations through the environmental education for employees and the creation of green offices. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Implementation Organization Implementation Directions LH has set up a decision making structure for green growth projects and Establishment and Implementation of the operated a green growth implementation committee. Through the Foundation for Green Growth committee meetings, LH has deliberated on major green agendas and developed new green projects. In 2011, LH hosted our second green growth LH is set to strengthen our standing as a globally competitive, leading ecoimplementation committee meeting and deliberated on major green friendly player by establishing a green growth management system. We will projects. develop, manage, evaluate, and implement the practical tasks to fulfill the vision and strategies for green growth. LH is green cities and housing. [ Organizational Structure for Green Growth ] Realization of Energy-Saving Eco-friendly Housing LH aims to bring about energy saving and improve customer satisfaction in the housing market by expanding the construction of low-cost and eco-friendly housing. For this, LH is planning to construct the nest housing districts into ecofriendly housing complexes designed for low energy spending. In addition, we are committed to continuously progressing the installation of renewable energy in rental housing and green home(an eco-friendly housing model developed by reflecting the natural environment including the climate) businesses, thereby realizing energy welfare for the low-income class. In addition, we are determined to actively expand the adoption of green construction materials and green technologies that are obtained through our idea contests for green construction materials and green homes. Fueling Green Growth through Expanded Green City Construction [ Performance of the Green Growth Implementation Committee ] LH plans to construct cities that respond to climate change along with the efforts to reduce urban green gas emissions future policy projects. We are Deliberation Agendas scheduled to cut 30% of urban green gas emissions by 2010. In order to Confirmed the implementation plan for the 2010 green growth achieve this goal, we are going to apply carbon emission inventories 2010 established for green cities to urban planning, and also expand green model practical tasks (1st meeting) Energy saving ratios for the nest housing(2nd / 3rd) cities. In addition, we are going to create global-level green cities that are safe from the threat of climate change by such efforts as building a climate Confirmed the implementation plan for the 2011 green growth practical tasks change forecast system. 2011 Reported quarterly implementation performances under each (2nd meeting) practical task Energy saving ratios for the nest housing Increasing the policy support and promotion for Reported green projects (10 cases) including Green Growth In order to support the policies and promotional activities for green growth, LH plans to actively state our views by participating in the research activities related to the enactment of the legislations and guidelines with large effects Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Eco-Friendly R&D Eco-Friendly R&D Areas LH is carrying out eco-friendly R&D across our entire business areas and [ Directions for Environmental and Energy R&D ] performing joint R&D projects with specialized R&D institutes in order to maximize our R&D outcomes. LH has set our environmental development of technologies that minimize carbon emissions and offer a safe and pleasant housing environment by applying resources recycling systems, eco-friendly construction, energy efficiency, and renewable energy. LH is fuelling our R&D activities by forming them into three subareas: green technology, civil engineering technology, and energy independence technology. [ Environmental and Energy R&D Areas ] Eco-Friendly R&D Status LH is conducting various environmental R&D activities. As examples, LH has derived reasonable grounds for the overall issues related to green growth, such as environmental impact evaluation and eco-friendly material development. In addition, we have researched the measures to apply facade greening to tenement housing for the purpose of effective and efficient operations, and also developed low-carbon green city models and ecological stream water securing technologies in line with eco-friendly green growth. From 2010 to 2011, we embarked on a total of 21 R&D projects and examined the designs and improvement measures for green cities and energy-saving houses. Our eco-friendly R&D investment budgets increased a notable 93% from KRW 505 million in 2010 to KRW 976 million in 2011. We are going to spur eco-friendly technology developments ahead through continuous investment and R&D efforts. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Major R&D Performances Establishment of Carbon Emission Inventories & Development of Low-Cost and Eco-Friendly Future Development of an Analysis Program Urban Housing In order to realize the national greenhouse gas reduction target(30% of the LH plans to cut house acquisition and maintenance costs through the year 2020 emission forecast), LH is required to focus our reduction efforts development of low-cost and eco-friendly housing models, and move on cities that account for a substantial portion of greenhouse gas emissions. forward to ultimately accomplish energy efficiency. For such efforts, our need to set carbon reduction targets and quantify In 2011, LH developed a boiler-integration and smart energy management carbon emissions is also rising. system, as well as urban micro housing models for 1 to 2-person LH has established the green city carbon emission inventories that households that are expected to create a large demand in the future. In quantitatively estimate and catalogue carbon emissions by each element on addition, we have established and applied differentiated renewable energy green cities, and worked on the development of an analysis program for the application measures by classifying design grades according to the wide-purpose utilization of the inventories. For the 25 months from characteristics of individual project zones. November 2009 to December 2011, 10 workshops involving internal and external experts and joint discussions with our R&D staff were held. Based [ Boiler Integration Smart System ] on their outcome, LH has mapped out green city models through the Heating establishment of carbon emission inventories and researched the CDM Boiler Heating Thermostat commercialization measures for green cities. As a result, LH has developed Hot Water Supply Boiler an analysis program for green city carbon emissions for the first time in the Heating Multi-household Heating Multi-household Hot Water Supply urban development area. Multi-household Communal Boiler Heating System Heating supply by one boiler and distributor [ Development Steps for the Green City Carbon Emission Analysis Program ] Multi-household Communal Boiler Hot Water Supply System Hot water supply by sharing among 15-30 multihouseholds Smart Meter System based on the Sharing of Energy Use Gauge heating consumption through the heat flow meter Gauge hot water consumption through the flow meter Development of Technologies that Respond to Climate Change In this way, LH is now able to estimate city-level carbon emissions and LH developed a distributed rainwater management system, which is a analyze economic feasibility. Our program is a web-based analysis green design element that responds to climate change, such as the program, which, therefore, enables us to quantify carbon emissions by each prevention of urban floods from the heavy rains that occur due to climate green element and suggest carbon reduction targets by each project zone. change. This ultimately helps us contribute to strengthening our executive power to The distributed rainwater management system is a new concept of the construct green cities. In addition, we have laid a platform to progress new rainwater management system that restores water circulation through the CDM businesses, such as the discovery of CDM business elements that are maximum permeation and retention of rainwater within cities, using applicable to green cities for the acquisition of carbon credits. vegetated waterways, infiltration collectors, and so on. This system is also a specialized disaster-proof design system that increases preventive effects [ Green City Carbon Analysis Program ] with reduced rainwater leakage. In addition, the system reduces heat waves, for example, through the reduction of non-point solution sources Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Eco-Friendly Green Materials Contest LH has run an annual eco-friendly green materials contest since 2009 in order to develop green materials with high-efficiency and new technology, which are necessary for the development of green cities and the construction of eco-friendly housing. Applicants should be the manufacturers equipped with the capacity to manufacture and supply actual products in five construction criteria: civil engineering, architecture, machinery, electricity & communication, and landscaping. In our third green materials contest, a total of 31 green items were entered. Out of them, 11 cases came from the electricity & communication sectors and 7 cases were from the machinery sector. Among them, a high-efficiency/fixed-pressure/forward wind-direction ventilator, high-efficiency gearless winding machine for elevators, and Biogro-11 won first prizes. We have applied those high-quality award-winning products on a trial basis in order to improve the qualities of LH’s green cities and eco-friendly houses. In 2010, we applied a digital thermo valve energy-saving control device, the 2009 grand prize winner, on a trial basis to the Chuncheon’s Janghak district. In 2011, an LED emergency exit light, the 2010 grand prize winner, was applied on a trial basis to the Seoul’s Gangnam A1 block(public installment-sale with 809 households), which generated a 90% higher energy saving effect compared with florescent lighting. LH seeks to fuel the development of green technologies and develop relevant industries through this contest, and also plans to continuously build a foundation for the application of green materials through the exhibitions, promotions and trial-based applications of award-winning green materials. In addition, we are committed to the quality improvement of green cities and eco-friendly housing by utilizing green materials, and to the enhancement of our corporate image as a green enterprise. [ The 2nd Eco-Friendly Green Materials Contest: Grand Prize ] [ The 2nd Eco-Friendly Green Materials Contest: First Prizes ] High-Efficiency LED Emergency Exit Light Gearless Winding Machine High-efficiency Ventilator Biogro-11 Rainwater Tank THE Green Hall LH opened THE Green Hall to introduce the characteristics of the nest housing policy and the current status of our nest housing project districts. This is done by offering a venue where people can experience the demonstration of the nest housing’s energy-saving performance and daily-life green technologies such as renewable energy. LH is experimenting with eco-friendly housing elements in THE Green Hall by employing various techniques. We are also shortening the verification time for eco-friendly housing elements by proving them in advance before the start of a project in the identical conditions with an actual housing environment, thereby minimizing environmental risks that could occur in the actual course of housing construction. In addition, THE Green Hall not only generates a learning effect through the experience of renewable energy (the assembly of solar photovoltaic toys) with the children in local children’s centers during vacation, but also engages in social contribution activities such as nurturing the mind to appreciate the environment. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Business Planning with Environmental Consideration LH Green City With global warming and abnormal climates, urban natural disasters are We are also planning a model city with the TOD(Transit-Oriented also on the rise, elevating the need for urban development according to the Development) concept, which is adjacent to the subway and built with a green planning that prepares for climate change. In this context, LH has circulation network. In the Dongtan 2nd district(October, 2011), a new established a master plan for green city pilot projects and defined 3E Korean-style total bicycle system was reflected and the plan to adopt the (Economy, Environment, Energy) and 5+1G(Green urban structure, Green KTX and GTX multi-use transfer facilities was set up. energy, Green transport system, Green construction, Green industry + Green living) as our green city concepts. We have also been reflecting these into our Realizing Resources-Recycling Green Cities through business planning for the creation of low-carbon green cities. the Water Recycling System [ LH Green City 3E, 5+1G ] ILH is responding to climate change by establishing a resources-recycling green city plan through the restoration of a water circulation system. We designed and began the construction of a distributed rainwater management system in the Asan’s Tangjeong district, while establishing it as a standard model for the green cities under distributed rainwater management. In addition, we have set up a sustainable waterfront plan in the Wyrie district by connecting the reservoir and infiltration facilities with the human ring(green network). [ Distributed Rainwater System The Asan’s Tangjeong District] ] Roadway Sidewalk Green Transition Canal Rainwater Pipe Street Inlet Introduction of Specialized Green Planning Elements by Project Zone The Cross-Section of the Installment of a Rainwater Infiltration Facility on Roads Sidewalk Sidewalk Sidewalk Establishment of Low-Carbon Green Cities through the Transport System centered on Public Transport Infiltration Infiltration Rainwater Rainwater LH plans to expand low-carbon regions by planning the cities that are Retainer Retainer equipped with a transport system that offers convenient public transit. As Infiltration part of this, LH established a transport plan to introduce the BRT(Bus Rapid Trench Transit) system in the Paju’s Woonjung district. Through the design that enables access to Seoul within 20 minutes, LH expects to increase the utilization ratio of public transport in the Woonjung district. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Environmental Impact Evaluation Standards for Eco-friendly Location Selection Environmental Impact Evaluation LH is managing the information about the country’s ecology and ecological Once the execution of a development project is confirmed through a prior diversity including environmental conservation areas and the degree of environmental effects review, the approval of the execution plan is green naturality through our space information utilization system. By deliberated through the ‘Environmental Impact Evaluation’ that reviews the utilizing such information in the selection process of potential development appropriateness of the reduction measures on environmental impacts zones, we are preserving the areas of high ecological values by separating according to project execution. LH conducted environmental impact them from our development target zones. evaluations on a total of 13 project zones(an area of 29,561,000m2) including According to relevant procedures, we designated an area of 27,451,000m2 in the Guri’s Gaelmae nest housing district from 2010 to 2011. The 2010 and 2,025,000m2 in 2011 as our development zones and are now environmental impact evaluation is carried out based on the ‘Environmental progressing their projects. Impact Assessment Act’. [ Process of Environmental Impact Evaluation ] Prior Environmental Review LH reviews the suitability of our developments through the environmental damages caused by development projects. These zones, endangered species and wildlife sanctuaries, or the habitats for migratory birds, the economic effects of the respective project zones are reviewed while different standards are applied according to the sizes of individual zones. [ Major Review Items in Prior Environmental Review ] Compliance with Environmental Goals Compliance with global environmental trends/agreements/regulations. ❶ Compliance with the Montreal Protocol, the Climatic Change Convention, the Convention on Biologic al Diversity, the Ramsar Convention, and the Migratory Birds Protection Test Compliance with national environmental standards/plans ❷ Compliance with national environmental plans and policies, the total air pollutant load management s ystem, and the total water pollutant load management plan Compliance with regional environmental standards/plans Reflection of regional environmental standards/plans, ❸ respective various ordinances (environm ental preservation ordinance, green Appropriate preservation ordinance, natural scenery preservation ordinance) ness of Soundness and sustainability Plans Soundness of environmental plans ❶ Consideration of the national ecological soundness and a balance between environment and development Compliance with sustainability ❷ Consideration and reflection of sustainable development Consistency Vertical consistency ❶ Consistent planning between upper and lower administrative plans Connectivity with other administrative plans ❷ Connectivity and consistency with other administrative plans LH Sustainability Report 2012 Eco-Friendly Design Establishment of Eco-friendly Housing Planning Development of Korean-style Green Homes Establishment of the Nest Housing Energy Saving Targets Korean-style Green Homes LH has raised our targets of energy saving rates for the nest housing districts In our development progress, LH places an emphasis on low-energy ecoin order to take a leading role in the government’s eco-friendly housing friendly housing(green homes) construction to realize low-carbon green policies. In addition, in response to the need for the planning standards that growth. Green homes mean a low-energy eco-friendly housing type that help fulfill energy saving targets while minimizing cost increases, LH has minimizes the uses of the energy for heating/cooling and lighting and fossil established the design standards that optimize energy saving. fuels, and instead, adopts various state-of-the-art and advanced types of Through the green growth implementation committee, LH set the energy energy. saving target for the installment-sale nest housing districts at 25%, which is The Korean-style green homes present an eco-friendly housing model that a maximum 5%P upward adjustment on the official standards. As a result, reflects the country’s climates and natural environment. Such houses utilize we managed to cut maintenance costs including energy costs in 2011. For renewable energies that generate power with a minimized leakage of their the same year, the annual average cuts in maintenance costs were indoor energy. LH is taking the lead in responding to future climate changes expected to be KRW 110,000 per rental housing unit with an exclusive use through the development and distribution of the Korean-style green homes. area of 26 , and KRW 348,000 per installmentsale housing unit with an exclusive use area of 84 . [ Conceptual Map of Green Homes ] [ Reduction of Maintenance Costs, including Energy costs (2011) ] (Unit: KRW 1,OOO) Establishment of the Planning Standards for Energy Saving Rates LH established the steps to establish the planning standards for energy Development of Model Complexes saving rates. Based on the steps, for the planning standards to optimize LH is planning to develop the model complexes of Korean-style green installment-sale districts, LH first applied the methods that produce high homes in the three blocks accommodating 210 households in the Gangnam energy loss rates and minimize cost inputs. A7BL district in order to facilitate the supply of energy-saving eco-friendly housing, and verify their energy saving efficiency. [ Process of Establishing the Energy Saving Design Standard ] LH is also poised to save over 60% of energy loads per unit area by applying energy saving technologies. Such technologies are largely divided into Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Eco-Friendly Onsite Management Saving & Recycling Raw Materials Prevention of Water Pollution In the construction to create certain sites such as those for housing In order to minimize the impacts of development projects on streams or development and especially, in the reconstruction or redevelopment sites water intakes, LH is installing sewage advanced treatment and non-point that tend to involve demolishing work, a large amount of construction pollution source control facilities. In addition, we are preventing stream wastes are generated, such as waste concrete, waste asphalt and concrete, pollution through efforts such as the installation of a settling basin. waste synthetic resins, and waste woods. In the viewpoint of resources saving and preservation, LH is putting forth our efforts on the minimization of environmental impacts through the recycling of such construction wastes Noise, Vibration, and Dust Management back into construction materials. In order to minimize the noise, vibration, and dust in project sites, LH is applying various reduction measures. These include using low-noise and low-vibration techniques, installing temporary soundproof walls, operating Recycling Technology for Concrete wheel wash/car wash facilities, operating sprinkler trucks, placing traffic Wastes guards, installing dust-proof nets, and implementing speed restriction. In particular, LH has effectively managed noise-related civil complaints, which account for most of the environment-concerned civil complaints, through a noise projection program that has been applied onsite since 2009. As part of our efforts to cultivate an eco-friendly construction culture through the recycling of construction wastes, LH developed a waste concrete recycling technology. Construction wastes in various project sites are on the steady increase with Energy Saving concrete wastes accounting for the two-thirds of total construction materials. The waste concrete recycl ing technology that LH LH is promoting energy saving by carrying out various activities in project developed enables the sites, which span turning off unused power supplies, maintaining overall recycling of waste appropriate heating and cooling temperatures, carpooling, using highconcrete by encompassing grade energy efficiency products, and preventing the idle rotation of the recycled fine aggregates production technology and vehicles. the waste concrete’s powder content recycling [ Energy Saving Measures within Project Zones ] technology. For the development of this waste Category Content concrete recycling technology, LH received the Korea Certification of building energy efficiency ratings Concrete Institute TechnEnergy Efficiency Building automatic control systems ology Award in 2011. Improvement Heating-purpose thermostats The Korea Concrete Institute & High-efficiency certified equipment and materials Technology Award Equipment High-efficiency motors Installation Motor inverters Balancing valves Heat Recovery High-efficiency waste heat recovery ventilation devices Preservation of Wildlife Habitats & Prevention & Utilization Waste water and heat recovery using heat pumps of Soil Pollution LH Sustainability Report 2012 Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Leadership in Reactions to Climate Change through Implementation of the Program CDM Business CDM Businesses LH is progressing the registration of our tenement housing photovoltaic and In February 2009, LH registered the renewable energy project(photovoltaic, solar heat distribution projects as program CDM business. Unlike existing solar heat) in the Pyeongtaek’s Sosabeol district in the UNFCCC as CDM one-time CDM businesses, the program CDM business first requires the business, which was the world’s first event as a housing site development registration of a project method, which is followed by the sequential district. Through this, LH laid a foundation for the acquisition of registrations of individual projects that are under the same method over a CERs(certified emission reductions) worth a volume of 96,000 tons over the maximum 28-year period. next 21 years. [ Conceptual Map of the Program CDM Business ] In this way, the system enables the registration projects, but also the individual tenement housing photovoltaic and solar heat projects of affiliated institutions and private companies. Therefore, this system is likely to Apartments Using Solar Energy eventually provide the momentum to facilitate the country’s CDM businesses in the construction industry. In addition, in December 2011, LH registered our national lease photovoltaic distribution project in the UNFCCC as a CDM business, which was Korea’s first for tenement housing. The National lease photovoltaic distribution Securing CERs project is a photovoltaic power generation facility project with a scale of LH is planning to develop and expand various renewable energy projects, 2,876kW, which is targeted at 22,096 national rental housing units across including photovoltaic power, solar heat, fuel cells, small-sized wind power, the nationwide 36 districts and financed by governmental(The Ministry of and geothermal power, in the manner of reinvesting the profits derived from Knowledge and Economy) and LH budgets. The purpose of this project is to our CDM businesses in the renewable energy R&D area. In addition, by realize the energy welfare of the low-income class by electricity saving registering reduced greenhouse emissions as CDM businesses and through the distribution of renewable energies. This project is expected to creating new profits through the acquisition of CERs, LH is set to inject new cut down about a 24,000 tones of greenhouse gas emissions over the next fuels into our renewable energy businesses, and thereby enhance the 10 years, an effect equivalent to the planting of 820,000 pine trees(20-yearcorporation’s image as a leading green growth player. old, the central region). [ Emissions of CERs ] Reduction of Occurrence Period Category CO2 Reduction of CERs Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Eco-Friendly Operation Operation & Management of Eco-Friendly Housing Operation of Green Offices Performance of Eco-Friendly Housing Construction Reduction of Energy Use Since 2006, LH has constructed 55,951 eco-friendly housing units that LH is actively putting the ‘Public Institution Energy Rationalization applied renewable energies. In particular, the performance of eco-friendly Implementation Guidelines’ into practice. We are making it a way of life to housing construction since our integration accounts for more than half of use LED lighting fixtures, as well as high-efficiency office equipment and our total housing construction performance. In other words, LH’s ecoelectrical appliances in our headquarters and each regional headquarters. friendly housing construction comprised 52% of the total 108,000 housing We maintain our indoor temperatures at 28°C or above in the summer and units that we have built during the given period. 18°C or below in the winter, and operate elevators in a way to stop on every This indicates that in terms of the output of eco-friendly housing other floor. Besides, in order to reduce energy consumption in practical construction, LH is the best domestic eco-friendly housing construction terms, we have prepared and practiced detailed measures on energyplayer. LH is planning to annually extend the eco-friendly housing units that saving activities. These include limiting the hours of operation in ventilation apply renewable energies. facilities and adjusting the hours of lighting on outdoor lights. In addition, LH includes energy-related education or events in job training [ The Performances of Eco-Friendly Housing programs, such as the training of new employees. LH also encourages our Construction with the Application of Renewable Energies ] (Unit:KRW 1,000) employees to change their attitudes and behavior patterns in the direction to support energy saving by facilitating their participation in the training Category 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total programs or events held by external organizations Construction For the period of 2010 and 2011, the total energy consumption of our Units 2,962 4,307 5,627 10,911 13,803 18,341 55,951 headquarters building and annex as well as our regional headquarters buildings was recorded at 728.84 TJ. Specifically, in light of the characteristics of the energy types in our use, carbon dioxide emissions [ LH vs. Institutions and Private Companies in indirectly generated from the use of electricity accounted for 72.4% of our Eco-Friendly Housing Construction ] (Unit:KRW 1,000) total greenhouse gas emissions. Category 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total National [ Energy Consumption ] ( Unit : TJ) 6 7 10 19 29 37 108 Total LH 3 4 6 11 14 18 56(52%) Active Tenement Housing Environment Management LH is striving to reduce environmental impacts from housing facilities and offer pleasant residential environments to residents by managing environmental infra facilities such as the sewage treatment and underground water lifting facilities in tenement housing in accordance with legal standards. LH is actively carrying out environment management activities. Every year, LH analyzes quarterly environment management conditions by drawing up an environmental preservation basic plan on environmental infra facilities, and frequently instructs on the operation and management of such facilities LH Sustainability Report 2012 Facilitating Communication on the Environment Saving Water Use Employee Environmental Education About 6.4% (annual average 11,000 tons) of LH’s total water consumption LH is continuously running environment-related education programs in (annual average 10,000 tons) are resourced by recycling water, which are order to spread the internal awareness of green growth and strengthen the used for toilet bowls, urinals, and landscaping water. From 2010 to 2011, the professional capacity of our employees. total water consumption in our headquarters and regional headquarters Including annual workshops on environmental impact evaluations, we are amounted to 357,000 tons. conducting various types of environmental education through internal The sewage from our headquarters and regional headquarters is treated by programs such as domestic short-term commissioned education, education respective regional sewage disposal plants, erasing the concerns about the on specialized technologies, and practical licensing courses. In addition, we environmental damage from sewage. are fully supporting our employees to enroll in external education programs such as the courses for environmental qualification certificates. Further to [ Water Consumption ] this, in 2012, we are scheduled to open and run a ‘green growth practical business course’ as part of our corporate job training. Green Certification System In order to live up to the government’s low-carbon green growth policy, LH is undertaking government-commissioned certification(approval) businesses including the certifications of eco-friendly buildings, housing performance ratings, barrier-free (BF) living environments, and building energy efficiency ratings, as well as the evaluation of eco-friendly housing performances. Moreover, in recognition of the growing climate change and energy crisis, we are contributing to the establishment of a paradigm that converts housing, cities, and the national land into green environments and the stable operation of the green certification system. We are also fully dedicated to our leading role as a public corporation to expand the distribution of green buildings. Additionally, we are actively promoting the promotion and spread of the green certification system through the creation of a homepage for the operation of the systems such as eco-friendly building certification and building energy efficiency ratings. Green Purchases LH considers the environmental effects of purchased items by priority when we purchase products such as office supplies, electronic and information equipment, as well as construction materials. In addition, we are gradually expanding the purchase ratios of eco-friendly products. In 2011, our total purchase value of eco-friendly products recorded KRW 8.43 billion, up 39.9% on the previous year. In 2011, in case we need to Green Certification White Paper Energy Efficiency Rating Homepage replace outdated electronic equipment (copy machine, notebook computer, printer), we purchased 90% of the replacement items with green products. HAPPY Society Putting to practice our principles DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Management Principle As a public corporation responsible for the foundation of our economy, from stabilization of the living conditions of the working class to development of our land, LH is committee to fulfilling its social obligations to create a culture of mutual growth, to realize a fair society, to create jobs, and to promote a culture of sharing with our clean and transparent management. We aim to become a public corporation widely supported by the people of Korea with our management that satisfies both internal and external customers. Key Performance Category Unit 2010 2011 Ethical Management Total Integrity Points 8.90 8.94 Number of Young Interns Hired People 282 439 Percentage of Female Employees Employees among Regular Positions % 17.0 17.2 Training Hours Per Person Hours 54 55 Customers Customer Satisfaction Rating Top Rating Top Rating Partner Companies Percentage of Purchases from SMEs % 50.9 52.9 Social Enterprise Building Assistance Number of Sites 3 5 People Benefitting from Village Local Communities Community Business People Per Day 120 360 Stakeholder Survey Internal and external stakeholders of LH who participated in the survey responded that LH excelled in ethical management, job creation, and active participation in government policies for economic stimulation. They also responded that LH needs improvement in the areas of transformation of the organization through HR reform and establishment of a win-win relationship between labor and management. LH will continue our efforts toward internal reform to accelerate the effective integration of the organization, and fulfill our role as a public corporation to contribute to the progress of the local community and the country. Areas Areas for of Good Improvement Performance Interview “I hope to see efforts toward a stronger social base through strengthened support for the socially vulnerable and better communication.” As the working organization of Village Community Business, which is one of the main social contribution projects of LH, the Work Together Foundation has been carrying out various projects with LH since 2010. As a new type of community business that offers social and job opportunities, Village Community Business allows residents to transform low-income leased housing into hopeful communities. Various measures have been carried out to enhance the lives of residents, including the operation of after school classes for students, as well as providing meals during vacation time when children don’t receive proper meals away from schools. Three pilot projects were launched in 2010 and five were added in 2011 for a total of eight Village Community Businesses currently in operation throughout the country. Jung Tea-Gil Village Community Business is meaningful not only because it has offered a new model in regional Secretary General of development, but also because it provides a good example of how a public corporation has led their social Work Together Foundation activities based on the nature of their work. In order for LH to promote sustainability as Korea’s leading public corporation and to earn the support and trust of the Korean people, I hope LH will continue to expand projects that support the vulnerable in our society to realize housing welfare, which is one of the founding missions of the company. Moreover, the efforts of LH toward social responsibility and the Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Ethical Management System of Implementation Strategy for Ethical Management Systematic Approach to Ethical Management LH promotes ethical management with the aim, ‘To build a foundation for In order to strengthen the implementation of ethical management, LH has sustainable management through the realization of Clean LH, leading to created a system of ethical management, which will help establish an customer satisfaction.’ To this end, LH has modified and expanded the ethical corporate culture within LH by providing a clear guidance for the implementing infrastructure, as well as discovered and operate code of conduct and standards that all employees must comply with. participation programs to promote awareness. LH hopes that such efforts will help establish a system to correct the corporate culture at LH to [ System of Ethical Standards ] become more clean and transparent and earn the trust of the entire nation. [ Hours of Training Per Person ] Implementing Organizations The Ethical Management Commission is an LH group that reviews and votes on matters related to ethical management, which is chaired by the vice-president of the company. The Ethical Practice Secretariat and Anti-Corruption Working Task Group are affiliated LH groups that establish ethical management agendas and perform evaluations. Ethical management is practiced throughout LH in numerous other ways, including the designation of Clean-up Agents (CA) to lead integrity activities within respective departments, and the operation of special inspection groups and offices (in seven areas, including Seoul and Busan) to prevent corrupt acts from occurring in the first place. Category Subcategory Description Building and Operating Systems Ethical thics Charter Employee Code of Conduct LH has established an ethical management computer system to strengthen standards Ethical guidelines the implementation of ethical management within the company. Our Integrity The Ethical Management Commission The Ethical Practice Secretariat Portal allows employees to report corruption and to share any information or Working organization The Anti-Corruption Working Task Group news about integrity. We are the first public company to offer a voluntary wealth Organization Special inspection groups, Clean-up Agents (CA) reporting system for executive-level employees and a reporting system to and System tIntegrity portal Internal public reporting center eradicate the act of accepting personal favors. Moreover, we have in place an Integrity Corruption reporting center Clean reporting center integrity mileage system to encourage employees’ voluntary participation in Publicize the entire bidding process ethical management, as well as a policy to report outside lectures for pay. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Ethical Management Activities Ethical Management Evaluation and Accomplishments Raising Awareness Evaluation and Diagnosis In order to raise awareness about the need for ethical management and LH implements evaluations and diagnoses to monitor ethical management build consensus, LH provides various forms of integrity and ethics education activities. We carry out independent integrity evaluations to diagnose our to all our employees both on and offline, including cyber integrity training, employees’ level of integrity and ethical awareness, as well as employee the integrity academy, customized ethics training, and special lectures by evaluations of their superiors. We will utilize the results to come up with the CEO. LH endeavors to make ethical management a part of our improvements and reflect them in future activities and strategies for ethical corporate culture through various activities, including holding integrity management in order to establish ethical management as a part of our declaration ceremonies, signing job integrity contracts and integrity pledges, corporate culture. launching the ‘World of Integrity’ campaign to encourage practicing anticorruption in everyday life, and forming Clean Society, a group dedicated to integrity on construction sites that includes contractors. System of Reward and Punishment Employees and departments that are recognized for their excellence in [ Hours of Training Per Person ] (Unit: hour) compliance with ethical management are rewarded with prize money and award certificates, while those that accept bribes are immediately dismissed under the one strike policy. LH also promotes integrity and ethics in all stages of the supply chain with stricter external rules where both the giver and acceptor of a bribe are punished and sanctions are taken against bribe givers to force them out of the site. Our Accomplishments Making Improvements LH’s continuous efforts towards ethical management have been widely recognized. In an integrity rating by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights LH identifies tasks that may possibly become causing factors of corruption Commission, LH marked the biggest increase among public corporations in and makes improvements to the system to maintain consistency with our 2010, and was selected as the top agency in anti-corruption policies in 2011 ethical management to promote transparency and integrity in our business. for the third consecutive year while also being selected as a top agency for In the bid screening area, we implemented the clean screening system that the first time. LH will continue to actively carry out our ethical management completely discloses the entire screening procedure using CCTV and other activities to earn the support of the Korean people. tools. In the construction management area, we also implemented a completely open construction evaluation system that excludes the objective [ Integrity Evaluation by ACRC ] [Unit : point] evaluation elements of the ordering body. Spreading the Word Our ethical management activities are not limited to just within the company, but we utilize various channels to communicate externally as well. We implemented a participatory ombudsman system open to the general public for the transparent monitoring of our work. LH’s CEO mails out letters of integrity to the heads of construction companies to spread a culture free of personal favors. We also publish LH CSR briefs to share our ethical management efforts with stakeholders. We share examples and Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Transparent Management Anti-Corruption Activities Strengthening Prevention LH actively carries out various activities to prevent corruption through the LH Clean Screening System promotion of reporting and strengthening of ethics standards. We have built a reporting system to eradicate the acts of bribery and personal favors that hinder the fair performance of tasks. Moreover, we prohibit the trading of land and housing and require reporting to ensure the prevention of any illegal activities using inside information. After the two corporations were consolidated in 2009 and LH was launched, the LH Clean Screening System was implemented in March 2010 to ensure a [ LH’s Anti-Corruption System ] transparent bidding procedure. Under this system, the entire process starting with selection of screeners is disclosed via CCTV and other tools. Objective Description In order for the Clean Screening System to become more fair and transparent System of Reporting Personal Favors in 2011, we announced the evaluation method for the design in advance that When to report: asking of personal favors or brokering that undermines takes into account the number of bidders. We also made all information Encourage the fair execution of duties related to bid screening available in one place so that it could be accessed reporting Incentive: reporters are deemed to have declined requests and are given more easily. integrity mileage Strengthening of PR: bimonthly pop-up measures informing about internal reporting We opened an Open Screening page within the e-procurement system of LH’s website where all information about bidding is available, including the Drive out Bribe-givers procedure, schedule, and method of screening companies participating in the Provide sanction standards against bribe-givers bidding. On the Knock-Knock page of our website, we added a new function where bidding companies can make inquiries or inform us about any Raise difficulties or complaints regarding the bidding. Since the introduction of this ethical Restrict transactions between the Corporation and Employees system, various rumors surrounding the selection of bidding companies have standards Prohibit business on land and housing to prevent transactions that utilize inside been completely silenced and the system has been regarded as one of the information, and make reporting mandatory best bidding systems. LH is currently working to computerize the scoring process, from the current system where the screener writes the score by hand. The score that the screener inputs will appear on the screen, and the total score will be Prevention of Cash-Related Corruption immediately disclosed once the scores have been entered in the system by all the screeners. The score computerization system will undergo thorough LH prevents corruption of regional indigenous companies by weeding out preparation and will be implemented later this year. In addition, we introduced bribe givers from the site. The newly established Audit Information an objective screening procedure according to a set evaluation chart to Committee provides an analysis and report of regional trends, civil replace the subjective evaluation of the screeners in the lowest bid price system to strengthen the fairness and transparency of the screening process. complaints, and reports of corruption, which is utilized in disciplinary audits. Also, inspection offices have been set up in seven regions nationwide, with As a result of such efforts, 91% out of 70 construction companies who recently nine personnel from the Audit Department working full-time, and the participated in our biddings answered in our survey that they were satisfied number of disciplinary audit personnel has been increased from 6 to 13. with our service. 96% responded positively with regard to fairness, with 69% of the respondents selecting ‘very fair’ and 27% choosing ‘fair.’ Clean Society LH Sustainability Report 2012 Strengthening Internal Control Providing Information Reorganization of the Internal Audit System Announcements LH has created a new system to manage audits and established a five-point LH provides information regarding our business to our customers through auditing strategy’ that reflects the auditing philosophies of all standing our Business Announcement System. We created a separate page within members of the committee. We have identified the future direction and our website for business announcements to disclose information such as challenges of the auditing process through a comprehensive analysis of budgets, account settlements, management plans, executive status, etc. We auditing conditions. We have also set detailed working tasks according to the also provide information through other agencies, such as the ALIO system five-point strategy and have been implementing them in phases. Moreover, of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance and the DART System of Financial we have adjusted the audit plans to reflect the short-term working tasks, and Supervisory Service. We will continue to lead and promote transparent provided an operational foundation for the audit committee. management by providing accurate information. [ Internal Auditing System Working Process ] LH Business Announcement System [ Five-Point Auditing Strategy ] ALIO System Audits to Support Stabilization of the Company In order to achieve timely stabilization of the company, LH has created an appropriate audit portfolio to deploy auditing activities that support a balanced stabilization of the company. A comprehensive audit is implemented regularly at each head office to minimize any auditing blind spots, and we eliminated any inefficiencies and squandering of the budget Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Employees The Right Talent for LH As a company that aims to become a top-tier land and housing service As of 2011, the basic monthly salary of new regular employees was 192.4% provider that creates a place for happy lives, LH seeks talents who create of the legal minimum wage, and there were no wage differences between value, lead changes, and possess professional capacities. To foster talents genders. who meet such requirements, LH manages systematic training programs The turnover rate was 0.8%, which is only half that of 2010 and noticeably to support the capacity building and development of all employees. low compared to other companies in the same industry. LH has reserved a total of KRW 61.1 billion in 2010 and KRW 58.2 billion in 2011 for retired [ LH Employees ] employees. Talents Value Creator Changer Professional for LH Basic Social Responsibility Sense of ownership and responsibility Capacity Customer-Oriented Creative Expertise HRD Foster value Foster leaders who Foster performing Strategy creating talents bring change professionals Capacity Building(General Leadership Job) Self-development Training Foster professionals Career building Current Employment Status Medium to Long-term Plan to Manage the Workforce As of the end of December, 2011, the total number of regular employees at LH is 6,495 (including one head of organization and six executive directors) Since the consolidation, LH hired three new employees in 2010 and six new and the total number of non-regular employees is 992. LH also hired 439 employees in 2011, and LH has been experiencing a shortage in the young interns to contribute to job creation in our society. workforce for our projects. Thus, we are planning to hire 500 new Of the entire regular workforce, women make up 17.2%, and female employees in 2012 by increasing the maximum number allowed. By managers make up 0.8%. LH strictly prohibits any discrimination based on anticipating the changes in the number of projects and the resulting gender in all HR matters. As part of our continuous effort to fill more high demand for the workforce, LH plans to provide a stable foundation for the positions with women and to realize gender equality, LH became the first operation of our business by devising medium to long-term plans to ensure public corporation to appoint an openly-recruited female employee in a topthe effective arrangement of labor resources. grade department head position in 2011. LH also offers greater preferential treatment to the hiring of those [ Plans to Manage the Workforce ] vulnerable in our society, with disabled employees comprising 2.4% of our entire regular workforce. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Fair and Transparent Hiring Better Hiring Process Hiring of Local Talents In order to promote the fairness and efficiency of the hiring process, LH has LH seeks to expand local hiring and to conduct business efficiently by re-established the hiring process model. LH also participates in open job actively utilizing the local workforce of the business regions. fairs for government agencies to secure future talents. The hiring target for local talents in youth interns was set at 50% for 2011, but the actual number exceeded the goal with 53%. We also plan to fill 30% of regular open recruitments with local hires, with regional quotas for high [ Our Improved Hiring System ] school graduates for 2012. Expand Hiring of High School Graduates LH wishes to realize a society of symbiotic development where employees are treated according to their ability instead of academic credentials by hiring more high school graduates and building a model for the hiring, promoting, and fostering of high school graduates. Some standardized tasks of Grade Four and below have been categorized as positions that allow high school graduates, and we have established and institutionalized a hiring model for high school graduates. Moreover, we plan to institutionalize a talent fostering program that allows employees to study while employed in order to foster talents that possess occupational knowledge as well as special expertise. LH Silver Employee System The Silver Employee System that hires able senior citizens over 60 years of age is the first re-employment program for senior citizens adopted by a public corporation. With the shortage in caretakers of leased apartments, the solution was to hire senior citizens who had the ability to work but had difficulty finding re-employment positions. The program was adopted with the Creating Jobs for All Ages idea that the benefits could be three-fold creating jobs for the elderly, filling the shortage of leased apartment caretakers, and enhancing residents’ LH fulfills its role as a leading public corporation in job creation by satisfaction with living conditions. diversifying age demographics in hiring. The 2,000 Silver Employees who were selected in 2010 worked four hours a day for five days a week for a monthly wage of KRW 500,000 at 560 LH leased apartment complexes throughout the country for a six-month period. They performed maintenance checks throughout the complex, looked after households that required special attention, and performed other tasks to support the welfare of the 250,000 residents. Based on this great success, LH is currently recruiting the second group of Silver Employees for the year 2012. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Building a New Corporate Culture Action Model for a New Corporate Culture LH realized the need to diversify our corporate cultural activities for the LH cultivates core values and promotes open communication among internalization of our core values so that the results of organizational employees with the Employee Assistance Program, which provides support consolidation can bring about a new corporate culture for LH. Thus, LH customized to the employees by reflecting the needs of each class. prepared an action plan to build a new corporate culture in 2011. [ 2011 Action Plan for New Corporate Culture ] [ Result of Employee Assistance Program ] Category Name of Program Number of Participants Grade 2 and Workshop for 38 Pairs above Married Couples EAP per Grade 3 Family Camp 451 People class and below Education Camp 198 People Grade 4 and Workshop for Singles 17 below Special Employee Special Training to build Head office, plus Training a great workplace 12 regional offices We also expanded the window of communication among employees by hosting a Discussion Outing with the CEO, Lunch Outing with the CEO, and a socializing outing for employees. Programs to Promote Core Values Education Camp for Children of Employees Lunch Outing with the CEO LH has adopted ‘New Parade Day’ and ‘G-Pee-G-Kee’ as the representative brands of the new corporate culture to encourage the practicing of core Such efforts to create a new corporate culture has been well-received by values. The New Parade Day is an event for organizational harmony, LH employees and is contributing to the building of a relationshiporiented customer satisfaction, and capacity building where employees can share culture. the core values with one another. G-Pee-G-Kee is a program to build ‘a LH Sustainability Report 2012 Fostering Talents Fair Performance Evaluation Talent Fostering Program Performance-based Corporate Culture Since the consolidation, LH realized the need for strengthened hands-on LH ensures fairness in HR management by conducting promotion reviews training to establish site-focused management, and the need to support based on ability and performance for all employees. We have linked ability to sales capacity and responsible management to overcome financial crises. efficiency ratings by reflecting ability for at least 66% in efficiency ratings, LH also saw an increase in the need for customized job training with the and our graduated reward system rewards employees based on the expansion of cross deployment of employees according to their performance of each individual. In 2011, a large-scale promotion was background. Thus, LH has developed various talent fostering programs with carried out based on the ability and performance of employees and first the aim of fostering efficient employees and high performers in each promotions were made in 2012 after next-generation leaders were working area by strengthening and diversifying business assistance, such discovered during the periodic personnel review. as training to enhance customer service and marketing. We have contributed to the productivity of the organization that focuses on customers [ Promotion Review System ] and sites with training in key working areas, and we enhanced on-site utilization with training courses that reflect current issues in management, such as overcoming the financial crisis. Customized Leadership Building Training LH provides leadership training with a systematic curriculum that was designed based on the key abilities required in each position and suitable for each employee’s capacity in order to foster a comprehensive system for acting competently and to enhance more detailed abilities. We provided a foundation to foster leaders by recognizing anew the role of the leader and building capacities, and we optimized the results of training by strengthening the sense of unity with interactive programs and a unity program. [ Customized Training Courses ] Category Program [ Graduated Reward System ] Job Training Courses to support business outcomes, such as thinking about Category Description Courses profit and loss, etc. (243 courses, completed by 3,340 Reflect the results of performance evaluation for the payment of Self-developed Self-developed cyber courses on laws related to employee’ s work Graduated differential salaries (for Grade 1 and 2, graduated rate: Online Courses areas (16 courses, completed by 7,101 employees) Monetary Reward 50% adjustment from normal amount) Key areas such as sales capacity and responsible management, Core Area and Appointment Utilize the employee’s capacity and performance results and working skills for standard contract of overseas construction, Specialized Courses Management as basic information for appointment etc. (139 courses, completed by 1,250 employees) Promotion Reflect the comprehensive efficiency rating [ Result of Employee Training ] Management when selecting candidate for promotion Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Welfare Program Reasonable Welfare Program Balance between Work and Family LH has made improvements to the welfare program according to changes in society LH has adopted a short-term working system (part-time) and a flexible working and government policies. We support employees with multiple children in response system to enhance work productivity by allowing employees to seek balance in to the low fertility rate and increase in childcare costs, and we provide leased their lives between work and family. We hired 33 short-term employees in 2011, company housing with various payment options (one-time deposit or deposit plus and we are revising employment policies to adopt a temporary work hour monthly rentals) in response to the shortage of affordable leased houses. We have system and intensive working hour system. We have also encouraged female also expanded loans for the tuition payments of employees’ children. employees to continue working by increasing the condition of childcare leave to children under eight years of age (as compared to six years of age previously), [ Details of Improvements to Monetary Welfare ] which expands the number of eligible female employees(487) and thereby Category Description promotes better utilization of the female workforce. Payment of gift money for childbirth(KRW 1 million per child) Support Employees [ Welfare Programs for Family-Oriented Management ] with Multiple Children Expand workplace childcare facilities (regional headquarters within capital area) Company Housing with Offer company housing for lease, with either a one-time deposit or Payment Options deposit plus monthly rent Expand Loans for the Tuition In addition to university education, support other specialized of Employees’ Children courses such as vocational training Moreover, we have made improvements to non-monetary welfare programs, such as the internet discount store for employees and graduated selection of medical checkup items. We also resumed the project on work welfare fund which had been discontinued since the consolidation.. [ Improvements to non-monetary Welfare ] Category Description Graduated checkup system within the total reimbursement amount limit choose graduated checkup items within maximum amount of KRW 500,000 for married couples Management of Employee Flu shots at half market price for employees and their families Health Better Accommodations Expand the number of clinics available for medical checkups (13 clinics, as of 2011, 8 months) LH seeks to create a comfortable working environment for our employees by Internet discount mall for employees, where they can purchase various making improvements to our accommodating facilities, such as the office, Other Nongoods at lower prices, including daily necessities monetary restrooms, lounges, and other rest areas, cafeterias, and medical facilities. Welfare Direct operation of company cafeteria (since December 2011) There has been a shortage of lounges for female employees, so we have newly built powder rooms and ondolbangs (rooms with a Korean heating Through our welfare program, we provide an environment where all system) to provide an area of rest and communication for women. We have employees can work with integrity, and it has led to an actual increase in job also made improvements to the showers to make it more sanitary. Moreover, satisfaction. we ensured the cleanliness of all toilets, bidet nozzles, and other surrounding equipments by controlling the spread of germs and keeping them clean, LH Sustainability Report 2012 Advancement of Labor-Management Relations Reaching a Consensus between Labor and Management Resolve Issues through Bidirectional and Upward Since the consolidation, there has been a lack of a communication channel Communication between labor and management due to the continued delay in the LH has build an on-site One Stop complaint processing system (Solution establishment of a joint labor-management conference. Thus LH has 135) to resolve any employee complaints in a timely manner, and promotes created a conference where both labor unions participate which will bring organizational unity and cooperation between labor and management win-win results for all. LH also conducted a company-wide direct vote for a through various channels of communication, including joint on-site patrols labor member of the joint conference, which is a first for a public and a CEO Direct Hotline. corporation. Also, recognizing the need for a channel of communication that will allow LH manages a fund to promote organizational unity and employee welfare, employees to speak to higher personnel, and the need to resolve difficulties and we actively implemented the joint labor-management conference at the of employees that may result from intensive efforts to stabilize the business, site level by building a process where any issues and difficulties at the site we have put in place a CEO Direct Hotline to directly listen to and process any level conference are communicated to the head office conference. complaints by employees. In addition, by promoting the CEO’s bidirectional In order to reduce any conflicts between employees of varying backgrounds communication with labor unions and employees, we have resolved conflicts and to promote organizational unity, LH supports the 36 social groups within that may arise between labor unions due to the consolidation of employees the head office, including groups for soccer, hiking, and tennis, and we also from various backgrounds, as well as conflicts between labor unions and support social groups in the regional offices. employees by sharing information, thereby achieving harmony and building a foundation for a consolidated labor and management. Strengthening Labor Capacities [ Bidirectional Communication Channels ] In order to build an advanced labor-management culture, and for the specialization of labor, LH has commissioned an outside agency for the education of labor managers to enhance their labor capacities, and we also conducted labor education training of our own for all employees of the company. We continuously manage a labor personnel pool and seek ways to resolve current issues arising between labor and management. [ Results of Labor Education ] [ Result of Complaints Processed per Channel ] Category Result CEO Direct Hotline allows the CEO to directly listen to the CEO Direct difficulties of employees. 38 cases resolved in 2011, including Hotline improvements to the women’ s lounge area and policy for childcare leave. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Customers Strategies for Customer Satisfaction Management Enhance Customer Satisfaction Medium to long-term CS Management Strategies Company-wide Response System for Customer Satisfaction In order to institutionalize the strategy for customer service management, To process customer complaints arising from the housing recession, LH which is a lower working system of the company-wide strategy, LH has has built a company-wide response system. This is a new evaluating system established the CS Management Strategy 2015, the first ever long-term for customer satisfaction management that considers even potential customer satisfaction strategy for LH. This strategy will enable LH to pursue customers, with a nationwide review reflecting 90% of customer satisfaction CS management that is linked to the company-wide strategy of LH, and level asked of all purchasing customers, and national sentiment reflecting company-wide participation will enhance the implementation of the strategy 10% of survey against the general public. LH is strengthening service and help build a consensus. training for contact points with customers, such as the Happy-up activity, and we are working hard to enhance customer satisfaction through various [ CS Management Strategy 2015 ] measures, including timely processing of civil complaints. 3S Movement for Customer Satisfaction LH builds a stronger foundation to respond to feedback from the Korean people by carrying out the 3S Movement for Customer Satisfaction smile, speed, and skill. We select 3~4 employees with ‘best smiles’ every quarter to spread the story of kindness, and we designated the point of contact with customers as an ‘LH Smile Zone’, a special area focused on customer satisfaction that creates a comfortable environment and convenient facilities for customers. We also held the CS Exposition, a contest for the best slogan, ideas, and essays to promote the customer satisfaction mindset, and our Quick Service for Civil Complaints provides services to our customers without any delay. Working System [ 3S Movement ] LH has in place a Customer Service Management Committee, which is a group under the immediate supervision of the CEO that deliberates and decides on matters and management activities related to customer satisfaction management. In order to reflect the latest trends in CS management in our activities, we have newly established a Customer Service Management Advisory Committee to provide expertise and help in the deliberation and decision-making of the Committee. Also, we implement and monitor CS management throughout LH through various means such as the operation and support divisions in the head office, and CS managers and sales customer center of the head and regional offices. [ CS Management Working Organization ] LH Sustainability Report 2012 Enhance Customer Service VOC Management System New Comprehensive Civil Affairs Center LH has built a system and process to manage the Voice of Customers (VOC), In July of 2011, LH established a comprehensive civil affairs center to which is utilized to systematically identify customers’ requests and resolve strengthen the management of complaint processing, to enhance work any issues arising at customer contact points. capacities, and to provide better services to the customers. We also increase the efficiency of processing complaints with our 365 Days No-Delay Campaign, which encourages timely processing, the complaint mileage system and the complaint portal, and the consultation we provide through ACRC. Launch of the LH Call Center The LH Call Center was first opened in 2009 to provide customer help and to create a database. With the advancement of the contact system in 2011, we were able to collect the voice of customers more quickly and accurately, enabling us to better respond to customers’ complaints. Starting in April of LH Comprehensive Civil Affairs Office 2011, the call centers that were distributed throughout the regional offices were all consolidated into the head office and newly launched as the LH Call Center (1600-1004). Modifications to Customer Terms of Service In order to improve unfair customer service, LH has made improvements to [ Efforts to Improve Quality ] the customer service system, including building a complaint management system. We continuously seek the causes of complaints, measures that could be taken against them, and ways to improve the system, thereby taking the suggestions of customers and revising the customer terms of service. LH is a seller under the lease contract, and thus the obligation to notify any changes to development plans of LH have been stipulated to limit LH’s exemptions from responsibilities. We also modified the customer terms of service to better reflect the customer’s point of view, such as a special contract for the prepayment discount system and acquisition tax resulting from yearly installments. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Partner Companies Realize a Fair Society Working Strategy Enhance the Fairness of Screening Systems LH provided a working system to realize a fair society by reflecting the LH promotes technological competition with the improvement of screening business plans, founding mission of LH, and basic conditions that seek standards of design contests by surveying contest participants. Also, we mutual prosperity and the reduction of bipolarization. In 2011, LH came up enhanced the fairness of technical service screening by unifying the contest with 15 major challenges to lead a fair society and devised a working system entering methods for various fields such as apartment buildings, general for shared growth, and participated in various measures such as hosting a building structures, landscaping, civil engineering, and PR centers, through Symbiotic Development CEO Workshop. the revision of contest screening guidelines. [ Working System ] Signing of Fair Business Agreements LH signed a Fair Business Agreement with 188 companies during the first round, and 970 companies during the second round, to provide a foundation for fairness on construction sites. We have built equal partnerships through mutually horizontal relationships, and we will do our utmost to improve the quality of our products. Signing Ceremony for LH Mutual Growth and Fair Business Working Organization Reward for Excellent Construction Companies LH has devised a company-wide plan for pursuing a fair society and In order to encourage construction companies to stay committed to high designated departments to take charge of each task. The Fair Society quality, LH selects and supports a few excellent companies. Working Committee is comprised of executives and the department heads We refer to evaluations by other agencies such as the Ministry of Land, of each task. We have expanded the organizations related to the fair society, Transport, and Maritime Affairs and the Construction Association of Korea, with the Office of Planning and Coordination in charge of fair society and we provide incentives to excellent companies by offering them greater matters, the Social Contribution Committee and Sharing Volunteer Group advance payments or giving additional points during screening for bids. overseeing social contribution matters, and the Mutual Growth Working We also held a Construction VE Exposition to reduce costs and enhance Group overseeing mutual growth related matters. value, and awarded 10 companies out of a total of 400 companies that participated from throughout the country. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Survey of Satisfaction by Construction Company Participants System Improvements For an objective and fair evaluation of all areas of construction management LH listens directly to the difficulties faced by SMEs and reflects them in our by participants of the construction industry, we conduct evaluations of the measures, and we have improved our existing system to reflect shared ordering body’s customer satisfaction. growth. We made it mandatory to use a standard subcontracting contract, based on [ Overview of the Ordering Body’s Customer Satisfaction Evaluation ] the requests of SMEs regarding payments and the fulfillment of contracts, and we also strengthened the system of direct payment to subcontractors. We prevented low-cost contracting by newly applying an evaluation (point reduction) item according to the plan for subcontracting at the time of inspection for improper classification, including the apartment in Songpa Wirye and 39 cases of contracts. We are also doing our utmost to improve unfair contract systems with various measures, including strengthening the effectiveness of premium plans for small-scale constructions and doubling the major contractor partnering constructions. We preemptively provide information about price inflations to SMEs, including details about advanced evaluation of price fluctuations and calculating programs. LH-CCS(Construction Customer Satisfaction) The CEO’s Efforts to Lead Shared Growth Support Shared Growth Working Strategy At LH, the CEO spearheads the effort to lead mutual growth. In order to create LH has devised a plan for mutual growth with the aim of leading shared a culture of mutual prosperity, the CEO reiterate’s LH’s commitment to shared growth through various external activities such as attending the growth in the public sector founding ceremony of the Shared Growth Conference and speaking about our progress, and giving special lectures to students in SNU SOC Policy courses and the Federation of Construction Associations. The CEO also participates in company events and visits construction sites to emphasize the importance of spreading a culture of shared growth. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Support Activities for Shared Growth ● Technological Assistance ● Purchasing of SME Products We have built a support system to reinforce the R&D capacities of SMEs Although the overall budget reduction in 2011 led to a decrease in the and set aside a department that is in charge of handling related matters. actual purchasing amount of SME products, the proportion it comprises SMEs can submit online requests for the gratuitous use of 86 of the total out of the total purchases increased by 2%P from the previous year to 216 patents owned by LH. Currently, we have allowed the free use of two 52.9%. The number of items purchased also increased to 72 different patents from the two applications we received as of 2011. items, which is a 2.5 fold increase from the previous year. Moreover, in order to secure independent abilities for SMEs, we continue projects supporting technological developments as well as R&D. As of [ Purchasing of SME Products ] 2011, we currently provide 6 different R&D assistance for energy related construction, and we also support the development of top initial Category Units 2010 2011 processing facilities such as street inlets and C&S manholes. Total Purchasing Budget KRW billion 14,862 9,949 [ Result of Support for Joint Research and Development ] SME Purchasing Amount KRW billion 7,561 5,267 SME Purchasing Rate % 50.9 52.9 Top Institution in Shared Growth Efforts ● Promote Bid Participation of Female-run Companies For companies run by females whose percentage of civil engineering and construction work comprises of more than 10%, LH grants an additional LH’s active and continuous efforts toward shared growth have been widely 10% to the company’s management state evaluation point. We have also recognized. LH was honored to be selected as the top institution in terms of adjusted the project scale eligible for additional points from the original shared growth efforts in numerous domestic awards and rankings. KRW 300 million ~ 1 billion to KRW 300 million ~ 5 billion to expand support for more female-run companies ● Increase SME Bid Participation LH offered more opportunities to regional SMEs (subcontractors) by setting the order price to below 700 million KRW separately by categories during the selection of companies for the maintenance and repair of leased apartments and multiple dwellings. We also encouraged more bid participation by SMEs Digital Chosun Ilbo’ s‘Selection as Successful Case of Shared Growth’ by reflecting the regional mandatory joint subcontracting proportions as additional points. Among the 1,195 construction projects that were ordered in 2011, SME participation was at 97%. LH Sustainability Report 2012 Job Creation in the Private Sector It has been called upon LH to play a greater role in reducing growth without Partnerships with the Private Sector employment and to mitigate bipolarization in our society. With our LH has carried out a total of 13 large-scale joint development projects with comprehensive company-wide job creation plan and its systematic the private sector in areas such as Asan and Pangyo, thereby hiring 1,009 implementation, LH created approximately 200,000 jobs in the private sector people. Also, our joint oversees projects in Indonesia, China and Vietnam in the year 2011. created 272 new jobs. Also, at the end of 2011, we purchased 2,843 new multiplex housing and created 1,841 new jobs. More Investment Projects Thanks to the collection of payments and good selling performance in 2011, LH was able to place 60% more orders compared to 2010, which stimulated the private sector economy and contributed to job creation. In 2011, LH contributed to the vitalization of investment in the construction industry in Korea by actively carrying out investment projects amounting to KRW 11.4 trillion. In order to maximize the economic effects of the projects, we made advance payments of KRW 710 billion, and we also encouraged active execution of the working expenses through workshops, construction site inspections, and meetings. The amount of projects ordered by LH is LH-South Sudan MOU Signing Seoul Southern District directly correlated to the soundness of the entire construction industry; Correctional Institution Transfer thus, the Special Committee on Financial Execution continuously monitors the amount. With the expansion of our investment projects, 191,599 new jobs were Other Efforts to Create Jobs created in 2010, and 167,817 jobs in 2011. In other areas of business where labor is needed, such as social contribution and the remodeling of houses, LH utilizes the private sector [ Efforts to Stimulate Investment in the Construction Industry ] workforce, thereby contributing to job creation in the private sector. ● Possible Areas Category Contents Social Contribution after school classes and cafeterias within the leased apartment complex, etc. House Remodeling house remodeling projects for the socially vulnerable Social Enterprise support social enterprises within the leased apartment complex System Maintenance management and maintenance of the information system Source: Statistics Korea“Industry Trends” Office Assistance sales assistance, administrative support on construction sites, etc. Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Local Community Working System for Strategic Social Contributions Working Strategy Our vision is to become an ‘excellent public corporation that earns trust by practicing social responsibility.’ LH has many social contribution strategies to provide housing to the socially vulnerable, as well as to enhance our corporate image as a reliable company. Medium to Long-Term Roadmap Social Contribution Working Organization Recognizing that sharing and volunteering is the path for the future of our company and society, LH employees have been operating a volunteering group to carry out continuous and systematic social contribution activities. LH has also been working together with private organizations for a more engaging social contribution. [ Structure of the LH Volunteering Group ] [ Cooperation with the Private Sector ] LH Sustainability Report 2012 Spread the Culture of Sharing As one of the main challenges of a fair society, LH has been practicing the In order to cut the housing costs of low-income families and to stabilize the spread of the culture of sharing with those that are vulnerable in our society. living conditions of university students, we expanded the scope of student We support the remodeling of worn houses to improve the living conditions housing from college areas to nearby areas so that more students could of the socially vulnerable, thereby enhancing their quality of life. We benefit from the 30% reduced rent prices. We also supplied 1,000 leased remodeled 8,000 houses in 2010 and 12,000 houses in 2011. houses for university students for one-time deposits. Also, LH employees returned a portion of their salary to spend on stabilizing We also provided a total of KRW 220 million of scholarships to 150 the livelihood of the socially vulnerable, and we collected a total of KRW 2.5 underprivileged students, and we expanded meals for children within the billion to operate the LH Happy Loan. This sum was commissioned to the leased apartments to 70 complexes. As such, LH has been realizing the Credit Counseling and Recovery Service and distributed to 1,547 members national welfare and carrying out a variety of social contribution activities. of our society who are in need. We conducted the ‘Gathering of Shared Love and Collective Happiness’ where we distributed basic necessities to the underprivileged, and the entire proceeds from the event were used to practice sharing love to our Hands-on Community Service neighborhoods who are in need. With great modifications in the operating system of the community service groups, LH promotes the active participation of all employees in community service by expanding the Social Contribution Committee and making donations. We seek to promote the social responsibility of the company with active participation in community service, especially in times of national disasters such as the major flood. (644 employees volunteered 5,152 hours under the LH CSR+ Program). [ LH Community Service ] Gathering of Shared Love and Collective Happiness Reduce Imbalances in Education and Realize National Welfare [ LH Social Services ] LH provides education, care, and culture to the children residing in our Category Unit 2010 2011 leased apartment complexes by operating after-school classes that utilize idle facilities. Nearly 500 children use the facilities monthly, and we have LH Village Community Business People/Day 120 360 created 41 jobs for adults, including teachers. Moreover, in response to the After-school classes in apt complex People/Month 250 500 growing demand for educational and cultural welfare of the socially Happy LH Happy Economy Happy Environment Happy Society Appendix Efforts to Stabilize the Livelihood of the Working Class Contribute to the Stabilization of Low-Income Families with Efforts to Reduce Living Costs Various Options LH is saving the energy costs of rental housing occupants through the LH seeks to stabilize the living conditions of the low-income class by construction and supply of the eco-friendly houses using renewable supplying leased housing that suit the needs of those who are on welfare, energies. In addition, LH is always endeavoring to improve the quality of life newlywed couples, and college students of low-income families in the form for our neighbors in need. For example, we are helping reduce housing of a multiplex housing for purchase or a leased housing for a one-time costs by enhancing energy efficiency through the retrofit and repair of deposit. We are expanding the scope of our housing assistance to include outdated houses for the people of national merit (veterans) and socially the homeless, those who live in greenhouses, and victims of crimes, so as to vulnerable groups who are in economic difficulties. provide greater contribution to the stabilization in the lives of nonhomeowners. [ Remodeling of Homeowners’ Housing for the Socially Underprivileged ] [ Supply of customized leased housing ] (Unit: house) Replacement & Repair of Roofs Replacement & Repair of Cracks on Living Assistance Program Outer Walls The LH leased housing are mostly for the socially vulnerable, such as, senior citizens, the disabled, and low-income families. We contribute to the stabilization of their livelihood with scholarships and subsidizing programs, and we actively attract social enterprises in the permanent-loan shopping arcades. We assist the employment and self-support of low-income residents by giving priority to delinquent residents in the brokering of jobs for public labor positions. We also contribute to the stable living conditions of the working class by providing welfare services to the underprivileged, and assisting with the maintenance fees of low-income families with profits from the shopping arcade lease. LH Sustainability Report 2012 LH Village Community Business LH operates a social enterprise as part of its social contribution activities, and ● Current State LH Village Community Business has become one of our representative social We established 5 Village Community Businesses in 2011, creating 95 new contribution brands. jobs. Compared to 2010, we created an additional 35 new jobs, and over 360 people benefit from the social services provided by these social enterprises. ● What is LH Village Community Business? [ Village Community Business Assistance ] A social enterprise is an organization that seeks a social purpose and value while also conducting business and creating profit. Whereas companies usually seek profit, social enterprises seek various social purposes, including providing social services and jobs to the vulnerable. Going a step further, LH Village Community Business conducts its activities with the village as its base and seeks the purpose and value of the village residents. We have attracted 65 social enterprises to 103 unleased slots in the shopping arcade, creating 470 new jobs for the socially vulnerable. We also provide various social welfare services, such as subsidizing parts of maintenance fees, delivering lunch boxes to hungry children, handing out scholarships, and providing rice and other basic living necessities. [ Number of Social Enterprises Attracted As of 2011 ] ● Development Model of Village Community Business LH Village Community Business produces, exchanges, and sells various Social Self-Support Category Total goods needed in the village with regional care services. Social values needed Enterprises Center in the village are realized, and any profits from the economic activity are reinvested for a sustainable village community. Moreover, various resident Leased Spots 88 15 103 community projects are conducted in the village to raise the resident’s satisfaction of their living conditions, thus enhancing their quality of life. Number of 55 10 65 Businesses LH’s social enterprise assistance activities have been praised for connecting job creation with the vitalization of leased apartment complexes. LH will continue to work hard so that LH Village Community Business can take room in leased apartment complexes around the country as a new model of Appendix Organization Chart and Membership to Associations & Organizations Sustainability Management Initiatives Sustainability Management General Third-Party Review GRI 3.1 Guideline and ISO26000 Index Glossary Awards and Recognitions Organization Chart and Membership to Associations & Organizations Organization Chart Organization Structure Head Office : 7 Divisions, 2 Sections, 46 Bureaus Regional Office : 12 Regional Divisions, 6 Operating Divisions, 12 Direct Groups, 1 Research Institute Membership to Associations & Organizations Sustainability Management Initiatives UN Global Compact LH joined the UN Global Compact in June of 2010. Launched by the then UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan to urge businesses to support and practice social responsibility, it comprises of four major areas (human rights, labor, the environment, anti-corruption) and ten principles. LH endeavors to comply with the UNGC in all areas of our operation. Our compliance with the ten principles is reported via this sustainability report. Category Principle GRI Pages 1. We support and respect the protection of HR1 HR2 HR3 HR4 HR5 HR6 HR7 57, 60, 63, 68, 84, 89 internationally proclaimed human rights. HR8 HR9 Human Rights 2. We make sure that we are not complicit in human HR1 HR2 HR8 84 rights abuses. 3. We uphold the freedom of association and the right HR5 LA4 LA5 68, 83 to collective bargaining. 4. We eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory HR7 84 labor. Labor 5. We effectively abolish child labor. HR6 84 6. We eliminate discrimination in respect of HR4 LA2 LA10 LA13 LA14 13~14, 63, 65, 84 employment and occupation. 7. We support a precautionary approach to 4.11 15~16 environmental challenges. ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is an International Standard for social responsibility launched by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November of 2011. It provides a comprehensive guideline that includes numerous other existing guidelines on seven key issues: organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. LH has developed its own list of items for evaluation to ensure continuous compliance with the ISO 26000. Level of disclosure : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure Level of Topic Key issues Relevant GRI Index Disclosure 6.2 Organizational governance 6.2.3 Decision-making processes and structures 1.1, 1.2, 2.3, 4.1~4.17 ◐ 6.3.3 Due diligence HR1, HR2, HR5, HR6, HR7 ● 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations HR5, HR6, HR7 ● 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8 ● 6.3 Human Rights 6.3.6 Resolving grievances HR1, HR4, HR9 ● 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9, LA13, LA14 ● 6.3.8 Civil and political rights HR5, HR9 ● 6.3.9 Economic, social, and cultural rights SO1, PR1, PR2, EC8, EC9 ● 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, Labor DMA, LA4, LA14 ● 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships HR2, HR4, HR5, HR8, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA13, LA14 ◐ 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection LA3, LA4, LA5, LA14, EC5 ● 6.4 Labor practices 6.4.5 Social dialogue HR5, LA4, LA5 ● 6.4.6 Health and safety at work LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9 ● 6.4.7 Human development and training in the workplace LA10, LA11, LA12 ● 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution EN19~EN24 ◐ 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use EN1~EN10, EN25, EN26, EN27, EN29 ◐ 6.5 Environment 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation EC2, EN16~EN18 ● 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats EN11~EN15, EN25 ◐ 6.6.3 Anti-corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 ● 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement SO5, SO6 ● 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.6.5 Fair competition SO7 ● 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain HR2, HR8, PR1, PR2, EC6, EC9, EN26, EN29 ● 6.6.7 Respect for property rights HR9, SO1, SO7, SO8, EC9 ● 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices PR3, PR4, PR6, PR7 ◐ 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5 ◐ 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5, EN26, EN27 ◐ 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution PR3, PR4, PR5, PR6, PR7, PR9 ◐ 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy PR8 ● Sustainability Management General Environmental Responsibility EN15 | Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation N29 | Significant environmental impacts of transporting products list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of and other goods and materials used for the organization’s extinction risk operations, and transporting members of the workforce LH minimizes the environmental impacts of areas that may result from our LH minimizes any environmental impacts resulting from the transport of its operations, and we protect the eco-system by designating areas of habitat employees by using bicycles for short distances to work, encouraging use of to be protected. environmentally-friendly cars and implementing the selective-day no driving system. [ Endangered Species by areas of operation ] EN30 | Total environmental protection expenditures and investments LH creates a green society with green purchases and R&D. Narrow-mouthed toad (Endangered Species Level 2, amphibian) [ Endangered Species by areas of operation ] (Unit: KRW Million) Dang-dong 2 of Gunpo, Poil 2 of Euwang, Seonghwadong 2 of Cheongju, Yullyang-dong 2 of Cheongju, Seochang-dong 2 of Namdonggu, Bongdam-dong 2 of Hwasung, and Siheung District of Gwangmyung Golden frog (Endangered Species Level 2, amphibian) Cheongra-dong of Incheon, Ojeong Distribution Complex of Bucheon White-naped crane (Endangered Species Level 2, bird) Changwon general industrial complex Social Responsibility Labor (LA) Otter (Endangered Species Level 1, mammal) Multifunctional Administrative City, Yeongyeong District, Daegu LA5 | Minimum notice period regarding operation changes In order to create a corporate culture that respects employees, LH officially supports the ILO’s three-party agreement and the UNGC and complies with all of their contents. And according to the collective agreement, we give Wildcat prior notice when making changes to any policies or plans regarding (Endangered Species Level 2, mammal) organization, HR, and labor conditions. Multifunctional Administrative City LA6 | Percentage of total workforce represented by joint management -labor health and safety committees Operating occupation safety and health commission which consist of 20 members EN19 | Emissions of ozone-depleting substances LA9 | Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions EN20 | NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Although LH does not have a separate committee in charge of safety and LH continuously measures the quality of air in and nearby areas of health, the safety and health of both labor and management are discussed at operation to prevent air pollution and to promote the health of nearby joint meetings. In order to promote the safety and health of our employees, residents. We also prevent air pollution with regular inspections. We have LA11 | Programs for lifelong learning that support the continued HR10 | Percentage and total number of operations that have been employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments In order to enable prospective retirees to better prepare for their postLH conducts an integrity screening regarding matters such as relationships retirement lives, LH provides programs that educate prospective retirees with partner companies against all areas of operation. LH promotes human about retirement assistance. Along with a substantial training program that rights and the level of fairness with regular evaluation of the company’s helps retirees accept change and prepare for their future, LH provides a level of ethical management. Moreover, we identify impacts of fire and water comprehensive and systematic retirement assistance that helps retirees find damages, and prevent illegal employment. a re-employment position or start their own business to build a happy future. Society (SO) LA15 | Return to work and retention rates after parental leave SO2 | Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption LH promotes ethical management in all areas of business to create a CLEAN LH. SO5 | Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying (Prohibition of political donation) SO6 | Total value of financial contributions to political parties and politicians The employees who returned after parental leave include those who took leaves the year before. All remaining employees are currently on parental leave. LH abides by laws and regulations that prohibit companies from making financial contributions to political parties and politicians. Human Rights (HR) SO7 | Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices HR1 | Percentage of significant investment agreements that include In order to eliminate any unfair transactions with subcontractors, LH offers human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening training programs to on-site employees, and we report any nonHR2 | Percentage of suppliers and contractors that have undergone compliances to administrative agencies. As a result of our inspection of unfair transactions against 395 areas, we discovered 343 cases of nonscreening and human rights compliance during the first half of 2011. However, after various corrective Since child labor and forced labor are prohibited by law, LH does not carry measures, the number of non-compliance cases dropped by 54% to 155. out any separate human rights screening when entering into an investment or a partnership. However, we abide by the principle that we do not do business with any company that violates human rights or has any past Product Responsibility (PR) experience or future potential regarding violation of human rights. PR3 | Type of product and service information required by procedures HR4 | Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken LH aims to help the understanding of all stakeholders by providing accurate HR6 | Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of information about land development and housing construction on our website. child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor PR4 | Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations HR7 | Operations identified as having significant risks for incidents concerning product and service information and labeling of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the PR7 | Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations elimination of forced or compulsory labor concerning marketing communications, including advertising and LH offers equal opportunities for training and promotion to all employees sponsorship Third-Party Review INTRODUCTION Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as‘DNV’ ) has been commissioned to carry out assurance engagement on Korea Land & Housing Corporation (hereinafter referred to as‘LH Corp.’ ) Sustainability Report 2012 (hereinafter referred to as‘the Report’ ). This engagement focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. This Assurance Statement is intended for the readers of the LH Corp.’ s Sustainability Report. LH Corp. is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. DNV’ s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the management of LH Corp. only, in accordance with the terms of reference and scope of work agreed. DNV disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third-party for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this Assurance Statement. SCOPE OF This Assurance Engagement covered data from calendar year 2010 and 2011. The scope of DNV’s Assurance Engagement, as agreed with LH Corp. included the verification of: ASSURANCE Sustainability policy, goals, initiatives, practices and performance for calendar year 2010 and 2011, as described in the Report. These were verified at company level. The Health & Safety, Social and Environmental data management systems, and associated processes and tools for collecting, analyzing, aggregating and reporting quantitative and qualitative information provided in the Report. Processes for defining the boundaries, focus and content of the Report. The extent to which the principles and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) are reflected in the Report. The extent to which the principles of Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness are adopted. The reliability of the information within the Report for calendar year 2010 and 2011 was verified to a limited level assurance. LH Corp.’s reporting boundaries include all operations in Korea over which LH Corp. management exercises significant control. LIMITATIONS The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of LH Corp.’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. STATEMENT OF DNV provides sustainability risk management services through specialists worldwide. This engagement was undertaken by a multi-disciplinary team of suitably qualified and experienced sustainability professionals. DNV was COMPETENCE AND not involved in the preparation of any information presented in the Report. DNV did not provide any services to LH INDEPENDENCE Corp. in 2010 and 2011 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. VERIFICATION This Assurance Engagement was carried out between March and April 2012, and in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. METHODOLOGY In reaching our conclusion, we have undertaken the following work; Visited LH Corp.’s Head office in Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea; Examined relevant documents, data and other information requested by DNV and made available by LH Corp.; Reviewed the mechanisms implemented by LH Corp. to promote and oversee its sustainability-related policies as CONCLUSIONS In DNV’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of LH Corp.’s sustainability strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2010 and 2011. Regarding the level of adherence to reporting principles, we conclude the following: Inclusivity and Responsiveness: LH Corp. has continued to adopt a structured approach to stakeholder consultation and engagement, described in detail in the Report. The Report sets out the governance structure, strategy and systems for managing sustainability issues across the organization. Materiality: LH Corp. has continued to systematically map out and prioritize those sustainability issues most significant to LH Corp. and its stakeholders. The results have informed the focus and content of this Report Reliability: No material errors have been detected for data and information verified. Information in the Report is presented so as to allow comparison of year-on-year performance. Completeness: Within the reporting boundary and scope defined by LH Corp., we conclude that the Report does not omit information that would significantly influence stakeholders’ decisions. Neutrality: In general the Report provides a fair and balanced representation of LH Corp.’s approach and performance in 2010 and 2011. OPPORTUNITIES The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to LH Corp. management. However, FOR these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. IMPROVEMENT To establish a process to improve data and information quality. To actively reflect stakeholders’ concerns collected from the various engagement activities as defined in the report To expand sustainability evaluation of subcontractors To expand sustainability evaluation of contractors May 2012 Seoul, Korea In -Kyoon Ahn Country Manager GRI 3.1 Guideline and ISO 26000 Index Glossary ■Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) A transportation system that offers faster ■Solar House Houses that are powered by a solar generating system, services on the main roads connecting the center of the city with the which takes the light and heat from the sun via solar panels and outskirts. converts it into energy. ■Building with Grade 1 Energy Efficiency Rating Houses designed to ■Environmental Impact Assessment To predict, analyze, and evaluate conserve energy by more than 33.5% by improving insulation, windows the environmental impacts of infrastructures such as roads, ports, and doors, ventilation, and boiler performance. railroads, airports, and industrial complexes, and land reclamation projects. ■Climate change The concept of climate change as defined in the UNFCCC refers to the change in the global atmosphere observed ■Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) A joint initiative by advanced during a comparable period that resulted from direct and indirect countries and developing countries to reduce greenhouse gases. It human activities, in addition to the natural variability of the climate. allows advanced countries to conduct emission reductions projects in developing countries, and to utilize them to meet a part of their caps ■Barrier-free design A people-oriented design that is visually open once the emission reductions are deemed as real and additional via an and allows the disabled, children, senior citizens, and pregnant women assessment by the administrative structure of the UNCDM and the to move around the space without help. certification of CDM Executive Committee. ■Biomass Organisms using plants or microbes as energy sources. ■Customer Satisfaction (CS) A measure of how products and services The total global annual biomass production is equivalent to the total oil of a company meet the expectations of a customer. reserves, so it has the merit of never being depleted if appropriately used. ■Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) An organization established with the help of UNEP in 1997 to develop guidelines for sustainability reporting. ■Bake-out Method of eliminating hazardous substances from construction materials and/or finish materials by raising the air ■ISO 26000 An International Standard for social responsibility temperature of a new building or repaired/renovated building. launched by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November of 2011. It provides a comprehensive guideline that includes ■Recycled aggregate Construction wastes undergo various physical numerous other existing guidelines on seven key issues: organizational and chemical processes and are turned into aggregates that meet the governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair quality standards, as specified in Clause 35 (quality standards of operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and recycled aggregates) of the Construction Waste Recycling Promotion development. Act. ■Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) A cradle-to-grave analysis. Technique ■New and Renewable energy A concept that includes three new to assess environmental impacts associated with products by energy types (hydrogen, fuel cell, liquefied coal gas) and eight renewable quantifying the total amount of substances and energy that is consumed energy types (solar heat, photovoltaics, bio-energy, wind power, water and emitted during all the stages of the product’s life. power, geothermal heat, tidal energy, waste energy). ■Master Architect (MA) Method of developing a complex in ■Fuel cell A direct current generator that converts the chemical environmentally sensitive or highly important areas by appointing a energy from a fuel into electricity through a chemical reaction between general planner with plenty of experience and outstanding design and a fuel (mostly hydrogen from fossil fuel) and another oxidizing agent coordination abilities for planned development of the entire complex and (mostly oxygen from the air). The energy of the fuel is used as electric comprehensive design management. energy instead of heat. ■Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) A method that emphasizes the ■United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) A voluntary global compact link between land use and transportation, it encourages a pedestrianon social responsibility that encourages businesses and UN friendly transportation system and a mixed land used focused on public organizations to support the ten principles (human rights, labor, the transportation. environment, and anti-corruption, etc.) through a partnership. ■United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change ■Stakeholder A person or group that is affected by an organization’s (UNFCCC) A treaty to limit emissions of man-produced greenhouse actions; usually includes shareholders, debenture holders, as well as gases to prevent global warming. Awards and Recognitions Awards Authority Year 2007-2010 Green Management Award Grand Prize Korea Management Association (4 consecutive years) 9th~11th Annual Environmental Awards Grand Prize (2011), Ministry of Environment, Korea Association of Environmental 2009-2010 Top Excellence Award (2009-2011), Excellence Award (2009-2010) Planning & Landscape Architecture (3 consecutive years) Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, Korea Institute 2009~2011 Korea Architectural Culture Awards Grand Prize (Minister’s Award) of Registered Architects, Seoul Economy Daily (Organizer) (3 consecutive years) Korea Civil Engineering and Construction Technology Awards Top Excellence Award Maeil Economic Daily, MBN, Architectural Institute of Korea, 2010-2011 (Minister’s Award) Korea Society of Civil Engineers (2 consecutive years) Green Management Award Grand Prize Korea Management Association Prime Minister’s Award for Best Use of Recycled Aggregate Ministry of Environment 2009 President’s Award in Market for New Product Category Ministry of Knowledge Economy Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, Structure of the Year Award Silver Prize (Head of Society’s Award) Society of Civil Engineers Korea National Apartment Awards Grand Prize (Minister’s Award) Korea Economic TV Selected as a Successful Case of Shared Growth Digital Chosun Ilbo 2010 Korea Landscape Awards Presidential Prize Korea Institute of Landscape Architecture 2010 National Value Engineering Exposition Excellence Award Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs 2010 Korea Concrete Institute Awards Best Technology Award Korea Concrete Institute 2011 Housing Service Awards Top Excellence Award in Leased Apartments Category Money Today 2011 CEO of the Year Grand Prize in Social Responsibility Category Korea Economic Daily Environmental Living Culture Awards Customer Satisfaction Award in Housing Category Korea Economic Daily 2011 Digital Land Expo Silver Prize Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Korea’s Best Apartment Awards Top Excellence Award (Minister’s Award) Korea Economic TV Public-Private Best Partnership Excellence Prize for “Mentor and little friends,” a Public-Private Partnership Forum (Sponsored by: Ministry of Public Administration mentoring program for underprivileged students and Security, Korean Chamber of Commerce, Federation of Korean Industries, etc.) Green Construction Awards Grand Prize in Housing Welfare Asia Today 2011 Green Living Culture Awards Grand Prize in Shared Growth Category Korea Herald Business Minister’s Award in Market for New Product Category Ministry of Knowledge Economy
