corporate social responsibility complete report France Telecom Orange 2011 Stéphane Richard Chief executive officer of France Telecom-Orange Group 2 Marc Fossier Nicole Notat Executive Director CEO of extra financial of Corporate Social notation Group, VIGEO Responsibility at the France Telecom-Orange 11 Group 9 Cristina Lunghi Bruno Mettling President of Arborus, Deputy Managing Director, the European Endowment Director of Human Fund for Professional Resources at the Gender Equality France Telecom-Orange Group 17 19 Jean-Philippe Vanot Serge Tisseron Deputy Managing Director psychiatrist and France Telecom-Orange Group psychoanalyst in charge of Quality and CSR and expert in the field of youth-media-image 25 relationships 29 Delphine Marc Rennard Ernotte Cunci International Executive Director Deputy Managing Director of France Telecom-Orange France Telecom-Orange Group in charge of Africa, Executive Director the Middle-East and Asia at Orange France 37 35 Vivek Badrinath Cristina Bueti Executive Director of Programme Coordinator Orange Business Services, for Climate Change and France Telecom-Orange Group ICT at the International Telecommunications Union 47 49 C 4 6 6 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy over ﬁfteen years of commitments ontents an ambition supported at the highest 30 32 34 an accessible world promoting digital inclusion in countries using our technologies to further level of the company economic and social development 7 4 major commitments 38 ensuring the accessibility of our solutions to people with disabilities 8 an approach fuelled by stakeholder dialogue 38 addressing the challenges of health and dependency 8 better cooperation with our suppliers 39 facilitating access to education and culture 12 a responsible employer 40 towards a greener world 14 establishing bonds between economic 42 a priority: combating climate change performance and social performance 43 encouraging results 15 towards a common and shared 43 improved governance management culture 43 increasingly accurate measuring tools 16 addressing the skills issue 45 giving electronic equipment 18 recognising individual a new lease of life and collective contributions 46 ﬁnding innovative solutions for a greener world 20 a world lived in trust 50 our 2011 achievements 22 our goal: to be the leader our 2012 roadmaps in customer experience by 2015 detailed information 26 promoting safe and responsible uses 143 appendices 1 interview Stéphane Richard Chairman and Chief Executive Officer “corporate social responsibility is a key component of our conquests 2015 project” E very day, France TelecomOrange delivers essential services to over 220 million customers and plays a key role in the economic and social development of 35 countries in Europe, Africa and the Middle-East. Corporate social responsibility is therefore, quite naturally, at the heart of our activity and is also a key component of our conquests 2015 strategic project. Our first mission is to build fast, reliable and secure networks to bring the benefits of the digital world to as many people as possible. In Europe, we are building very high speed broadband networks, both fixed (fibre in France) and mobile (4G/LTE), in order to respond to the boom in new digital uses. In Africa, we are investing in undersea cables, in particular the 17,000-km long ACE cable which will eventually bring broadband capacity to around 20 West African countries. Our networks contribute to the economic and social development of the countries in which we operate, and we encourage this growth through our “Orange for Development” programme. Our aim is to help build the digital world, and make it safe, secure, and respectful of the private lives of our customers. For example, in 2011, Orange strengthened its commitment to 2 online child protection by embracing two major Our corporate responsibility commitments are European programmes (including “A better Inbased on a global vision of performance with ternet for Kids”). economic, environmental and social dimensions. Our Orange People Charter, launched in Our goal is also to provide our customers with 2011, embodies this approach. In France, useful and easy-to-use services. In Africa, for each of the 158 measures of the new social example, Orange Money has enabled over contract helps realise this vision. 3 million people, often without access to traditional banking services, to use their mobile for Our corporate social commitments are resolmoney transfers and transactions. utely long term. As early as 2000, we signed Finding solutions for a greener world is another the United Nations Global Compact, and we key commitment. Our target is a 20% reducengaged in meaningful dialogue with all our tion of our CO2 emissions between 2006 and stakeholders, in all our subsidiaries and in the 2020. The key to successfully achieving this ﬁeld. Our Group’s development must be to the target lies in developing more efficient netbenefit of all our partners, and society as a works, together with initiatives such as the whole. 2,000 solar-powered sites we have built in 17 The following pages show that France Telecomof the Group’s countries. We are also collectOrange places corporate social responsibility ing mobile phones for re-use or safe dismantat the very heart of its strategy. The executive ling, with over one million mobile phones recyteam and our 172,000 employees around the cled in 2011. world spare no efforts to make this a reality. 3 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy to bec ome Through its mission to provide better communication for all and its presence the le ding in both industrialised and emerging countries, our Group measures every day the importance of its role in and responsibilities towards society. 4 CSR p layer 5 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of over ﬁfteen an ambition our culture and history. France Telecom-Orange has developed years of supported a set of founding values which commitments at the highest guides its action principles in terms of its stakeholders. level of Our Code of Ethics, adopted in Our commitment to corporate responsibility is demonstrated in the support the company 2003, sets out the Group’s action we give to international projects and principles and the individual initiatives that promote sustainable behaviours it expects from development. Our CSR approach goes above and In 1996, France Telecom-Orange beyond civic engagement. We are its employees as well as its signed the ETNO (European Telecomconvinced that corporate social fundamental principles in terms munications Network Operators) Enviresponsibility is a key success factor of respecting human rights, ronmental Charter and, in 2000, it was for the future of the Group. To develop protecting the environment and one of the ﬁrst companies to sign up to in a sustainable manner, we must be combating corruption. To ensure the United Nations Global Compact. able to innovate and create value for its implementation and to control We actively participate in a range of all our stakeholders, i.e. employees, telecommunications industry initiatives. customers, suppliers, shareholders, day-to-day risks, we have put These initiatives aim to combat climate local communities, associations, etc. in place rigorous internal control change, increase the recycling of elecWe must also address the challenges and governance systems. tronic equipment, develop a greener linked to ever limited resources and economy, combat all forms of the digithe need to maintain the fragile baltal divide, promote the safe and ance of our planet by reducing our responsible use of digital technologies impact and ﬁnding innovative solutions by young people and children, and for a greener world. That is exactly ensure the respect of basic human what our CSR policy helps us to do by rights. providing us with a better understanding of society’s concerns, which in turn helps us to anticipate new challenges and create innovative value added services and products that meet these new requirements. This is why CSR informs all our decision-making and operational processes. It is an integral part of each of the four pillars of our conquests 2015 strategic project, which was unveiled last year. It is also an integral part of our entities’ roadmaps and determines the variable pay awards of senior executives. Its progress is regularly monitored by the Group’s Executive Committee. The Board of Directors attaches great importance to CSR and has created a specialised CSR monitoring committee – the Governance and Corporate 6 Social Responsibility Committee, which follows its works. By placing CSR at the heart of our company strategy, we are re-afﬁrming our goal to become the leading CSR player in the telecoms industry. This goal, which is shared at the very highest level of the company, is a joint project mobilising all the company’s employees. 4 major commitments Our approach to corporate social responsibility is expressed in four fundamental commitments: recognising and supporting that we are exemplary in terms of social development in countries by creemployees quality of service, data protection, ating value added solutions that meet Being responsible means building a protecting children, and radio waves. the needs of local communities and human company that values solidarity To achieve this, we must find clear encourage the creation of companies and is attentive to the expectations responses and adapted tools that and new businesses based on inforand needs of all its employees. Our ensure that everyone can enjoy the mation and communication technoloGroup is committed to placing men beneﬁts of the digital world. gies (ICTs). and women at the heart of its development strategy and this is accompanied sharing the beneﬁts of the digital ﬁnding innovative solutions by strong social goals, e.g., by 2015 world with the greatest possible for a greener world to be among the preferred employees number of people Faced with environmental challenges, in the main countries where we work. This is one the key missions of the we have made ambitious commitTo achieve this, we have developed a Group and a major responsibility. It ments to reduce the footprint of our new social model based on a renewed involves tackling all forms of the digital activities, to improve the environmental management style and shared workdivide by deploying access infrastrucperformance of our products and serplace values. tures (particularly in isolated areas), vices (thanks to eco-design principles), making our products and services and to offer our customers innovative ensuring transparency, more accessible to the elderly and solutions that help them to reduce quality, security and safety people with disabilities, developing their own environmental impact. Only for our customers adapted offers for people with low by acting on these three fronts can we Today, customers expect very high incomes and simplifying our products effectively contribute to addressing quality services and personalised supso that they can be used by everyone these major challenges, i.e. climate port. To achieve our goal of giving cusincluding those with learning difﬁculties. change and recycling electronic equiptomers the best possible experience in We must also use our technological ment at the end of its life cycle. all of our markets, we must be certain expertise to promote economic and 7 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy In real terms, this means deploying a an approach range of dialogue tools and processes with local stakeholders (surveys, interbetter fuelled by views, panels of stakeholders, etc.), which result in matrices that help us cooperation stakeholder prioritise issues and structure action plans accordingly. with our dialogue In France, Spain and Poland, we have been taking this approach for several suppliers years and we regularly renew the process. In 2009, our CSR Department One of the strengths of our highly implemented the CSR Dialog Toolkit To address the majority of our indusstructured CSR approach is that it for subsidiaries in emerging and try’s challenges – climate change, the relies on dialogue with our stakeholddeveloping countries where there is eco-design of products, the respect of ers. We decided to develop our CSR no structured dialogue process in basic human rights, quality of service policy around the AA1000 standard, place. In 2011, it was deployed in six –, we must involve our suppliers if we which relies on a systematic process new countries after being piloted in want to make a real difference. That is of engaging with stakeholders. This is Africa: three in Africa and three in why our responsible purchasing policy vital as it enables us to ensure that our Europe. In total 14 countries, reprehas a fundamental role to play. projects meet the needs of society. It senting 70% of the Group’s turnover, Responsible purchasing means ensuralso improves our vision of the risks now systematically engage in dialogue ing that the products and services we and opportunities linked to our activiwith stakeholders. The feedback we buy do not harm the environment or ties and the countries in which we receive is essential in helping us to infringe any basic social rights. operate. It also enables us to jointly identify trends in each zone such as It also means acting in a responsible construct value creation opportunities quality of service, child protection in manner towards our suppliers by givwith local actors that not only beneﬁt Europe or our contributions to social ing them a long-term view of our stratthe Group but stimulate the social and and economic development in emergegy and informing them of changes in economic development of regions and ing countries. our requirements. In this way we can countries. build relationships based on trust and work together to integrate CSR into every aspect of the supply chain. The CSR “JAC” (Joint Audit Cooperation), launched with Telecom Italia and Deutsche Telekom to carry out joint audits of suppliers, conﬁrms our willWestern Europe sub-Saharan Africa ingness to collaborate with all players in order to promote environmental and 1 2 1 social best practice within the industry. 3 2 3 customer accessibility accessibility ICT innovations safe and local economic responsible use development Classiﬁcation of our stakeholders’ expectations in order of importance. In Western Europe, corporate responsibility is focusing on the growing demand for child protection. In Africa, our stakeholders want us to contribute to their countries’ economic development and design innovative services. 8 Marc Fossier Executive Director of Corporate Social Responsibility at the France Telecom-Orange Group “We have all it takes to reach our goals.” of local management. progress in two areas: mobilising In terms of stakeholder dialogue, European countries on the subject we have seen real progress over of child protection and formalising the last year in African countries, and our strategy on helping to improve I this year we have reached a milestone economic and social development in the largest and most complex in emerging countries. n 2009, we wanted to give new European markets. We have also There are, of course, some areas where impetus to our CSR approach. built an information database the results of our action are not yet After three years, where are we? to help us anticipate new clearly visible. Notably, in the area of expectations and respond to them. data protection; a complex issue where The main area of progress is that CSR I would also like to mention that expectations and regulatory contexts is now highly visible and integrated into the results of our last social vary signiﬁcantly from one country the Group’s strategies and priorities. barometer show that the social to another. We must also continue in Beyond the Executive Committee’s climate is improving. I am convinced our efforts to integrate CSR indicators commitment, which has provided the that CSR has a major role to play into strategic dashboards, information impetus, our CSR approach has been in our new social model: in their systems and decision-making adapted to the countries and today the professional lives, every day our staff processes. Our priorities are clear, majority of our entities have structured can see that the company they work for our teams are motivated and I am CSR plans, which are determined and has the will to commit. convinced that we have all it takes implemented at the highest level In 2011, we made signiﬁcant to reach our goals. 9 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy commitments priorities objectives & KPIs • Place people at the heart of • % of women on management recognise the company through a new social committees contract to support employees in • Social barometer and support their development and meet corporate employees and societal challenges, particularly in respect of equal opportunity • Lead the way in service quality ensure transparency, with our European activities • Average percentage of recommendations reported quality, security • Promote and ensure safe and responsible use of products and services, by the Customer Experience Tracker (CET) and safety for particularly with regard to protecting children, respecting privacy and data our customers security • Promote digital inclusion by share the benefits of developing offers and solutions for • Proportion of local purchases in the AMEA zone the digital world with the greatest number of people and reducing all forms of the digital divide the greatest possible • Promote the economic and social development of countries in which number of people the Group operates, through its services • Bring eco-designed products and • Turnover of offers contributing services to market, and help to reduce to a reduction in the environmental finding innovative customers’ environmental footprint through the Group’s offerings impact of our customers • Rate of mobiles collected in solutions for • Play a signiﬁcant role in the collection comparison to the number sold and recycling of mobile handsets by Orange a greener world • Manage the Group’s energy • Total energy consumption consumption to decrease its CO2 of the Group emissions by 20% by 2020 10 Nicole Notat CEO of VIGEO “Over the last ten years, awareness of the issues has increased.” its eco-system, i.e. the company’s related to stress management and employees, customers, suppliers and workplace harassment. Customer subcontractors. Furthermore, because relations are another area of particular the company operates in several importance for the telecoms industry T countries, it must ensure that it and notably the issue of outsourcing. addresses environmental challenges Outsourcing customer relations does he emergence of and respects basic human rights as not mean that the company is released the corporate social ignoring this means placing the from its social responsibilities. responsibility concept company in a situation of risk. Telecoms operators must be aware has put the company’s fundamental Over the last ten years, due to the of their ability to guarantee social role into perspective. requirement to produce tangible standards and must help results, awareness of these issues subcontractors to honour their own Over the past years, the predominant has increased. social responsibilities. Telecoms view was that the company’s strategy In the telecommunications industry, operators must develop policies and should be entirely based on satisfying certain subjects are particularly report on their practices in the areas of its shareholders. What CSR has sensitive. I cannot mention them all anti-trust, corruption, providing access changed is the idea that the company but in my opinion social dialogue is to telecoms products and services for can only guarantee long-term of the utmost importance as it is able low income communities, recycling performance if it takes into account to accurately capture – in real time – electronic equipment at the end the interests of all its stakeholders in emerging social issues such as those of its life cycle and data protection. 11 a responsible employer being attenOur goal is above all a human goal with an inspiring challenge: to transform a technological tive to our challenge into a human adventure, which espouses economic performance and social quality. Our Group is committed to placing men and women at the heart of its development strategy and 12 emplo yees this is accompanied by strongly-formulated social goals, e.g. by 2015 to be among the preferred employers in the main countries where we work. 13 a responsible employer launch of the social contract in France, For Orange, being a responsible company means being attentive establishing the investment is starting to bear fruit: teams are more satisﬁed and conﬁdto the expectations and needs of its employees. economic ent, customers have a better perception of the company, and the economic Our goal is above all a human goal performance results are positive. with an inspiring challenge: to transform a technological and social Orange People Charter: the goal of the new social model challenge into a human adventure, which espouses economic performance Drafted collectively, the new social model is at the heart of the conquests performance and social quality. 2015 strategic project. First impleOur Group is committed to placing mented in France in the form of the men and women at the heart of its At Orange we have one firm convicnew social contract in 2011, it was tion: social quality is inseparable from then deployed throughout the Group development strategy and this is long-term economic sustainability. under the banner of the Orange Peoaccompanied by stronglyIt will be thanks to motivated and carple Charter. This document was the formulated social goals, e.g. by ing teams that we will be able offer the result of a collaborative process and 2015 to be among the preferred best possible services to our custominvolved around 100 managers and employers in the main countries ers and become the most creative and employees from several Group counwhere we work. popular operator in all the countries tries. It was approved and signed by where we operate. Placing men and all members of the Executive CommitThis new social approach is based women at the heart of the company tee in November 2011 and was sent on four pillars: will enable us to build a group which is to all the Group’s entities in December ■ establishing bonds between successful in the long term. This con2011. economic performance and social viction, which is shared by all the performance; members of the Executive Committee, regularly evaluated social quality ■ building a common and shared is backed by dedicated resources. The social barometer gathers informa900 million euros have been eartion on employees’ perceptions of the management culture; marked for the 2010-to-2012 period quality of managerial relations, the ■ addressing the skills issue; to fund the implementation of the new quality of work life, remuneration and ■ recognising individual and social contract. One year after the recognition, and the company’s stratcollective contributions. 14 egy. First conducted in France, this twice-yearly survey is now being extended to other Group countries. Linked to human resources indicators, it is also integrated into composite corporate social performance indicator, which affects the half-yearly variable pay awards of senior executives. strengthened social dialogue Encouraging quality social dialogue with all employees is also one of the key commitments of the new social contract. This can be seen within the Group by the numerous social agreements that have been signed since 2010, the high rate of employee participation in staff representation elections, and the setting up of the Group Global Committee bringing together representatives from 22 Group countries (ﬁrst convened in May 2011). In addition to discussions held in the employee representation bodies, pany that Orange Campus was creOrange has put in place a range of innovative initiatives to encourage towards ated. Its aim is to create a community of managers and support them in caremployees to engage in discussions in less formal settings: organising a common rying out their day-to-day responsibilities in order that they can play a key chats with directors, team meetings, visiting members of the Executive and shared role in ensuring a balanced relationship between the company and each of its Committee in the Group’s ofﬁces, etc. T h e c o m p a n y ’s s o c i a l n e t w o r k management employees. Since it was created in January 2011, Orange Campus has Orange Plazza is strengthening social bonds by encouraging discussion culture trained 10,000 managers, i.e. half of the Group’s 20,000 managers who are and dialogue within the Group. At the concerned by the new Orange manend of 2011, Plazza could be accessed agement support programme. by 75% of Orange employees around Managers play a key role in impleThe Orange Campus offer is based on the world. It is making a real contribumenting the new social contract and the six challenges contained in the tion to the ﬁrst pillar of the conquests contributing to Orange becoming the “placing men and women at the heart 2015 strategic project, i.e. placing preferred employer in the countries of the company” pillar of the conquests men and women at the heart of the where we are present. Placing the 2015 strategic project: company. One year following its emphasis on the human dimension of ■ developing pride in belonging to the launch, it has over 30,000 members our organisation means having a manGroup; and 1,000 professional communities; agerial culture based on day-to-day ■ sharing what it means; it is being progressively deployed values, which are shared by all. ■ recognising performance; overseas. ■ strengthening managers’ independOrange Campus: promoting ence; the new management approach ■ strengthening the management culIt was in order to breathe new life into ture; the management culture in the com■ increasing well-being in the workplace. 15 a responsible employer encouraging diversity Given the challenges related to skills, the diversity of our teams is a key asset for the Group. At Orange, we have long been convinced that a company which encourages diversity and equal opportunities is a more creative and more innovative company and one which is better able to serve its customers and attract new talents. The main goal of our diversity policy is to ensure equal opportunities for men and women: to achieve 35% of women in its management bodies by 2015, which reﬂects the average rate of women working in the Group. We also support individuals experiencing difﬁculties entering the labour market such as workers with disabilities and young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds (see p. 80). ing environment via an annual commuattracting new talents addressing nication document, which covers the 85 employment catchment areas in To attract new talents and ensure the ongoing success of the Group, the skills issue France. A dynamic which goes beyond France and involves all the Group-level Orange has launched targeted recruitment campaigns in prestigious schools entities and especially Orange Busiand universities and has made a range ness Services. of innovative recruitment tools availaIn an industry that changes constantly, ble such as the Orange Jobs applicaskills planning is a highly strategic lever. valuing expertise tion. Identifying short and longer term To value its capital of expertise and In order to contribute to skills developtrends, identifying risk areas and offeroffer its experts attractive career ment and the training of people from ing employees career prospects in line opportunities, the Group created different backgrounds, Orange supwith these trends is the challenge of Orange expert. ports scholarship programmes in the GPEC (forward planning of employThis plan, launched in 2010 and inteFrance and around the world. ment and skills) approach. In France, grated into the conquests 2015 strateThe Orange Graduate Programme is a new milestone was reached in this gic project, meets several objectives: an attractive recruitment programme, area with the signing of the GPEC ■ to identify, recognise and value our which offers high-potential graduates agreement in March 2011. One of the most talented experts and to give the opportunity to commence their priorities of the agreement is to give them a complete overview of possible career at Orange. Each year, 60 grademployees the means with which to career paths within the company; uates join the Group in this way to pursue their professional development ■ to encourage the development, captake on roles with signiﬁcant levels of via a dedicated support system which italisation and transmission of knowresponsibility. facilitates and secures their profesledge and skills; sional career (see p. 76). This agree■ be able to mobilise teams around ment is particularly innovative in that it strategic subjects; gives employees greater visibility in ■ to identify and secure key areas of terms of their career prospects at the expertise. local level and in their immediate work16 Cristina Lunghi President of Arborus, the european endowment fund for professional gender equality “Equal opportunity policies in the company are a vector of well-being for the whole society.” and are more creative. Having an equal international steering and coordination opportunity policy creates cohesion while enabling countries to adapt the and a sense of belonging to the approach to their context. company. Orange, which has Beyond the beneﬁts it brings to the implemented an equal opportunity company, equal opportunity policies policy for several years, has seen how also have positive repercussions on the T it creates a virtuous circle within the macro-economy by addressing major company. It levers modernisation and social challenges such as falling birth he beneﬁts of social innovations and gives us the rates (which affect several European implementing an equal opportunity to review our governance countries), or the precarious situation opportunity approach and internal organisation in order of women’s pensions, which, on in the company are multiple. to implement more rewarding working average, are 45% lower than that of practices. Thanks to the Arborus funds their male counterparts. Implementing It develops employee loyalty, attracts and the European label for equal virtuous policies also helps to combat new talents, and improves our image opportunities in the workplace, “social dumping” (the use of cheap in terms of stakeholders and especially companies now have tools with which labour elsewhere). They can also be consumers (over 50% of them are to promote a common European used to promote well-being at all levels women!). We know from experience culture in terms of equal opportunities of the society, which can only be seen that mixed teams are easier to manage in a framework that promotes as positive in the current climate. a responsible employer The employee assessment is not solely the Group is progressively rolling out recognising based on quantitative indicators but also on qualitative indicators such as employee proﬁt-sharing schemes (e.g., employee incentive and share allocaindividual lasting customer satisfaction and individual employee’s contributions to tion schemes) in other countries. Our employees also receive social beneﬁts and collective Group effectiveness. It also takes into account the conditions in which in terms of health (medical insurance) and planning for the future (Group savcontributions employees have to perform their duties. ings plan and Group pension plan). sharing our success with our employees Because the men and women of We also reward our employees’ comOrange are absolutely key to the mitment through incentivising remuGroup’s success, we are committed to sharing collective value added by neration packages and company proﬁt-sharing schemes. key events putting in place fair and incentivising remuneration mechanisms. France Telecom-Orange has set up an exemplary value sharing model to recin 2011 ognise the contributions of the men a fair assessment process and women who work for the Group. In the majority of countries, Group In 2011, the value added paid out by Orange obtains the European label employees attend half-yearly assessthe Group was distributed in the folfor equal opportunities ments where they can discuss their lowing manner : 39% to employees, In June 2011, Orange obtained the aspirations and career development 22% to investments, 14% to reimburse Gender Equality-European Standard. and take stock of their individual and Group debt and 16% to shareholders. This certification, created under the collective objectives. To reﬂect what is happening in France, patronage of the European Commission by the Arborus Fund, is the first European standard for gender equality in the workplace. France TelecomOrange is one of the ﬁrst French companies to be certiﬁed. Several Group entities have also been honoured: the Group for its ability to drive forward and steer a European-wide policy, Orange France, Orange Spain, Mobistar and Orange Business Services in its German and Italian subsidiaries. “Partageons”: a new free-share allocation plan Being committed to an ambitious policy of growth, proﬁtability and optimal quality and being aware that employees are essential to this strategy, we decided to extend our employees share allocation plan. In July 2011, we set up the “Partargeons” scheme, a new free share allocation plan beneﬁting over 80% of Group employees in 92 countries. 18 Bruno Mettling Deputy Managing Director, Director of Human Resources at the France Telecom-Orange Group “Employees’ vision of the company is continuing to improve.” implemented. The positive results in the company is returning to normal of the social barometer demonstrate in France. that the new organisational model in Some employees are worried about France, which promotes greater how the current economic climate will decentralisation and gives greater affect our social commitments. I would latitude to managers, is starting to like to state that the increasingly produce positive results and that the difﬁcult environment will not T social contract is becoming part of compromise the social contract; in fact daily life in the company. Employees’ it makes it even more important than he entire Executive vision of the company is continuing before. The social contract is an Committee and to improve: 88% of employees investment in the men and women Stéphane Richard questioned about the quality of work who work in the Group and has been life thought that it was the same planned and integrated into the have clearly stated that they want the or better than in other companies budgets. It will be respected. Believing new social contract to be the driving (79% in October 2010) and the that we can improve our economic force behind the new social dynamic percentage of employees who thought performance without taking into of the company in France and a that the situation was worse decreased consideration social quality is an error priority of our development strategy. threefold (16% in October 2010 – even a heresy. Numerous examples The 158 measures contained in the compared to 6% in December 2011). demonstrate that good social relations new social contract have now been These results conﬁrm that the situation improve economic performance. a world lived in trust deser ing One of the objectives of the conquests 2015 project is to become our cu stothe preferred operator in all our markets by 2015. How? By offering the best telecommunications experience and by providing personalised support to customers to help them navigate 20 mer’s trust the digital world. 21 a world lived in trust One of the objectives of the conquests 2015 project is to become the preferred operator in all our markets by 2015. How? By offering the best telecommunications experience and by providing personalised support to customers to help them navigate the digital world. However, at Orange we are aware that offering the best technology is not enough. Excellence at all levels of the customer journey is essential to ensure that customers are satisﬁed and are happy to recommend our products and services to others. Meeting customer expectations by addressing all their needs and concerns means that we must go above and beyond providing basic our goal: However, this will not be sufﬁcient and we must also ensure that these knowquality of service. For example, it means helping young users, to be the leader how and expertise beneﬁt our customers. To achieve this we are focusing on parents and educators use new technologies in a safe and in customer two areas: quality of customer relations and the simplicity of our offers. responsible manner; it also means experience towards personalised customer offering guarantees in terms of data protection and addressing by 2015 relationship approach To achieve our goal of becoming our the issues of radio waves. customers’ “digital coach”, in 2010 we embarked upon a collaborative proThe way in which customers perceive cess with all our countries to define quality of service and the quality of a common Orange approach to cuscustomer relations is absolutely critical, tomer relations. This common especially in mature and extremely approach is based on a willingness to competitive markets such as ours. address all customer concerns and to Fortunately, we have a number of offer assistance and support, which is advantages that will enable us to offer adapted to their needs and experience the best customer experience in the in using new technologies. Being market by 2015: proximity, our knowOrange means being attentive and how as a network operator and our adapting to each and every one of our expertise in terms of advanced techcustomers. It also means carefully nology, and our considerable capacity analysing and understanding how cusfor innovation in terms of services. tomers use our services. And ﬁnally it 22 means always responding to customer The Africa, Middle East and Asia Several projects are being deployed in demands and questions in a positive (AMEA) zone uses a similar tool called France and overseas (see p. 84). and engaged manner. the “Quality of Service barometer”. To s h a re a n d d i s s e m i n a t e t h i s The business market uses a specific ensuring that customers approach, we have developed a toolprofessional customer satisfaction are at the heart of processes box, which combines training, recruitmeasuring system as part of the “CusBeing as close to customers as possiing talents, internal communication tomer Excellence” approach. ble in order to understand their expecand specific action plans for each tations, needs, difficulties and even country as well as management-level a policy of excellence for business disappointments is the rationale ﬂagship actions. customers behind our “Time to Market” (TTM) Our customer advisors, who are in To meet the speciﬁc needs of our busioffer launch process. It integrates a direct contact with our customers, ness customers, for several years process for listening to customers’ are the torch-bearers of this new Orange Business Services has been views at the design phase of a new approach. We have launched two implementing a customer satisfaction product or service through to when initiatives to support them and improvement programme: the “Outthe offer is launched on market. strengthen their skills and commitstanding Customer Experience” proFor each new offer, a customer satisment: gramme. faction ofﬁce conducts: ■ The Orange certiﬁcation programme This programme is an integral part of ■ tests with potential customers of the offers customer service employees a the conquests 2015 strategic project, offer prior to the launch; two-level accreditation recognising which was adopted by the Group in ■ a qualitative study on “customer their professional qualiﬁcations. September 2010. One of its priorities moments” and a survey following the ■ “Orange Customer Champion” is to “ensure that customers choose launch to measure “on-the-spot” custrophies pay tribute to our champions Orange for its exemplary customer tomer satisfaction, to analyse the rollof customer service excellence. This is experience”. out of the launch and, if necessary, the biggest in-house competition ever implement improvement plans. launched by Orange. The trophies reﬂect our goals in terms of quality of service. measuring the quality of the customer experience The Customer Experience Tracker (CET) was ﬁrst implemented in 2008. It is a quarterly barometer which guides our actions. Focusing on four thematic areas (offers, quality, customer relations and emotions), it allows us to compare the quality of the Orange customer experience with those of our competitors (for the entire customer journey). We regularly update it to ensure that it is in line with our customers’ needs. The CET is implemented in 11 European countries (France, the United Kingdom, Poland, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Romania, Slovakia, Austria, Moldova, Armenia) and also in the Dominican Republic and since 2010 has been integrated into the calculation of senior executives’ pay awards. 23 a world lived in trust and responsible treatment of employees and data protection. Business Continuity Plan for the business market – tried and tested effectiveness In January 2011, following the political unrest which affected our activities in Egypt, we took the decision to transfer the activity of our Major Service Centre (MSC) in Cairo to our other MSCs in New Delhi, Rio and Mauritius. MSCs play a crucial role in the business market; they ensure customer service and monitor the proper operation of infrastructures, networks and information systems. This was the first time we needed to activate our Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for such a long period – two weeks. The BCP has two priorities: to ensure the safety of employees and to maintain contact with our customers. Thanks to the hard work of our teams, we were able to manage the crisis effectively, which much appreciated by our customers. Our crisis management expertise was also recognised by IDC, a major research and consultancy ﬁrm operating in the information and communication technology (ICT) markets. They visited our MSC in Mauritius to evaluAt the end of 2011, 26 Group countries were using the Time to Market key events ate our Business Continuity Plan; the resulting report paid tribute to the perstrategy and 19 testing centres were operational worldwide. 2011 formance of our teams. simplifying offers for customers This is a key customer demand. We customer satisfaction evaluated are striving to ensure the reliability and from all angles simplicity of our offers and to develop In 2011, in order to respond to new high quality assistance services that customer expectations, i.e. in addisupport our customers throughout tion to quality of services requiretheir Orange journey. ments, we added new questions to A wager? In 2011, we removed over the Customer Experience Tracker – 1,000 products from our catalogue to our quality of service (as perceived by simplify our offering. We also pursued customers) barometer. These quesour customer journey optimisation tions focused on five themes: honapproach and we were able to optimesty, rewarding customer loyalty, ise over 80 journeys in 21 countries. quality of technical support, the fair 24 Jean-Philippe Vanot Deputy Managing Director at the France Telecom-Orange Group in charge of Quality and Corporate Social Responsibility “Our customers expect from us high quality services as well as personalised support.” must promote an “Orange customer actively participates in a number of relations culture”. This will require time initiatives that promote the safe and and commitment. Although our responsible use of new technologies, customer experience barometer shows especially by young people. We were that we are on the right track, we still one of the ﬁrst companies to adopt have a long way to go. My objective is the “ICT Coalition” principles, which aim that, over the next few years, customers to make the Internet a safer place for T will immediately know that they are at children and adolescents. On this Orange by the friendly and enthusiastic subject, our customers – many of whom oday’s customers are manner in which a call centre advisor are parents – have high expectations. increasingly welladdresses them and deals with their Guiding and protecting them in a informed and demanding. request. We must also address complex and changing universe are customer’s concerns about data at the heart of our digital coach They expect high quality services as well protection, child protection and radio commitment. Only by addressing all our as personalised support. To reach waves by providing clear responses and customers’ expectations and concerns our goal of offering the best customer tools that allow everyone to enjoy the will we be able to stand out as an experience in all of our markets, we beneﬁts of the digital world. Orange operator that can be trusted. a world lived in trust In our role as a digital coach, we can informing, supporting and training promoting support parents to help their children enjoy the digital world safely. ■ parents and educators: helping parents to instil responsible reflexes in safe and We have been working hard in this area for several years. Because the their children through original pedagogical tools. This is one of the ﬂagresponsible issues change so rapidly, so does our approach and that is why, in 2011, we ship elements of our new policy. To reach out to schools, we have formed uses strengthened our Group policy on digital protection for children. It is based partnerships with specialised associations and experts (psychologists, on three common action principles, addiction specialists, PTAs, etc.). which can be easily adapted to differchild protection: a growing ent country contexts and needs: ■ continuing to develop tools in concern order to filter content and apply With the explosion of digital uses, ■ actively promoting responsible parental controls in line with digital protecting children against the risks use by passing on clear messages developments. We also offer free associated with the Internet is and information issued by specialised parental control tools for computers, becoming one of the biggest public institutions and associations. To raise mobiles, TV and VoD to limit access priorities. This was the ﬁnding of the the awareness of the greatest number to inappropriate sites or content. 2010 and 2011 TNS Sofres-Orange of people, we are passing on clear These powerful tools are being prosurvey on the perception of the rules on the use of new technologies gressively deployed in all countries. Group’s CSR actions in France. to all of our users. We are also relaying We also propose specially adapted According to a study by the Family mobile telephone usage precautions offers for children and adolescents in Online Safety Institute, 40% of 8-toissued by governments and health line with parents’ expectations and 17-year-olds around the world visit a authority recommendations to parents requirements. In 2011, our European social networking site every day. via a range of tools: usage guides for subsidiaries worked hard to promote A European study entitled “EU Kids parents, special websites, awarenesschild protection, and conducted Online” estimates that 93% of 9-toraising campaigns, round tables, etc. numerous awareness-raising initiatives 16-year-olds go on the Internet at least once a week. The multiplication of digital tools has generated an explosion of content to which young people are increasingly exposed. Furthermore, their Web navigation skills are often superior to those of their parents. According to the most recent study conducted in France by TNS Sofres (1) , only half (55%) of 8-to17-year-olds talk to their parents about social networks and when they do these discussions tend to focus on the amount of time spent of social networking sites rather than associated risks. (1) Adolescents and social networking sites – TNS Sofres, July 2011. 26 in all countries in partnership with local authorities, specialised associations and schools. This constant mobilisation was highlighted on Safer Internet Day. This is an annual event organised by the Insafe European network in 60 countries to promote the safe and responsible use of technologies and the Internet by children and adolescents (see p. 91 to 93). ensuring data security and conﬁdentiality Every day, a massive volume of important and conﬁdential data is exchanged on the Internet and on mobile telephones. At Orange, we offer effective solutions to protect customers’ personal data and to ensure that their private lives remain private. ■ securing our offers and will be disseminated throughout all issue in as clear a manner as possible. For over ten years, France Telecomentities in 2012. For over ten years, the Group has folOrange has been conducting a techlowed the advice of national and internology watch on network security ■ developing security solutions national health authorities. We closely enabling it to monitor the development for our customers monitor scientific studies with our of threats (viruses, spam, phishing, In addition to internal data protection research laboratories. etc.) and design appropriate responses. measures, we offer our customers a Data security is a top priority in the range of powerful security solutions for design of any new product or service. workstations and mobile telephones, Group security teams regularly raise to control access to networks, to awareness among product marketing detect and prevent cyber attacks managers on the different risk factors, and to protect company resources and provide security monitoring from eavesdropping attacks and the throughout development. destruction of information. But because tools alone are not ■ ensuring the confidentiality enough, we regularly contact our cusof personal data tomers to remind them of usage recThe development of social networks, ommendations and to give them online shopping and mobile marketing practical advice on how to better prohas given rise to major new challenges tect their personal data. in terms of data protection. In all our entities, we apply stringent addressing the radio waves issue measures to ensure that the private The massive development and use of lives of our customers are respected mobile telephones and the erection of (see p. 88-89). Several countries such relay antennas has given rise to some as France and Spain have published a concerns on the possible ill effects of charter on data protection. A Group radio waves on health. At Orange, we policy deﬁning common action princiunderstand these concerns and we ples was drafted at the end of 2011 believe it is our duty to address the 27 a world lived in trust In December 2011, the Group made key events ■ a commitment to the CEO Coalition via the «A better Internet for Kids” 2011 initiative launched by Neelie Kroes, Vice-President of the European Commission in charge of the Digital Agenda for Europe to promote actions at the Orange supports Europe-wide European level. child protection initiatives ■ We also contributed to drafting the In 2007, we signed the European guidelines in the “ICT Coalition for a framework on the safer use of mobile Safer Internet for Children and Young telephones by children and adolesPeople”, which was published on cents, the European framework on the 19 January 2012 by 25 ICT compasafer use of connected devices and nies. online services by children and adolescents, and the Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content. In 2011, Orange supported a further two new European child protection initiatives: In terms of the general public (our customers and employees), we regularly pass on information and in particular usage precautions and recommendations issued by public authorities aimed at reducing individual’s exposure. On a purely voluntary basis, we choose to display (in our French stores and on websites) speciﬁc absorption rates, i.e. the quantity of electro-magnetic waves produced by a mobile handset, which can vary from model to another. For several years, hands-free kits are systematically offered to customers when they purchase a mobile. By distancing the mobile telephone from the human body, the kit reduces the individual’s exposure to the electro magnetic waves. 28 Serge Tisseron psychiatrist and psychoanalyst and expert in the ﬁeld of youth-media-image relationships “A child who is properly supported in his/her ‘real’ life will use the Internet appropriately.” Internet, children are “at home” and Perhaps the most serious issue is the “out” at the same time. They are lack of trust between young people and I looking for adventure and adults. Many parents worry about their experimenting – something which has children and feel that they are no longer n just a few years we have always been part of growing up. This is needed. This is simply not the case. moved from a book-based why it is important to abandon certain Parents must make time to talk to their culture to a screen-based received ideas. For example, just children and have a positive attitude culture. because a young person spends towards their interests. The Internet a lot of time on the Internet does not is a fabulous tool for encouraging The former was a “this one OR that necessarily mean that they are creativity and interaction. A child who one” culture, while the latter is a “this becoming isolated – they may be is properly supported in his/her “real” one AND that one” culture. With the interacting with their classmates. life will use the Internet appropriately. an accessible world provid ing Today, the Internet and digital mobile telephones have become indispensable in our professional and personal lives. 30 acces to all At Orange, we believe that one of our key missions is to make the benefits of information and communication technologies available to as many people as possible. 31 an accessible world Today, the Internet and mobile It is a lever of attractiveness in regions telephones have become promoting and countries. That is why we are continuing to combat the digital divide indispensable in our professional and personal lives. At Orange, digital inclusion so that no geographical area is overlooked. we believe that one of our key missions is to make the beneﬁts in countries To achieve this we are investing in networks, information systems, livebox, of information and communication real estate, etc. This investment repretechnologies (ICTs) available sented 12.7% of the turnover in 2011. to as many people as possible. Combating the digital divide means We plan to increase our investment investing in technology and high qualin networks in the 2011-2013 period. This basic commitment in our ity networks. Close to 17 billion euros will be set corporate social responsibility Our success is built on the success of aside, 2 billion of which will be policy also guides the actions our networks and the expertise of our invested in the ﬁbre optic programme of the Orange Foundation. technicians and we are continuing to in France and 500 billion of which will invest in order to increase fixed and be used to modernise our 3G netmobile broadband coverage in both works in Europe. industrialised and developing counThese investments allow us to have Tackling digital exclusion in all its tries. high quality, convergent and shared forms includes reducing the geovery-high speed broadband networks graphical digital divide which is why voluntary investment plan that are able to cope with increasingly we are deploying infrastructures in all Developing networks is one of the prihigh volumes of data exchanges. our countries as well as implementing orities of the conquests 2015 strategic The official ARCEP report on “the alternative solutions in remote areas. project. quality of mobile network voice and Our commitment also means contribIt was reafﬁrmed by Stéphane Richard data services (2G and 3G) in mainland uting to economic and social developduring his presentation in Brussels of France”, published on 4 November ment, making our services accessible its 10 commitments to answer the 2011, confirms that Orange has the to those with low incomes and stimuchallenges of digital technology in best mobile network in the country lating entrepreneurship. It also means Europe. Among these, three concern and offers the best coverage, the fastmaking our products and services more particularly the digital inclusion est mobile broadband, the best qualeasier to use by the elderly or by with the roll-out of 4G/LTE networks in ity voice communications and mobile those with disabilities, and always all Orange European Union markets data services, etc. making technology simple to use even by 2015, make Fiber to the Home In developing countries where we for people with learning difﬁculties. (FTTH) available to 15 million housecontributed to numerous advances, Above and beyond providing access, holds and 80% of businesses by 2020 much remains to be done to improve we want to encourage the emergence in France; and participate in the rollInternet access. Africa, in particular, is of new and innovative uses in key out of very-high speed broadband in one of the continents with the fewest areas such as health, education and our European markets. At last, the network infrastructures. That is why culture. roll-out of 3G by 2015 in all African Orange is actively contributing to and Middle-East countries where large-scale broadband and ﬁbre optic Orange operates and offer mobile sub-marine cable projects (LION2, coverage to over 80% of the populaACE, etc.), and is deploying innovative tion in this region. solutions to provide coverage in In mature markets, the explosion of remote areas. uses and new consumer expectations means that we need ever faster broadband speeds. The future lies in very-high speed broadband. 32 Delphine Ernotte Cunci Deputy Managing Director France Telecom-Orange Group Executive Director at Orange France “All our teams are mobilised.” speed broadband is the driving force and 4G (mobile) networks (as we did of companies’ competitiveness. with ADSL) and to achieve coverage T For communities, it simpliﬁes of almost the whole country and for relationships between services and the mobile network to obtain a class he deployment between users and administrators. one network rating from ARCEP. of very-high speed In terms of society, it makes it possible We also make a commitment to make broadband constitutes to develop innovative solutions that service our trademark to accompany one of the big infrastructure projects facilitate everyday life, e.g. helping all our customers in discovering which we shall have to realise in the vulnerable, elderly, disabled or ill the digital world. For that purpose, next years. people stay at home. In this context, all our teams are mobilised, as our our commitment is clear: to enable advertising campaign illustrates, Economic, social and cultural stakes everyone to enjoy the beneﬁts of “the Orange service, satisﬁed when are extremely high. The very-high very-high speed broadband (ﬁber optic) you are”. 33 an accessible world adapted solutions nology in developing countries” prize implement. In 2007, we signed a RAN in remote areas at the Global Mobile Awards in 2011. sharing agreement (rolled out over In zones where it is too difﬁcult or too ﬁve years) with Vodafone in Spain. The costly to deploy ADSL technology, we working with our competitors aim is to work together to deploy 3G offer innovative alternative solutions To accelerate the deployment of infracoverage in towns with between 1,000 adapted to the local context such as structures in remote areas, we are and 25,000 inhabitants, i.e. around our Internet satellite offer – the Orange sharing network infrastructures with 13 million inhabitants in total. Upon Flybox –, which provides domestic our competitors. This is a win-win situcompletion, around 5,000 sites will be Internet access via the mobile 3G high ation, which increases geographical shared. Another recent example is the speed network. Another example is coverage while minimising our environjoint venture we set up with Deutsche our solar-powered radio stations, mental footprint and controlling costs. Telekom in Poland to share the mobile which have been installed in remote Concerning mobile network infrastrucnetwork throughout the country. villages without electricity to provide tures, in addition to “passive” equipConcerning sharing ﬁbre optic network them with telecommunications serment (buildings, pylons, masts…), we access infrastructures, in 2011 in vices. At the end of 2011, 2,065 solar are also in the process of developing France, we signed sharing agreements sites including 1,416 solar-powered RAN sharing (sharing infrastructure with Free and SFR, and in the beginmobile radio stations had been with competitors). While this is the ning of 2012 with Bouygues, to accelinstalled in 17 countries. This promost effective approach in terms of erate ﬁbre optic deployment. gramme won the “Best mobile techgains, it is also the most complex to 34 euros; 67% of which was funded by our goal is to develop these markets key events Orange Poland and the remaining amount of which was covered by further. That is why we are committed to actively contributing to economic 2011 European funds. and social development in the AMEA zone by investing 800 million euros each year. Our ﬁrst priority is to increase network a key contribution to developing coverage and develop offers for individdigital uses in Poland uals with low incomes by offering In Poland, our subsidiary – Orange Poland – has been working hard to using our second-hand telephones and implementing innovative solutions that tackle increase coverage and mobile and ADSL network speeds throughout technologies poverty such as the “Community Phone”, which has provided mobile telthe country. In the framework of an agreement concluded at the end of to further ephone access to over 1,700 villages with over 500 inhabitants in Mali, Niger, 2009 with the country’s telecommunications regulatory body (UKE), Orange economic Côte d’Ivoire and the Central African Republic; or our mobile reverse charge Poland has undertaken to construct 500,000 new ADSL lines and to and social call service Pay for Me or our Emergency Credit service, which gives cusimprove the speed of 700,000 existing lines in the 2010-2012 period. development tomers extra minutes if they need to call someone urgently but their credit has Furthermore, in 2011 a contract was run out. signed with voivodship Lubusz (one of But we are going much further than the country’s 16 administrative regions) Research shows that ICT is a major this: to lay a 1,337-km ﬁbre optic cable to economic and social lever in develop■ in collaboration with each country we provide ADSL access to 281 towns ing countries. With over 70 million cusare developing thematic or sectoral and villages for the very ﬁrst time. This tomers in 25 countries in the Africa, solutions in line with their development project costs in the region of 40 million Middle-East and Asia (AMEA) zone, priorities: education, rural development, agriculture, health, etc. We are offering adapted tariffs, special connections, school and educational equipment, SMS services that send useful business information such as the market prices of agricultural commodities, etc.; ■ we are encouraging the development of an eco-system based on new technologies which promote entrepreneurship either directly – such as setting up a start-up business incubator in Senegal (and soon in Niger) or facilitating economic transactions with the Orange Money solution – or indirectly by stimulating the creation of business via initiatives such as the African Social Venture Prize or the Ideas for Enterprises competition in Moldova. We are also working closely with local actors (experts, universities and specialised schools) to promote the development of key skills in each country. 35 an accessible world Orange Tunisia committed This service, offered in partnership key events to supporting the local content industry with a major bank, has a high level of security to avoid the risk of theft 2011 Through its “Developers Programme” launched in October 2010, Orange or fraud. At the end of 2011, it was available in eight countries (Mali, Tunisia encourages the creation of S e n e g a l , C ô t e d ’ I v o i r e , N i g e r, 100% Tunisian mobile telephone Botswana, Kenya, Madagascar and Orange for Development applications in partnership with a Cameroon) and had over 3 million In order to better respond to the spenumber of engineering schools in the users. The aim is to roll it out in all our ciﬁc development challenges of Africountry and especially in disadvantAfrican and Middle-Eastern markets can countries, at the end of 2011 we aged regions. The objective is to proto reach 30 million customers by launched a Group-wide programme mote Tunisian expertise in this area 2015. called “Orange for Development”. This and to support the emergence of a frame of reference summarises the veritable ecosystem as a precursor to ﬁrst edition of the African Social expectations identified in the stakea profitable and sustainable mobile Venture Prize holder dialogue process and via the content industry with a high potential Launched in June 2011, the African massive internal consultation which for innovation and job creation opporSocial Venture Prize was set up to was conducted in 2011 with the entitunities for young Tunisians. The support entrepreneurs and start-ups ties to identify and prioritise Group results at the end of 2011 were more using information and communication action principles in terms of economic than promising: over 800 individuals technologies (ICTs) to meet the needs and social development in the AMEA were accepted, 600 were trained in of local communities. zone. This will be achieved via three the framework of their university studThe call for projects, which was supplementary levers: ies and around 30 applications were open from June to September 2011, ■ increasing network coverage and produced. And Orange Tunisia has received over 600 applications on a Internet access to enable as many no intention of resting on its laurels, wide range of subjects such as health, people as possible to beneﬁt from the it is planning to further promote and agriculture, education, and financial digital world; extend the network to include around and merchant services, reﬂecting the ■ working with local actors to produce 2,000 young developers by setting up entrepreneurial and telecommunicavalue added products and services regular targeted activities which tions potential in Africa. that meet the speciﬁc needs of cominvolve all stakeholders and business The three winners of the first edition munities; angels. were revealed at the AfricaCom ■ supporting the local ICT market A w a r d s h e l d i n C a p e To w n o n and developing an ecosystem that Orange Money is extending 9 November 2011: a remote irrigation favours innovation and the emergence its reach project in Niger using mobile technolof products, services and content In Africa, in order to remedy the lack ogy to help growers, the Agasha Busidesigned for the local market. of banking infrastructure, we develness Network, a Ugandan start-up oped Orange Money: a simple, secure using the Internet to help small-and To build on what has already been solution enabling users to open a paymedium-sized African enterprises, achieved, the Orange for Development account linked to a mobile numand Kachile, an Ivorian start-up selling ment Committee was formed. The ber. With Orange Money, communities artisan products on line. committee meets every two months with no access to traditional banking In addition to the prize money worth to review existing initiatives and services can now open an account, up to 25,000 euros, these projects will receive country updates. Its collaboratransfer money to their loved ones or receive six-months’ support from spetive working practices are inspired by pay bills in a simple and accessible cialists working in our local subsidiarsocial networking and it strives to manner. Orange Money is also a ies and strategic support from the coordinate existing initiatives in a means for companies and small busiventure capital company Innovacom. cross-cutting manner. nesses to simplify payment for trade services and even wages. 36 Marc Rennard International Executive Director of France Telecom-Orange in charge of Africa, the Middle-East and Asia “We encourage the emergence of innovative ecosystems based on new technologies that stimulate entrepreneurship.” unemployment and the lack of equality population and to provide access in of the socio-economic system are rural zones where over 60% of the challenges faced by a number of sub-Saharan African population lives. countries. We must contribute to Secondly, in collaboration with local promoting the sustainable development actors to develop value-added services A of these countries. Social and (in line with local priorities) particularly lready present in Africa economic development is our raison in the health and agriculture domains. and the Middle-East, d’être in these countries and We also encourage the emergence more and more our goal guarantees our growth and long-term of innovative ecosystems based is to become the success. Our stakeholder dialogue on new technologies that stimulate benchmark operator in this high(conducted in our main African entrepreneurship. We have already potential zone. markets) demonstrates that we do have accomplished a great deal such as a role to play. We are responding via Orange Money, which now has over To succeed we are focusing on our three action levers. Firstly, by 3 million users. These achievements ability to innovate and offer adapted continuing to implement our voluntary clearly demonstrate that Africa is a land solutions that meet the needs of local policy to improve connectivity on the of innovation for Orange and will communities. Combating poverty, continent, i.e. by 2015 to provide provide opportunities for progress the lack of infrastructures, youth mobile coverage to 80% of the in other domains. an accessible world Orange Spain: receiving need to reduce costs. For over ten ensuring the recognition for its accessibility initiatives years, we have been modernising infrastructures, equipping hospitals accessibility In 2011, Orange Spain launched its first catalogue of independent living and clinics with software and communication solutions and offering soluof our offers, which was certified by the Spanish committee of representatives tions that make it easier for medical practitioners to coordinate the adminissolutions of people with disabilities (CERMI) to acknowledge the efforts made to tration of healthcare. We have also developed offers that help elderly to people with improve access to telecommunications for almost 4 million people living dependent people and patients suffering from chronic illnesses stay in their disabilities with disabilities in Spain. Two stores have also been fitted with audio homes. All our offers prioritise the respect, comfort and safety of the induction loops to make it easier for individual, maintain social links with people with auditive impairments to the family and facilitate medical care Elderly people or people with disabilispeak to sales staff. This initiative was and follow-up. ties often have difficulties in using implemented in collaboration with the In developing countries, telemedicine mobile telephones or the Internet. This Spanish confederation of deaf families solutions are making a real difference is why Orange has for many years (FIAPAS). As of 2012, all new points of in places where there is a lack of hosbeen committed to breaking down the sales will include audio-induction pital and healthcare infrastructure. Our physical and cognitive barriers that loops and our aim is to equip all Orange Healthcare division has can restrict access to the beneﬁts of Orange Spain stores by 2015. launched tele-diagnosis solutions new technologies. in a number of African countries such “Accessibility” means enabling anyone as tele-dermatology via mobiles with a disability or impairment – visual, in Botswana and Egypt, screening auditive, motor or mental – to use gynaecological cancers in Madagasdigital devices and access content car, real-time health monitoring of thanks to adapted functions and features such as voice synthesis, the addressing 200 children in Mali… Other pilot schemes are ongoing notably in the possibility to enlarge fonts and/or adjust colours, adapted keyboards, the challenges framework of our partnership with mHealth Alliance, which aims to optimised search functions, Braille, etc. To do this, we address these of health and deploy mobile telephone health solutions in West Africa. needs at the design phase of our offers; we also provide specialised dependency Orange Kenya launches a drug advice and assistance. In France, a authentication service dedicated network supports the distriLaunched in partnership with the bution of our Autonomy offers using At Orange, we are convinced that the mPedigree NGO, this free drug innovative services such as our comdoctor of tomorrow will be a network authentication service has been opermercial website, which allows users to doctor for whom managing informaational since October 2011. In certain talk to a specially-trained customer tion is vital and for whom communicacountries where the percentage of advisor in French sign language via a tion solutions will be key to bringing counterfeit drugs can be as high as webcam. about real improvements. 50%, patients and medical personnel In 2005, we also created an accessiIn industrialised countries, these soluneed to be able to check the authenbility and ergonomics centre of tions are already being used to ticity of drugs; this is now possible by expertise to help us improve the address major challenges such as the sending an SMS containing the drug accessibility and ergonomics of our ageing population, dependency, code hidden under a scratch tab. The websites. decreasing medical resources and the response indicates whether the drug 38 is authentic or not and provides the A good example of this is the Orange service user with a laboratory telephone number to contact in the event facilitating Digital Solidarity project, which was launched at the end of 2010 by the that the drug is a counterfeit. With this service, Orange is supporting Kenya’s access Orange Foundation. With support from Orange volunteer employees, public health policy to target organised crime. to education we organise digital workshops on behalf of partners working in the volhealthpresence in Senegal and culture untary sector. These cover a wide range of themes such as basic comIn November 2011, Sonatel, our operputer and Internet usage, writing a ator in Senegal, launched a remote CV, advanced use of office tools, medical consultation solution in the New technologies are revolutionising using social networks and even more Thiès Hospital, located 92 km from the ways in which we access knowadvanced uses. Dakar. Healthpresence facilitates high ledge. With the Internet, everyone has quality interactions between the access to almost-unlimited resources Poland and Jordan: two major patient at the medical centre in for learning, information or accessing education initiatives Tivaouane and a doctor in Thiès. If culture. At Orange, we want as many In 2010 in Jordan, Orange launched necessary, the doctor can consult a people as possible to access these an ambitious strategy to increase the specialist in Dakar. This solution pronew resources. local population’s access to ICTs as vides the doctor with a range of mediTo do that, we are working closely well as providing educational support. cal data about the patient: blood with local actors to address educaThe “Orange Broadband Fund” aims pressure, heart rate, blood sugar, etc. tional needs, which vary signiﬁcantly to extend Internet access to the Doctors can also prescribe medicines from one country to another. regions (i.e. beyond the capital). It has remotely. In certain countries, we are supportthree speciﬁc objectives: to raise the ing girls’ education – a recognised population’s awareness of the imporonline medical assistance social and economic development tance of the Internet in terms of learnin Bhutan lever. In other countries, we are ing and productivity, to improve Orange Business Services, in collaboequipping schools and higher educaInternet access, and to use it as a ration with Regal Information Technoltion colleges with ICT equipment to training tool. The funds will mainly be ogy, is supplying the Kingdom of make education more accessible and used to provide an Orange ADSL conBhutan with real-time public health more motivating. We are also supnection as well as the necessary services. With the creation of a mediporting the development and disinfrastructures and equipment for cal assistance centre, the Ministry of semination of local, general and 500 schools in the country. Health wants to offer citizens reliable educational content (as we did in In Poland, the “Education with Orange and high-quality healthcare services. Jordan in Arabic). Poland Internet” programme, deployed Thanks to the special “Health Line Call To remove educational and cultural since 2004, continues to provide Centre”, medical advice and emerobstacles such as illiteracy or the retischools with Internet access at prefergency services are available 24/7. cence to use IT tools, we are offering ential rates. At the end of 2011, over easy-to-use services such as Voice 14,500 schools and 4.5 million pupils SMSs, which allow users to send were able to access the Internet. voice messages in just a few minutes Orange Poland has also provided without the need to know how to Internet access to 3,200 municipal read or write. libraries. Besides developing tools, we work with groups with learning or inclusion difﬁculties to help them take advantage of the opportunities offered by new technologies. 39 towards a greener world a bett r In a world with limited natural resources, companies will only contro l of be able to ensure their long-term success by controlling their energy consumption and reducing the environmental impact of the life cycles of their products and services. 40 our im pacts For Orange, it is obvious – long-term success is only possible if we better control our impact on the environment. 41 towards a greener world increasing energy costs, those teleIn a world with limited natural resources, companies will a priority: coms operators which survive will be those that manage to install high-qualonly be able to ensure their long-term success by controlling combating ity low-energy consuming networks. their energy consumption climate change ambitious goals to meet the energy challenge and reducing the environmental impact of the life cycles of their Orange is committed to reducing its CO2 emissions by 20% and its energy products and services. At Orange, we believe that telecoms consumption by 15% between 2006 operators have a special responsibility and 2020. These objectives are a key For Orange, it is obvious to address the climate change issue. component of the conquests 2015 – long-term success is only While the digital revolution is an undestrategic project and are quarterly possible if we better control niable vehicle for social and environclosely monitored by the Group’s our impact on the environment. mental progress, it results in everExecutive Committee with the help of increasing volumes of data trafﬁc and special indicators. the need for increasingly powerful Since 2009, we have been implementTo achieve this we are acting and energy-hungry infrastructures. ing action plans based on three levers on three fronts: Addressing this issue without increasin all our entities: ■ reducing the environmental ing our networks’ energy consumption ■ reducing the energy consumption of impact of our operations is a real challenge. However, it is networks, information systems and by lowering greenhouse gas essential if we want to ensure the susbuildings; tainability of our activities and fulﬁl our ■ deploying solutions that rely on emissions and optimising waste green citizen commitment to contribute renewable forms of energy; management; to protecting our planet. Faced with ■ reducing emissions caused by vehi■ reducing the environmental decreasing stocks of fossil fuels and cles and employee business trips. impact of our customer products thanks to eco-design and promoting eco-friendly usages; ■ developing innovative products and services that allow individuals and companies to be greener citizens. 42 our entities in France, Spain and Poland, and Orange Business Services, Equant and two representatives from the EME (Europe and Middle East) and AMEA (Asia, Middle-East and Asia) zones to study and implement efﬁcient energy solutions for buildings; ■ the Sustainable Mobility Department, which supervises all aspects linked to employee travel, deploys video-conferencing solutions and optimises the Group’s vehicle ﬂeet management. increasingly accurate measuring resents almost 4,800 tons of CO 2 tools some encouremissions; ■ 16 million litres of fuel saved in 2011 aging results thanks to the renewed vehicle ﬂeet. We can not reduce our energy consumption or our carbon footprint without reliable measurements. In order to monitor our real-time consumption The most significant results will and make any necessary adjustments, become more visible in the long term; we have been installing smart meters however, these action plans prove that our actions are working: improved on our main sites and in our biggest ofﬁce buildings. Following the installa■ stabilising our energy consumption in terms of customers; governance tion of these smart meters on 90 sites, we have been able to make energy ■ 225 GWh saved in three years savings of around 20%. thanks to the “Green ITN 2020” network infrastructures and information In 2011, three specialised departWe were also the ﬁrst telecoms opersystem transformation programme; ments conduct our action: ator to conduct an in-depth evaluation ■ more than 2,000 solar sites repre■ the EER – Energy & CO 2 Emission of the direct and indirect greenhouse senting an annual production of Reduction – Department, in charge gas emissions of our activities around 13 GWh, allowing us to save 25 million of steering network infrastructure the world including the life cycles of all litres of fuel and avoid 67,000 tons of energy reduction actions in the ITN our products and services. The evaluCO2 emissions per year; (techniques and information systems) ation uses the Bilan Carbone® meth■ over 16,000 virtual servers at the end domain; odology developed by ADEME. After of 2011: the virtualisation of servers ■ the Group’s Buildings Department, France and Belgium (in 2010), a new (started in 2007) generated electricity which meets quarterly and brings Bilan Carbone® process has begun in savings (in 2011) of 65 GWh; this reptogether the Heads of Real Estate from 2011 at Orange Spain. 43 towards a greener world In Europe, Orange is piloting a scheme European Commission for its rigorous data centre will be one of the most to establish a common method to application of the European Data Centre eco-efﬁcient data centres in the world. measure the footprint of organisations Code of Conduct on the energy effiworking in the information and comciency of data centres. A further two new building certiﬁcations munication technology (ICT) sector. certiﬁcation applications were submitTo improve the environmental perforWe are also supporting the work of the ted in the beginning of 2011 for our mance of our stock of buildings, in International Telecommunications data centres in Lódź, in Poland, and several countries we are progressively Union and various standardisation Val-de-Reuil, in France. deploying improvement plans based organisations (ETSI, ISO, IEC, and In Val-de-Reuil, the new generation on existing best environmental pracCENELEC). data centre, which will be inaugurated tice and market standards: the Bâtiin 2012, has been built in accordance ment Basse Consommation (BBC; in commitments applied with the Haute Qualité EnvironnemenEnglish “low energy consumption to our products and services tal (HQE; in English “high environmental building”) or the HQE ® standard in Our efforts will be in vain if we only quality”) standard. Built from natural France, and BREEAM(1) and LEED(2) in reduce our internal impact. We must materials, this data centre will rely on other countries. offer our customers eco-friendly prodfresh air intake to cool its IT areas, thus ucts and services that help them to reducing the need for artiﬁcial air conIn 2011, we obtained several new control their own energy consumption. ditioning systems. It will save the equivcertifications for the environmental For several years now, we have been alent of the electrical consumption performance of our property developusing the principles of eco-design for of 15,000 individuals per year, i.e. ments: new products. 7.5 MWh/year. With a Power Usage ■ In France, four sites obtained HQE Following the eco-design of the LiveEffectiveness of 1.3, this new Orange Construction certiﬁcation (the Orange box in 2007 in the framework of a strategic partnership with Sagem, we are now extending this approach to the eco-design of services. This is a new area and we are mobilising multidisciplinary teams of experts, Orange Business Services, Research & Development and Purchasing. In 2011, two Cloud Computing services (under development) have undergone a life cycle analysis: Flexible Computing Express and Unified Communication as a Service (UcaaS) (see p. 139). key events in 2011 “Green” data centres In November 2011, the Sophia-Antipolis data centre was certified by the 44 Stadium in Saint-Denis, Orange Village absolute value of CO2 emissions and by customer in Arcueil, Lumine & Sens in Bordeaux, and the Orange Campus in Monend of life energy consumptions trouge). The Arcueil, Paris-Olivier de 0% (networks, buildings, vehicles) 8% Serre and Saint-Denis sites also use refrigerator ﬂuids obtained the HQE® Exploitation label 7% 0% (high environmental quality operation) ﬁxed assets incoming materials and label in recognition of the environmen(manufacturing and services among which implementation of the customers equipments tal performance of the buildings’ opernetwork equipments) (Liveboxes, mobiles) ations. The Apollo site in Montpellier 35% 35% obtained BREEAM certiﬁcation. Finally, freight direct wastes two sites (Caen Venoix and Paris0% 3% Olivier de Serre) obtained the HQE® travels (employees, customers, Rénovation label – a new category for visitors) ofﬁce building renovation projects. 12% ■ In Egypt, the Cairo site obtained LEED Gold certiﬁcation – the highest environmental performance level granted by LEED. ■ In Poland, the future headquarters of the Orange Poland Group in Warsaw The main identified sources of emiswill be built in accordance with the BREEAM standard (construction sions were electricity required for the network, the manufacturing of cusgiving started in 2011). tomer equipment (Liveboxes, mobiles), the manufacturing and implementation electronic Bilans Carbone® (tool used to calculate carbon footprints) results of network infrastructure and equipment, and employee journeys. equipment In 2010, with help from a specialised ﬁrm, we decided to completely assess Thanks to this extended evaluation, we now have a clearer vision of the a new lease the CO2 emissions linked to our activities using the Bilan Carbone® method carbon footprint of our activities. This will enable us to adapt our strategy to of life developed by ADEME. In addition to combat climate change by focusing direct emissions (energy consumed by on key areas, i.e. reducing network buildings, fuel for vehicles, network energy consumption (energy action Optimising waste management is an electricity, etc.), which have been plan), the impact of handsets (environenvironmental priority for Orange. In reported annually for several years, mental information, offers without addition to decreasing our own waste, this exercise enabled us to identify mobiles, etc.) and the reduction of for several years we have been workother sources of greenhouse gases emissions linked to business travel. ing hard to address an issue of both upstream and downstream of our increasing signiﬁcance: the collection direct carbon footprint. and recycling of our customers’ electronic waste. With over 1.5 billion mobile handsets sold every year and with handsets being renewed every eighteen to twenty-four months on average in industrialised countries, the number of used mobile handsets is continuing to (1) Environmental assessment method for buildings developed by the Building Research Establishment (BRE) equivalent to the HQE® standard in English. grow. We estimate that the stock of (2) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED): North American standardisation system non-used mobile handsets in Europe created by the US Green Building Council. could reach 2 billion units by 2015. 45 towards a greener world a voluntary initiative in Africa In emerging countries and especially in Africa, the problem of recycling used equipment is growing due to the lack of local well-structured and controlled networks. Since 2009, Orange has been implementing the “Africa Project”, whose aim is to set up a network to collect and recycle used mobiles from the African market. In partnership with Emmaüs International, the initiative consists of setting up used mobile telephone collection centres in African countries. Following the opening of the first workshop in Burkina Faso in 2010, two further workshops were opened in Benin and Madagascar in 2011. The collected waste is shipped back to France where it is received by Ateliers du Bocage (a social employment association linked to Emmaüs), the waste is then sorted before being sent to European recycling plants. By the end of 2011, It is estimated that between 20% and mobiles by gradually extending the trial over 31 tons of waste materials had 30% of these handsets are kept by piloted in France and in other Eurobeen collected (representing around their owners but are not used. Giving pean and African countries over the 210,000 mobile telephones). We are electronic equipment a second lease last two years; planning to create two new workshops of life is a major challenge: economi■ increase the collection rate of used per year and cover a further 10 councally because handsets contain rare telephones to +50% per year by tries in the next three years. To ensure and precious materials (gold, silver, improving customers’ awareness of the absolute traceability, we have asked etc.) that can be recuperated; socially issue and by implementing incentives. Pricewaterhouse Coopers to conduct because they can be passed on to an annual audit in each country. It is people with low incomes (especially in In 2011, our European entities colhoped that this initiative will contribute developing countries); and environlected over 1 million used mobile to developing eco-responsible mobile mentally because it is crucial to proptelephones from their customers, reptelephone markets in Africa. erly dispose of the harmful substances resenting an increase of 100% com(lead, mercury, cadmium, bromine pared to 2010. Seven European containing compounds, etc.) concountries have launched initiatives to tained in handsets. re-purchase used mobile telephones with signiﬁcant results (in Romania the Orange is mobilised on all fronts collection rate reached 14%). We are addressing the issue on a In June 2011, we also launched a pronumber of fronts in order to: totype of used phones smart collector ■ extend the life of mobile telephones called “Mobo”, which is being piloted by putting in place schemes to in France and Slovakia with very promencourage customers to keep their ising results. It was designed to help existing telephones for longer; us reach our objective of a 50% col■ sell reconditioned second-hand lection rate per year. 46 Vivek Badrinath Executive Director of Orange Business Services, France Telecom-Orange Group “I have the will that we demonstrate the environmental beneﬁts of our solutions.” experts, NICTs should enable us to which enable businesses to calculate reduce global greenhouse gases by real environmental gains. We are also 15% by 2020. Our video – and teleworking in new areas notably via our conferencing solutions are already “Smart Cities” strategic programme, reducing business trips and our ﬂeet which concerns utilities (electricity, management solutions are optimising water and gas) and transport the journeys of thousands of vehicles (connected cars and public transport). in real time and improving preventative Finally, the eco-design of services, maintenance. a domain in which we are deploying I By addressing our customers’ main considerable resources, will help us needs we are participating in the make signiﬁcant progress in this area collective effort as well as by guaranteeing that environmental n the ﬁght against strengthening our sectoral leadership issues are integrated into all our climate change, in terms of sustainable development. offers from the design phase. Today, our business customers expect We have also launched several pilot I am convinced that we have only seen us to help them understand their initiatives including a Cloud Computing the tip of the iceberg in terms of what energy budget and reduce costs offer. Given our ambitions in this new information and communication as well as helping them to reduce their area, I have the will that we technologies (NICTs) can offer. The environmental footprint. We offer demonstrate the environmental outlook is promising; according to the solutions such as eco-calculators, beneﬁts of these solutions. towards a greener world We actively participate in initiatives, ﬁnding which, thanks to ICTs, allow us to develop greener practices at all levels key events innovative of society, e.g., new forms of mobility (vehicle sharing, GPS systems, etc.), in 2011 solutions for a new ways of working (teleworking, machine-to-machine, etc.), new ways greener world of designing towns and homes (home automation systems, digital communiOrange is investing in sustainable mobility ties, etc.) and new ways of managing In November 2011, Orange partnered energy (smart electrical networks). with SNCF, PSA Peugeot Citroën and This is our goal and our digital technolTotal to create Écomobilité Ventures, ogy expertise that will make it possiOrange Business Services offers a the first European investment comble. We want to play a decisive role in range of solutions that facilitate telepany dedicated to sustainable mobility. the emergence of innovative solutions working and collaborative working Écomobilité Ventures has a capital of that better protect the environment. practices in companies, optimise vehi30 million euros, which it will invest in A number of studies have demoncle fleet management, consolidate new and innovative companies. With strated the major role ICT can play in and virtualise infrastructures, make this project, Orange and its partners tackling climate change and encourexchanges paperless, provide telehope to contribute to the emergence aging a new and greener economy. monitoring systems, etc., to enable of a new mobility ecosystem, which Orange is a leader in this area and has our customers to reduce their environgoes far beyond the boundaries of been honoured by Verdantix for the mental footprint (see p. 142). traditional sectors. third year running in its “Green Quadrant Sustainable Telecoms Europe” In addition to technical solutions, we smart water meters category, which recognises the offer “Green IT” consultancy services. In the framework of its “Smart Cities” Group’s commitment to reduce its Our aim is to help our customers strategic programme, in 2011 Orange impact and to offer innovative soluimprove the energy efﬁciency of their Business Services joined forces with tions to support business customers’ information systems and to use ICTs Veolia Eau to create m2o city, an opersustainable development policies. to reduce their environmental footprint. ator specialising in the remote reading In 2011, in association with JouleX, we of smart water meters and environlaunched the ﬁrst energy audit service mental data. m2o city offers local for IT equipment in France. authorities an ultra-low energy consumption radio network system, which is able to collect information from meters but also from environmental sensors (e.g., in order to tackle air and noise pollution). This is yet another example of the beneﬁts of ICTs beneﬁting sustainable towns and cities. 48 Cristina Bueti Programme Coordinator for Climate Change and Information Communication Technology at the International Telecommunications Union “We must move towards a greener, smarter and more efﬁcient society.” The new standard method, which is the reduce climate change. To separate result of work carried out by the ITU’s economic growth from environmental Research Commission no. 5, now gives pressures, we must move towards us an accurate, reliable and common a greener, smarter and more efﬁcient tool with which to evaluate the energy society. A society which will see the consumption and greenhouse gas light of day thanks to ICTs. This is T emissions of the ICT sector and to the message that the ITU will continue compare performances within the to pass on to policy-makers and he ITU(1) is deeply involved sector. It is key in inciting companies regulators, notably at the fourth United in drafting ICT and to “go green” by modelling the Nations Sustainable Development environmental standards environmental gains brought about Conference, which will be held in Brazil by new technologies. It also helps in June 2012, and the next United in order to develop ICT environmental consumers to make informed choices Nations Conference on climate change. impact evaluation methods. In the past, and favours public procurement different methods were used to contracts with low carbon footprints. evaluate the carbon footprint of ICTs It will enable the sector to play a and this lack of a common method was pioneering role in combating climate (1) International Telecommunications Union, an obstacle to disseminating credible change by providing clear and reliable a specialised ICT agency of the United information about climate change. information about how ICTs can help Nations. our 2011 achievem ents o ur 2012 roadmaps 50 51 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy to become the leading CSR player Through its mission to provide better communication for all and its presence in both industrialised and emerging countries, our Group measures every day the importance of its role in and responsibilities towards society. 53 a long-term commitment 57 responsible governance 59 a process fuelled by dialogue 62 promoting responsible purchasing principles 52 a long-term commitment the Group’s approach Corporate social responsibility is vital for the Group’s ongoing success and creates value for all its stakeholders. Orange has developed an ambitious strategy to enable it to become the benchmark for corporate social responsibility in the telecommunications sector. This strategy, which is core to the company’s conquests 2015 project, is translated into practical action plans revolving around four basic commitments that involve every entity in the Group: – recognising and supporting employees; – ensuring transparency, quality, security and safety for our customers; – sharing the benefits of the digital world with the greatest possible number of people; – finding innovative solutions for a greener world. Implementing this strategy requires a structured approach based on special department, tools, and reliable audited reporting processes. a historic commitment key dates relating to the Group’s a strengthened approach commitment to sustainable Corporate social responsibility is firmly anchored development The company’s new conquests 2015 project, in the history of the France Telecom-Orange unveiled in July 2010, confirms the central posiGroup as is its commitment to sustainable 1996 tion of CSR, which is at the heart of the Group’s development. France Telecom-Orange signed ■ Signing the ETNO Environmental Charter. new strategy. the ETNO (European Telecommunications 2000 Network Operators) Environmental Charter in ■ Signing the UN Global Compact. 4 major commitments 1996, and in 2000 was one of the first compa2003 France Telecom-Orange’s approach to CSR is nies to sign up to the United Nations Global ■ Formalisation of the Group’s Code of Ethics shaped by four basic commitments: Compact. (see p. 57). ■ recognising and supporting employees; The Group is also involved in a wide range of 2004 ■ ensuring transparency, quality, security and organisations and initiatives focused on corpor■ Signing the ETNO Sustainability Charter. safety for our customers; ate social responsibility and sustainable devel2006 ■ sharing the benefits of the digital world with opment such as: ■ Signing the Group agreement with UNI Global the greatest possible number of people; ■ the Observatoire sur la Responsabilité Union. ■ finding innovative solutions for a greener world. Sociétale des Entreprises (ORSE or CSR obser2007 vatory), which brings together companies and ■ Signing the European reference framework for 8 strategic priorities their financial partners that care about CSR; safer use of mobile telephones by teenagers and The definition of Orange’s strategic CSR prior■ CSR Europe (European network for corporate children. ities is based on two complementary elements: social responsibility, which brings together more 2008 ■ analysing stakeholders’ requirements, which than 60 Europe-based multinationals); ■ Signing Caring for Climate. are identified through regular discussion and ■ the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), 2009 research carried out at Group level and in three which includes telecommunications manufactur■ Signing the Code of Best Practice for Women main countries (see p. 59-61); ers and operators; in ICTs drawn up under the aegis of the European ■ identifying risks and opportunities relating to ■ the Mobile Phone Partnership Initiative (MPPI), Commission. sustainable development and assessing their operating under the aegis of the United Nations 2010 impact on the company’s growth. Environmental Programme, which brings ■ Launch of the company’s conquests 2015 together major suppliers and operators to project. Priorities in this respect are updated at least develop codes of good conduct for the collec2011 once a year to keep abreast of changes in the tion, shipment and reconditioning of used mobile ■ Signing the “ICT Coalition” to promote safer field. telephones; Internet usage for children and adolescents. For 2010-2012, eight strategic priorities were ■ t h e E n e r g y E ff i c i e n c y I n t e rO p e r a t o r defined. Each of these priorities can be broken Collaboration Group (EE IOCG), which brings down into specific objectives, which are accomtogether major global operators together to propanied by key performance indicators (see p. 54); mote energy efficiency in the ICT sector; ■ the Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content launched in 2008, is an alliance of mobile operators working together to combat the sexual exploitation of children on the Internet. 53 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy commitments priorities objectives & KPIs ■ Place people at the heart of the company recognise and through a new social contract to support ■ % of women on management support employees employees in their development and meet committees corporate and societal challenges, particularly ■ Social barometer in respect of equal opportunity ■ Lead the way in service quality with our ensure transparency, European activities ■ Average percentage of quality, security and ■ Promote and ensure safe and responsible recommendations reported by the Customer Experience safety for our use of products and services, particularly with regard to protecting children, respecting Tracker (CET) customers privacy and data security ■ Promote digital inclusion by developing share the benefits of offers and solutions for the greatest number of people and reducing all forms of the the digital world with digital divide ■ Proportion of local purchases in the AMEA zone the greatest possible ■ Promote the economic and social development of countries in which the Group number of people operates, through its services ■ Bring eco-designed products and services ■ Turnover of offers contributing to market, and help to reduce customers’ to a reduction in the environmental finding innovative environmental footprint through the Group’s impact of our customers offerings ■ Rate of mobiles collected in solutions for ■ Play a significant role in the collection and comparison to the number sold a greener world recycling of mobile handsets by Orange ■ Manage the Group’s energy consumption ■ Total energy consumption to decrease its CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 of the Group CSR organisation within France Telecom-Orange Executive Committee CSR Group division Entities Group functions Country CSR Committee CSR Sponsor Committee CSR sponsor CSR sponsor (2 meetings per year) Chairman and CEO or direct report Executive Director or direct report Operational CSR Committee CSR manager CSR manager (6 meetings per year) work Project managers Project managers for each area for each area as a network 54 a structured approach CSR is managed through a special reporting tool recognised performances called “Indicia”, which measures changes in the In order to gain an external view of its policy, France Telecom Orange sets aside considerable performance of each entity through qualitative France Telecom Orange responds to questionresources to implement its corporate social and quantitative questionnaires. The definitions naires from non-financial ratings agencies every responsibility strategy and reach its objectives. and methodologies for reporting each indicator year and maintains a regular dialogue with finanhave been clearly formalised in line with the relcial analysts and socially responsible investors. strengthened organisation evant international guidelines, particularly those The Group has been included in the FTSE4Good The Group’s corporate social responsibility of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI – see index since 2002, and also the Aspi Eurozone® affairs are managed in a special department: the orange.com, CSR section). index managed by ratings agency Vigeo. CSR Department. Reporting to one of the For several years, Orange has had an external Group’s Assistant General Managers, the CSR CSR audit carried out by one of its auditors (see Department answerable to the Executive appendices) in order to ensure the reliability of Committee and its Manager is a member of indicators and the proper application of the the management team. Group’s commitments in the entities. In 2011 in CSR sponsors, reporting to the highest organparticular, an audit into reasonable assurance isational level, have been appointed in each was carried out on the Group’s approach and its Group function and entity operating in all the roadmap. Group’s markets. Meeting two times a year within the CSR Sponsor Committee, they ensure the implementation of the strategic directions decided upon by the Group’s Executive Committee. A network of CSR managers who meet every two months helps with the operational deployment of the CSR policy. focus To help incorporate CRS issues in the decisionmain CSR awards received by the Group in 2011 making processes of the subsidiaries, CSR ■ At the 2011 Global Mobile Awards, Orange received the prize for best mobile committees have been formed in a number of countries (Senegal, Poland, Spain…). technology in emerging countries for its solar-powered station construction programme in Africa and the Middle East. ■ For the third year running, Orange Business Services ranked first in the Verdantix Green a rigorous and audited process France Telecom Orange’s CSR policy applies the Quadrant Sustainable Telecoms Europe report, confirming its commitment to sustainable principles of inclusiveness, materiality and development and corporate social responsibility in terms of customer solutions at the responsiveness as defined in the AA1000 APS Group level. ■ Orange Business Services was among the leaders in the most recent “Magic Quadrant”, (2008) standard. This is the international reference for corporate social responsibility and which was published by Gartner, Inc. ■ In November 2011, Orange won the “Entreprise numérique éco-engagée” prize for its emphasises the need to take stakeholder requirements into account (see appendices for Shared Medical Imaging solution in the framework of awards that promote green digital more details on the application of the AA1000 technology and reward creation, invention and digital technology that promotes sustainable standard). The Group has also adopted the prindevelopment. ■ The 2011 study carried out by the Centre français d’information sur les entreprises (CFIE ciples defined in the new ISO 26000 standard relating to social responsibility, which was pubor French corporate information centre) ranked the Group’s corporate social responsibility lished in November 2010. report number one out of 50 companies. This ranking reflects the accuracy and completeness of published data. ■ In Poland, Orange Poland is one of the most socially responsible companies in Poland according to 5th edition of the ranking of socially responsible companies organised by the newspaper Dziennik Gazeta Prawna, the Koźminski university and the Responsible Business Forum. Orange Poland came first in its category: “Telecommunications, technology, media and entertainment” and third overall. ■ In February 2012, Orange obtained the 2012 Top Employers label for its human resources policy in France, Begium and Poland and in Spain in 2011(see p. 73). ■ Within the framework of a trophy organized by the European Commission, Orange received the the prize for best salaried voluntary service programme in Romania for its ENGAGE project. ■ The Orange quality of service and network quality were also awarded several times. 55 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy Vigeo rating France Telecom – November 2011 – sector: Telecommunications – companies in sector panel: 24 sector performance company performance environment : incorporation of environment human community business corporate environmental considerations into human rights resources involvement behaviour governance the manufacturing and distribution 100 of products, and into their use and disposal. 75 human resources: labor relations, working conditions, health and 50 safety, career development and training, remuneration system. 25 human rights: fundamental human 0 rights, freedom of association, nondiscrimination, forced and child 2009 2011 2009 2011 2009 2011 2009 2011 2009 2011 2009 2011 labor. community involvement: impacts, Scores/Trend 45 ➙ 50 40 ➚ 55 45 ➚ 59 69 ➘ 63 52 ➚ 55 51 ➚ 58 on local communities, contribution Rating + + + + + = to social and economic development, general interest causes. 2009 global score: 48/100 2011 global score: 56/100 business behaviour: relationship with clients, suppliers and subconThe score is the level of company’s CSR engagement on a 0 to 100 scale. It is based on an analysis of the comtractors, prevention of corruption pany’s policies and their effectiveness. The rating is the positioning of the company’s performance compared to its and anti-trust. sector. corporate governance: board of directors, audit and internal con++ the company is ranked as a leading performer in its sector trols, treatment of shareolders, + the company is ranked as an active performer in its sector executive remuneration. = the company is ranked as an average performer in its sector . the company is ranked as a below average performer in its sector .. the company is ranked as a poor performer in its sector a fairly value sharing model France Telecom-Orange has put in place a value sharing model that distributes the wealth created between all the stakeholders fairly. sums reinvested into the Group to ensure its durability sum allocated to stakeholders €9.2 billion employees (labour costs) customers €19.6 billion €5.5 billion (in turnover) suppliers (purchase of goods and services) net tangible and intangible investment (1.7% of France investments) €45.3 billion €1.1 billion banks and bondholders (financial charges) €0.8 billion among which 60% R&D expenditure in France(1) €3.7 billion shareholders (paid dividends) among €0.9 billion (that is 1.3% of the GDP) which €1.0 billion for the State reduction of the debt and other elements (1) Included Orange Business €4.5 billion Services and IC&SS. public authorirties (duties and taxes) €0.1 billion corporate sponsorship and philanthropy 56 responsible governance a founding document: the Group’s populations in jobs exposed to increased risks of local purchasing contracts include a clause on Code of Ethics conflict of interests or insider trading (administra“Ethical practices – corporate responsibility” that tors, insiders, delegates, finance function, presets out France Telecom Orange’s demands in The France Telecom Board of Directors scribers or negotiators) with additional training.. this area (see p. 62). adopted a Group-wide Code of Ethics in 2003. In 2011, a new ethics module was added to the The Code (available on www.orange.com) sets SME manager seminars on the theme of sole out the Group’s actions with regard to its custraders. a firm commitment to human rights tomers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and competitors, and also with regard to the ■ At Orange Business Services, five versions of France Telecom Orange was one of the first environment and countries in which the Group the Code of Ethics have been produced (Audit companies to sign the United Nations Global operates. It also sets out a certain number of Charter, Accounts Charter, Fiscal Deontology Compact in 2000. Respecting the basic principrinciples relating to individual behaviour with Charter, Specific Rules for the Purchasing ples set out in the Universal Declaration of which each employee, manager and director is Department/Ethical Sales Rules and Procedures) Human Rights and the ILO figures explicitly in expected to comply. are available to all staff in the “Ethics” section on the Group’s Code of Ethics. This Code of Ethics is an integral part of the the intranet. Risks connected to ethics are idenIn 2006, France Telecom signed a global agreeGroup’s guiding principles along with those of tified and listed in an ethics practical guide proment with UNI Global Union on basic social the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, duced in French and English. This list was rights. Through this agreement, the Group rethe International Labour Organization (ILO), reviewed on 20 October 2011 at the quarterly affirmed its commitment to respect basic human the United Nations Global Compact and the Ethics, Fraud and Revenue Assurance Steering rights both internally and in its relations with guiding principles of the OECD for multinational Committee meeting. To encourage getting to its suppliers and sub-contractors (see p. 62-63). corporations. know these documents, an internal ethics comImplementing these commitments is a complex munications campaign was distributed in process, which is rolled out progressively in difFor more information: http://www.orange. December 2011 to all Orange Business Services ferent countries according to the local context com/en_EN/responsibility/our_approach/ethics/ staff with a video interview with Vivek Badrinath, and in a manner that respects national soverOrange Business Services’ Executive Director eignty. a network of ethics advisers and Patricia Waldron-Werner, Human Resources France Telecom-Orange relies on dialogue with The Group has set up a dedicated system: Director and CSR sponsor. In addition to this stakeholders to identify priority issues in each ■ the Group Ethics Committee, consisting of campaign, specific information on the gifts policy country and implement appropriate actions. The four members appointed by the Chairman, was sent to all staff in a push mail. Two presentaGroup has undertaken to provide a transparent ensures the consistent application of the Code’s tions on ethics were made to the Executive account of its actions, and for this, uses indicaprinciples and advises entities on their impleCommittee in October and November 2011. In tors of respect for human rights defined by the mentation; addition, a section on ethics was inserted last Global Reporting Initiative (GRI – see table of ■ in each country or entity, a network of ethics year in the welcome book for new arrivals. correspondence). advisers helps to coordinate and disseminate France Telecom-Orange has obviously been the policy and ensures that its principles are ■ In Armenia, the Ethics Committee was impacted by the revolutions known as the “Arab applied in a manner appropriate to local conlaunched officially in April 2011. This launch was spring”, not least in Egypt, with two types of texts and disciplines. announced in an e-mail sent to all staff by the event in particular: network shutdowns (Internet, CEO of Orange Armenia, Bruno Duthoit, who mobile voice and text services) as well as a masemployee awareness used the opportunity to remind staff of the sive text message campaigns ordered by the The Code of Ethics has been communicated to importance of the ethics charter. government. all employees worldwide. Employees can learn about the Code’s princi■ In Poland, 96% of Orange Poland staff and ples through an e-learning module (available in 87% of PTK Centertel staff took an e-learning eight languages), which includes practical simuethics training module. In 2011, Orange Poland lations inspired by actual cases. The content is put in place a new interactive ethics training regularly updated and tailored to countries and module with strengthened content particularly business lines in order to reflect the everyday on the theme of human rights, equality of treatexperiences of employees. ment, discrimination, corruption and conflicts of Every year, all countries use in-house communiinterests. This one-hour training course is also cation campaigns to “bring the Code to life” provided for sub-contractors. Ethics are also among employees by adapting it to the local now a part of the corporate social responsibility context. training session. ■ In France, 13 business line ethics guides and a concept extended to service providers 12 quizzes are available on the intranet to proTo raise awareness among some of its call cenvide employees with the opportunity to test their tre service providers, Orange France produced a knowledge of the rules of conduct specific to special quiz. A similar process is under way for each business line. network companies and home support services. New quizzes are being prepared for 2012. A Moreover, as part of the Group’s responsible procedure for dealing with conflicts of interests purchasing policy, all contracts with suppliers has also been made available to managers and listed at Group level and a growing proportion of 57 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy reminder of the events In 2011, the company’s Governance and proactive prevention of fraud and corruption On 27 January 2011, Hosni Mubarak’s governCorporate Social Responsibility Committee met France Telecom-Orange has drawn up a proacment ordered all operators to close telecomnine times. Its remit was extended to include tive policy to prevent fraud and mitigate any posmunications networks. Mobinil had no choice examining the main risks and opportunities relatsible consequences thereof. This programme but to comply, the lives and freedom of its staff ing to the environment, the Group’s social polihas been deployed throughout the Group since could have been in danger. Two days later, cies, all the information published by the Group 2006. The programme is drawn up and manEgyptian authorities authorised the use of on community and environmental matters and aged by the Fraud and Revenue Assurance voice services again. Operators where then the main directions of the corporate social Department, which ensures the proper deployordered to send text messages to their cusresponsibility policy. ment of the strategy and its effectiveness among tomers. Wanting to preserve above all the the Group’s managers. freedom, or even the physical safety of its The anti-fraud policy, which was updated in staff, Mobinil executed the order taking the rigorous risk management 2010 (available in French and English), can be precaution of saying that the messages were consulted by all employees on the intranet. Each sent and dictated by the government. Continuously improving internal controls within entity manages its own policy based on Group the Group relies on organisation, procedures policy principles at the local level. Orange considers that the United Nations directand checks and balances implemented by the Several anti-fraud modules have been develing principles for businesses and human rights, General Management and all the staff under the oped, one of which is specific to the prevention approved in June 2011, are a significant mileresponsibility of the Board of Directors. The aim and detection of corruption. The anti-corruption stone in clarifying the duties of governments to of these measures is to give reasonable assurmodule has been deployed in the Group’s main protect human rights and the responsibility of ances as to the achievement of operational entities, which are responsible for over 97% of businesses to respect these rights. Orange, in goals, compliance with laws and regulations and the Group’s turnover. common with other stakeholders, must define the the reliability of financial information. The Group’s A module on preventing fraud at the manageway in which UN principles must be applied in our Internal Control Department steers the Group’s ment level has also been introduced in the same sector, all the more when they touch the freedom internal control plan. The Group Audit and Risk entities. Since 2009, these two modules have of expression and the private lives of citizens. Control Department and the Group Fraud and been internally and externally audited every year Orange has started to work with a certain numRevenue Assurance Department help to assess to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. ber of other operators and manufacturers in the this system. Employees are regularly reminded of the risks of telecommunications sector to deal with these fraud and corruption. A number of information questions jointly. An “Industry Dialogue” was inia global security policy and training tools can be accessible by employtiated during the summer of 2011. It must The global security policy covers and coordiees on the intranet including a collection of explore the interaction and borders between the nates three areas: practical cases, an anti-fraud guide for use by duty to protect and the responsibility to respect ■ information security; managers, and e-learning modules. human rights. Participating businesses want to ■ the health and safety of individuals; Every year, members of the Fraud and Revenue develop and provide – jointly – largely accepted ■ environmental safety. Assurance Department pay numerous visits to principles, tools and mechanisms of reasonable entities to support the deployment of the sysdiligence to respect the private lives of citizens It applies to the entire Group, the parent comtem. In 2011, members travelled to 22 countries and freedom of expression. Specific information pany and consolidated subsidiaries. to raise awareness among management teams to provide and schedules must systematically be on the main risks of fraud and corruption. developed in the first days of the process. A security management system based on ISO All employees or suppliers wishing to signal a Participants are looking for idea contributions 27001 standard ensures the application of the suspected fraud can use the whistle-blowing and feedback from a wide variety of stakeholdsecurity policy in all entities. Its objectives are to process to pass on any information (via a special ers in the first stages of the dialogue to verify assess risks, help managers define priority e-mail address) and facts that may constitute an that their work is built on proper understanding measures for accepted risks, train and raise offence or fraud in the financial, accounting, of expectations, rather than industrial principles awareness among employees to improve banking domains or pass on any information developed in isolation. behaviours, and propose offers that comply with which helps combat corruption. This procedure security requirements. means that these alerts can be dealt with in confidence and independently, and ensures the clear structures and governance identifying major risks protection of employees. principles At least once a year, each of the Group’s operational entities identifies the major risks within its France Telecom Orange complies with the princiscope (including environmental, companyand ples of corporate governance defined specifically community-related risks). This identification, by the Loi de sécurité financière (financial security completed by the description of the action plans act) in France and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the intended to cover these risks, constitutes the United States. The Group is particularly vigilant risk map of each of these departments. regarding the responsibility and integrity of its Changes in the list of these risks and the implemanagers and directors, the independence of mentation of action plans are checked during Board members, the transparency and disclosinternal control reviews and also, once a year, by ure of information, the respect of shareholders’ the Risks Committee. rights and the Group’s Code of Ethics. The governance of France Telecom is structured around the Board of Directors and its specialised committees: ■ Audit Committee; ■ Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee; ■ Strategic Committee. 58 a process fuelled by dialogue the Group’s approach Listening to and incorporating the requirements of stakeholders form the basis of France Telecom-Orange’s CSR policy, in accordance with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness defined in the AA1000 standard. For Orange, this structured, regular dialogue with those concerned in the company’s operation meets three objectives: – ensuring that the Group’s CSR projects are consistent with the priorities of the stakeholders; – identifying and prioritising risks and opportunities linked to community issues and the needs of countries in which Orange operates; – identifying opportunities for innovation opening up new prospects of growth for Orange whilst supporting the social and economic development of the countries concerned. a multi-level dialogue In Spain, the comprehensive process implea Group method deployed in 11 subsidiaries mented in 2011 made it possible to enrich the Since 2009, Orange’s CSR management has France Telecom Orange is involved in dialogue drawing up of CSR action plans by including in developed a methodological tool to help counwith its stakeholders on a number of levels: them the priority requirements of stakeholders. tries that do not yet have a structured process ■ at Group and business line level, which In Poland, stakeholder panels met in three differfor dialogue with stakeholders: the CSR Dialog ensures consistency throughout the company; ent regions to discuss key CSR issues. Toolkit. ■ at country level, which is the most in touch The CSR Dialog Toolkit helps to enhance the with local issues and players. value of CSR initiatives already embarked upon In addition to exchanges carried out at Group a more robust process at Orange Business by subsidiaries and to increase their impact by level, each country draws up and implements its Services integrating the perceptions and requirements of own system of dialogue with its local stakeholdOrange Business Services embarked in 2011 on the leading local stakeholders. It contributes to ers, using a number of resources (surveys, india project aimed at strengthening and structuring the deployment of the Group’s CSR strategy by vidual meetings, panels of stakeholders etc). its dialogue processes with stakeholders: providing a common framework ensuring the Besides closer links and improved mutual ■ on a worldwide level, by putting in place a consistency of the actions carried out in the difunderstanding with local stakeholders, these dialogue on CSR challenges linked to products ferent countries. processes enable the Group to detect “weak and services; Based on internal “blue sky” workshops and signals”: emerging requirements or issues not ■ on a local level, using structured dialogue external meetings with stakeholder representaidentified through traditional channels. approaches in the main countries. tives, the toolkit enables subsidiaries to gain an The first milestones in a dialogue approach were understanding of internal and external views of structured processes in the main European laid down in Russia at the end of 2011. Other CSR issues and gives rise to the creation of a entities key countries will follow in 2012, particularly the CSR action plan suited to local issues and conSeveral years ago, three countries (France, United States and Egypt. sistent with the Group’s CSR priorities. Spain and Poland) introduced their own systems Objectives: The methodology has been designed to be easfor dialogue with stakeholders, in line with the ■ to enrich the vision of the main issues and ily adapted to all Group entities, whatever their priorities of the Group’s CSR policy. avenues for improvement in respect of corporate resources. In July 2011, Orange France carried out a new social responsibility; Initially tested in pilot countries in Africa, this tool survey to identify CSR requirements among a ■ to identify the priority requirements of stakewas deployed in six new countries in 2011: sample of 975 people representative of French holders in the various markets; Armenia, Moldova, Switzerland, Côte d’Ivoire, society. An additional qualitative survey in the ■ to gain a better understanding of CRS issues Cameroon and Senegal. Including the three form of meetings with participants selected for connected with the Group’s business products main countries, a total of 14 Group subsidiaries their involvement in the telecommunications secand services. (including nine in Africa) accounting for over 70% tor helped to cover themes corresponding with of sales deployed a structured dialogue process major requirements in more depth: with their local stakeholders. The extremely rich ■ child protection; feedback reveals strong trends in each zone: ■ clarity of offers and quality of listening; ■ service quality and child protection in Europe; ■ health, environment; ■ the contribution to economic and social devel■ jobs, Internet and mobile phone access for all; opment in emerging countries. ■ economic role of telecoms operators. 59 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy focus Senegal, Armenia: two examples of dialogue processes initiated in 2011 In Senegal, the concept of listening to stakeholders introduced in 2008 applied for the third time by holding a dialogue with stakeholders using the CSR Dialogue Toolkit. Two half-day internal workshops brought together 20 representatives of various company departments: marketing, finance, human resources, business sales, communications, etc. The workshops provided an opportunity to discuss various CSR themes (inclusion, customer experience, responsible usage, environment, local development, telecoms for development) and together select those offering the best business opportunities and reflecting the prime requirements of external stakeholders: service quality and geographic inclusion emerged as two priority topics. This internal view was then compared with the perception of Sonatel’s external stakeholders, who were questioned on the same themes in 19 individual oneto two-hour interviews. These stakeholders included members of the economic sector (e.g. the incubator CTIC and Sunéor) and civil society (e.g. Ashoka), and authorities such as the association of Senegalese mayors. The comparison helped to reveal that the themes of development, jobs and radio waves, which are not widely identified internally, were perceived externally as major issues. An additional quantitative survey of a sample of 300 stakeholders helped to refine these results, which were used to support the revision of Sonatel’s CSR action plan. In Armenia, a stakeholder dialogue was held in March 2011 using the same methodology, with 24 external stakeholders including NGOs such as the WWF and the Children of Armenia Fund, businesses and authorities such as that regulating public services. Child protection, local purchases, customer relations and telecoms for health emerged as the main themes that are more important externally than is perceived within the company. This dialogue, in which the CEO of Orange Armenia played a prominent part, resulted in the subsidiary’s first CSR action plan. Western Europe 1 2 3 customer accessibility safe and responsible use sub-Saharan Africa 1 2 3 accessibility ICT innovations local economic development Classiﬁcation of our stakeholders’ expectations in order of importance. In Western Europe, corporate responsibility is focusing on excellence on its core business with a growing demand for child protection. In Africa, our stakeholders want us to contribute to their countries’ economic development and design innovative services. 60 analysis of variations in internal and external perceptions of CSR issues in Senegal importance for external stakeholders 4,00 Customer care Network and Economic service quality Child inclusion (Internet) protection 3,00 Local Sustainable and local employment Local value chain Geographical support Privacy and inclusion Physical Local data security accessibility content ICT for citizen ICT for health ICT for education Transparency and Electromagnetic of the offers ageing waves and fair pricing 2,00 Internal impacts on Local social climate/energy development support Economic ICT to reduce inclusion (phone) customers Environmental environmental impacts of P&S Environmental footprint impacts of P&S 1,00 Other internal impacts Nuisance 0,00 importance as seen 0,0 0,1 0,2 0,3 0,4 by internal team matrix of materiality for Orange Armenia importance for stakeholders 4,00 Customer care Network and service quality Local Economic inclusion value chain Local (Internet) 3,00 Local employment economic ICT for banking support ICT for education Physical Privacy Child accessibility data protection Local digital content Geographical security Philantropy inclusion ICT for citizen ICT for Transparency of the health offers Electromagnetic and waves and fair pricing 2,00 ageing Internal impacts on climate/energy Economic ICT to reduce Environmental inclusion (phone) customers impacts of P&S environmental footprint 1,00 Nuisance 0,00 impact on Orange 0,0 0,1 0,2 0,3 0,4 business 61 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy promoting responsible purchasing principles the Group’s approach For several years, France Telecom Orange has implemented a responsible purchasing policy. The aim of this is to ensure the application of corporate and social responsibility principles in its relations with its suppliers by improving how it controls ethical, social and environmental risks. a structured evaluation and drafted a Sourcing and Supply Chain Code of challenges such as respecting human rights and monitoring process Conduct, which clearly sets out its ethical, social the interdiction of child labour. This training modand environmental commitments: to ensure that ule (first delivered in France) is being re-designed. The France Telecom Group selects its suppliers working conditions in France Telecom Orange’s using a structured seven-step process including supply chain are safe, that workers are treated an evaluation of suppliers at the moment of their with respect and dignity, and that manufacturing improved management selection (or listing) as well as throughout the and delivery processes do not harm the environof suppliers risks lifetime of the purchase contract. ment. This code can be consulted on orange. In addition to assessing quality, lead times and com. A system to monitor and trigger alerts on differcosts, supplier evaluation and selection takes ent types of purchasing and supply risks has into account: monitoring overall supplier performance been introduced for key or strategic company ■ the compliance with applicable laws and reguOnce suppliers have been contracted, their suppliers, i.e. those suppliers whose bankruptcy lations; overall performance (economic, environmental, could have a major impact on the Group’s busi■ the adherence to the rules of confidentiality, social and ethical) is regularly assessed using the ness or, in terms of CSR, whose activity concerns loyalty and sub-contracting; QREDIC® tool. This tool, designed by Orange, a high risk product category. ■ the existence of clearly formalised commitcovers the majority of Group purchasing contracts ments and action principles; and is being progressively applied to local contracts These suppliers are regularly assessed by differ■ environmental, corporate and social criteria in the main subsidiaries. It enables us to inteent departments: adapted to the type of purchases. grate the supplier’s CSR evaluation into its over■ for the financial, CSR and performance (quality, all performance. relations, lead times and innovation) aspects, demanding contractual requirements with regard Each contract is assessed once or twice a year by the Supplier Performance Development to human rights and protecting the environment (or on request) with support from the entities Department, and All Group contracts and a growing number of concerned. The results are presented to the ■ for the production and supply aspects, by the local contracts now include a responsible pursuppliers and, where necessary, lead to the Orange purchasing office in China. chasing clause entitled “Ethical practices – cordrafting of improvement plans. porate responsibility”. At the end of 2011, QREDIC® was deployed CSR evaluations of Group suppliers This clause was strengthened when the Group in France and the following countries: Belgium, For several years, due to increasing scalability, signed a global agreement on basic social rights the Dominican Republic , Egypt, Jordan, Kenya, suppliers must undergo a corporate social with UNI Global Union in 2006, which contains a Luxembourg, Mauritius, Moldova, Niger, responsibility evaluation. This is a documentarysection on suppliers and sub-contractors. Romania, Slovakia, Spain and for certain Orange based evaluation carried out using an Orange This document ensures that all France Telecom Business Services purchases. questionnaire or with assistance from EcoVadis, a suppliers and service providers are committed to: company specialising in responsible purchasing. ■ combating all forms of compulsory or forced raising awareness among buyers At the end of 2011,140 Group and France stratlabour; The company has also drafted a purchasing egic suppliers were assessed in this way. ■ prohibiting child labour; code of conduct and awareness-raising actions Areas of improvement had been identified for 80% ■ respecting the principles of non-discrimination. are regularly undertaken among all those involved of suppliers whose assessment showed weakin the purchasing process to ensure that the nesses. Furthermore, to ensure that suppliers understand Group’s responsible purchasing policy is properly the Group’s CSR expectations and commitments applied. on-site CSR audits and are able to pass this information on to their Special training on responsible purchasing has In December 2009, to improve the verification own suppliers, France Telecom-Orange has been available since 2007 and covers the major and evaluation of international social standards, France Telecom launched the Joint Audit Cooperation – JAC initiative with Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia. Its purpose is to indicators 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 jointly carry out CSR supplier audits using a common methodology. % of In 2001, four new operators joined the initiative: 350 Group purchases Belgacom, KPN, Swisscom and Vodafone. 82% of contracts evaluated Extending the reach of the JAC means that we Group = 80% 59%(1) 59%(2) 67%(3) using the purchases of Group are able to increase the number of suppliers we QREDIC® purchases monitor (from 38 to 73, i.e. 70% of France system Telecom-Orange’s suppliers), and pave the way for better supplier collaboration in finding solu(1) Total purchases examined down by 13% compared to 2008 (2) Total purchases examined down by 8% compared to 2009 tions that better address CSR issues at the vari(3) Total purchases examined constant compared to 2011 ous levels of the CSR chain. 62 The JAC campaign commenced in June 2010 contributing to local economies and sustainable and the audits were conducted using a joint development focus methodology to verify, evaluate and promote One of the priorities of France Telecom-Orange’s Japan: proactive supply risk norms and best practice with shared suppliers CSR policy is to contribute to social and ecomanagement and subcontractors and, where necessary, to nomic development in countries where the draft corrective plans. The JAC methodology is Group is present. Purchasing has a significant Following the Fukushima based on the SA8000 social responsibility role to play in this area. Since 2010, an indicator nuclear accident, the Group standard and the ISO14001 environmental has been in place to monitor local purchases. purchasing division set up the Japan standard. Depending on the geographical zone, around Crisis Monitoring Team on 16 March. In 2010 and 2011, 33 audits were carried out in 30% of Group investments are injected into the Around 50 suppliers were identified plants in China, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, local economy: as requiring special monitoring due India, Eastern Europe and South America and ■ 28% to 36% in the Europe zone; to the potential impact of supply covered over 155,000 workers. 132 instances of ■ 13% to 42% in the Africa Asia zone; however, disruption and its subsequent impact non-compliance were stated; 36 of which were owing to the unequal deployment of financial on the Group’s business and considered critical (see graphs below). Following tools, this data is not as reliable. operations. discussions with the suppliers in question, These suppliers were contacted on improvements were made notably in terms of Via its purchasing policy, the Group supports the 18 March to evaluate the possible working hours, pay and rest days. These measdevelopment of smalland medium-sized enterimpact on supplies to the Group ures resolved the majority of instances of nonprises (SMEs), the “workers with disabilities” (list of equipment, possible supply compliance. At the end of 2011, 75 instances of sector and, more broadly, encourages the use of disruption dates, etc.) as well as to non-compliance remained unresolved (45 of a wide range of suppliers: find out what measures would be which were identified during the audits con■ in 2010 in France, Stéphane Richard, put in place if necessary. Following ducted in 2011) in the following areas: Chairman and CEO of the Group, signed the the issue of disruptions to the supply ■ working hours: 31 (13 unresolved in 2011); credit mediation charter with CDAF (French chain, the risk of radioactive ■ health and safety: 25 (19 unresolved in 2011); association of buyers) governing relations contamination arose. Over two-thirds ■ pay: 9 (6 unresolved in 2011); between major clients and SMEs. Through this of the suppliers we contacted ■ environment: 3 (3 unresolved in 2011); charter, France Telecom commits to promoting responded. The guarantees we were ■ child or youth labour: 3 (0 unresolved in 2011); the development of SMEs in France; given were deemed satisfactory ■ business ethics: 2 (2 unresolved in 2011); ■ since 2003, the Group has also committed to (even very satisfactory) in terms ■ disciplinary practices: 2 (2 unresolved in 2011). employing people with disabilities by outsourcof certificates, commitments and Actions are being implemented in order to ing at least 10 million euros of its purchases per special controls prior to shipping (for improve suppliers and sub-contractors’ pracyear to companies employing disabled workers. manufacturing plants in Japan) or tices. In 2011, France Telecom-Orange purchased following acceptance (for suppliers 17 millions euros of goods from this sector; importing material from Japan). Outside the scope of JAC audits, France ■ to promote diversity among suppliers, invitaTelecom-Orange also conducts specific purtions to tender in France now include criteria chasing audits on environmental and health which assess their commitments in four main and safety issues. Four on-site audits were areas: equal opportunities for men and women, conducted in France in 2011. recruiting and retaining employees with disabilities, equal opportunities for all, and combating of all forms of discrimination. breakdown of identified non-compliance areas breakdown by critical non-compliance areas in audited sites environment 4 child or youth business labour 4 child or youth labour ethics 3 13 pay 5 pay forced labour health and 14 1 safety 10 working working hours hours 16 35 health and safety discrimination 1 56 disciplinary practices 2 discrimination 2 63 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy key events in the Group’s focus responsible purchasing policy stronger cooperation in the purchasing domain with Deutsche Telekom 2004 In October 2011, the anti-trust authorities granted permission to launch BuyIn, ■ Introduction of the QREDIC® tool to assess the a Deustche Telekom and France Telecom joint venture, which was formed to make overall performance of suppliers. combined purchases of handsets, mobile communication networks and a significant part ■ Incorporation of an “Ethical and environment” of landline equipment and service platforms. The purpose of this joint company, based clause in all Group purchasing contracts. in Brussels, with operational units in Paris and Bonn, is to improve the purchasing 2006 competitiveness of the two groups, to generate long-term economies of scale, to reduce ■ Definition of a purchasing risk map. costs for customers, and to encourage supplier innovation. It is also believed that this will ■ Incorporation of an “Ethical and environment” improve the standardisation of equipment used by the two operators. This joint venture clause in all local France contracts. will enable the two groups to give new impetus to cooperation in the domain of 2007 responsible purchasing. ■ Sending all suppliers the UNI Group agreement on basic social rights. ■ Introduction of a special training course on responsible purchasing (including human rights). 2008 ■ The “Ethics and environment” clause becomes the “Ethical practices – corporate responsibility” clause and now includes five of the basic ILO stronger links with suppliers ■ the second project relates to developing “netconventions on forced labour, child labour and and sub-contractors work” skills and aims to improve existing skills combating discrimination. and ensure their continuity through the recruit■ Distribution of a questionnaire to all suppliers In addition to its programme for evaluating and ment of young people. We are currently planning concerned by the REACH regulation. managing purchasing risks, France Telecom to recruit approximately 170 local loop network ■ Strengthening the collaboration programme with wants to form long-term relationships and parttechnicians per year from outside the company. key and strategic suppliers; this becomes the nerships with its suppliers. To compensate for the lack of skills in the marSupplier Relationship Management process. ket, Orange has set up work/study programmes 2009 creating a common vision in partnership with Auxo and Pôle emploi. ■ Design and implementation of a monitoring and It is vital to give suppliers a clear vision of the Successful completion of these courses results alert system for all supplier risks. Group’s new objectives and changes in its activin a bac professionnel (vocational qualification), ■ Launch of first social audits of Chinese suppliers ity in order to link them more closely to the which is recognised in the market. These training performed using the SA8000 standard by an indeGroup’s strategy. courses are offered to sub-contracting compapendent specialist firm. In the network domain, where cooperation with nies and some have become involved in the ■ Signing of a cooperation agreement with suppliers and sub-contractors is particularly programme. At least 250 future technicians per Deutsche Telekom, Telecom Italia and France important, two key projects were launched in year will be trained in this way over the next five Telecom Orange to carry out joint CSR audits of 2010: years, and will then be able to join Orange or its Asian suppliers. sub-contractors. ■ Organisation of a seminar on eco-rating to famil■ the ETR Excellence programme consists of iarise and link suppliers of mobile and fixed terstrengthening the partnership between Orange minals to the environmental labelling programme. and its sub-contractors in the area of support/ 2010 maintenance (on networks or in customers’ focus ■ Launch of around 20 CSR audits of Asian supplihomes) as this area is subject to strong fluctu1st CSR forum for the Joint ers under the cooperation agreement between ations in activity. The aim of this project is to Audit Cooperation members Deutsche Telekom, Telecom Italia and France resolve interface failures in order to facilitate the Telecom Orange. work of the various actors and ultimately On 12 January 2012, in ■ Launch of a new CSR assessment strategy with increase customer satisfaction. Five support/ Shenzhen, in China, the 1st JAC the support of an external specialist company – maintenance units and seven sub-contractors forum on CSR – “Cooperation Ecovadis. took part in the pilots, which resulted in the beyond competition, let’s CSR ■ Publication of a Code of Conduct for Group supdevelopment (and subsequent testing) of correcttogether”– was held and brought pliers. ive action plans before the general roll-out. It is together seven member European ■ In the framework of the Supplier Relationship hoped that this project will give sub-contractors telecoms companies (Belgacom, Management: engaging in structured dialogue with a better overview of business forecasts, improve Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom, the Group’s key and strategic suppliers. their work plans, provide an opportunity to disKPN, Swisscom, Telecom Italia 2011 cuss skills management, help sub-contractors and Vodafone), NGOs, international ■ Extending the JAC agreement to four new operimplement improvements, improve interface institutions and associations (such ators. performance, etc. The scope of the project will as ILO and Business for Social ■ Launch of BuyIn, a joint purchasing company be extended to all Orange support/maintenance Responsibility) and representatives formed by France Telecom-Orange and Deutsche units and their sub-contractors mid-2011; of major technology and IT Telekom. multinationals. The large attendance attests to the key role of this initiative in improving CSR in the industry. 64 breakdown of purchases, by origin (local or imported), for 2011, focus in thousands of euros the Green Fleet Forum: 10,000 an example of increased spending on imported items cooperation with suppliers 8,000 locally-based suppliers expenditure To ensure environmental 6,000 commitments are implemented and more particularly objectives relating 4,000 to its fleet of vehicles, France 2,000 Telecom-Orange set up an annual discussion forum three years ago, 0 Dominican Rep. France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Switzerland Slovakia Moldova Armenia Senegal Mali Côte d’Ivoire Egypt Jordan Kenya rest of the world the Green Fleet Forum. Its main OBS objective is to ensure everyone involved in the purchase process adheres to the Group CSR policy to encourage the reduction in CO2 emissions caused by the vehicle proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers fleet: internal customers, suppliers, in percentage spending on imported items buyers in different countries... locally-based suppliers expenditure This forum encourages discussions 100 around common objectives and 80 challenges sharing the latest technological advances, particularly 60 in the field of electric vehicles. The latest edition of the forum, 40 held on 30th March 2011, devoted to sustainable mobility, was an 20 opportunity to present the latest 0 electric or hybrid technologies Dominican Rep. France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Switzerland Slovakia Moldova Armenia Senegal Mali Côte d’Ivoire Egypt Jordan Kenya rest of the world OBS and innovative services such as car-sharing to about 100 participants (car manufacturers, rental companies, buyers and Orange environment correspondents and representatives of several CAC 40 element verified by Deloitte, moderate assurance companies). The presence at the forum of three members of the Executive Committee, including Stéphane Richard, showed the interest in the subject from the company. This event was an opportunity to highlight strategic partnerships agreed between Orange and its suppliers, shown particularly by the operational user test of electric vehicles carried out in 2011 in Yvelines with the help of Renault-Nissan and also Schneider Electric, EDF and Total (project SAVE – Seine Aval Véhicules Électriques). The exhibition on this forum of innovative prototype vehicles also shows the relationship of trust that Orange has been able to build with its suppliers. 65 CSR, at the heart of the Group’s strategy 2011 review deadline achievements responsible purchasing Implement a code of conduct in the various subsidiaries 2011 ■ Launch of the Suppliers’ Code of conduct. and finalising the implementation of the “Ethical corporate ■ Implementation of the CSR clause in the local purchasing contracts responsibility” clause in all the AMEA countries. in 12 out of 16 countries in the AMEA zone. Extend the reach of QREDIC® to cover 15 countries. 2011 ■ Deployment of QREDIC® in 14 of the 15 countries. Carry out CSR assessments with suppliers with the aim 2011-2013 ■ At the end of 2011, 140 suppliers evaluated (out of an interim of evaluating 500 CSR strategic or at risk suppliers over objective of 150). a three-year cycle. ■ Based on a sample of contracts, there has been an increase of more than 90% of the proportion with a CSR-type clause. Implement action plans with suppliers whose CSR 2011 ■ Identifying areas for improvement in terms of CSR risks for 80% evaluation was low. of evaluated suppliers. Conduct social audits with at risk suppliers or 2011 ■ Carrying out joint audits in the framework of the Joint Audit sub-contractors and ensuring follow-up with action plans. Corporation (JAC – founded by France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, and Telecom Italia). ■ 2011: extending the JAC to KPN, Vodaphone, Swisscom and Belgacom. ■ Conducting 33 audits covering 37 plants between 2010 and 2011 (mainly in China). ■ Monitoring corrective actions mainly in terms of health and safety, working hours, and the employment conditions of young people and workers. ■ Outside JAC, conducting four audits in the context of purchasing and focusing on the environment and occupational health and safety. 66 2012 roadmap deadline ■ Extend BuyIn (joint venture with Deutsche Telekom to make common purchases), a responsible purchasing policy 2012 (code of conduct, CSR clause, etc.) in line with the Orange’s policy. ■ Consolidate the use of QREDIC® in countries and extending it to four new countries. 2012 ■ Continue supplier CSR evaluations with the aim of evaluating 500 strategic or non-compliant CSR suppliers every three years. 2012 ■ Continue to identify areas of improvement for evaluated suppliers and verifying the implementation of any action plans. 2012-2013 ■ Strengthen the auditing process with the Joint Audit Corporation by increasing the number of audits, extending the scope and working more closely with suppliers. ■ Conduct social and environmental audits in addition to the JAC initiative. 2012 ■ Strengthen the reporting of countries on human rights on the basis of the commitments taken in 2011. 67 a responsible employer being attentive to our employees Our goal is above all a human goal with an inspiring challenge: to transform a technological challenge into a human adventure, which espouses economic performance and social quality. Our Group is committed to placing men and women at the heart of its development strategy and this is accompanied by strongly-formulated social goals, e.g. by 2015 to be among the preferred employees in the main countries where we work. 69 establishing bonds between economic performance and social performance, recognising individual and collective contributions 75 building a common and shared management culture and addressing the skills challenge 68 establishing bonds between economic performance and social performance, recognising individual and collective contributions the Group’s approach France Telecom-Orange, convinced that social performance and economic performance are inseparable for long-term overall success, has been reviewing its social policy since the end of 2009 to place its employees at the heart of the organisation. The men and women who work at Orange add to the value of the Group and its profits. Key to the success of the Group, they deserve to be recognised and rewarded for the work they undertake on behalf of customers and the company. This ethos underpins the sharing model implemented by the Group, which is based on recognising individual and collective contributions. a new social contract Orange People Charter: dialogue bodies at all levels the international mirror of the social contract To support social dialogue at all levels of the The Group’s economic success can not be In July 2010, to extend the reach of the princompany, France Telecom Orange is encouragachieved without social success. To conciliate ciples underpinning the new social contract in ing the establishment of local employee reprethese two dimensions, France Telecom Orange France to the entire Group, an international sentative bodies (to better reflect realities in the must be more attentive to all its employees, working group drafted the principles and field) and national and supranational bodies, establish a constructive dialogue between unions commitments aimed at promoting social quality enabling major issues to be dealt with from a and management, and put in place a system for at the Group level in a document entitled Group viewpoint. analysing social quality in the workplace. “Orange People Charter”. This document was the result of a collaborative social reform in France process and involved around 100 managers and In view of the social crisis that occurred in employees from several Group countries. It was focus France in 2009, France Telecom-Orange approved and signed by all members of the re-electing employee embarked on an initiative to be more attentive to Executive Committee in November 2011 and representation bodies its employees to help it understand the reasons was sent to all the Group entities in December in France behind the dissatisfaction and to remobilise all its 2011. teams in a new company-wide project. Through the Orange People Charter, the Group In 2011, a number of employee These discussions resulted in several social is confirming its willingness to initiate long-lastrepresentation elections were held agreements being concluded, which were then ing, trust-based relationships with its employees; within the Group in France. used as the basis to draft a new social contract. Orange people charter is based on six key The France Telecom Orange This was then personally sent out by Stéphane principles: economic and social unit (ESU) Richard to the 102,000 employees in France in ■ be an ethical and socially responsible employer ; elections were the first to be held September 2010. ■ offer career and development opportunities; following the law passed on This new social contract sets out the conditions ■ provide a work environment for outstanding 20 August 2008 on reviewing and principles for working together and includes customer satisfaction; the social dialogue process. 158 measures aimed at establishing stronger ■ empower managers and hold them accountOn 22 November 2011, almost bonds between economic success and social able for progress and success; 104,000 ESU (France) voters were success. It will be implemented progressively (by ■ provide a positive quality of life at work; invited to cast their votes to elect the 2015) and is based on six major themes: ■ recognise and reward employees for their works councils and the employee ■ jobs; individual and collective contributions to our representatives. Employees were ■ work organisation; success. extremely mobilised as demonstrated ■ management; This aim of the Orange People Charter is to give by the 73.68% rate of participation. ■ working conditions; the men and women who work at Orange the In terms of France Telecom SA, all ■ remuneration; opportunity to succeed in an environment where the public sector voters (over 66,000) ■ HR. team spirit is valued and collaborative working elected representatives to the To ensure its implementation, 900 million euros practices ensure customer satisfaction. It will be commissions administratives have been earmarked for the 2010-2012 period used to adapt employee commitments to local paritaires (joint administrative as part of the conquests 2015 strategic project. country contexts. committees) with a participation rate One year after its implementation, over three of over 79%. quarters of the 158 measures outlined in the Employee representation elections social contract have been implemented and are strengthened social dialogue also were held at Equant France, supported by action plans. The twice-yearly Innovacom Gestion, NordNet, Orange social barometer, which measures social quality Encouraging quality social dialogue with all Caraïbes, Neocles Corporate, Soft At as it is perceived in France, shows improvement employees is also one of the Group’s key Home (HNSA) and UES Etrali France / in the social climate (see focus). The barometer commitments. Etrali SA subsidiaries. is extended to the entire Group since 2012. 69 a responsible employer Exchanges between unions and management are remuneration and recognition, and the CSR personal assessments, rate of employees receivtaking place as part of a very comprehensive prostrategy. First conducted in 2010 in France, this ing no training in the last three years), measures gramme: twice-yearly survey has now been extended to social performance in the Group’s various entities. ■ almost 400 local employee representative bodother Group countries. In December 2011, an This indicator influences leaders’ (mainly execuies in Europe and in a number of African subsidiinternational version of the barometer was tive directors) variable pay awards in order to fosaries; launched in the vast majority of the Group’s ter solidarity: managers are jointly responsible for ■ a Central Committee of the economic and countries (in nine languages). Carried out once a social quality within the Group, regardless to social unit in France; year in the form of an annual survey by an indewhich division they belong in order to encourage ■ a French Group Committee; pendent institute, the barometer complements greater solidarity and mutual support and the ■ a European Group Committee representing existing surveys conducted in the Group’s entiemergence of new forms of organisation, i.e. employees from 19 countries; ties; ones that are more human and encourage the ■ a Global Group Committee was formed in June ■ a composite corporate social performance creation of social bonds; 2010 to improve the effectiveness of social diaindicator (CCSPI), comprising the results of the ■ groups of employees composed of managers, logue with employees and to ensure that they are barometer (50%) and HR indicators (50%) (rate of HR professionals, health and safety professionals, all properly represented. This new social dialogue absenteeism under five days, rate of diversity in etc., also analyse social quality and the implebody brings together members (elected for four governing bodies, rate of voluntary departure of mentation of the social contract in the field. years) representing all the countries where the new recruits before serving three years, rate of Group has over 400 employees. initiating new bonds between employees In addition to discussions held in the employee representation bodies, Orange has put in place a range of innovative initiatives to encourage employees to engage in discussions in less formal settings: organising chats with directors, how do you judge the quality of life in the workplace visiting members of the Executive Committee in in France Telecom-Orange with regard to other companies? the Group’s offices, etc. The company’s social network – Orange Plazza – strengthens social 4% 5% 6% 9% bonds by encouraging discussion and dialogue 24% within the Group. Entirely voluntary and with no 28% 30% 36% managerial involvement, Plazza makes it possible for employees to create or join professional or non professional communities. Initially only clearly worse 51% accessible to Orange France employees and in 51% 48% 43% worse the 38 Orange Business Service countries, the don’t know network will extend its international reach in 5% 5% 8% 6% the same 2011 by setting up local versions in the Spanish, 13% 9% 7% 5% better Polish and Romanian subsidiaries. Plazza 3% 2% 1% 1% clearly better can now be accessed by 75% of Orange’s October 2010 December 2010 June 2011 December 2011 170,000 employees around the world and is available in four languages: English, French, Spanish and Polish. With over 70,000 visitors, 30,000 members, between 20,000 and 60,000 pages views per day and 1,200 communities evolution of the Group France employees on each theme (30% non professional and 70% professional), average mark between –100 and +100 calculated from the answers Plazza is making a real contribution to the first of the questioned employees on each theme pillar of conquests 2015: placing men and 40 women at the heart of the company. 33.8 34.4 34.9 +0.6 +0.5 35 +5 +2.6 32.2 +0.2 social quality analysis tools 30 +4 32.4 29,6 25 To monitor progress in terms of social quality, 20.4 France Telecom Orange has introduced a num20 17.4 +3.1 16.4 ber of measuring tools: +8 +1 ■ a social barometer survey was conducted by 15 management 10.0 10.9 an independent survey institute with a repre+0.9 quality of life 10 7.5 +2.5 in the workplace sentative sample of employees in order to gather +6 +1.2 8.7 strategy and CSR information on how employees perceive social 5 3.3 +4.2 7.5 recognition – pay quality within the Group and to identify any pos+6 career path sible discord between given commitments 0 and day-to-day realities (all dimensions of their December 2010 June 2011 December 2011 company). This barometer covers the five major areas set out in the Orange People Charter and the social contract, i.e. management relations; career development paths and prospects; quality of working life and working environment, 70 occupational health and safety system, the focus Group is also working hard to prevent psychocontinuing to improve the social climate in France social risks. A year following the launch of the new social contract, the fourth edition of the ongoing improvement of health and safety social barometer in France (in December 2011) was conducted. It findings were conditions in the workplace positive and encouraging. 88% of the 4,000 employees questioned about the quality Since 2006, company entities have been continof work life at France Telecom thought that it was the same (43%); better (36%) or much uing to deploy their health and safety managebetter (9%) than in other companies. The percentage of employees who thought that ment system in the workplace. In 2011, the situation was worse decreased threefold compared to October 2010. improvement has made notably in terms of trainFor the second consecutive half-year period, each area showed signs of improvement ing the network of prevention officer (two new in terms of daily working conditions. sessions were added in 2011) and conducting Questions about the quality of life at work showed significant signs of improvement. health and safety audits in all the Group’s entities. We also observed improvement in terms of the volume and pace of work, and in the The second audit cycle of all the entities showed work/life balance. marked improvement compared to 2007. The theme of career paths has improved the most thanks to actions taken by the One particular area requiring improvement is the company in this area: recruitment, local HR officers and an increased number of training need to strengthen managers’ awareness and programmes. recognition of health and safety issues, Action Finally, the area with the highest score – relations with management – reveals that while plans are being deployed to address this issue. a large majority of employees trust their line managers they think they are not given The France Telecom SA Occupational Health enough latitude. and Safety Department obtained ministerial approval at the end of 2011. a voluntary psycho-social risk prevention policy In accordance with the provisions set out in the “Assessing and preventing psycho-social risks” improving working conditions ■ in Slovakia, Orange received the “familyagreement signed on 6 May 2010, in 2011 friendly” award three years’ running. France Telecom Orange continued to implement Improving the day-to-day quality of life and work ■ in the USA, Orange Business Services was measures intended to provide employees with organisation is one of the main challenges of the nominated “Best Workplaces for Commuters” resources to enable them to thrive in the worksocial contract. To succeed, the Group is making thanks to its tele-working programme which has place and to do their jobs in the best possible concerted efforts to improve the comfort of work reduced commuter journeys by 50% as well as conditions: spaces, simplify IT tools, encourage proximity and increasing employee satisfaction (1,200 employ■ a National Stress Prevention Committee cooperation, and provide services that facilitate ees in 30 large cities); (NSPC) composed of staff and management everyday life and the work/life balance. ■ in France, following agreements signed representatives and stress prevention advisors In the new social contract, several measures have with social partners in November 2009 and was set up and granted considerable rights; been taken to improve working conditions: December 2010 on measures in favour of sen■ a psycho-social risk plan to assess and ■ 10 million euros have been set aside to iors and improving older employees’ career exit prevent risks has been implemented by the improve conditions on 800 sites and to modernstrategies, over 5,300 senior employees have company’s senior management. The in-house ise equipment; been allowed to work part-time or on an interpsycho-social risk assessment method was ■ 20% of the IT budget has been earmarked to mediate basis (including a further 2,200 employexamined in the National Stress Prevention improve employee comfort in using work sysees since March 2011). Committee and the findings were sent to all the tems. operational units. The various assessments have resulted in several units drafting action plans. Furthermore, work is under way, as part of the strengthening the way in which Building on the collective agreements signed in Orange toBee project, to improve the ergonomprofessional risks are addressed 2010, the various business lines have examined ics of employees’ work stations with expert and implemented several initiatives aimed at advice from Orange Labs. Orange is committed to protecting the health reducing the impact of activities on employees’ and safety of its employees and sub-contractors health; Trials to simplify and facilitate daily life are being wherever they are in the world. In addition to an piloted on certain sites: inter-company crèches, child-minding facilities and care services for dependent relatives, concierge services, etc. The Group is also striving to address other personal issues by introducing remote working systems to allow employees to work from home or a more convenient site and the possibility to frequency rate of work related severity rate of work related adjust working hours to deal with personal accidents (TFRAC) – accidents (TGRAC) – issues. A few examples: France Telecom SA (provisionnal data) France Telecom (provisionnal data) ■ in Belgium, 15% of Mobistar employees are 6 contracted to work from home one or two days 0.3 a week. Their work schedules are flexible; 4 ■ in 2011 in Spain, Orange obtained EFR 0.2 (Empresa Familiarmente Responsible – in 2 English “family friendly company”) certification 0.1 in acknowledgement of the company’s efforts 0 0.0 to promote work/life balance; 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 71 a responsible employer ■ executives and managers who play a major focus role in mobilising teams receive an individual ensuring employee safety in countries in crisis half-yearly pay award based on achieving targets in the Group’s major programmes as well In 2011, there were instances of political and social unrest and armed conflict as their personal targets; in several of the countries where the Group is present. ■ each year, all employees, thanks to Group In Côte d’Ivoire, at the end of 2010, Orange implemented a programme to protect employee incentive schemes and profit-sharing its employees from the general state of insecurity: employees were sent daily safety schemes in France, receive a bonus linked to information and recommendations by SMS or e-mail, offices in high-risk areas were performance and profit indicators. closed, working hours were adjusted and safety measures were adopted, business trips To be in line with France, the Group is progreswere cancelled with the exception of urgent break down and call-out missions, at the sively rolling out employee profit-sharing medical centre a special support system was set up, etc. Following the conflict, schemes in other countries. In order to promote Orange progressively resumed its activities by adapting working hours until the situation a healthy work/life balance, employees also had returned to normal. It also set up a counselling service in the medical centre receive innovative social benefits in terms of for employees affected by the conflict. health (medical insurance) and planning for the Similar measures to those taken in Madagascar in 2009 were also taken in Tunisia future (Group savings plan and Group pension and Egypt. plan). employee incentive schemes in France Employee incentive agreements have been signed in each company. At France Telecom SA, ■ 7,000 managers have been trained on manag■ to assist employees experiencing difficulties, employee incentive agreements were signed as ing sensitive situations. This training is now systhe Group has set up 11 support and counselfar back as 1992. They involve all company tematically included in their training programme; ling units run by independent multi-disciplinary employees in the operating income of the com■ complaints mechanisms have been put in teams; provided set up a toll-free number that pany. place to enable employees to alert the company employees can call if they want to contact exterIn accordance with the 2009-2011 agreement, should they observe any irregularities (ethical nal professionals (covered by professional the France Telecom SA employee incentive issues, discrimination, etc.); secrecy); and recruited additional occupational scheme is based on an operating performance ■ for all restructuring projects, psycho-social doctors in order to have a ratio of one doctor per indicator (OPI). This is a result of changes in risks will be analysed with staff representatives 1,500 employees (twice the legal ratio). turnover, the controlling operational costs and and preventive measures will be put in place; the optimisation of investments. The OPI reflects ■ in every country, a work environment departthe results of France Telecom SA (two-thirds) ment will be set up to support prevention professharing value with employees and Orange France (one third). It covers landsionals and coordinate their actions on behalf of lines, mobiles and Internet. managers and employees; France Telecom-Orange implements a value The employee incentive scheme is also calcu■ the remit of the Central Health and Safety sharing model to recognise the contributions of lated based on the quality of customer service Committee has been strengthened and extra the men and women who work for the Group. In indicator (QCSI). resources have been allocated to it representa2011, on the 26.2 billion euros of value-added Should the OPI be exceeded, the money paid tives; paid out by the Group, 38% was distributed to out increases in line with the levels attained by ■ every three years an independent expert will employees. the QCSI and the OPI. assess the company situation. The findings will For 2011, a sum corresponding to 4.90% of the be passed on to all stakeholders; a process of fair assessment payroll, i.e.1, 970 euros on average, will be paid In the majority of countries, Group employees out in May 2012. receive individual assessments that provide them with the opportunity to: profit-sharing schemes in France ■ discuss their prospects and professional A legal collective remuneration scheme in addifocus development and, tion to the existing remuneration schemes. The France Telecom-Orange ■ take stock of their individual and collective Group made an advantageous choice on behalf signs an agreement to pilot objectives. of its employees: using a derogation formula to initiatives aimed at improving The employee contribution assessment is not calculate the special reserve of the profit-sharing working conditions solely based on quantitative indicators: it is also scheme, it is able to pay out more than the legal based on qualitative indicators such as lasting requirement if the result of the calculation is On 7 July 2011, France Telecomcustomer satisfaction and individual employee’s higher. Orange signed an agreement with contributions to Group effectiveness. It also The amount of the profit-sharing scheme in three organisations to pilot initiatives takes into account the conditions in which France is determined by the operating income of aimed at improving working employees have to perform their duties. the participating Group companies. conditions. For 2011, an average of 1, 800 euros will be The aim of these pilot schemes a motivating remuneration policy paid out in April 2012. is to prevent psycho-social risks To develop and anchor a results-based culture The amounts paid out in France in the frameand to significantly improve working whilst promoting social quality, France Telecomwork of the employee incentive and profit-sharconditions for all Group employees. Orange rewards employees’ contributions and ing schemes in 2011 were on average higher For each pilot, indicators will be performances via a motivating and incentivising than an employee’s monthly salary. identified and monitored to evaluate remuneration policy. In addition to pay rises the economic, qualitative and social linked to improved performance in a specific role effectiveness of the proposed or to a significant increase in responsibilities, measures. variable pay awards reflect the achievement of individual and collective targets: 72 a new free share allocation plan at the Group level key dates relating to the Group’s 2010 In July 2011, the Group created “Partageons”, a social policy ■ Establishment of the Global Group Committee. new free share allocation plan. The aim of this ■ Signing of several collective agreements, plan is for the Group’s employees to benefit from 2003 which constitute the basis of the social contract. conquests 2015. ■ Establishment of the Group’s Redeployment ■ Implementation of the new social contract and It concerns around 150,000 employees of Committee to examine re-structuring projects and social barometer in France. France Telecom-Orange and its participating manage external recruitment. ■ Introduction of a composite corporate social subsidiaries in France and overseas. 2004 performance indicator to be taken into account A total number of shares worth 16.7 million ■ Establishment of the European Group when calculating the variable pay awards of euros were allocated within the framework of the Committee. 800 senior directors in France (members of the programme, i.e. 0.64% of France Telecom SA’s ■ Formalisation of the policy relating to health network of leaders). share capital. and safety in the workplace and establishment ■ Launch of Plazza, the Orange social network. This plan, which demonstrates the Group of a Health and Safety Department. 2011 commitment to being a responsible employer, is: 2005 ■ First meeting of the Global Group Committee ■ universal in that it includes all employees in all ■ Establishment of new employee representation attended by Stéphane Richard. countries at the same time and under the same bodies (IRP) in France in accordance with the ■ Re-electing the ESU France Telecom Orange conditions; conditions set out in the Act of 31 December staff representation bodies. ■ fair in that in each country(1) everyone receives 2003. ■ In France, signing an agreement to pilot initithe same number of shares or the same sum 2006 atives aimed at improving working conditions. regardless of their role; ■ Signing of the Group agreement on basic ■ Launch of “Partageons”: free share allocation ■ uniting in that everyone works towards achievsocial rights with UNI Global Union. plan – a key part of conquests 2015 based on ing a shared goal. 2007 three!principles: fairness, solidarity and univer■ Launch of Orange Passion to support the sality. In countries(1) where regulatory or corporate conGroup employees’ interests in sport, cinema and ditions do not permit the allocation of free shares, music. plan beneficiaries will receive an amount equiva■ Launch of the first free share allocation plan on (1) Subject to participation. lent to the France Telecom share price on 27 July a global level. It concerns a total of 12.6 million 2015. shares. Subject to the condition that the employee is still 2009 working for the company, the final allocation of ■ Inventory of stress and labour conditions and shares will take place on 27 July 2015, if the launch of conferences on reform. performance condition is satisfied: i.e. cumulated ■ Creation of 160 local human resources manoperational cash flow (EBITDA – CAPEX) of agement positions. 27 billion euros in the 2011-2013 period (outside ■ Signing of an agreement on the employment exceptional events). of seniors and measures to enrich the later years of employees’ careers. focus Orange Bravo: recognising everyday stars Started in 2007, Orange Bravo is a programme designed to focus recognise the contributions of the a social policy rewarded by several prizes Group’s employees (previously called “Orange Stars”). Its aim is to ■ The Group received the “Top Employers” label for its human resources policy recognise, value and celebrate men in France, Belgium and Poland in 2012, in Spain in 2011. This label, awarded and women who, in their daily actions by the CRF Institute, recognises HR action by the Group as part of its project and behaviours, contribute to conquests 2015 and its new People Charter launched at the end of 2010 placing women promoting the spirit of the Group and men in the company at the centre of its organisation. Orange also received the through their commitment and Remuneration Practices Special prize. solidarity, developing quality ■ In January 2012, Orange Business Services was designated “Best Workplaces for relationships and a willingness to Commuters” for the benefits provided through a remote working program that aims to share, commitment to the digital reduce the number of staff journeys in the United States. This programme, involving world, openness to the roles and 1,200 staff in 30 major cities across the country, helped reduce the journey between work cultures within the Group, etc. and home by 50% and improve productivity as well as staff satisfaction levels. Orange Bravo gives all employees ■ Orange Business Services is also in the 10 leading companies “with a strategic and the opportunity to be nominated innovative approach to managing workspaces” according to the latest edition of the and honoured by their peers and International Facility Management Association (IFMA) called “Work on the move”. to join the community of almost ■ Orange Spain obtained EFR (Empresa Familiarmente Responsible – or “family friendly 1,500 people from different countries, company”) certification awarded by the Másfamilia Foundation, in recognition cultures and professional of efforts made to encourage worklife balance. backgrounds who contribute ■ In Slovakia, Orange received the “family friendly” prize three years running. to strengthening pride in belonging ■ The Group also received several distinctions praising its voluntarist policy in the field to the company. In 2011, 433 “daily of professional equality. stars” were elected by their peers. 73 a responsible employer 2011 review deadline achievements social commitment Generalise dialogue with staff in all countries where 2011-2012 ■ Reaffirmation of the Group’s commitments to social dialogue at we operate using means adapted to local contexts (staff the first meeting of the Global Group Committee to the 22 countries representative bodies, engagement surveys, staff forums). represented in May 2011. Particularly, the aggressive internationalisation of the ■ Professional elections held in France: high participation rate principle of social barometer. in relation to the French average of 74% of 104,000 voters. Start the Global Group Committee. 2011-2012 ■ First meeting of the Global Group Committee on 12 May 2011. ■ 31 members elected for four years representing the 22 countries with more than 400 staff each across the world. ■ Meeting once a year on the initiative of the Managing Director of the Group. Deploy the composite social performance indicator 2011-2012 ■ Regular progression of the social barometer, carried out half yearly on a half-yearly basis in France and apply it in a format in France. An improvement in the index at 6.9 compared to 6.8 adapted to international contexts. in the previous wave was noted in response to the general question about staff’s individual perception of the quality of life at work. ■ Adaptation of the social barometer to the international context with annual online surveys available in nine languages and deployed in almost all of our country entities. Spread the principles underlining the creation of the people 2011 ■ Validation and signature by all the Executive Committee charter in France through the deployment of a Group staff of the People Charter. charter used as a basis to implement staff commitments ■ Distributed in to Group entities in December 2011. on a local level. Develop internal tools and services dedicated 2011 ■ Launch of Plazza, the company’s social network, available to strengthening the social link within the company. in French, English, Spanish and Polish (more than 30,000 users and 1,000 communities). ■ Launch of a community of staff skills volunteers in France (Orange digital solidarity operation). Recognise performance collectively by highlighting 2011-2012 ■ Launch of a new free share scheme “Partageons”, involving more the involvement of staff in the company’s success and than 80% of Group staff in 92 countries. associating them in performance sharing. 2012 roadmap deadline ■ Generalise dialogue with staff in all countries where we work using means adapted to local contexts (staff representative bodies, 2012 engagement surveys, employee forums). ■ Meet with the Global Group Committee on a regular basis and discuss the major international questions. ■ Continue to monitor the composite social performance indicator on a half-yearly basis in France and apply it in a format adapted 2012 to international contexts. ■ Progressively deploy the Orange People Charter internationally. 2012 ■ Update and reinforce the Group health and safety policy. 2012 ■ Recognise collective performance by highlighting the involvement of staff in the company’s success and associating them 2012 in performance sharing. 74 building a common and shared management culture and addressing the skills challenge the Group’s approach To support the Group’s development in a responsible and sustainable manner, France Telecom-Orange has taken a series of commitments to: – build a common and shared managerial culture, placing the human dimension at the heart of the company; – anticipate and plan for changes in Group careers; – support employees’ professional development throughout their careers; – increase external recruitment; – help young people enter the labour market; – promote diversity by favouring in particular equal opportunities for men and women. build a common and shared together in a spirit of openness, while strength■ a wide range of programmes designed for managerial culture ening their bonds with the company and a managers with different roles and from different mutual sense of belonging. countries (24 international programmes). The Managers play an essential role in initiating new The Orange Campus offer is based on six chalcontent of the programmes is identical for all the types of relationships between the company and lenges: participants, so that they all can share the same its employees; relationships which establish the ■ developing pride in belonging to the Group; values and the same management culture; bond between economic performance and qual■ sharing what it means; ■ adaptability: 35% of the offer is customised to ity of working life. France Telecom-Orange, ■ recognising performance; the cover specific business challenges facing the always keen to address the human dimension ■ strengthening managers’ independence; managers and their teams. which is central to company life, is committed to ■ strengthening the management culture; reforming its management culture, based on ■ improving well-being in the workplace. The programmes are divided into three series: common values shared by all. Accordingly, with Orange Campus, every France ■ “essential programmes”, i.e. management Telecom-Orange manager can hone their skills in basics to prepare managers to take on new a climate of openness, with a firmer grasp of the responsibilities (length: three to eight days over a shared action framework issues relating to the Group’s strategic developone year); ment, while sharing a common core of practices ■ customised collective development proTo ensure that all managers share the same that marry performance and social quality. grammes designed to help executive managers vision, Orange has drafted and disseminated mobilise and further develop their teams: “colleca new Management Charter. This charter a wide-ranging training offer tive challenges” (average length: five days); restates the essential role played by managers in Orange Campus provides around 60 managerial ■ individual development modules to strengthen building quality human relationships, developing development programmes, all of them based on managerial skills and practices (average length: a climate of trust and providing support within three principles: one to two days). teams, while remaining attentive to individual ■ diversity: managers from different levels in the needs. hierarchy attend the same programmes (35 programmes, i.e. more than 50% of the training catalogue); Orange Campus: assistance and support for managers In January 2011, the Group created Orange Campus to promote this new management culfocus ture. Its aim is to bring together the community Orange Campus meetings: broadening horizons of managers and provide them with assistance and support in their daily duties, thus helping Much more than a simple training programme, Orange Campus was developed them play a key role in ensuring a balanced relato provide opportunities for managers to meet and exchange ideas with the aim tionship between the company and each of its of promoting and spreading the Group’s corporate culture, while uniting managers and, employees. Orange Campus seeks to develop at the same time, broadening their outlook. managers’ skills and reform the Group’s manThe “Orange Campus Meetings” help develop the Group’s management culture and agement culture by implementing a new style of openness to others. In addition to exchanges between different countries, entities, roles management. It uses a unique teaching and management levels on the Orange Campus, conferences run by external experts approach, based on experience sharing, intershed new light on management issues and help develop an original vision. In 2011, action and cooperation, to develop core manafive conferences were held, presenting management themes in a new light: “the challenges gerial expertise and practices which are facing a crew in outer space”; “music and management”; “the paradoxes of management”; common to all Group managers. Orange “creativity and management: healthy doubt”; and “intuitive management, a new strength Campus is a genuine forum of debate, a place for the company?”. for the entire management community to come 75 a responsible employer 10,000 managers trained – collectively, by explaining changes in jobs and ■ cross-cutting – with trainer and tutor qualificaSince it was founded, Orange Campus has taken skills trends via the intranet, team meetings, tions. in 10,000 managers, i.e. half of the Group’s forums, and information meetings, In France, 1,496 employees obtained profes20,000 managers who are eligible for the new – individually, via the manager (individual intersional qualifications in 2011 following completion Orange management support programme. views) and Orange futures advisors (career of a professional training course or programme 2,000 of the 10,000 managers who have development interviews). and 306 benefited from the VAE scheme. received training have come from the Group’s As part of the conquests 2015 strategic project, international footprint (from 25 different countries). The agreement also aims to strengthen the skills technical training has been made available for All levels of management are concerned: team development policy through increased training. the fibre and IP domains. Specific sales training managers (72% of participants), managers of has also been developed, e.g. to improve how managers (22%) and talents, leaders and executtraining for all call-out technicians deal with customers and act ives (6%), reflecting the spread of these various To support the professional development of its as “digital coaches”. management levels within the Group. employees, the Group is committed to: ■ providing access to training to all its employvaluing expertise international coverage ees in relation to their needs; To better value its capital of expertise and offer The Orange Campus programmes take place on ■ ensuring that all employees receive training at its experts attractive career opportunities, the three international locations in Paris, Serock least every three years; Group created the Orange expert plan. (Poland) and Madrid, as well as dedicated sites in ■ developing professional training paths/proThis plan, launched in 2010 and integrated into Bordeaux, Marseilles, Nancy and Rennes. A new grammes; the conquests 2015 strategic project, meets location will soon be opened in Africa, thus further■ promoting qualifications and validation des several objectives: ing Orange Campus’ international reach. acquis de l’expérience (VAE – in English “accred■ to identify, recognise and develop the most itation of prior and experiential learning”), and talented experts by giving them a complete collectively; overview of possible career paths within the anticipating and planning ■ increasing access to the droit individuel à company; for changes in Group careers la formation (DIF – in English “individual’s right to ■ to encourage the development, capitalisation training”) scheme. In the company, almost and transmission of knowledge; To identify shortand long-term trends in the 14,000 employees have accessed DIFs (i.e. an ■ to mobilise teams around strategic subjects; Group’s activities and roles, to identify risk areas, increase of 45% compared to 2010). ■ to identify and secure the Group’s key areas of and to offer employees career prospects and expertise. development opportunities in line with these In 2011, every employee received on average trends, Orange has signed a forward planning 32.4 hours of training (28.3 in the Group); this employment and skills agreement (GPEC in places France Telecom-Orange among the two a highly dynamic employment French). leading companies in France in terms of policy GPEC provides the Group with a forward-lookemployee training. ing vision of its employment requirements and In the framework of the new social contract, changes in roles and skills in all its areas of activIn particular, the company is implementing its France Telecom-Orange is committed to increasity. This approach is based on a repository of training and qualifications programme in the foling the number of external hires; 10,000 external jobs, which is common to all companies in the lowing areas: hires have been planned for permanent posts in Group. ■ technical – with the setting up of VAE (concerns France for the 2010 -2012 period. The 21 business lines, which represent all the 271 employees in France); In 2011, these objectives were reached and Group’s activities (sales, customer relations, ■ sales – with the customer advisor qualifications; 3,679 external hires were made in France. professional services, marketing, IT, networks, content and multimedia, research and development, support functions, etc.), have developed a three-year vision of these requirements at the Group level in the main countries (France, Poland and Spain) and at Orange Business Services. In France, a new milestone in this area was reached when the GPEC agreement was signed in March 2011. The aim of this agreement is to breakdown of Group workforce breakdown of Group workforce offer all employees, regardless of gender or age, by geography by business the means with which to pursue their profesrest of the world others 2.6% sional development via a dedicated support computer 22.8% system that facilitates and secures their profes8.4% sional career via two action levers: ■ regularly informing (nationally and locally) staff Spain France representatives and employees of strategic de61% support 1.9% 12.9% cisions on job and career development issues. A networks “Career and Skills Perspectives” report (updated Poland 24.3% annually) assesses the employment outlook for 13.7% the next three years as well as modelling the impact of retirement departures in the coming innovation five years; customer 2.4% ■ helping all employees to plan their professional support content development projects: 48.8% 0.6% 76 a commitment to increasing youth employment ■ In Poland, over the last three years Orange ■ The Group is also heavily involved, via its For several years, France Telecom-Orange has Poland has partnered with 13 universities parFoundation, in supporting girls’ education in been involved in helping young job seekers enter ticipating in the “Your Perspective” programme, developing countries (see p. 117 to 119). the labour market: several thousand young which targets technical and economics stuThe Orange Graduate Programme is also a adults have attended Group work/study prodents. In 2011, 35 workshops run by volunteer strong attraction for young talents with high grammes (4,700 in 2009, 5,300 in 2010 and employees were held in participating universities potential who have a unique opportunity to start 5,100 in 2011) including around 150 young PhD to give students the opportunity to familiarise their career with Orange. students and 2,500 trainees. themselves with technological or managerial Launched ten years ago, the Orange Graduate subjects. A system has been put in place Programme is an attractive recruitment proattracting young talent to encourage the most motivated students: gramme offering high-potential graduates from In anticipation of demographic changes and to 27 students were selected to become Orange the best international engineering and business attract new talents to ensure the ongoing sucPoland “ambassadors” and pass on Group schools the opportunity to commence their cess of the Group, Orange has launched taremployment and internship opportunities, and careers at Orange. Each year, 60 graduates join geted recruitment campaigns in prestigious participate in varsity challenges and themed the Group to take on roles with significant levels schools and universities and has made a range workshops. of responsibility in France or in other Group of innovative recruitment tools available such countries. They receive special support during as the Orange Jobs application, which was ■ In Moldova, Orange offers merit scholarships the first five years of their careers. launched in March 2011. to assist the most talented students in the counIn order to contribute to skills development and try in completing their education. training people from different backgrounds, Orange supports a variety of educational pro■ For several years, Orange Business Services focus grammes and scholarships around the world. India has been supporting a scholarship pronew agreement on the A few examples: gramme to help young Indian students continue professional integration their studies in the most prestigious French uniof young adults in France ■ In France, Orange funds one of the five versities. “Sébastienne Guyot” scholarships, which offers In 2011, Orange strengthened its three years’ of support to female students at the ■ In 2011, in Armenia, Orange launched the commitment in this area by signing École centrale Paris. The young women are Innovation Prize for students attending Yerevan a new agreement on the professional selected on the basis of their motivation and university and the country’s engineering school. integration of young adults with four social backgrounds. The Group is also a partner The winner will have the opportunity to further union organisations. of Énergie Jeunes, an organisation created develop his/her project during a six-month paid The Group has undertaken five in 2009, which organises educational visits to internship in one of the Group’s French research commitments over the next three middle schools in educational priority areas in and development laboratories. Another candidyears: the Paris region. This initiative is run on a volunate was offered a six-month internship at Orange ■ each year, to accept a minimum tary basis by employees, who visit schools and Armenia. of 4,500 students on work/study assist teachers. programmes and to recruit at least 1,200 of them on permanent work contracts upon successful completion of their training evolution of the number of training hours programme over the next three years; per employee ■ to accept a minimum of 2,500 trainees per year; ■ to provide training for work/study 35 32.8 programme tutors; 32.0 32.4 ■ for each career family in which the Group is recruiting, to hire a certain 30 percentage of women on permanent 28.3 28.2 28.3 contracts to reflect the percentage of women completing work/study 25 programmes; ■ to continue implementing current 22.0 22.0 21.8 for France actions aimed at encouraging young for all the countries, except France people’s entry into the labour market, 20 for the Group 2009 2010 2011 to promote diversity and to fight exclusion. In October 2011, France TelecomOrange signed a national agreement with the “Agence du service civique” number of external hires 2011 2010 2009 (French civic service agency) and the (on permanent employment contracts) French Ministry for Education, Youth France Telecom SA 2,942 3,197 949 Affairs and the Voluntary Sector Subsidiaries in France 841 659 368 to promote the civic service agency’s approach throughout the Group Total France 3,783 3,856 1,317 in order that this experience International subsidiaries 6,380 6,297 5,661 is recognised and valued when candidate’s apply for jobs at Orange. Total Group 10,163 10,153 3,978 77 a responsible employer key dates in the employment and skills management policy focus France – In June 2011 the Group honoured its 215 newly-qualified technicians 2002 ■ Launch of the “Telecom Talents” programme On 11 May 2011, Orange proudly honoured its 215 newly-qualified technicians who to recruit, support and generate loyalty among took part in the VAE scheme, which was introduced in 2010. This voluntary scheme, young people with high potential. initially reserved for customer call-out technicians working in the mass market and 2003 enterprise markets, has now been extended to operations technicians. In just one year, ■ Framework agreement for forward planning of 189 customer call-out technicians obtained a level IV telecommunications and network employment and skills in France. technician diploma or a level V communication cable network installer diploma. ■ Establishment of the Group’s Redeployment 26 operations technicians obtained a DUT (technical university qualification) in telecoms Committee to examine re-structuring projects and network technology (level III) or a level II professional degree. Throughout the training and manage external recruitment. period, the technicians were supported by their managers, and received personalised 2004 support from local HR managers and external partners (AFPA, Paris XIII university and ■ Launch of the international “Talent Sharing” Rennes I university). programme to encourage and foster the sharing of experience within the Group. Senegal – 60 qualified technicians ■ Production of guidelines on Group business In Senegal, 60 technicians obtained their “IP data and voice enterprise customer call-out lines. technician” professional diploma upon completion of an eighteen-month professional 2005 training course. Their professional training was provided by Global Knowledge – ■ Development of professional value with the an external partner. Knowledge was then transferred to local trainers to enable them launch of 17 skills schools, information to staff to train subsequent groups of aspiring technicians. and managers on trends in businesses and Furthermore, in 2011, two groups of 15 employees completed the multi-service technician career paths. training course, which aims to optimise the efficiency of technical interventions by ■ Between 2005 and 2008: 45 professionaliimproving centralised supervision, multi-technical call-outs and the steering of centralised sation paths created – 3,900 certified in France activities. with recognised external partners. 2006 ■ Creation of a Development Councillor role to accompany staff in their professional project. ■ Mapping business lines in France. professional equality: a group priority ■ putting in place measures that facilitate work/ ■ Setting up Orange management schools in France Telecom-Orange has made gender life balance by ensuring that parenthood is not a France, the United Kingdom and Poland. equality a priority in its equal opportunities policy. source of discrimination for women or men. 2010 With 36% of female employees and 64% of ■ 10,000 DIFs in France. male employees, Orange stands out in an indusIn 2011, following the appointment of two new ■ Launch of professional training programmes in try (technology) where historically women are female directors, the percentage of women in Senegal. poorly represented. the Group’s Board of Directors has increased to ■ Launch of the “Orange Campus Meetings” While gender parity has been achieved in cus33% and the percentage of women in the throughout France: over 10,000 managers tomer relations, much remains to be done to Management Committee is close to 30%. taking part. challenge gender stereotypes linked to technical 2011 jobs: we receive fewer and fewer applications The Strategic Committee Gender Equality, ■ 10,000 managers trained on Orange from female technicians and engineers, and formed in 2010 following a request from Campuses. young women are rejecting the ICT sector Stéphane Richard, Chairman and CEO of the ■ Drafting of a new management charter. despite its numerous career opportunities. Group, is responsible for steering the Group’s ■ Orange Campuses opened in Paris, Serock To address this, Orange is working in schools equal opportunities policy and is chaired by (Poland) and Madrid. and launching initiatives such as Capital Filles, Delphine Ernotte Cunci, Executive Director of shadowing and Science Factor, where women Orange France. This committee identifies proworking in the Group talk to young women gress levers and defines the Group’s policy and encouraging diversity about these growth sectors and encourage ensures that the commitments taken in the them to consider them as career options. European Commission’s Code of Best Practices Given the challenges related to skills, it is for Women in ICT (signed by the Group in 2010) believed that diversity within Group will contribIn addition to attracting women to scientific and are honoured. ute to making Orange a preferred employer and technical careers, the Group has set itself a tarTo increase the number of women in technical attract new talents. France Telecom Orange get of achieving 35% of women in its manageroles and to attract new talents, actions plans intends to make equal opportunities a trademark ment bodies by 2015, compared to 23% today. have been implemented in the main Group of its human resources policy from the recruitThis voluntary target is being monitored by the countries. A few examples: ment stage and throughout its employees’ Executive Committee and affects the variable ■ shadowing initiatives have been deployed in working lives. pay awards of directors. France, Spain, Belgium, Egypt, Italy, Singapore, This commitment to promote diversity and equal To achieve this objective, the Group is impleBrazil and Canada: women students studying opportunities not only reflects the Group’s values menting action plans in each country with three science or technology shadow a female enginbut also its conviction that diversity contributes complementary focus areas: eer or technician working in the Group for one to the company’s performance, innovation ■ promoting access by women to positions of day to learn about her job and to have an idea of capacity and attractiveness. responsibility (through measures such as menwhat a scientific/technical career entails. At toring, analysing gender diversity in lists of appliOrange Business Services, 61 young women cants and succession plans); completed the shadowing programme in 2011. ■ promoting gender parity in all roles and at all Their subsequent testimonies in their schools levels of the organisation; help raise awareness of the subject; 78 2010 breakdown of women-men by age (by step of 5 years), ■ the Capital Filles initiative in partnership with or the 104,148 Group open-ended employees contracts the Ministries of National Education, Further Education and Research and Work/Study pro>60 grammes: around 100 female volunteer engineers and technicians working in the Group help 56-60 female high school students from disadvantaged 51-55 neighbourhoods to discover company life and 46-50 technical career opportunities. These female 41-45 mentors help give young women the confidence to consider applying to work/study programmes; 36-40 ■ The Science Factor competition, launched on 31-35 Facebook in France, encourages teams of 26-30 female high school students to come up with 21-25 innovative initiatives that rely on science and <21 technology. 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 France Telecom-Orange participates in various women men think tanks on gender equality such as: ■ the Women’s Forum for the Economy and percentage of females and female top managers Society, which brings together companies comin the Group mitted to the issue of equal opportunities; ■ Women in Leadership (WIL), a European netFrance work bringing together eminent women from the Poland corporate, academic and political fields; Spain ■ the European Professional Women’s Network OBS International (Equant) (EPWN), of which the Group is a platinum member with 120 participating female employees – Belgium this network is a think tank whose objective is to Romania increase the number of women in positions of Switzerland high responsibility; ■ the Cercle InterElles was established in 2002 Slovakia on the initiative of a number of female executives Armenia and company heads, including a former memMoldova ber France Telecom-Orange’s Management Luxembourg Committee, to discuss and share the practices of companies that already have an active netDominican Rep. work of women working in a scientific or technoSenegal logical environment. Mali Côte d’Ivoire France Telecom-Orange also contributed to various inter-company initiatives on the subject Egypt such as the production of the Code of Best Jordan Practices for Women in ICT – drawn up under Kenya the aegis of the European Commission – and the parenthood and diversity guides published Others AMEA by ORSE (www.orse.org). The Group also rest of the world sponsored the “Mutationnelles” study, the only Total Groupe analysis of female engineers in France. 0 10 20 30 40 50 a historic commitment to workers with disabilities % of female and female top managers (out of total % women in total headcount In France, the Group’s Mission Insertion Handicap management and top management population) has been helping workers with disabilities to find employment for over ten years. In 2010, Orange’s Mission Insertion Handicap has been integrated into the new network of Global Business and Disability focal points established focus by the International Labour Organization. new agreement to promote equal opportunities in France Each year, events organised in the “Semaine de A new majority agreement to promote equal opportunities for men and women l’Hangagement” (week dedicated to people with was signed in June 2011 with three union organisations to strengthen existing disabilities seeking work) and “Understating commitments and to initiate new measures to achieve gender parity at all levels Disability” sessions help raise the awareness of of the company. employees in terms of how they view disability The agreement includes targets in terms of the structure of employment, female recruits, within the company. These initiatives also mobiaccess to training and promotion opportunities. 100 women will benefit from lise managers who play a key role in integrating professionalisation paths in network roles by 2014, compared with 8 in 2010. and ensuring the well-being of employees with Measures to promote equal pay have also been clarified and strengthened. disabilities in the workplace. 79 a responsible employer In France, the Group employs 3,400 employees with disabilities and each year spends close to focus 17 million euros on goods and services pura commitment to increasing equal opportunities chased from the disability sector. In 2011, a new three-year agreement was signed with three Orange is: union organisations (a majority agreement). One ■ one of the first French groups to have obtained the European Gender Equality label of the major aims of the agreement is reach an following an in-depth audit of its policy and actions to promote equal opportunities overall employment rate of workers with disabiliin France, Spain, Belgium and at Orange Business Services; ties of 5% by 2013 as well as a number of other ■ the no. 1 CAC 40 company in terms of openness toward women employees (Challenges key commitments: study 2011): has the highest rate of women in the Executive Committee; ■ an ambitious recruitment programme for ■ no. 2 company to actively promote equal opportunities with students in major workers with disabilities with a minimum of engineering schools (Universum 2011 study); 325 permanent employment contracts, ■ 2011 winner of the “Prix de l’Action entreprise et diversités” for its Capital Filles 150 work/study places or traineeships, and a programme awarded by the Assemblée nationale with support from the Groupe Caisse commitment to train at least 60 unqualified des Dépôts; candidates who demonstrate potential; ■ among the top 3 French companies to demonstrate real parity in terms of employment ■ strengthening the network of actors and practices (Capitalcom 2011). resources to support employees; ■ continuing to adapt working tools; ■ a vast programme to improve workplace diversity charter in Poland access and safety; ■ greater use of the workers with disabilities secOrange Poland, France Telecom-Orange’s Polish subsidiary, drafted the National Diversity tor; Charter, which was officially signed on 14 February 2012 by a number of Polish companies ■ accelerating awareness-raising programmes in the presence of government and European Commission officials. Orange Poland also at all levels of the company; launched the EPWN network in Warsaw. ■ facilitating the final stages of employees’ This initiative attests to Orange Poland’s commitment to be a leader in terms of corporate careers with the creation of part-time jobs for social responsibility in Poland. seniors with disabilities. supporting the employment of young people from disadvantaged neighbourhoods In addition to promoting the employment of young adults (see p. 77), France TelecomOrange has adopted a voluntary policy to help This programme supports a number of national In France, regional branches of the Group also young adults from disadvantaged backgrounds initiatives in favour of equal opportunity, such as: run numerous events to promote equal opporfind employment through a variety of commit■ “Nos quartiers ont des talents” (“there’s talent tunities alongside organisations such as FACE ments taken with the voluntary sector. In 2011, in every community”), a project that aims to help (Fondation Agir contre l’Exclusion, foundation almost 22% of work/study programmes went young graduates from modest backgrounds find acting against exclusion) and IMS-Entreprendre taken up by young adults from disadvantaged employment, and discover new talents outside pour la Cité (IMS – “working on behalf of urban neighbourhoods. traditional recruitment channels – 160 Orange estates”). In February 2008, in France, the Group was one mentors participated in this initiative in 2011 and of the first companies in France to sign up to the many employees joined in the first national “Nos Plan Espoir Banlieues (plan to bring hope to quartiers ont des talents” meetings to talk about key dates relating the Group’s underprivileged urban suburbs). their disciplines to students in partner Paris unidiversity and equal opportunity versities, to help them analyse job offers, build a policy career path and improve their image on the Internet; 2002 ■ Passeport Avenir (“passport to the future”), an ■ Participation in the establishment of the Cercle inter-company organisation that supports over InterElles to promote gender diversity in the 700 young people from modest backgrounds workplace. through their preparation for the competitive 2003 entrance exams to the prestigious grandes ■ Agreement between FT SA management and focus écoles and thereafter until they graduate – with unions on the employment and integration of women in the Group impressive results: 92%of the students in the workers with disabilities. in 2011 programme in 2011 were accepted into a grande ■ Establishment of Mission Insertion Handicap. école. Orange provides over 40% of the tutors in 2004 36% women work in the Group. the organisation thanks to its highly committed ■ Signing of the company Diversity Charter. 12% in technical network roles. personnel; ■ Collective agreement to promote gender 25% in IT and R&D. ■ the Entretiens de l’Excellence (“talks on excelequality. 50% in sales roles. lence”), a Club du XXIe siècle initiative, carried out 2005 60% in support roles. in partnership with the Institut d’études politiques ■ Following an audit by AFNOR, Orange France 27,7% in executive roles and de Paris, whose aim is to inform and advise was the first technology company to obtain the 23,8% in management bodies. middle school pupils, secondary school pupils Gender Equality label awarded by the govern33% women working in the Board of and students from modest backgrounds about ment. Directors the existence and functioning of “excellence” courses. 80 2007 2009 ■ Participation in the establishment of the Arborus ■ Group agreement on gender equality (2008■ Signing of the Code of Best Practices for fund for gender equality in the workplace in 2010). Women in ICT and launch of the shadowing Europe. ■ New company agreement in favour of employinitiative. 2011 ing people with disabilities. ■ Signing of a Group agreement on the employ■ Obtaining the European Gender Equality label. ■ Creation of the Group Diversity Division. ment of seniors and measures to improve the ■ In France, signing of a new agreement on 2008 later years of employees’ careers. professional equality between men and women ■ Signing of the Charte de la parentalité en 2010 and a new agreement on employing people with entreprise (“charter for parenthood in the work■ Establishment of a Strategic Committee on disabilities. place”). Gender Equality. ■ Launch of the Diversity Charter in Poland. ■ Signing of the Plan Espoir Banlieues (plan to ■ Signing the first Group agreement on worklife bring hope to underprivileged inner city suburbs). balance. 2011 review deadline achievements skills development Continued development of professional training courses 2011 ■ 2,000 of the 10,000 managers who have been trained are from and training courses leading to qualifications. outside France, (25 different countries). ■ All levels of management are concerned: team managers (72%), managers of managers (22%) and talents, leaders and executives (6%). ■ 1,800 professional training courses were certified in 2011. diversity policy Strengthen the policy for equal opportunities for men 2011 ■ Strengthening international mentoring initiatives. and women in all the Group countries by implementing ■ Developing inter-company mentoring. policy performance tools and initiatives (training, ■ European Gender Equality label awarded to the Group mentoring, shadowing, etc.). on 29 June 2011. ■ Opening an EPWN chapter in Warsaw. ■ Prize in the “tutoring” category awarded in France to Orange for its Capital Filles programme. Continue to monitor diversity indicators in the Group. 2011 ■ Launch of the Group Strategic Committee on Gender Equality. ■ Designing a system to monitor diversity indicators in France: integration of the indicator showing the percentage of women in the management networks in the composite corporate social performance indicator. Continue to deploy actions in the second identified 2011-2012 ■ Launching Orange Campus training sessions on the issue diversity pillar in Group countries in relation to local of managers’ decision-making biases. challenges, and strengthen the monitoring of action plans ■ Strengthening the disability policy in France with the signing and results. of a new agreement. ■ Implementing specific operations in certain countries to address local diversity challenges. 2012 roadmap deadline ■ After France, Poland and Spain set up an Orange Campus in the AMEA zone. 2012-2013 ■ Deploy training actions to improve management quality. ■ Strengthen professional training and recognition of prior and experiential learning. ■ Monitor the GPEC France (forward planning employment and skills scheme) agreement signed in March 2011. ■ Strengthen gender equality opportunities initiatives at all stages of employees’ careers and in all the Group’s countries, 2012-2015 and set up ad hoc monitoring and evaluation systems. ■ Increase the proportion of women in management bodies (objective: 35% by 2015). ■ Continue to implement diversity policies in Group countries in relation to local challenges, and strengthening the monitoring 2012 of action plans and results. 81 a word lived in trust deserving our customer’s trust One of the objectives of the conquests 2015 project is to become the preferred operator in all our markets by 2015. How? By offering the best telecommunications experience and by providing personalised support to customers to help them navigate the digital world. 83 becoming the customers’ choice 88 communicating with peace of mind 91 supporting young people towards safe and responsible usage 95 answering questions about radio waves 82 becoming the customers’ choice the Group’s approach To build confidence among its customers, the Group implements a programme of ongoing improvement in service quality and customer relations. This programme is based on: – a system of service quality measurements across all markets; – targeted improvement plans to optimise services all along the customer journey; – trained, committed teams to meet the requirements of customers in different types of market; – incorporation of customer perception prior to launch and at all stages in the lives of offerings; – responsible marketing and communication principles. a firm ambition in respect become a “digital coach” to our customers, competition, throughout the customer journey. of customer experience quality based on: Every quarter, samples of customers of Orange ■ listening very carefully to understand every and other operators are questioned about their In July 2010, France Telecom-Orange launched customer’s requirements and provide them with customer journey. The customers give a score of the “customer experience 2015” programme, an personalised assistance; 1 to 10 for each of a series of 65 questions integral part of its conquests 2015 project to ■ a scrupulous analysis and the understanding grouped under four themes: offerings, quality, make Orange the leader in customer experience of what our customers do with our services; interaction with customers and emotions, each in all markets by 2015. Achieving this goal ■ dealing with customers’ requests in a positive of which includes several measurement points. means galvanising all the Group’s business lines and committed manner, supporting them The final score reflects where Orange is posiinto action in respect of service quality, simplifythrough to the resolution of their query. tioned on a vital question: “On a scale of 0 to 10, ing and segmenting our offerings, striving A toolkit is being developed to spread this culhow strongly would you recommend Orange to towards a more harmonious sales and afterture. It combines training, talent recruitment and your friends and family?”. sales customer relationship in all our channels, internal communications, together with key In 2011, in order to respond to new customer and providing excellent support for customers actions to be taken by management and specific requirements on CSR-related issues, the CET throughout their journey with Orange together action plans for each country. was supplemented by new questions relating to with a fair reward for their loyalty. honesty, rewards for customer loyalty, support a service quality that is continually monitored quality, the responsible treatment of employees, a new culture of customer service The quality of service offered by the Group to its and the protection of private data. In 2010, the Group embarked on a collaborative customers as a whole (personal, professional or Incorporated since 2010 in the bonus calculaprocess of defining the Orange customer experibusiness customer) is continually measured in all tion for top-level management, the CET is now ence culture with the involvement of a number of markets. being used in France, Spain, Poland, Belgium, countries: France, Romania, Spain, Poland and Since 2008, the Group has used a tool for measRomania, Slovakia, the Dominican Republic, Orange Business Services, then Austria, uring and managing the customer experience: Moldova and Armenia. Switzerland, Luxembourg and Moldova. This the Customer Experience Tracker (CET), which The Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) zone work led to the formulation of a common culture makes it possible to compare the quality of the has a similar tool for its area: the Quality of summing up “how to be Orange” so that we can customer’s experience with both Orange and the Service barometer. customer satisfaction Intention to recommend – Customer Experience Tracker (average score out of 100) broadband Internet mobile services 90 90 75 75 60 60 45 45 30 30 15 15 0 0 France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Switzerland Slovakia Dominican France Poland Armenia Moldova Austria Spain Republic 2008 2009 2010 2011 element verified by Deloitte, moderate assurance 83 a word lived in trust general public satisfaction a policy of excellence for business markets Internationally, no less than 10 projects are curIntention of recommendation – CET Orange Business has for some years now been rently under way, with local coordination in each (average score out of 100) using a transformation programme named main region. “Customer Excellence” to meet the requirements Despite being highly diverse, these operational notable changes in 2011. of business customers. The programme is subprojects nevertheless have the same goal: to ■ France is putting its plans to improve the cusject to specific monitoring using dedicated indicmake the service rendered to the customer simtomer experience into action by simplifying the ators. pler, quicker and more efficient; performances Origami and Mobicarte mobile offerings and New actions have been launched as part of the recognised by different awards in 2011 (see insert). OPEN multiplay offering, and ensuring that cusconquests 2015 project to improve customer tomers receive the best bandwidth available on satisfaction and increase customer loyalty. analysis tools available to countries their type of access. The coverage and bandIn view of their cross-cutting geographic and/or To analyse end-to-end service quality, the Group width offered by the mobile network continue to organisational nature, there are 10 projects comhas developed a methodology to analyse the be highly appreciated by customers. mon to France and international operations. For customers’ perception of the quality of the net■ Poland is continuing to overhaul its fixed line example: works, throughout the customer journey. This broadband offering. The aim: substantial simpli■ the “Customer Partnership Program” aims to analysis is not limited to technical aspects, but fication of the portfolio and increased competiput specific governance in place for 60 strategic also encompasses areas such as local competitiveness in terms of bandwidth and prices. customers, including five key accounts in tion, communications on offerings, customer Concerted action to generate loyalty among France; services, etc. customers with mobile accounts (postpaid). ■ the “e-care” programme launched in 2008 ■ Spain is implementing its plan to transform the and supplemented by the “Customer Journey” Quality committees help to give impetus to specustomer experience to meet customer requireprogramme in 2011, simplifies the customer cific actions in Orange countries. The commitments in a highly competitive climate: simplificajourney and helps it to flow smoothly (particularly tees enable customer experience managers and tion of offerings, quality offered to customers on the web). sponsors from subsidiaries to put forward their and mobilisation of teams in their service. In France, 32 improvement projects have action plans and request assistance from the ■ In all the other European countries, the combeen launched since the end of 2012 in the Group on the occasional strategic points that mitment of teams to making Orange the best in “Outstanding Customer Experience” initiative. need in-depth analysis based on “Customer terms of customer experience in 2015 remains Among the key actions are: the creation of a Journey” surveys. extremely positive. Following on from its success business sales training facility to improve team The members of the Executive Committee with prepaid offerings, Orange Romania is training, the simplification of customer and salesundertake to provide their support and follow-up focusing on the journey of customers with postperson journeys from the design phase of the plans for the actions are put in place. In 2011, paid accounts. Every country is investing equally offering, improvements in the deployment of 17 quality committee meetings were held in strongly in the customer experience and genercomplex projects, invoice simplification, improved respect of the action plans in Switzerland, ating loyalty in the area of mobile Internet. customer handling in after-sales service (one Slovakia, France, Madagascar, Armenia, number and supported call transfer) etc. Romania, Spain, Kenya, Poland, Belgium, Jordan, Niger and Tunisia. focus focus Mobistar: happy customers Orange Business Services renews its certifications For Mobistar, 2011 was Since December 2008, Orange Business Services has held triple ISO the year of the customer 9001/20000/27001 certification recognising the quality of its management system experience. Launched at the and the effectiveness of its processes. In December 2011, the following certifications beginning of 2011, the “Happy were renewed: Customer” transformation ■ ISO 9001, Quality Management: France, Switzerland, Germany and the customer programme – the objective of which support centres in Egypt and India; was to listen better to customers – ■ ISO 20000, Services Management: in the same countries, with certification also being very rapidly brought concrete extended to include the Flexible Computing Premium offering; improvements: better access to ■ ISO 27001, Information Security Management: the customer support centres in Egypt customer service, increase in service and India, and the service delivery centre in Cesson-Sevigné. level, decrease in waiting time, proactive communication if there are network incidents, the sending Orange Romania launches “Care Center”, a unique concept devoted to supporting of a text when customers reach their customers mobile Internet ceiling, initial bill corresponding to the value of the In November 2011, Orange Romania opened a centre in the heart of Bucharest devoted package chosen and not the billing to resolving problems relating to mobile phones, and to selling a wide range of accessories cycle... Today, the recommendation and providing other support services to customers. The concept is based on an integrated rate (NPS) is one of the objectives approach including a repair centre, an Internet café and a sales outlet. One month after set for all Mobistar employees. its opening, the centre was already a great success. It is part of a broader customer support policy introduced by Orange Romania to help users take full advantage of the opportunities offered by smartphones. 84 Another specific tool has been developed for customer relations departments: the service focus forecast. service quality recognised by a number of awards This tool enables customer service to view incidents in progress within mobile services (voice In 2011, the Group’s commitment to service quality was once again recognised and data coverage problems, service platform by a number of awards: problems) using a tailored map. Meteo enables ■ at the 2011 World Communication Awards, Orange received three of the highest customers to be notified on their first call of the distinctions in the telecoms sector and was highly commended in two other categories. estimated time it will take for the service to Orange received the “Best Mobile Operator” award. Orange Business Services received return to normal. By the end of 2011, it had the “Best New Service” award for its Galerie VPN Business cloud service and the “New already been deployed in seven countries Frontiers” award for its collaboration with a number of Ministries of Foreign Affairs across (France, Tunisia, Spain, Caribbean, Senegal, the world. In addition, the performance of Orange Business Services was recognised Kenya, Armenia). in the “Project of the Year” category (for Flexible 4 Business, its partnership in the cloud with Cisco, EMC and VMware) and in the “Best Global Operator” category; competent, motivated teams ■ Orange was named “Best Operator” at the Mobile Entertainment Awards in London. Orange customer services teams are the first The award recognised Orange’s in-depth understanding of its customers’ requirements point of responsibility for the quality of the serand the importance of delivering a customer experience that is exceptional from vice delivered to customers. To achieve the all points of view; objectives of excellence set in this area, the ■ in France, Orange was ranked first or equal first for 57 of the 61 criteria in the report Group has launched two initiatives to strengthen on the service quality of 2G and 3G networks published in November 2011 by Arcep skills and increase the involvement of employees (the French regulatory authority for posts and electronic communications); that come into direct contact with customers: ■ the business services provided by Orange Business Services were ranked top ■ the Orange certification programme offers by Gartner, the industry consultants and analysts; customer services employees a two-level ■ in India, at the beginning of 2012, Equant was awarded the “Ramakrishna Bajaj accreditation recognising their professional National Quality Certificate of Merit”, a prestigious accolade recognising service qualifications; excellence, equivalent to the EFQM in Europe. ■ the “Orange customer champions”, a new international initiative launched in 2010 to reward the best customer services employees. The largest internal competition ever launched by the progression of the number of customer tests in the Simplicity+ network Group, these awards reflect the Group’s ambifrom 2006 to 2011 tions in relation to service quality. 350 simplifying the telecommunications 300 experience 250 Rather than technological complexity, the Group 200 decided to focus instead on reliability and the 150 simplicity of its offerings, and develop efficient support services to accompany its customers 100 throughout their user journey. 50 customers at the heart of the offering design 0 H1 2006 H2 2006 H1 2007 H2 2007 H1 2008 H2 2008 H1 2009 H2 2009 H1 2010 H2 2010 H1 2011 H2 2011 process In 2011, the “Time to Market” (TTM) launch process for offerings brought the customer’s eyes and voice into the design phase of new products and services. splitting of number of clients For each new offering, a customer satisfaction in millions manager is responsible for organising: 80 ■ pre-launch tests among potential customers; 70 ﬁxed ■ a qualitative study on customer moments as 60 Internet perceived by the customer and a post-launch mobile 50 survey to measure customer satisfaction on the 40 spot, analyse the roll-out of the launch and if 30 necessary embark immediately on a plan of 20 improvement. 10 26 of the Group countries had implemented 0 “Time to Market” by the end of 2011. France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Switzerland Slovakia Dominican Rep. Senegal Jordan Egypt Côte d’Ivoire Mali Cameroon Kenya rest of the world 85 a word lived in trust Simplicity+: a network of testing centres to observe customers and identify problems focus The Simplicity+ programme, launched in 2004, Business Continuity Plan: efficiency praised uses a network of customer testing centres that assess customers’ perception of the level of In January 2011, with riots affecting our activities in Egypt, the Group made the simplicity of offerings at each stage: choice to transfer the activity of its Major Service Centre (MSC) from Cairo to its ■ understanding of the offering by prospective other MSCs in New Delhi, Rio and Mauritius. This was the first time that a Business customers; Continuity Plan (BCP) had been activated for this length of time: two weeks. With two ■ experience of users under day-to-day condipriorities: to ensure the safety of employees and maintain contact with customers. tions (installation and uses); The commitment of Orange’s teams helped to manage the crisis with an efficiency ■ experience of customer journey when making that was praised by customers. This expertise in managing a crisis situation was also contact (shops, customer service). recognised by IDC, a major player in research and consulting in the information technology and telecommunications markets, which visited the MSC in Mauritius These assessments may then give rise to to assess the continuity of the Group’s activities, and whose report praised the recommendations to enable offerings to be performance of the teams. changed before their launch. By the end of 2011, the Simplicity+ network consisted of 19 testing centres in 15 countries. This wide geographic coverage enables the appreciation of cultural parameters that can influence local perception of the complexity of a promoting a responsible This approach, developed by the Image, Brand product or service. relationship with our customers and Partnership function, will now help to minimise the environmental impact of events organoptimised customer journeys France Telecom-Orange has defined responsible ised by the Group, enable the monitoring of the The Group has introduced a methodological marketing and communication principles directly working conditions for the personnel involved in approach in countries that helps not only to in line with the principles of conduct expressed such events, and make it possible to seek better improve communications with customers (shops, in the Group’s Code of Ethics: community involvement in the design, set-up Web, customer service) but also to optimise ■ the responsible marketing guides produced in and dismantling required for these events. The organisational and operational processes. 2006 help to ensure that Orange’s advertising 13 commitments in the reference document and This customer journey approach has enabled campaigns comply with international codes of the indicators associated with them will enable the launch of a set of constantly changing and conduct and the Group’s undertakings with the organisation and management of Group corrective projects affecting customers directly in regard to corporate social responsibility. These events to be transformed in line with a philotheir interaction with Orange. guides, which are factored into the “Time to sophy of ongoing improvement. Since 2010, nearly 90 customer journeys have Market” process governing the launch of new been optimised in this way in 23 countries. They offerings, include requirements relating to securpromoting safe and responsible uses resulted in the launch of more than 500 correcity, the confidentiality of private data and the Besides information efforts made specifically in tive actions. The objective is to limit the number protection of children. France Telecom Orange the area of child protection (see p. 91 to 93) and of intermediaries dealing with customer calls, so also applies codes of conduct developed by the radio waves (see p. 95 to 97) Orange is scruputhat 80% of incoming calls from customers will sector, such as that of the Mobile Marketing lous in promoting the responsible use of prodeventually be able to be handled by the initial Association relating to marketing on mobile ucts and services among all its customers. With contact. phones; one basic principle: providing transparent infor■ the Group’s Code of Responsible Communmation on the risks involved and the means of simplified catalogues ications, published in 2009, and now available protecting against them. Technological innovations mean that new offeron orange.com, has five main principles: In most countries, Orange portals provide a wide ings are launched every year. This profusion of – respect individuals; range of simple and pragmatic advice on how to offerings sometimes leads to difficulties: a lack of – be reliable and transparent; protect one’s own privacy and that of others, legibility for customers, misunderstanding – behave responsibly; manage one’s mobile phone budget, report illicit of offers by advisers, complexity of invoicing – take conservation of the environment into content, protect against mobile phone theft, processes, etc. In order to make simplicity the consideration; extend the lifetime of equipment, together with essence of the customer experience, Orange – encourage our partners to respect these reminders not to phone whilst driving and to has embarked on a programme to simplify its principles. avoid taking calls in a public place... so that use catalogues, with the ambitious aim of reducing of the new technologies remains a pleasure for all. its current offering by 40%. This wide scale In order to support the adoption of this code, the simplification will benefit customers and enable awareness-raising campaign among internal and advisers to get to know the Group’s offerings external communication teams begun in 2010 better, and therefore guide customers more was continued in 2011, both for Group functions effectively. and in countries. French and English versions of In 2011, over 1,000 products were withdrawn a half-day training module were developed. from catalogues, e.g. in France: a narrowband 120 people completed the module in 2011 Internet offering with 80,000 consumer custom(Group employees, country “ambassadors” and ers and a fleet of mobiles used by 5,000 busirepresentatives of partner communication agenness, professional and key account customers, cies). In 2011, the Group also formalised a while in Romania, a prepaid mobile offering for responsible approach to events, which will be 500,000 customers was discontinued. progressively rolled out for all events from 2012. 86 key dates relating to the Group’s 2009 2011 ongoing policy of improving the ■ Publication of the Responsible Communications ■ Definition of the new Orange customer relacustomer experience code. tions culture. ■ Launch of Orange Care services. ■ CSR criteria introduced into the CET. 2004 2010 ■ Establishment of a training course on respons■ Launch of the Simplicity+ programme. ■ Incorporation of CET (Customer Experience ible communication (120 people trained). 2006 Tracking) in the bonuses of 1,000 leaders. ■ Formalisation of a responsible approach to ■ Publication of responsible marketing guides. ■ Establishment of quality committees. events. 2008 ■ Launch of a Group programme to improve the ■ Signing in France of the responsible communcustomer experience by 2015. ications charter of the Union des annonceurs ■ Launch of a professional certification pro(advertisers’ union – UDA). gramme for customer service employees and of the internal “Orange customer champions” competition. 2011 review deadline achievements customer relations Intensification of action plans to improve the customer 2011 ■ Launch of new action plans to improve the customer experience, experience in the seven main European countries; translated in an improvement in the CET in a number of countries extension of the field of application of the CET such as Spain, Romania and Poland. Improvement of CET in several (12 countries); deployment of the CSR dimension countries such as Poland. in the CET. ■ Introduction of the CSR dimension into the questionnaires of the main tool used to measure customer experience (CET) deployed in 12 countries. responsible communications Extension of the Responsible Communications Code 2011 ■ Raising awareness among internal and external communication introduced in France to other European countries. teams (both corporate and country) at the highest level. Deployment of training for communication teams. ■ Finalisation of training modules with a length of almost four hours in French and English. Four training sessions in 2011: 120 people trained (corporate, country ambassadors and representatives of partner agencies). ■ Publication of the Responsible Communications Code on orange. com ■ Formalisation and first application of a responsible approach to events. 2012 roadmap deadline customer relations ■ As part of the aim of offering the best customer experience in 2015, strengthen the Group’s action plans to: 2012 – mobilise all Group business lines to improve service quality; – simplify and segment our offerings; – facilitate the customer sales and after-sales relationship in all our channels; – provide the correct support for customers throughout their journey with Orange, together with a fair reward for their loyalty. ■ Analyse CET results with the new CSR components to identify any correlations between the CSR and customer satisfaction. ■ Define action plans for each country on the basis of the main points of progress identified. responsible communications ■ Roll out responsible communications practices by holding training courses and appointing an “ambassador” in each country 2012 in which the Group is present. ■ Extend the “responsible approach to events” to all major internal and external events initiated by the Group’s communications teams. 87 communicating with peace of mind the Group’s approach Spam, phishing, computer viruses: as the Internet develops, so new risks emerge that need to be countered effectively. As part of its global security policy, the Group deals with different risks from the beginning of the offering design phase, and puts tools in place to ensure data security and privacy for its customers. a global security policy Security teams regularly raise awareness among data. Common action principles for a Group product marketing managers of the different risk policy on the confidentiality of private data were The Group’s security activities are coordinated factors, and provide security monitoring defined at the end of 2011, and will be dissemiand run by the Group Security Department, throughout development. In 2012, to enable nated to all entities in 2012. which reports to Group General and Corporate security issues to be taken more effectively into Rigorous measures are implemented in all counAffairs. This department is responsible for impleaccount when designing offerings, the HLRA tries: menting the global security policy, which has process will be incorporated into the “Time to ■ data protection requirements are incorporated three focus areas, including information security Market” launch process for new offerings that is in all employment contracts. A charter called the (see p. 58). used by all marketing entities. “Confidential Code”, translated into eight lanThe policy is reviewed every three years to take guages, sets out the information security rules account of the emergence of new risks. Half-yearly reporting is now in place in all Group that must be applied by each and every When the Group’s global security policy was entities as part of the security management employee. For more information, employees reviewed at the end of 2011, consideration was system, in compliance with the guidelines for the may consult the dedicated intranet site, given to strengthening the organisation of securISO 27001 standards (see p. 58). Each country “Security online”, or contact a global security ity at Orange. As a result, 2012 will see the is therefore required to assess its risks, report all coordinator in a Group entity; introduction of: incidents and/or non-compliance, and imple■ the Group has introduced a restricted and ■ a homogenous, unified organisation in the ment the necessary security measures. clearly identified list of people authorised to main Group entities; Internal audits are commissioned by the Group access databases containing customers’ per■ a methodological standard to be adopted by Security Department to verify the application of sonal data; these entities so that they operate in coordinathe policy. ■ user identities are checked using very strict tion with the Group Security Department. Two training sessions on the ISO 27001 standauthentication methods; ard (one of which was for the African subsidiar■ the Group’s responsible marketing guides managing security risks ies) were held in 2011 to enable employees ensure that personal data is never used for For over ten years, France Telecom-Orange holding security posts throughout the Group to commercial purposes unless the customer has has maintained a network security technology obtain the “lead auditor” qualification for internal given their consent; watch, enabling it to monitor the development of security auditors. ■ all contracts with suppliers and partners threats and design appropriate responses. include a specific clause on the protection of The Group applies a method for assessing major ensuring the confidentiality of personal data personal data. risks (High Level Risk Assessment – HLRA) to Respect for privacy is an integral part of France anticipate threats relating to security and data Telecom-Orange’s global security policy. confidentiality and to factor them in from the Specifically, the Group complies with European solutions for customers design phase of new products and services. Directive 95/46/CE on the protection of personal Besides internal measures implemented to protect the security and confidentiality of data, Orange offers its individual and business customers a comprehensive range of security solufocus tions helping to facilitate electronic exchanges whilst providing end-to-end protection: achievements in 2011 ■ securing workstations (PCs) and communicaEvernote: the guardian of personal data tion tools (mobiles, PDA -type personal assistants), secure management of company At the end of 2011, Orange joined forces with Evernote to offer a solution that can store mobiles; and recover all the data and content on a PC, mobile or tablet – in the blink of an eye. ■ securing network access (Internet, virtual priEvernote runs on almost all PCs, mobiles and other connected devices available on the vate networks); market. The service will be offered free for one year to every customer who requests ■ protection of company resources from it between the first quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013. At the end of this free attempts to listen in or destroy information; one-year trial period, Orange customers will be able to subscribe to the Premium offering ■ detection and anticipation of attacks. if they would like to or may simply continue to use the free version, both possibilities having been incorporated into Orange services. An offering to complement cloud services: “Mes Contenus” (“my content”) and “Sauvegarde des donnees” (“data backup”) now accessible to all. 88 Practical advice is regularly dispensed to cusfocus tomers to heighten their awareness of risks and promote safe, responsible uses that will help to new internal campaign “Confidential Code: here, there and everywhere” protect their personal data. Private individuals and business people may also Two years after the launch of the first “Confidential Code” campaign, which consult the “Protecting yourself” section on the introduced the main issues of information security, a new internal awareness-raising Orange Assistance website (http://assistance. campaign called “Confidential Code: here, there and everywhere” focused on the orange.fr/IHD/). increase in the dangers lying in wait for employees when they are travelling, and also For businesses, the Orange Business Services within the company, not to mention public areas. Through a brochure directed at all Security blog (http://blogs.orange-business. employees and prefaced by the Secretary-General of the Group, the campaign provides com/securite/) provides very comprehensive a reminder that everyone is responsible for protecting any information they hold, have information on security issues and allows access to or exchange. The campaign revolves around a dedicated bilingual intranet experts to discuss their experiences and best site, which features an interview with the Secretary-General (in French and English), the practice. A number of articles and videos have brochure (available in a bilingual French/English version and two other single language been posted too, to raise awareness among versions: Spanish and Polish), downloadable posters and various information sheets. Internet users of safe use of social network sites. Special notification was sent to all Group leaders in their weekly newsletter (in French Orange security experts regularly speak at and English). national symposia such as the Assises de la In total, nearly 10,000 French/English brochures and 700 posters were distributed within sécurité (see insert) and C&ESAR (Computer & the Group. Each entity also had the option of downloading templates to print Electronics Security Applications Rendez-vous) themselves. days, of which Orange Business Services is a major sponsor. The Group also participated in the introduction to the C&ESAR 2011 session the CEO of Orange Business Services at the 2011 Assises de la sécurité devoted to the theme “Security and Mobility”, providing a reminder of the new security issues The 11th annual French meeting on information systems security brought together over connected with the explosion in the use of 820 managers and experts keen to find out about new technological trends, and this smartphones (the capabilities of devices are year gave the floor to three leading companies in the field, including Orange Business increasing, open ecosystems are not always Services, represented by Vivek Badrinath. very well protected, users themselves are neither The Executive Director of Orange Business Services presented the Group’s vision prepared nor properly aware of the threat of theft and its philosophy of supporting business customers in all their current challenges, of personal data, major fraud etc.). These securthrough a holistic approach to security. His address to an audience of several hundred ity issues obviously impact the use of mobile was on the theme of “Changes in IT uses and their consequences on the management phones and the behaviour of users. of the security of businesses”. a new business security unit for enterprises main stages in the implementation of the security and private data The control of data relating to nomadic users protection policy and to mobile equipment, difficulties in managing and protecting data due to the exponential 2007 2010 growth of social applications, the increasing ■ Publication of the Group’s global security policy. ■ Extension of security monitoring to monorequirement for visibility and checking compli■ Appointment of a private data protection mancountry offerings and certain Orange Business ance with guidelines, the increasing number of ager. Services offerings. threats: these are all questions to which busi■ Establishment of a working group to assess ■ A global initiative to improve recognition of nesses want answers. To deal with these new risks relating to customers’ personal data. risks relating to the protection of customers’ issues, Orange Business Services has decided ■ Deployment of a security management system personal data. to concentrate part of its security expertise throughout the Group in compliance with the 2011 within a dedicated entity established in May ISO 27001 standard. ■ Definition of Group guidelines on the confiden2011, based on a unique strategy, a compre2008 tiality of private data. hensive offering of business services (consulting, ■ Publication of the “Confidential Code”, an ■ Production of an e-learning programme on the integration, audits) and a group of three families internal charter on the protection of private data processing of private data in products and of services: translated into eight languages, and the launch services. ■ securing infrastracture and data centres; of a campaign to raise awareness among ■ Definition of the policy on the responsible use ■ securing user data and handsets, and employees in 118 countries. of social networks and online release of a best exchanges between users; 2009 practice guide for employees. ■ validation of the compliance of information ■ Introduction of security monitoring for all systems with established standards, solutions multi-country offerings developed by the Orange proposed to be integrated, managed or on the Technocentre. Cloud. 89 a word lived in trust 2011 review deadline achievements data security New awareness-raising campaign (paper, intranet and/or 2011 ■ France: mounting of an awareness-raising campaign. e-mail) targeting Group managers and relating to protecting information whilst travelling: to be rolled out across activities in France, and resources to be provided for the other countries. Define measures aimed at Group employees with a view to 2011 ■ Creating sites that are essential to ensure the security of the ensuring the security of company data on personal mobile company’s data. handsets used in a business context. Implement encryption measures for IT resources of Group 2011 ■ Continuing to deploy encryption solutions for IT resources within entities in France that have expressed a need for same. Group entities. Publish a best practice policy and guide to the responsible 2011 ■ Defining the policy on the responsible use of social networks and use of social networks by Group employees with a view to releasing a best practice guide online. a pilot awareness-raising campaign in the future. protection of privacy Finalise the Group policy and draw up an action plan for its 2011 ■ Defining guidelines, action principles and governance. local implementation in every European country. Develop and deploy tools to enable all customers to 2011 ■ Developing a dashboard enabling customers to view data relating improve the management of their data posted on Orange to them held by the operator. services. ■ Collaborating with Evernote in launching a data-storing solution for the PC, mobile and tablet. Increase the amount of information provided for our 2011-2012 ■ Introduced in 2012. customers on the risks and correct use of mobile phones, in conjunction with partners. For marketing project ownerships in at least one of the 2011 ■ Releasing an online e-learning programme on the processing Group’s country divisions, drawing up and issue of private data in products and services. of a questionnaire to assess the processing of private data in new product and service concepts. 2012 roadmap deadline security standards ■ Definition of a set of standard rules to be applied by each Group entity: organisation that mirrors corporate, rules of governance, 2012 suite of security policies. data security ■ Publish and deploy a more robust data protection policy. 2012 ■ Accelerate the deployment of authentication and encryption techniques within the Group. 2012 protection of privacy ■ Roll out, communicate on and deploy the Group policy relating to the protection of privacy. 2012 ■ Increase the amount of information provided for our customers on the risks and correct use of mobile phones. 2012 ■ In addition to the personal Cloud, provide companies throughout the EU with secure access to high quality services from eco-designed data centres located in Europe; guarantee at all times to our customers the full ownership and easy, secure retrieval of their data (reversibility). ■ Provide Orange customers with the right to control, check and manage the personal information they provide on Orange 2012-2015 platforms, for all services managed by Orange; provide them with a dashboard of their personal data by 2015. 90 supporting young people towards safe and responsible usage the Group’s approach To help parents support their children towards the safe and responsible use of new technologies, Orange applies a Group policy on digital protection based on three main action principles: – actively promoting responsible usage by transparently relaying information from specialist institutions and organisations; – raising awareness, supporting and training parents and educators in creating responsible reflexes in children through an original educational programme; – continuing to develop content filtering and parental control tools, etc., in phase with developments in the digital world. an international commitment promoting responsible usage (the French branch of the Europe-wide Safer Orange’s global awareness-raising process has Internet programme), e-enfance and the Union As part of its child protection policy, France become a relay for institutions, approved organfrancaise des associations familiales (UNAF – the Telecom Orange supports major international isations and acknowledged experts. The Group French association of family organisations), initiatives in the sector, such as the European promotes their messages and recommendations Kidprotect and Nobody’s Children Foundation in Framework for Safer Mobile Use by Young relating to safe and responsible usage in a manPoland, Protégeles in Spain, Child Focus in Teenagers and Children and the Mobile Alliance ner that is transparent and suited to each public Belgium, UNICEF and a network of psychoAgainst Child Sexual Abuse Content, which group, via a range of media: guides for use by logists in Slovakia, the Armenian Committee for aims to combat child pornography on the parents, dedicated websites, awareness-raising a Safer Internet (www.safe.am), etc. Internet. campaigns, round-table discussions, etc. In 2011, Orange supported two new child proThese awareness-raising actions are focused on tection initiatives in Europe: three main target groups: becoming a “digital coach” ■ in December 2011, the Group signed up to the ■ employees: 172,000 people across the world. to parents CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place They are mostly parents or future parents, for kids, which was launched by Neelie Kroes, directly concerned in protecting their children, Safe surfing is learned first and foremost in the Vice-President of the European Commission and as such are the Group’s best ambassadors family. Orange’s goal is to become the parents’ responsible for the Digital Agenda for Europe, to to its customers; digital companion: the one that gives them the encourage action at European level; ■ customers – all channels; keys to understanding and action, enabling ■ Orange was also involved in drawing up guide■ the general public, with the support of partner them to confidently educate their children in the lines for the “ICT Coalition for a Safer Internet for organisations. appropriate use of the multiple opportunities Children and Young People”, published on In the respect for the cultural specificities of our provided by the Internet. 19 January 2012 by 25 companies in the ITC countries of presence, our various subsidiaries Usage guides for parents provide simple, effecsector. forms partnerships to to strengthen their local tive advice to enable children to use their mobile actions of raising awareness. phone or the Internet in complete safety. These Orange France partners Internet sans crainte guides are available in seven languages and may be downloaded free of charge from the Group’s European websites. Moreover, the Group runs training activities for employees, customers and teachers, based on partnerships with specialists: focus ■ In France, workshops on child protection the digital protection of children, a priority requirement of stakeholders solutions held between October 2010 and in Europe January 2011 helped to train 600 employees from 49 sites across the regions. In 2011, the The Group’s CSR policy is based on listening to stakeholders and taking account Group also launched the “Vinz et Lou” events for of their requirements. Recent studies undertaken in France show that: Orange Mômes (“Orange kids”): children of ■ the leading concern among the general public – particularly parents in the 35-49 age employees spend one Wednesday per year at group – is protecting children against the risks inherent in the use of the Internet and their parents’ workplace taking part in fun edumobile phones, and exposure to TV programmes that are inappropriate to their age; cational activities for the 7-12 age group on the ■ more than one in three Orange customers would like to have more information relating appropriate use of the Internet. These activities to parental control and mobiles. are supplemented by the use of an educational Studies undertaken in other European countries reveal similar perceptions and kit, “Atelier pour internautes futés” (“workshop requirements: for computer-savvy Internet users”), which ■ in 2011, the American Life Project Family Online Safety Institute jointly financed with reflects the content of the national Internet sans the Pew Research Center’s Internet on parents perceptions linked to parental control; crainte programme. To date, over 300 children ■ study by Orange Spain/Inteco. This carried out a thorough investigation into the use have learned about using the digital world safely of mobile services by young people aged 10-16 and the perception by children and their and properly at 18 of the Group’s sites in France. parents of the risks involved (2010); In March 2012, Orange will launch workshops to ■ study by Orange Poland / Nobody’s Children Foundation on the Internet and child raise awareness among parents of the use of safety (2008). digital networks by teenagers, and will run courses in parental control. 91 a word lived in trust ■ In Spain, summer schools are provided for on mobiles Family of the charter on mobile multimedia to employees, and many awareness-raising The parental control filter, which is free, enables ensure the protection of children. activities are carried out in conjunction with the blocking of: 2007 the Protégeles Foundation: in 2011, over ■ the access to adult content across the entire ■ Signing of the European Framework for Safer 1,700 children were trained with the help of mobile Internet in France, Spain, Romania and Mobile Use by Young Teenagers and Children. 300 employees. Poland; ■ Study by Orange Slovakia on the use of ■ the access to adult content on the Orange mobiles and the Internet by children, and launch ■ In Slovakia, since 2006, a team of 10 psycholportal only in Belgium and Slovakia; of a campaign to raise awareness in schools ogists trained by Maria Tothova Simcakova, a ■ special numbers (video and voice) not recomwith the help of specialist psychologists. well-known psychologist and manager of mended for children in France, Spain, Slovakia 2008 Orange Slovakia’s project on education in the and Poland; ■ Contribution within GSMA to the launch of the media and the protection of children against ■ the access to a selection of mobile TV chanMobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse unsuitable content, trains teachers, parents and nels between 10.30 pm and 5.00 am in France. Content. children in a fun, hands-on way (50 teachers, In France, call control and blocking options allow ■ Launch of the Europe-wide Teach Today initia1,000 parents and 4,500 children trained by the parents to secure their children’s mobiles. tive, which aims to provide teachers with tools to end of 2010). This network of psychologists raise pupils’ awareness of Internet use, and of uses various resources, educational activities, Safety on Orange TV which France Telecom Orange is a founder tools and games to arouse children’s curiosity Adult and confidential codes and parental conmember. and encourage dialogue. It has also created an trol are all tools enabling parents: ■ Study on the Internet and child safety by the educational website and produced a guide for ■ to protect children against access to proOrange Poland Group (Polish subsidiary of educators and parents. grammes prohibited for under-18s; France Telecom Orange) in partnership with ■ to check VoD purchases and subscriptions to Nobody’s Children Foundation. ■ In Armenia, Orange is partnering the Armenian pay-TV bouquets directly from the TV; 2009 Committee for a Safer Internet (www.safe.am) in ■ to restrict access to programmes offered on ■ Signature in Poland – on the initiative of the training IT teachers in secondary schools. VoD, according to the age of their child. Orange Poland Group – of a national agreement In parallel, Orange’s youth TV bouquet offers on child safety on the Internet. ■ In Moldova, Orange is partnering the NGO parents six TV channels for all ages and a cata■ Signature of a partnership between Orange PRO Info in training 60 IT teachers and Orange logue of programmes on demand (cartoons, Spain and the Protégeles organisation to carry employees in child safety on the Internet. These films, children’s series, etc.) that contain neither out joint actions to protect children and combat employees and teachers will in their turn lead advertising nor violence. Poland and Slovakia illicit content. training sessions in schools in 2012. A national also offer access control systems. 2010 competition for school pupils will also be ■ Inventory of child protection actions in all launched for the best TV/radio programme, Group subsidiaries and preparation of a Group poster, and Internet user guide for parents and key dates relating to the Group’s policy. children. policy on the protection of children ■ Publication of the Orange Charter on Child Protection in France. ■ In emerging countries in Africa, Asia and the 2005 2011 Middle East, the Group is using projects devel■ Publication by a number of European subsidi■ Signed up to the CEO Coalition to make the oped by the Orange Foundation to provide IT aries of guides for parents on the subject of Internet a better place for kids, an initiative sponequipment for schools and raise awareness children and mobile phones. sored by Neelie Kroes, European Commissioner among teachers, parents and children of the 2006 responsible for the Digital Agenda for Europe. appropriate use of the Internet. ■ Production of responsible marketing guides to ■ Under the aegis of ETNO, GSMA and Digital ensure that the Group’s advertising campaigns Europe, active participation in the production of ■ Finally, Orange has been part of the Frenchincorporate its commitments in respect of the “key principles” common to the entire ICT indusspeaking network Educavox for two years. Its protection of children. try in respect of child protection. aim is to promote best practice and innovation in ■ Signing in France with the Ministry of the the ITC sector. focus content control tools an international study on the use of new technology by children To facilitate the protection of minors, Orange is In late 2010-early 2011, Mobinil helped to undertake a Child Internet Safety survey developing tools to control access to certain as part of an international project initiated in 2009 by the GSMA to gain a better content in the three spheres in which the Group understanding of children’s use of mobile phones. Egypt was one of the four countries is active (Internet, mobile, TV), and is also marsurveyed in 2011, and Mobinil made a significant contribution to this new study. keting offerings specifically for use by children 1,385 pairs of parents and children were surveyed by questionnaire in four different and young people. regions. 1,014 replied, i.e. a rate of return of 73%. The survey, which represented 2,600 hours’ work, required intense collaboration between the various players concerned: on the computers GSMA, operators, Egyptian Ministry of Telecommunications and local NGOs. The study Parental control, a free customisable programme shows that children’s use of new technologies is particularly significant in Egypt: that blocks access to sites not recommended 14% of children in Egypt aged 8-18 have a smartphone (vs 11% in India and 9% for a young audience by filtering the content, is in Japan), and 18% use tablets (6% in India, 2-3% in Japan). available in a number of European countries The results of this study can be consulted on the GSMA website: (France, Poland, Spain, Switzerland and http://www.gsma.com/understanding-usage-of-mobile-by-young-people/ Slovakia). 92 focus large-scale involvement on the occasion of Safer Internet Day For the past two years, Orange has supported the Safer Internet Day, an event organised by Europe’s Insafe network to promote safer and more responsible use of technology and the Internet by children and young people throughout the world. On 7 February 2012, all Orange entities in Europe put their weight behind the event by organising numerous awareness-raising actions: ■ in France, a live video chat was held on www.orange.com. Parents were able to talk directly to experts and find out how to help very young children benefit from the digital world. This day was an opportunity for Orange France to announce several staff awareness then customer initiatives with parent sessions in the major Orange stores across the country; ■ in Spain, besides the awareness-raising programmes run in schools in conjunction with the Protégeles organisation, Orange sponsored a conference held by the Spanish awareness-raising centre on “young people on the Net”. The meeting was attended by over 1,000 teenagers aged 11-17 from different Spanish provinces; ■ in Poland, the Orange Foundation – the lead partner of the Safer Internet Day – held a conference on the event, with Nobody’s Children Foundation and other NGOs. This conference was followed by an exhibition presenting various projects on the theme of child safety on the Internet; ■ in Armenia, teachers trained by Orange in partnership with the Armenian Committee for a Safer Internet (www.safe.am) led seminars for parents, to increase their awareness of safety on the Internet; ■ for the fifth consecutive year, Orange Romania supported the Safer Internet Day Awards, which are presented to the best digital projects conceived by pupils aged 5-18 with the help of their parents or teachers; ■ in Slovakia, Orange presented the results of its programme through specially trained psychologists in primary schools, and almost 50 of these psychologists held information workshops on “a safer Internet” in primary schools in the country. a new child protection tool in Spain In Spain, Orange and the three other national operators have supported the introduction of an initiative helping to protect children on the Internet: by clicking on a single button, users are able to notify the Protégeles organisation anonymously of content that is harmful to children: child pornography, “grooming” situations (adults using the Internet to seduce minors), etc. In an initiative promoted by the European Commission, the organisation then relays the information to the relevant authorities. According to Protégeles, the number of complaints relating to content harmful to minors has decreased by 94% in four years. Already incorporated into the websites of Orange Spain (www.orange.es/especiales/protege-a-la-infancia/) and other national operators, this button will soon be accessible from smartphones. Equivalent schemes already exist in France and Poland (Nobody’s Children Foundation – www.helpline.org.pl). 93 a word lived in trust 2011 review deadline achievements safe and responsible use of our products and services Establishment of a structure linking the worlds of science 2011 ■ Operation deferred to 2012. and medicine in order to promote safe and responsible usage. child protection Dissemination and roll-out of Group policy throughout 2011 ■ Dissemination of the Group policy to country correspondents Europe. (November 2011) supported by an international communication Continuation of the extension of the parental control campaign. functionality to all countries. ■ Fixed line and/or mobile parental control available in most Continuation of targeted communication and awarenessEuropean countries. raising campaigns (employees, customers, society ■ Active participation in leading the ICT Coalition, uniting members in general). of the sector around issues connected with the protection of childhood, under the aegis of EC Digital Europe, GSMAe and ETNO. ■ November 2011, signed up to the CEO Coalition initiative to make the Internet a better place for kids, supported by the European Commission. ■ France: launch of the “digital parenting” concept within the Orange solidarité numérique (Orange digital solidarity) programme, whereby employees voluntarily make their skills available to interested organisations. ■ Creation of a dedicated child protection toolkit and its specific use on a number of sites in France during Orange Mômes (“Orange kids”) days. 2012 roadmap deadline safe and responsible usages ■ Establish an international forum involving scientists and practitioners from various disciplines to monitor the impact of digital 2012 immersion on individual and collective behaviour. child protection ■ Create a resource centre to train and help countries to strengthen their child protection and support activities in the face 2012-2013 of the risks inherent in the digital sphere. ■ Contribute actively to the CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place for kids. ■ Promote the use of offerings meeting parents’ requirements. 94 answering questions about radio waves the Group’s approach Faced with questions about the potential effects of radio waves emitted by mobile phone systems and new communication technologies, France Telecom-Orange has established a policy based on five main principles: – total transparency in its communications with its various stakeholders regarding radio waves and communication technologies, using appropriate information materials and discussion channels; – contributing to research into radio waves; – ensuring compliance with local regulations (whenever such regulations exist) or international recommendations issued by the ICNIRP(1) and the IEEE(2) on exposure thresholds; – promote proper mobile use, as set out by public and other relevant authorities, in order to limit exposure to radio waves; – implement a Group policy on radio waves in the workplace. This policy is deployed via a network of radio waves correspondents within the Group and its subsidiaries. total transparency in particular to: ■ In France, over 500 measurements of exposure in communications ■ dosimetry research carried out by the Agence thresholds were carried out in 2011 and put nationale de la recherche (ANR – French national online on the site of the Agence nationale des The Group undertakes to: research agency) and the WHIST laboratory, in fréquences (ANFR – national frequencies ■ monitor the results of scientific studies around conjunction with the Institut Mines-Télécom; agency), www.cartoradio.fr. All the results are the world relating to radio waves; ■ groups working on international standardisabelow the legal threshold and 97% of the read■ provide stakeholders with information contion (CENELEC, ITO, ETSI, etc.). ings do not even reach 10% of the legal limit. The cerning radio waves and answer their questions ■ research programmes financing. Government has also carried out a review in using appropriate means of communication a number of municipalities, which concluded (internet, extranet, seminars, leaflets, etc.); In 2011, Orange France was heavily involved in that the exposure of people in France to electro■ enter into open discussions with all stakeholdresearch into radio waves, particularly with pubmagnetic waves from base stations was very low. ers, local residents, consumer associations and lic and private epidemiological and biological ■ In Egypt, over 1,100 sites were measured. The local authorities on the topics of radio waves research as part of the agenda of the World measurements showed that 100% of the sites and communication technologies. Health Organisation (WHO), the Scientific comply with national and international regulatory Committee on Emerging and New Identified limits. Not least, and independently of compliance with Health Risks (SCENIRH) and the ANSES (French ■ In Tunisia, 100% of sites checked by the ANFR regulations, plans for new installations or National Agency for Health Safety). within the framework of its responsibilities comupgrading relay antennae are being drawn up in ply with ICNIRP limits and the interdepartmental consultation with the local authorities. recommendation of 2008. For example, the Group’s subsidiaries in France ensuring compliance with ■ In Slovakia, Orange Slovakia measures the and Spain have drawn up best practice guides regulations compliance of antenna repeaters on request by with local and national authorities, in partnership customers. with mobile operator associations. for relay antennae In the absence of local regulations, all Group for mobiles subsidiaries must comply with recommendaAll mobile phones marketed by France Telecom contribute to research efforts tions issued by the ICNIRP(1) and IEEE(2) relating Orange comply with ICNIRP standards and have to thresholds for public exposure to antenna an SAR (Specific Absorption Rate, indicating the For over fifteen years now, Orange researchers repeaters. maximum level of radio waves to which users have played an active role in technological Subsidiaries carry out field measurements to can be exposed) of less than 2 W/kg. research, developing methods and tools to check the compliance of installations. The A large number of countries communicate measure and display radio wave intensity, and results are made public on the national authormobile SARs through a variety of media. For carrying out dosimetry and metrology studies. ity’s website, whenever there is one. example, in France, the SAR of all mobile The Group contributes its knowledge of mobile Measurements carried out around the Group’s phones sold is indicated in shops, on websites telephone networks and its expertise in dosiantenna repeaters reveal exposure levels for and in sales brochures, sales outlets, Orange metry. It takes part in numerous national and local residents that are well below ICNIRP Guides and in the boxes. international research programmes, contributing threshold values. promoting the correct use of mobile phones To encourage its customers to adopt responsible use of their mobile phones, the Group: (1) International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection: an international commission linked to the World Health ■ systematically offers an earpiece kit with each Organisation (www.icnirp.de). This commission has defined exposure thresholds in order to protect individuals against the effects of radio-waves on health. mobile purchased, either directly in the box, or (2) Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. available in the shop; 95 a word lived in trust ■ provides information to customers through appropriate channels on the correct use of focus mobile phones, as set out by public or other relevant authorities, in order to reduce their exposinformation on sanitary notices ure to radio waves (use of a headset, phoning The Group encourages the correct usage of mobiles as recommended by the when reception is good, etc.). international authorities to reduce personal exposure (e.g.: using a headphone, telephoning where reception is good, etc.) using suitable media, and systematically offering a headphone kit with every mobile purchase, either directly in the box, or in the shop. a Group policy on radio waves The Group communicates on the sanitary notices as the classification the International in the workplace Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) published in 2011. On the basis of results of various studies concerning in particular the use of mobile telephones, IARC, a WHO The Group pursues its actions on policy on radio organisation, announced the classification of radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as waves in the workplace which: “possibly carcinogenic to humans” (group 2B). The WHO confirms however in its ■ anticipates the implementation of European “Reminder” of June 2011 on mobiles that “this day, it was never established that the Council Directive 2004-40 concerning minimum mobile phone can be at the origin of a harmful effect for the health”. Some sanitary or provisions aimed at promoting an improvement public authorities promulgated various usage precautions intended to reduce the exposure in the level of health and safety protection for to electromagnetic fields of mobile phones. workers; The WHO plans to carry out another formal risk assessment in 2012 of all health effects ■ sets out the goals to be achieved, the prinof exposure to radiofrequency fields. The European Commission’s Scientific Committee ciples to be complied with and the basic values on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks (SCENIHR) has also received a mandate to be adopted so that employees are informed to update its opinion of 2009 on the potential health effects of exposure to electromagnetic about, and protected from, the potential effects fields. of radio waves. The policy continued to be deployed in 2011 to enable the subsidiaries to apply the instructions in a uniform manner across the board and two audits were carried out in Senegal and Tunisia, on this subject. all the subsidiaries follow the ICNIRP recommandations legislation applies ICNIRP recommendations Orange applies the international ICNIRP recommendations other local legislations followed by Orange Tunisia Irak Morocco Jordan United Kingdom Egypt Mali Niger Poland Senegal Guinea-Bissau Central African Belgium Guinea Cameroon Republic Luxembourg Côte d’Ivoire Slovaquie Equatorial Guinea Uganda Kenya Austria Congo Switzerland Moldova Dominican Republic France Romania Caribbean Madagascar Spain Botswana Mauritius Armenia Réunion Portugal Vanuatu 96 key dates relating to the Group’s action in respect of radio waves 1994 2006 2009 ■ Development of a dosimetric technique for ■ A Group strategy is launched to strengthen ■ The Group takes part in the “Radio frequenmobile telephony by France Telecom researchers and harmonise communications on the impact cies, health and environment” round table (electromagnetic field measurement method). of radio waves in all its subsidiaries. organised by the French public authorities in ■ First Group colloquium on radio waves. 2007 May 2009, and in the Operational Committee 1998 ■ Orange extends the inclusion of a hands-free responsible for exposure modelling and experi■ The ICNIRP, a body recognised by the WHO, kit in all its packs to subsidiaries using its mobile mentation, as well as the consultations set up issues recommendations concerning protective catalogue. after the round table. thresholds relating to exposure to electromag■ Appointment of an officer responsible for radio 2010 netic fields. France Telecom Orange thinks waves at Group level and establishment of a ■ Drawing up of a Group policy on radio waves ahead by applying these limits to its relay network of radio waves correspondents in all in the workplace. antenna installations in France before they are entities. 2011 adopted in French regulations. ■ Formalisation of the Group’s policy on radio ■ Participation of Orange France to the radio 2002 waves. frequencies health environment Operational ■ Orange France provides a hands-free kit for 2008 Committee organised by the government and to customers with all its mobile packs. ■ An international watch unit is set up to monitor the Committee of Dialogue of ANSES (national 2005 progress in research on radio waves and ensure agency of sanitary security) gathering all the ■ Orange France adopts AFSSET* recomthe same level of information in all the Group’s stakeholders. mendations and publishes a guide advising parcountries. ents to encourage their children to moderate their use of mobile phones. 2011 review deadline achievements radio waves Extend compliance audits to antennaes. 2011-2012 ■ Senegal and Tunisia: compliance audits undertaken. Deploy an active communications policy on 2011 ■ Deploying an active communications policy on electromagnetic electromagnetic waves. waves. Strengthening of internal communication actions for all employees. ■ Launch in France of “Homo Mobilus”, an awareness-raising operation in the form of an exhibition having for object “ the place of the mobile networks in our life”, a part of the exhibition concerning mobile services and electromagnetic waves. 2012 roadmap deadline ■ Create a common resources centre to share good practices. 2012 ■ Realise a seminar on the radio waves in the AMEA zone. 2012 97 an accessible world providing digital access to all Today, Internet and the mobile telephony are indispensable, in our professional life as in our daily exchanges. At Orange, we think that one of our first missions is to make information and communications technologies accessible, every day, to as many as possible. 99 combating the geographic digital divide 103 supporting local development 107 ensuring accessibility by elderly and disabled people 111 meeting healthcare challenges 114 inventing new ways of accessing education and culture 116 Foundation, sponsorship: we all need to live together 98 combating the geographic digital divide the Group’s approach To bring the benefits of the digital world further extend and provide greater bandwidth for all, France Telecom Orange has embarked on an ambitious action plan based specifically on: – developing infrastructures to extend the coverage of fixed and mobile networks; – deploying alternative innovative solutions for isolated areas; – expanding the network of broadband optical fibre submarine cables to improve Internet connectivity in Africa, the Indian Ocean, the Middle East and the Indian sub-continent; – an in-depth renovation of the networks and their equipment, and the deployment of new technologies (fibre, 4G) meeting requirements for increased bandwidth. extending network coverage enabling collective access to be brought to isolbution to major projects to lay submarine optical ated villages: “Community Phones” (see p. 103). fibre broadband cables to improve the capacity ■ In mature countries, where high levels of cover By the end of 2011, this solution had been and quality of Internet connectivity in Africa, the are already being achieved for both mobile and deployed in more than 1,700 villages with over Indian Ocean, the Middle East and the Indian fixed line broadband, coverage is being improved 500 inhabitants, in Mali, Niger, Côte d’Ivoire and sub-continent. Following the EASSy (Eastern by entering into pooling agreements with other the Central African Republic; Africa Submarine System) and IMEWE (India operators and introducing alternative solutions for ■ the deployment of solar stations also helps to Middle East Western Europe) cables, which came isolated areas, in partnership with the local authordevelop access to communications in rural into service in 2010, the Group is participating in ities. areas without access to the electricity network, two other major projects: ■ In emerging countries, the challenge is to estabwhilst at the same time preserving the environ■ LION2: through the construction agreement for lish – rapidly and at a controlled cost – coverage ment. By the end of 2011, 2,065 solar sites the LION2 cable, signed in September 2010 by enabling the greatest possible number of potential (including 1,416 solar mobile radio stations) had France Telecom-Orange and the other members customers to access the services available. been installed in 14 African and Middle Eastern of the consortium, the LION cable was brought Internet access increases mainly through the countries as well as the Dominican Republic, into service in April 2012, to bring the broadband deployment of mobile 3G networks, which help to Vanuatu and Armenia, making it possible for in Mayotte, by connecting the island with the rest compensate for the low deployment of copper isolated villages without electricity to access of the world via Kenya on one hand, La Réunion networks. telecommunications. This programme received on the other one. the Best Mobile Technology for Emerging ■ ACE (Africa Coast to Europe): in June 2010, innovative solutions for isolated areas Markets Award at the 2011 Global Mobile France Telecom Orange signed the construction To help open up isolated areas where ADSL Awards. agreement for the ACE cable. The 17,000-km technology cannot be deployed for technical or cable will extend from France to South Africa and economic reasons, the Group offers alternative cables to connect Africa will be partially operational in 2012. It will connect innovative solutions: Africa continues to be one of the continents that around 20 countries, either directly for coastal ■ the satellite Internet offering developed in partis less well endowed when it comes to network countries or via terrestrial links for landlocked nership with NordNet in Metropolitan France infrastructures. Orange is making an active contricountries such as Mali and Niger. provides 100% broadband coverage of the country up to 4Mbit/s. In 2010, this solution received the Ministry for the Economy’s the ACE cable “Broadband for All” label; ■ W iMax (Worldwide Interoperability for France Microwave Access) technology enables broadband connections to be made by radio link. This Portugal technology has been deployed in Botswana, Cameroon and Mali; ■ the CDMA technology deployed by Orange in Senegal enables isolated areas not covered by Îles Canaries Espagne ADSL to access the Internet using wireless techMauritanie Mali Niger nology. 100% of Senegalese villages with over Sénégal Gambie Benin 500 inhabitants now have access to the Internet Guinée Ghana Nigéria thanks to this technology; Sierra Leone Cameroun Guinée Équatoriale ■ the Flybox enables inhabitants of regions withLibéria Côte d’Ivoire Gabon out fixed ADSL coverage to gain WiFi or landline Sao Tome-et-Principe République Démocratique du Congo access to the Internet via a mobile broadband Angola network. By the end of 2011, the Flybox had been introduced in eight countries (Romania, Slovakia, Egypt, Switzerland, Moldova, Armenia, Namibie Botswana and Tunisia); Afrique du Sud ■ in Africa, Orange deploys an original solution 99 an accessible world increased bandwidth for all focus The new “digital ecosystem” is marked by a tre2011, a decisive year for the deployment of fibre in France mendous growth in the volume of data being exchanged. Mature markets are needing Following the success of the deployment of the “Broadband for all” plan, with ADSL increasingly broad bandwidths as a result of the coverage of 98.8% throughout the country at the lowest prices in the world, explosion of uses and new consumer requirethe France Telecom Orange Group has embarked on the roll-out of super-fast broadband ments. To deal with this increase in demand, the with the aim of bringing optical fibre to all cities and medium-sized towns by 2015, with Group is investing not only in solutions that a coverage of 10 million households by 2015 and 15 million by 2020, i.e. almost 60% facilitate the development of new services but of French households. also in super-fast broadband (optical fibre for The Group has undertaken that the 40% of households not directly concerned will receive fixed line, 3G+ and 4G for mobiles) to provide a set of solutions as soon as possible to bring their existing connections closer to the users with access to all multimedia uses in optispeed of super-fast broadband, depending on their situation. These could be public mum conditions. initiative networks designed to complement existing networks and accelerate deployment in less densely populated areas: the Group could, case by case, support local authorities in a proactive investment plan projects aimed at maximising regional coverage. Orange will also work with local authorities Developing networks is one of the priorities of to combine all the available technologies: fibre to the home, fibre to the kerb (moving the conquests 2015 strategic project. towards super-fast broadband speeds), radio and satellite technologies, etc., whilst taking To do so, we are investing in all fields, networks, account of economic conditions and the specific features and requirements of each region. information systems, Livebox, networks of fixed Lastly, in compliance with regulations, Orange was the first operator to provide an offering and mobile access, etc. In 2011, these investof access to its optical fibre network in less-densely populated areas, and including ments represented 12.7% of sales. We antithe possibility of co-financing. This helps to prevent a fragmentation of the investment cipate accelerating our investment in networks and finally to reduce the risk of the digital divide. during the 2011-2013 period. Almost 17 billion This offering is the result of agreements entered into in 2011 with Free and SFR, and early euros will be allocated to this programme, in 2012 with Bouygues Telecom. This offering and these agreements mark a decisive stage including 2 billion euros to the fibre programme in the deployment of super-fast broadband in France. in France and 500 million euros to modernise our 3G networks in Europe. These efforts will deliver super-fast broadband networks that are increasingly efficient, convergent and pooled, and that respond to the strong 2011 with Free and SFR, and early in 2012 detailed understanding of this new technology growth in the volume of data being exchanged. with Bouygues, to accelerate the deployment and to ensure it has fully mastered it before any of optical fibre. commercial launch. In France, the deployment of the 4G network will begin in Marseilles in pooling agreements increased bandwidth of mobile networks June 2012. The first commercial offerings are The Group is pursuing the deployment of third scheduled to come to market in France in 2013. To accelerate the deployment of infrastructures generation mobile networks (3G/3G+) in all its In addition, the purchase of new frequencies and – particularly in isolated areas – we favour sharcountries that support broadband data services. the development of innovative projects will ening network infrastructure with our competitors, ■ In most European countries, the entire 3G able Orange to provide a better quality of service a win-win solution that will help to increase geonetwork is now 3G+ with a considerably broader to its customers. Orange plans to provide 4G graphic coverage whilst at the same time minibandwidth and higher capacity than the earlier offerings in all the European countries in which it mising our environmental footprint and helping generations. is present by 2015. to control costs. ■ 3G is also being deployed in a number of emerging countries. Orange has already super-fast broadband over optical fibre the pooling of mobile network infrastructures deployed 3G in 13 African countries (Botswana, Optical fibre broadband, up to 10 times faster Besides the sharing of “passive” equipment Egypt, Guinea, Jordan, Kenya, Madagascar, than ADSL and capable of reaching over (buildings, pylons, masts), which we have been Mali, Morocco, Mauritius, Niger, Uganda, 100 Mbit/s, will encourage the emergence of doing for a number of years, we are seeking to Senegal and Tunisia). In Egypt and Senegal, new Internet and multimedia uses in the home, develop “active” sharing (known as “RAN shardeployment in high traffic zones in major cities businesses and public services. This is not only ing”), which also involves the means of transmishas leapfrogged directly to 3G+. a major issue in regional competitiveness but sion: this is the most effective approach in terms ■ In France, the official ARCEP report on “the also in the day-to-day life of all citizens, and of savings, but also the most complex to implequality of voice and data services of mobile netFrance Telecom Orange has made proactive ment. In 2007, for example, we signed a RAN works (2G and 3G) in Metropolitan France” commitments in this respect. sharing agreement in Spain with Vodafone, the dated 4 November 2011 confirms that Orange ■ In France, the “La Fibre” programme is conimplementation of which extends over five years. offers the best mobile network in the country, tinuing with its ambitious objectives: 2 billion The objective: to deploy 3G network cover specifically with the best network coverage, the euros investment to ensure coverage of 10 miltogether for towns of 1,000 to 25,000 inhabitfastest mobile bandwidth, and the best voice lion households by 2015, and 15 million (i.e. ants, i.e. a total of some 13 million inhabitants. communication and mobile data service quality. 60% of households) by 2020, in 3,600 municiEventually, around 5,000 sites will be shared. palities (see insert). Another recent example is that of the joint venThe fourth generation of mobile networks: LTE ■ Super-fast optical fibre broadband is also ture with the mobile subsidiary of Deutsche (Long Term Evolution), also known as 4G, is available in Slovakia. Telekom in Poland to pool the mobile network designed to provide the best performance, ■ Pilot networks have been launched in Spain across the entire country. greater capacities and lower costs in an environand Poland. ment where data exchange and creation are ■ In Poland, VDSL technology has been the pooling of optical fibre access network growing strongly. Orange has carried out a deployed and 40 Mbit/s and 80 Mbit/s offerings infrastructures series of technical tests on an experimental nethave been marketed since mid-2011. In France, we signed pooling agreements in work in France in order to gain an in-depth and 100 main stages in the Group’s 3G population – 2G population 3G Voice Outdoor population coverage geographic accessibility policy Europe 2G Voice Outdoor population coverage 2003 ■ Signature in France of the national agreement on the coverage of “white zones”. Orange Belgium Orange Poland 2005 93.75%. 62.0%. ■ Launch of phase 2 of the “white zones” pro99.7%. 99.6%. gramme, fully financed by the operators. 2007 Orange Luxembourg Orange Slovakia ■ Launch of the programme to construct solar 69.3%. 70.0%. 99.6%. 99.6%. base stations to develop access in rural areas of African countries (35 solar stations in Senegal). Orange France Orange Moldova ■ Signing in Spain of a 3G infrastructure sharing 97.8%. 92.4%. agreement with Vodafone. 99.7%. 99.4%. ■ Launch in France of the “NRA-Zones d’Ombres” technology providing broadband Orange Switzerland Orange Roumania access in areas not covered by ADSL. 91.9%. 82.0%. ■ Launch of fibre in France and Slovakia. 99.3%. 99.8%. ■ Launch of the “Internet Republic” project in Orange Austria Orange Armenia Poland to increase Internet usage in rural areas. 67.2%. 95.4%. ■ Launch of the Flybox in Romania. 98.8%. 96.5%. ■ Launch of the “botikas” network in Madagascar: franchised shops distributing Orange solutions in Orange Spain isolated areas. 90.2%. 2008 99.2%. ■ Deployment of the Flybox in Slovakia, Egypt Orange Dominican Republic and Switzerland. 70.2%. ■ Launch of a satellite Internet access solution in 95.2%. partnership with NordNet. 2009 ■ Commissioning of the LION submarine cable (Indian Ocean). 3G population coverage 3G population – 2G population ■ Introduction of the first “Community Phones” 2G population coverage Africa in Mali. 2010 Orange Morocco Orange Tunisia ■ Commissioning of the EASSy (Eastern Africa) 46.9%. 65.0%. and IMEWE (India and Middle East) submarine 98.0%. 88.0%. cables. ■ Signing of the construction agreement for the Orange Niger Orange Jordan new ACE (Africa Coast to Europe) cable and the 2011. around 50%. 6.4%. 99.1%. construction agreement for the LION2 (Indian Ocean) cable. Orange Mali Egypt 2011 9.0%. >70%. ■ Launch of the wholesale fibre offering, in com46.5%. 99.7%. pliance with the principles set by ARCEP, enabling the pooling of FTTH networks outside Orange Senegal Central African Republic very densely populated areas. ND. 2011. ■ Signature of FTTH network sharing agree88.6%. 6.4%. ments with Free and SFR. Guinea-Bissau Orange Uganda 2012. 30.0%. ND. 40.0%. Guinea-Conakry Orange Kenya 2011. 10.0%. 32.0%. 72.0%. Orange Côte d’Ivoire Orange Madagascar 2012. 15.1%. 90.5%. 65.8%. Orange Cameroon Orange Mauritius 2011. 81.0%. ND. 99.0%. Orange Equatorial Guinea Orange Botswana 2011. 30.0%. 91.0%. 90.0%. 101 an accessible world focus Orange accelerates its plan for investment and innovation in the Spanish networks Orange confirms its commitment to develop the information society in Spain: in September 2011, the Group announced new investment in fixed and mobile networks. In 2010, Orange announced an investment of 500 million euros over two years to modernise its network and make it more flexible, robust and convergent (fixed and mobile), and therefore ready to offer LTE (4G) technology. By the end of this year, Orange will have about 5,000 stations able to use the latest multi-network technologies: 2G, EDGE, 3G or in 1800 and 900, fully IP, and ready to offer LTE technology. Today, Orange customers in Saragossa, Valencia, Alicante, Murcia, the Canaries, Galicia and Vizcaya are already benefiting from increased coverage and network quality. In addition to its investment in the mobile, the Group will open about 100 new exchanges across the country between 2011 and 2012 in order to enable the largest possible number of users to enjoy the benefits of Orange’s ADSL network and boost the growth of the fibre market. By the end of this programme, Orange Spain will reach 70% of the Spanish population. Furthermore, the purchase of new frequencies in 2011 and the development of innovative projects will enable the company to deliver a better quality of services to its customers. 2011 review deadline achievements reducing the geographic digital divide Continued deployment in Africa of mobile relay stations 2011-2012 ■ Continued deployment of ORYX stations: more than 1,400 solar that are fully powered by solar energy, thereby enabling stations by the end of the 2011 financial year. services to be provided in even the most isolated regions with no electricity supply. Continued improvement in international connectivity 2011-2012 ■ The new ACE submarine cable – which will link France with South in Africa through new submarine cables. Africa and serve 23 countries – will be brought ashore at Penmarc’h (Finistère, France). ■ Continuation of operations to extend LION1 to Mayotte and Mombasa. 2012 roadmap deadline ■ Continue the sustained deployment in Africa of mobile relay stations that are fully powered by renewable energy, 2012-2015 thereby enabling services to be provided in even the most isolated regions with no electricity supply. ■ Bring into service the LION2 cable, which has a potential of 1.28 Tbit/s. 2012 ■ Bring the ACE cable into service by the end of 2012. ■ Use these submarine cables to open up landlocked areas and countries. ■ Launch initiatives to facilitate access to energy to power mobile phones in Africa. 2012-2013 ■ Superfast mobile broadband: deploy 4G/LTE in European countries were Orange operates by 2015. 2015 ■ Deploy 3G in Orange countries in the Africa-Middle East zone by 2015 and provide mobile coverage for 80% of the population. 2015 102 supporting local development the Group’s approach The Group supports the social and economic development of the countries in which it is present through three complementary approaches: – increasing access to information and communication technologies in emerging countries and mature markets alike by providing offerings suitable for people with low incomes; – developing value-added products and services suited to the economic and social context of each country in which it is established, according to the principle of co-construction with local players; – promoting the development of an ecosystem based on new technologies, which supports the creation of businesses and fosters the emergence of products, services and contents suited to local markets. increasing access to information Since February 2012, Orange France has also innovative concepts in developing countries and communication technologies been marketing a social Internet+VOIP offering Orange’s first focus area for innovation in Africa for recipients of basic income support, meeting and the Middle East is facilitating access to all Orange is committed to encouraging access to the government specifications: accessibility on essential telephone services (voice and SMS) by the new technologies by the largest possible the sole condition of the line’s suitability for finding solutions to overcome the barriers of number of people in all countries, and, as a ADSL, i.e. over 98% of lines, no time commitpoverty, illiteracy and exclusion. result, has created specific offerings for people ment, deposit or activation fee (except for ■ Orange has launched a range of very lowwith low incomes. charges that might be made for the installation priced handsets together with services that of a new telephone line) and at a monthly rate of allow reverse charge calls (Call Me Back, Pay social offerings in developed countries 20 euros including VAT. For Me), or offers attractive prices depending on In Metropolitan France, since May 2009, all the level of traffic on the network (Bonus Zone). recipients of income support (revenu de solidarThe Group’s social offerings have met with little The Emergency Credit solution allows customité active or RSA) may subscribe to the special success as there is apparently too much of a ers to have additional minutes if they have an RSA prepay package available for 10 euros per stigma attached to them. As a result, the Group imperative need to contact someone when their month. has decided to reorient its thinking from a philobalance is exhausted. sophy of specific social offerings to a respons■ The Group is developing community solutions Similar offerings exist in other European counible marketing process favouring measures to with highly attractive rates, such as the tries. A few examples: improve accessibility for people with low “Community Phone” concept, which has already ■ in Poland, the Plan Orange Poland przyjazny incomes and has launched experiments in 2012 helped to bring collective access to mobile (Friendly Plan) targets people with financial diffifocusing on marketing these services that will telephony to more than 1,700 villages with over culties that receive long-term help in social help customers to manage their consumption 500 inhabitants, in Mali, Niger, Côte d’Ivoire and assistance centres. Monthly reduced rate tariff better. The Central African Republic. This project (18.45 zł, or 4.7 euros) including 30 minutes received the AfricaCom 2010 Award for the best local and long-distance calls. To qualify, people second-hand phones: an economical rural solution. In addition to access to communmust provide social assistance documents. and eco-friendly solution! ication at the lowest possible cost, these comOrange proposes additional services such as Second-hand mobile phones have been availmunity phones encourage the development of number blocking and voicemail at no cost; able for the past two years from Orange shops micro-enterprises: a person with an aerial, a ■ in Romania, Oferta Senior targets retirees that in Metropolitan France. A wide range of simple mobile phone and a solar battery charger can in have a pension. A document must be provided and up-market mobiles consisting of three cateffect become the operator for an entire village. to sign up to the offer, specially designed for egories of handsets, is on sale at attractive A “Community Internet” solution developed by intuitive use and very practical for older people. prices for pay-as-you-go offerings or to accomOrange is currently being tested in Uganda. Under this offer, the GSM ZTE-G S302 handset pany Orange’s special RSA prepaid package. ■ Orange also offers an e-top-up system used is supplied at 1 euro; All these reconditioned handsets are delivered whereby a prepaid account can be topped up ■ in Slovakia, Orange provides special discounts with a charger, battery and hands-free kit, and electronically from a mobile. A less expensive, – that may be as much as 99% of the monthly carry a six-month guarantee. In 2010, Orange more secure and more eco-friendly solution than bill – for people in difficulty or suffering from longFrance extended this initiative by offering a range scratchcards, already available in 16 African term disabilities. A tailor-made proposal is made of second-hand smartphones in its online shop. countries. after studying each customer case individually. In several countries, buyback options also give ■ For illiterate people, Orange has launched customers production coupons or a gift voucher Voice SMS, which allows users to leave a short To better meet the requirements of people with in exchange for their old telephone. A solution voice message for the price of an SMS. low incomes, the Group’s CSR Division prothat benefits both customers and the environduced a benchmark for social offerings in ment. Europe at the end of 2011. In France, Orange also took part in deliberations on concessionary prices for mobiles and the Internet that were committed to in 2011 on the initiative of the government. 103 an accessible world ■ To increase access to Internet content, Orange stimulating the creation requires the creation of specific incubation has developed Magic Portal and Voice Portal, of businesses mechanisms (open technical platforms, young which allow users to access basic information enterprise incubators, investment funds). from any mobile connected to a standard GSM To support local development, France TelecomPartnerships with specialist players help to crenetwork. In the same way, the Popmail solution Orange favours the path of open innovation to ate key skills and limit risks. Orange also builds enables users to receive and send e-mails from enable it to work with local players to create up partnerships with local universities and speany type of mobile phone without being consolutions that are best suited to the requirecialist schools to encourage training and the nected to the Internet. ments of the area. identification and integration of local talent into In this regard, the Group is particularly dependthe company: For further information on offerings suited to ent on its 15 Orange Labs, which make up emerging countries: consult the “Africa and the the Group’s global innovation network, with ■ in Dakar, Senegal, Orange supported the Middle East, lands of innovation for Orange” 3,500 employees (researchers, developers, marestablishment of a business incubator for the folder on orange.com. keteers, ergonomists, designers, sociologists, new technologies sector. Its aim: to contribute to etc.) spread across four continents. the development of the new information and Particularly in emerging countries, the Group is communication technologies industry by developing innovative products and contributing to the development of an ecosupporting small and medium enterprises in services meeting local priorities system based on new technologies to boost promoting local content. This programme, supinnovation and encourage the emergence of ported by the World Bank, consists initially of Orange relies on innovation to provide new products, services and content for local marsupporting 30 companies for three years, in colproducts and services meeting the requirements kets. Developing such a diversity of tools laboration with the public authorities. Sonatel will of local populations in the fields of digital finance, agriculture, health, education and administration. These new value-added services can be developed or simply distributed by Orange within the focus framework of revenue-sharing partnerships with third parties. These partnerships involve adapted Orange for Development: a specific initiative contributing to the economic pricing, special connections, the equipping of and social development of emerging countries schools and general educational establishments, The Orange Group is present in a large number of countries in Africa and the Middle and/or the transmission by SMS of various data East, and has great ambitions for growth in this zone. The Group is having a strong impact useful for the activity, such as the market prices in this region (direct and indirect jobs, tax contributions, balance of payments) and of agricultural products or other interactive as a result is contributing to local development based on the principle of corporate social information services useful for the socio-ecoresponsibility (CSR) – which is not the same as mere philanthropy. To make socionomic development of countries. economic development a genuine driver of its growth strategy in Africa and the Middle East, France Telecom Orange embarked in 2011 on an initiative intended to clearly identify some examples: the issues and priorities for action by the Group in respect of its contribution to local ■ In Africa, to offset the lack of banking infradevelopment. The studies undertaken and the discussions held with all stakeholders structure, the Group launched Orange Money in showed that only a global, balanced approach would lead to the realisation of the Group’s 2008: a simple, secure solution enabling users aim. This initiative, named “Orange for Development”, is based on a three-pronged to open a payment account linked to a mobile approach: number, which also provides a means for com■ access extended to all through better network coverage and controlled-cost connectivity panies or small businesses to simplify payment services, in phase with the low incomes of local populations; for trade services and even wages. ■ the introduction of high value-added services meeting the specific needs and This service, offered in partnership with a major requirements of local populations (health, education, agriculture, etc.) through jointly bank, has a high level of security to avoid the developed programmes and partnerships formed in the field; risk of theft or fraud. By the end of 2011, it was ■ support for the local ICT market and the development of ecosystems, by establishing already available in seven countries (Senegal, various initiatives (enterprise zones and finance for new businesses, open platforms Madagascar, Mali, Niger, Kenya, Botswana, for innovation, higher technical education, etc.). Cameroon) and had 3 million users. ■ In Niger, in partnership with the network of The Group has defined three basic principles that will enable it to succeed in this initiative: Chambers of Commerce and Agriculture, ■ identifying and giving priority to projects taking account of local needs and requirements, Orange developed the “Pocket Agricultural through partnerships with local communities and with local members of other sectors; Feed” service, enabling market prices of agricul■ conducting experiments according to an open-ended method in such a way tural products to be transmitted by SMS to as to reproduce and deploy effective initiatives whilst at the same time refining and testing farmers, who can then sell their harvest to the new economic models; highest bidder. By the end of 2011, this system ■ setting up sustainable projects and initiatives based on the complementary nature of the was live in 18 markets, with over 3,000 viewings partners involved, to create a collaboration that will be economically viable in the long term. to date. The second phase of the project will consist of supplying meteorological data and This initiative is implemented through a dedicated committee coordinated by the Group’s personalised advice to subscribers. This conCSR function, with representatives of the various departments and countries concerned. cept will soon be deployed in Mali. Meeting every two months for an update on existing initiatives and country news, with ■ The Group also launched a number of innova collaborative method of operating inspired by social networks, it enables the federation ative solutions in the field of healthcare (see of existing initiatives by creating a cross-disciplinary dynamic. p. 111 to 113). 104 supply the servers and Internet connection, and ■ for the past ten years, Orange has been supkey dates relating to the Group’s will also contribute to a skills transfer; porting the “Banespyme” project (www.baneeconomic inclusion policy ■ for the past two years, Orange has been supspyme-orange.org) in Spain, the aim of which is porting the Ideas for Enterprises competition in to encourage the creation of innovative enter2000 Moldova organised by the Academy of prises based on new technologies through an ■ Launch of the Banespymes project in Spain to Economic Studies (ASEM) to enable students annual competition. Since it began, this prosupport the creation of innovative SMEs based and graduates to transform their ideas into gramme has helped to support the creation of on new technologies. genuine businesses. Orange is a partner in the over 70 technological enterprises that have 2004 support structure for the projects selected. This received over 6 million euros in finance. More ■ Launch of Plan ZAE to bring broadband to support in terms of hosting, support, advice, than 160 teams of entrepreneurs have received 2,000 areas of economic activity in France. training and equipment is all valuable in the initial training, with particular attention being paid to 2005 stages of the life of a company. Orange hopes to drawing up and implementing business projects, ■ Launch of “Plan 3 x 10” in France to provide support the most innovative projects through and their growth; innovative solutions for communities. this partnership, with the aim of contributing to ■ in June 2011, Orange launched the African ■ Establishment of the first Visio Points in the development of entrepreneurship among the Social Venture Prize to support entrepreneurs France. young people of Moldova who will be assets to and start-ups using ICTs to meet the require2006 the economy of tomorrow and will play a role in ments of local populations. The call for projects, ■ Launch in Poland of the “Internet Republic” the country’s development; which ran from June to September 2011, project under the aegis of the United Nations ■ late in 2010, Orange Tunisia launched its attracted over 600 applications on a range of Development Programme, with strong involve“Developers Programme” to encourage the cretopics such as health, agriculture, education, ment by Orange Poland. ation of 100% Tunisian mobile applications financial services and commerce, reflecting the 2008 through partnerships with a number of engineerreal entrepreneurial dynamic and potential for ■ Launch of Call Me Back in Cameroon. ing colleges throughout the country, and particutelecommunications on the African continent. ■ Launch of Orange Money pilot in Côte d’Ivoire. larly in disadvantaged areas. The objective: to The three winners of this first competition were ■ Launch of the NetPC offering by Orange promote Tunisian know-how in the field and announced at the AfricaCom Awards ceremony Mauritius. enable the emergence of a genuine ecosystem, in Cape Town on 10 November 2011: a remote 2009 the preliminary to a sustainable, profitable mobile irrigation project in Niger, Agasha Business ■ Launch in France of the RSA mobile offering content industry with strong potential for innovaNetwork (a Ugandan start-up using the Internet for recipients of income support. tion and jobs for young Tunisians. By the end of to help small and medium African enterprises to ■ Launch of a range of second-hand mobiles in 2011, the results already spoke for themselves: develop) and Kachile, a Côte d’Ivoire start-up Orange France shops. over 800 people introduced to the topic, selling handicrafts online. In addition to receiving ■ Launch of Pay For Me in Cameroon (reverse 600 trained as part of a university course, and financial grants of up to 25,000 euros, these charges mobile offering). 30 applications produced. Orange Tunisia is projects will be supported for six months by ■ Launch of OFA offering in Senegal (community planning to further boost and animate this netspecialists from our local subsidiaries with stratoffering). work of nearly 2,000 young developers by introegic contributions by the capital risk company, ■ Launch of Bonus Zone in Botswana. ducing regular, more targeted activities, and Innovacom. ■ Launch of Orange Money. connecting them with stakeholders, particularly 2010 “business angels”; ■ Launch of community phone programme in Mali (200 villages equipped). ■ Deployment of Orange Money in five new countries in Africa. ■ New range of second-hand smartphones available from the orange.fr online shop. 2011 ■ Deployment of community phones in over 1,700 villages in four countries (Mali, Niger, Côte d’Ivoire and the Central African Republic). ■ Over 3 million users of Orange Money in eight African countries. ■ Inauguration of the ICT incubator in Dakar. ■ Creation of the African Social Venture Prize. ■ Launch of the “Orange for Development” initiative to establish guidelines for the Group’s approach to contributing to the economic and social development of countries in the Africa, Middle East, Asia zone. 105 an accessible world 2011 review deadline achievements combating the geographic digital divide social offerings in Europe 2011-2012 ■ In France, given the stagnation of social subscriptions to classic Development of mobile offerings for the lowest income telephony, consideration is currently being given, and an agreement groups. being signed, to meet new demands in respect of social offerings, Development of second-hand mobile offerings. coupling unlimited telephony and Internet. Development of offerings for the poorest sectors of the population (fixed, voicemail, virtual safe deposit box). socio-economic development of territories in emerging markets establishment of a framework to encourage innovation in 2011-2012 ■ Organising the first African Social Venture Prize the AMEA zone (over 600 applications received) and the awards ceremony. Launching of an award for social entrepreneurship in ■ Launch of a scoping study project carried out in the field in Mali AMEA. with the Grameen Foundation, to prepare for the creation of a rural Creation and institution of an innovation laboratory for rural innovation initiative (rural labs). development. ■ Inauguration of an incubator in Dakar in March 2011. Support for social entrepreneurship and local innovation ■ Production and publication, in partnership with a components through the setting-up of incubators and an investment manufacturer, a financing agency and an NGO, of a benchmark study fund (African countries). on economic models for the development of BoP (base of pyramid) offerings. continue to develop offering 2011-2012 ■ Launch in Kenya of the service to check the authenticity Provide solutions contributing to rural development of medication via mobile, Pedigree. through offerings in the fields of agriculture, health and ■ Roll-out of Orange Money in eight countries (over 3 million education. customers). Continuation of the deployment of Orange Money. combating the digital divide in emerging countries Extension of the deployment of “Community Phones” 2011-2012 ■ Continued deployment of Village Phone: end 2011, more than in Africa. 1000 villages equipped in Mali, 200 in Côte d’Ivoire, 150 in Niger, Commitment on country numbers (four in 2011, six in 2012). 30 in the Central African Republic. Development of offerings enabling Internet access 2011-2012 ■ Launch of Flash Voice (Voice SMS) service in Niger in June. by people who are hesitant about using computers. ■ Launch of Voice Portal (vocally-commanded browser) in Senegal Development of offerings suited to illiteracy and and Mali. multilingualism (voice SMS). Launch of Voice Portal. 2012 roadmap deadline ■ Continue the deployment of Village Phone in at least two new countries. 2012 ■ Launch the pilot “Internet for all” project (village Internet) in Uganda. ■ Develop mobile Internet offerings for the most disadvantaged, improve classification of requirements of low revenue customers 2012 and carry out experiments to meet their requirements under optimum conditions. ■ Structure the Group’s actions in respect of contributing to economic and social development by establishing a reference 2012 framework (Orange for Development) and the relevant governance. ■ Promote local entrepreneurship through the use of incubators, and hold the African Social Venture Prize for the second consecutive year. ■ Contribute to the financing of young businesses in Africa through contributions to investment funds. ■ Establish external partnerships with the aim of better meeting country needs and requirements in respect of rural, healthcare and education development. ■ Launch a project to develop and distribute services for rural people using a network of local agents. ■ Provide solutions contributing to rural development through offerings in the fields of agriculture, healthcare and/or education 2012 that take account of the magnitude of the social and economic benefits. ■ Continue to roll out Orange Money in four new countries. ■ Establish the “Digital world for all in emerging countries” programme. 2012 106 ensuring accessibility by elderly and disabled people the Group’s approach Developments in communication technology are opening up new horizons for everyone, but most particularly for elderly and disabled people. This is why Orange has for many years been committed to breaking down the physical and cognitive barriers that can restrict access to the benefits of the new technologies. The Group’s Accessibility Department ensures that accessibility is factored in from the design phase of Orange products and services right the way through to after-sales service, and focuses on four areas: – adapting all products and services offered by the Group and designing specific products, the Autonomy offerings; – establishing a tailored distribution network; – incorporating the notion of accessibility in all processes, from design through to marketing, in all markets; – interacting with national and international institutions, organisations and customers to better identify their requirements and develop partnerships. a design strategy for all launch of the voice assistant on Reunion Island a tailored distribution network and by Orange Caraïbes), a new integration In France, Autonomy offerings are distributed To enable everyone – and particularly disabled or accessibility process in the selection of offers is through a specifically tailored distribution netelderly people with some type of impairment – to deployed by France and a Group-level validation work: access communications and the best technoof a selection of mobile handsets for older peo■ over 6,000 salespeople and 750 qualified logies, Orange has adopted a “design for all” ple and the disabled after tests in the Orange advisers, all trained in the Autonomy offerings strategy. mobile accessibility expertise centre has been in and in dealing with disabled people; M a n a g e d b y t h e G ro u p ’s A c c e s s i b i l i t y place since 2011. ■ 231 approved “Autonomy” shops and four Department, this strategy ensures that specific Services are also proposed: voice and character dedicated Rainbow areas; features relating to disabilities are factored in zooming software installed free of charge for all ■ a dedicated customer centre for disabled peoway before the launch of any offering, thus enblind or partially-sighted customers, adapted ple available by phone (freefone number 0 800 abling innovation, simplicity and ergonomics to electronic bill... 11 22 33), e-mail (offres.autonomie@orange. be combined to cater for any type of disability Orange Spain already has a catalogue of com) or fax (0 800 24 69 96); (hearing, vision, mobility, grip, speaking, cogniAutonomy offerings on its website, accesibilidad. ■ a remote sales service accessible to the tion). This strategy is based on usage feedback orange.es. Poland’s is in the process of being d e a f a n d h a rd o f h e a r i n g w i t h s p e e c h from impaired elderly and disabled customers. finalised. difficulties every Tuesday and Thursday since The R&D “accessibility” project explores mechanisms for integrating disabled or dependent people with difficulties using traditional communication tools into various population groups. The goal is to design methods of interaction and new focus interfaces that use their sensory and percepsimplified telephones for use by the elderly tional skills. 20 technical projects, studies and experiments are currently under way. Following France and Slovakia, three of the Group’s European subsidiaries launched mobile handsets in 2010 specially designed to meet the needs of the elderly. dedicated offerings All these phones have simplified ergonomics with large buttons, magnified characters, A dedicated range, “autonomy offerings, a solua list of pre-recorded numbers, higher volume and an easily accessible “SOS” button tion for everyone”, provides a response to every enabling an emergency number to be recorded, to which a call or SMS can be sent type of impairment (hearing, vision, speaking, by merely pressing the button. mobility, grip and cognition). ■ In May 2010, Orange Romania launched the ZTE S302, accessible from 1 euro per These fixed and mobile, Internet and convergent month as part of a senior package. A senior tariff reserved for pensioners, consisting telephone offerings are presented twice a year of 500 minutes of free calls on the Orange network and all the fixed national networks, in a catalogue available in a paper version, is also available from 6 euros per month. electronic version and audio CD (for the sight■ In September 2010, Orange was the first mobile telephone operator in Switzerland impaired). to launch the new Doro PhoneEasy® 410gsm phone. These offerings are currently being deployed in ■ In December 2010, Orange Spain launched a range of products “Esencial de Orange”, the main European countries. In 2011, strategic a new category of products that has been created to provide answers to the needs of the meetings and workshops were held in the eight elderly. The Doro 610 and Alcatel OT282 handsets are currently part this category available main European countries with marketing direconline (http://movil.orange.es/catalogo-de-moviles/esencialdeorange/; http://tiendaonline. tors, with the aim of bringing out new products orange.es and in sales outlets. These handsets were chosen for their simplicity and and preparing the next set of catalogues. exclusive and intuitive functions. In addition, they are fitted with an emergency button that In addition to an extension to the range of alerts the old person’s immediate environment or the emergency services, informing them mobile products (for example: the Doro 610 that an emergency situation has occurred. mobile, a new version of the voice assistant, 107 an accessible world November 2009: it enables customers to interact directly with a specially trained adviser, either focus in French sign language (videoconference via a 2 major events in Warsaw in favour of accessibility in 2011 webcam with the possibility of subtitles) or in text mode in real time; ■ 1 April: “Orange Poland Accessibility Day”: first event dedicated to accessibility ■ personalised support for the easy Internet Orange PL: an “Accessibility” day with themed conferences jointly hosted by option is available from Monday to Saturday Orange Poland and the Group Accessibility Department aimed at setting out the range (excluding public holidays, from 8 am to 8 pm on of different themes (context, regulatory aspects, offers (seniors, the elderly and the 0800 185 149. disabled), communication, public telephones, research). After these interventions, In the shop, on the website or in the catalogue, demonstrations of products and innovations provided an opportunity to show the specific signage system using pictograms helps Group’s and Orange Poland’s commitment to people. This was the first event organised to identify the best solutions for each disability. by the Polish operator in co-operation with the Group Accessibility Department for staff. In 2011, vision-impaired tactile paving it was ■ From 29 June to 3 July: third communication and education for all conference. installed to make access for the visually impaired The France Telecom-Orange Accessibility Department and Orange Poland, the Group’s easier in the main brand stores. Very large stores Polish subsidiary, helped the Warsaw university organise an international conference on inaugurated since 2011 such as Lille, Reims and the opportunities provided by new technologies in respect of accessibility by disabled Marseilles… have this improved accessibility. people to information and education. The conference provided an opportunity to present the Group’s accessibility policy and the B-Link program developed by Orange Poland, open to every idea which enables browsing on websites and the use of applications such as WordPad, MS To constantly improve its offerings and respond Word and MS Outlook using a mouse or keyboard, both controlled by eye movement. to the new requirements of disabled people, This application – available in French, English and Polish – was awarded a gold medal France Telecom Orange applies an active policy at the Geneva 2010 International Exhibition of Inventions. of meetings and partnerships with specialist professionals, institutions and organisations. Specifically, the Group participates in: ■ the work of the Club accessibilité des grandes involving employees ensuring website accessibility entreprises (large corporations’ accessibility In France, nine regional accessibility representclub); atives – regional relays for the Group’s Accessibility Since 2005, the Group has been involved in a ■ international working groups on accessibility Department – coordinate the local fabric, support vast project to make its internal and external within the European Commission, the UIT and approved “Autonomy” shops, feed back needs websites accessible, in line with the international AFNOR; expressed by disabled customers, manage Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) standards. ■ meetings relating to the transposition of communications and lobby prescribers By the end of 2011, the training of the webthe European Directive of 25 November 2011 in (organisations, regional authorities and business masters has been continued and, on average, conjunction with the Comité interministeriel du people from the sector). the Group’s main websites met 70% of the handicap (inter-ministry disability committee), Presentations on accessibility are regularly delivrequirements for WAI AA classification, but had ARCEP and the Observatoire de l’accessibilité ered to Group teams. no critical issues. (accessibility research institute); In 2011, a variety of campaigns promoting the Several accessibility functions are already avail■ all the major exhibitions and conferences relatsharing of best communication practices well able, particularly on the homepages of orange.fr, ing to disability and dependency such as the run to encourage the use of common Group orange.com, the Orange Foundation blog, the U-Enabling Mobile Summit organised by the tools such as for example autonomy merchandcustomer space on orange.fr and the narrowGi3CT, a Conference at Warsaw university; key ising (vision-impaired tactile paving being band version of the customer space. major disability and dependency exhibitions deployed, signposting with five pictograms, Also, in partnership with Urbilog, France (e.g.: Handicalyon, Autonomic (Rennes, Nice)), over-labels...) particularly in Spain, Poland and Telecom Orange has developed OCAWA: a tool local events with disability players (associations, Slovakia. that automatically assesses the degree of elected representatives, general assemblies of Two e-learning modules have been developed to accessibility of websites and checks various associations and the Group…) providing user train sales forces (more than 6,000 sales staff levels of rules, such as the international WCAG feedback on products and services and helping trained) and marketing and Technocentre teams (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) and to stay in contact with innovation. (new module deployed in 2011). French RGAA (Référentiel général d’accessibilité pour les administrations – “general guidelines on accessibility for administrations”). A free restricted version has been made available on the Internet: www.ocawa.com Since 2010, Orange and Urbilog have been carrying out accessibility audits of websites of some of the Group’s customers and partners. In 2011, the audit of the main Group websites with a view to their accessibility was carried out. 108 main stages in the Group’s accessibility policy focus Internet easy 1993 2010 ■ Opening in Paris of the first Rainbow area ■ The Group received the gold medal at Orange France launched an specially organised to accommodate customers the Geneva 2010 International Exhibition of “easy Internet” option to with disabilities. Inventions for its B-Link project, an application discover the Internet in a simple way 2002 developed by Orange Labs Poland enabling in August 2011 for seniors that did ■ First edition of the “Solutions Handicap” catausers to control their computer by blinking their not want to miss the digital revolution. logue. eyes. With an intuitive interface on a USB 2003 2011 key, the senior can use his or her ■ Establishment of the Mission pour les clients ■ Launch of a seniors offer to assist them in the computer easily to send e-mails, surf handicapés du Groupe (“service for the Group’s digital revolution. the Internet or manage photographs. disabled customers”). ■ 9 June 2011 (France): launch of the French Dedicated advisers are also available 2004 Telecommunications Federation Charter in to answer any questions (a free call ■ Launch of a solution to make access to mobile favour of access to electronic communications from a landline on 0 800 18 51 49). telephony easier for blind and partially-sighted for the disabled with the signature of operators Specific communication campaigns people. SFR, Bouygues and Orange in the presence of (leaflet, film, rolling demo, participation ■ Establishment of a customer service dedicMrs Marie-Anne Montchamp, Junior Minister in senior exhibitions and events) and ated to solutions for disabled people that can be for Solidarities and representatives of the FFT training promote this option. reached by phone (freefone number 0 800 11 and the ARCEP. 22 33) or e-mail (agence.vad@francetelecom. ■ Launch of the Mélovibe service (differentiated com). vibrating melodies for the deaf and hard of hear2005 ing). ■ In partnership with Urbilog, Orange Lab ■ Project Reach 112 (reachability of the emerlaunched OCAWA (a tool to assess the accessgency services): piloting of a European pilot ibility of websites). project in France with the launch in May 2011 of 2006 the pilot phase involving 20 partners supporting ■ The Mission pour les clients handicapés du “Total Conversation” enabling people to comGroupe becomes the Group Accessibility municate with voice, French sign language and Department. in real time with more than 1,500 people ■ Launch of e-billing for partially-sighted people. requested for test in France including 20 ■ Launch of Voice Assistant, a service enabling Orange-France disabled staff. mobile phone functions to be vocalised. 2007 ■ First experiments with customer service accessible to deaf and hard-of-hearing customers through direct contact over the Internet focus using French sign language or text in real time. the Group’s digital accessibility standardisation and commitment 2008 ■ 7 April 2011: “digital accessibility to ITC” standardisation agreement. ■ Launch of an Autonomy offerings catalogue in AFNOR and it is “Digital accessibility standardisation” commission presided by Spain. Orange officially launched the agreement with members of the AFNOR commission and ■ The Group received the APAJH “Citizen many players in the disability sector (associations, businesses, university lecturers and Company” trophy awarded to companies with researchers). The main themes covered are: major principles and prejudices, equipment, over 5,000 employees who practise a global, software, access to content and online products and services. company-wide policy in favour of people with ■ February and August 2011: Orange took part in ISO/SC35 workshops on accessibility. disabilities. The Group’s Accessibility Department (DAG) led the French delegation for these 2009 international workshops on accessibility and particularly contributed to the work of the ISO ■ General roll-out of customer service accessible group on accessibility. The August seminar (50 experts and 20 countries) was organised over the Internet every Tuesday in French sign at the Orange Poland headquarters with the support of the Orange Labs team. language or text in real time. ■ In cooperation with the standardisation teams and experts from Orange Labs, the Group Accessibility Department promised to elaborate and encourage the adoption of standards on accessibility. Beyond the ISO/SC35 group, Orange is involved in the work of other standardisation groups such as the IUT, Gi3CT and ETSI-CENELEC “Human Factors” always with a view to innovating and integrating accessibility functions very early in a multi-device world (mobile handsets, fixed handsets, tablets, TVs…). 109 an accessible world 2011 review deadline achievements accessibility for the elderly or disabled In the eight main 2010-2012 ■ Orange France: a range of “Autonomy offerings” (two catalogues per year landline, mobile, Internet; European countries and paper and electronic version, audio CD and voice accessible version for vision solutions with renewal at least in two developing and extension of the range of products (for example, the Doro 610 handset in the mobile range) and countries, continue the launch of the easy Internet option on PC, new version of the Voice Assistant, the Mélovibe application deployment of a range and two new Motamo/Motamo Max Price offerings for hearing deficient people. Deployment of a new of offers suited and accessibility test process in the selection of handsets, training (6,000 people trained and the dedicated to commercial development of new accessibility training tools (e-learning). Communication campaigns (conferences/ communication tools. local or national exhibitions such as Autonomic Rennes, Nice, Handicalyon, information on sites, relationships with associations and creation of multiple supports) . ■ Orange Reunion and Orange Caraibes: Voice Assistant launched. ■ Orange Romania: ZTE mobile handset launched with a price plan for seniors. ■ Orange Spain: a catalogue of accessible solutions launched. ■ Orange Poland: various events such as the Accessibility Day, university conferences, standardisation workshop. Launch a Web 2010-2012 ■ Vast audit programme of site accessibility (50 audits carried out in a number of countries); accessibility policy in the eight countries (FR+EME): portal, e-care, online store; for each site, a sample page test in these countries. concerning compliance with WCAG 1.0 rule specifications; training in the different countries with the support of the Group Accessibility and Ergonomy centre of expertise to develop Web accessibility skills on the Group’s footprint. At the end of 2011, the Group’s main websites met on average 70% of the requirements of the WAI AA label with no blocking points. Put in place suitable 2010-2012 ■ Orange France: 231 branded stores, a dedicated orange.fr website and autonomy page, a freephone physical and remote number accessible to the deaf, hearing impaired and those with speaking difficulties via the Internet distribution channels in real time (T140; choice of written dialogue mode, video, sign language). in these countries. ■ Egypt (Mobinil): specific pricing for the deaf and the hearing impaired for commercialisation. ■ Orange Spain: commercialisation in 18 stores in the own network of the first catalogue. These offers will be available on its site. ■ In other countries, channels are being put in place in relation to the emergence of offers and are being adapted according to the social and regulatory context and strategic maintenance decisions to withdraw or develop the Group’s presence in these countries. 2012 roadmap deadline Continue, in the eight main European countries and at least in two developing countries, the deployment of a range of offers suited 2012 and dedicated to commercial communication tools: ■ continue to select a range of handsets and expand the range (50 suitable products that changed twice a year and tests by the CDC for selection (France); ■ offers for the elderly or disabled in Egypt; ■ at least four senior or disabled-approved mobile handsets in the range for each country in Europe; ■ paper catalogue offers (Spain), conferences/exhibitions (Poland), transfer of commercial and autonomy merchandising communication tools; ■ continue the process of integrating accessibility into offers being developed for the Group and the development of new products that respond to the needs of senior users such as assistance solutions for multi-device users using interfaces adapted to seniors with a view to easy Internet personalised support and suitable applications as well as interfaces simplified for seniors. Launch a Web accessibility policy in these countries: 2012 ■ continued improvement in website accessibility with one audit per year of the main websites in Europe with recommendations and support for local teams. Put in place suitable physical and remote distribution channels in these countries: 2012 ■ in France, develop a suitable distribution network (branded stores, freephone number and an autonomy page on the orange.fr website. Supplement the system by developing a 1014 customer relay for seniors particularly and support for the easy Internet; ■ develop access to offers in European countries through channels coupled to offers related to these countries. 110 meeting healthcare challenges the Group’s approach For more than ten years, France Telecom-Orange has been developing dedicated solutions to meet challenges in the area of healthcare: – better coordinated care and improved comfort for the ill; – helping elderly and dependent persons to continue to live at home; – remote monitoring of patients suffering from chronic illnesses; – offerings meeting the specific issues of emerging countries in respect of health; – services to improve day-to-day preventive healthcare among local populations. Since 2007, these offerings have been deployed by a dedicated e-Health division: Orange Healthcare. moving towards a connected For example, Solution Résidence Seniors is a cations and thereby delay their entry into dialyhealthcare system comprehensive service offering for care homes sis. housing dependent people. It helps to improve Communication solutions make it possible to the comfort and peace of mind of both residents For further information: consult the e-Health meet the major challenges of the health ecoand care workers through a wide range of combrochure on www.orange.com/healthcare system: the ageing population, explosion of costs municating equipment: linked to the treatment of chronic illnesses ■ bracelets with a location system that is trigand the imperative need for cost reduction. gered when a resident enters a non-authorised Communication solutions place patients at the area; heart of the healthcare system by giving them ■ fall-prevention pendants with a push-button innovative solutions at each stage of their treatthat enable residents in the home to call for help; ment. ■ security systems in rooms that enable residents to contact the care workers, who can then better coordinated care, increased comfort talk to the resident in question to find out the focus for patients purpose of the call; a new home emergency Remote consultation solutions developed ■ a lone worker protection system enabling care service in Madagascar particularly for nursing homes give healthcare workers equipped with a phone or pager to trigprofessionals simple, secure methods of collabger a request for assistance at any time (call Orange Madagascar has joined orating and exchanging information, even in rural button on the handset or automatic alarm). forces with Assistance Plus, or isolated practices. Madagascar’s leading provider of In major healthcare establishments, Connected supporting the remote monitoring of patients support services, to create Medical Hospital simultaneously improves patient suffering from chronic illnesses 315, a service dealing with medical comfort and care quality. Using the multimedia Orange has developed innovative solutions to emergencies in the home, and handsets provided, patients can access enterremotely monitor patients suffering from chronic available 24/7. It is available to the tainment services and medical personnel illnesses (cardio-vascular disease, diabetes, kidpopulation of Antananarivo and its through a secure system for the exchanging and ney failure, etc.): surroundings, and will shortly be consultation of medical data. This interactive ■ for people suffering from heart rhythm probextended to the province. To use solution is being adopted in an increasing numlems and those with implanted heart defibrillaMedical 315, Orange customers just ber of hospitals in France and is also being used tors, a remote monitoring offering has been call 315, and customers of other in Poland and Mauritius. Connected Hospital being developed since 2009 in partnership with operators, 032 32 32 315. Calls are has recently been supplemented with new serSorin Group, the leader in the treatment of carhandled as quickly as possible vices to improve patient care and comfort: a dio-vascular disease; by Assistance Plus, which will send new multimedia handset developed by Philips ■ for people suffering from diabetes, a strategic an emergency doctor and medical and a WiFi trackability system that helps to agreement has been signed in Spain with Sanofi vehicle to the patient’s home in under locate medical equipment and monitor biomed(see insert); thirty minutes. Medical 315 is the first ical products. ■ for people suffering from kidney failure, Orange medical assistance offering to has developed a remote monitoring system in incorporate payment by mobile via improving care for elderly and dependent persons partnership with Grenoble university hospital a subscription. To subscribe to the Orange Healthcare has introduced a global and the Calydial and Agduc community dialysis service, one needs to be an Orange offering of home help services aimed at the centres (Grenoble). Digital touchpads suitable for Money customer. Subscribers to the dependent elderly, home care professionals and elderly people are installed in patients’ homes, service receive a preferential rate for institutions. The offering has three aims: enabling them to answer precise questionnaires the medical treatment. This is part ■ to maintain social links and encourage comon their state of health and to receive appropriof Orange Madagascar’s initiative munication; ate medical advice. Illness and its development to support economic development ■ to make elderly people feel safe and reassure are monitored from day to day. The aim is to and healthcare in the country. their loved ones; prevent a deterioration in the patient’s state of ■ to facilitate the work of care workers. health in order to reduce the number of compli111 an accessible world contributing to the development and growth hospitals will be able to connect to these quar2010 of remote medicine in emerging countries terly exchanges. ■ Orange Healthcare joins the mHealth Alliance. Emerging countries often still lack hospital infra■ Signing of a partnership with AMADIA structures and care offerings. ■ In Côte d’Ivoire, Orange launched an inter(Association malgache contre le diabète – the Orange Healthcare has launched offerings in a active SMS service in 2011 (available also by Madagascan diabetes association) to facilitate number of African countries using information voice) enabling residents of Abidjan, Bouaké, the work of doctors through remote diagnosis. and communication technologies to: Yamoussoukro and other Côte d’Ivoire towns to ■ Orange Healthcare receives the Frost & ■ promote the better functioning of healthcare locate the nearest emergency chemist. They dial Sullivan Product Differentiation Excellence centres; 712, follow the instructions and receive the Award. ■ foster access to care by developing remote required answer by SMS. The service also pro■ Launch of Mobile and Badge, a service to medical services; vides information on the list of health insurance enable the tracking of work carried out in the ■ improve prevention and patient well-being. companies accepted by the chemist. homes of elderly people and providing invoicing and management services. ■ In Senegal, Sonatel launched a remote ■ In Mali, Mobile santé (“mobile health”) is an ■ Orange is the first telecommunications opermedical consultation solution in the hospital in application for transmitting medical and health ator to be approved as a personal health data Thiès, 92 km from Dakar, in November 2011. data launched in November 2011 within a host by the Ministry of Health and Sport. Healthpresence enables high-quality interaction partnership with Mali’s Agence nationale de ■ Launch of the “Region Without Film” project, between patients at the clinic at Tivaouane and télésanté et d’informatique médicale (“national medical imagery shared in the Paris region. their doctor in Thiès. If necessary, this doctor agency for remote healthcare and medical infor2011 can consult a specialist in Dakar. The solution mation technology”). Orange Mali provides the ■ Signing of an agreement between Orange provides doctors with a wide range of medical access for this service. By enabling the health of Spain and Sanofi to develop a remote monitordata on patients: blood pressure, pulse rate, mothers and infants to be monitored, this project ing solution for patients with diabetes. blood sugar level, etc., and enables the remote is contributing towards the achievement of the ■ Launch of Healthpresence in Senegal. prescription of medication. Millennium Goals. ■ Launch in Madagascar with Assistance Plus of Medical 315, a home emergency medical ser■ In Kenya, Orange and mPedigree (an NGO) vice incorporating payment by mobile phone. launched a medication authentication service in main stages in the Group’s action ■ Launch with mPedigree of a medication October 2011 that is entirely free to users. In this in respect of healthcare authentication system in Kenya . country – where as many as 50% of sales can and dependency ■ The “Region Without Film” shared medical be counterfeit –, patients and medical personnel imagery solution received the 2011 Digital Green can verify the authenticity of their boxes of med2005 Growth Award and the Grand Jury Award in the ication by sending an SMS containing a code ■ Launch of the Hostonautes project enabling first Cloud Computing Awards. hidden under a scratch sticker. The answer tells children in hospital to remain in contact with their them if the medication is authentic or counterfeit, schools and families. and provides them with a telephone number by 2006 which they can contact the laboratory to report ■ Launch of the Columba bracelet enabling any counterfeits. Through this service, Orange is better monitoring of patients suffering from supporting Kenya’s public health policy in its aim Alzheimer’s. of fighting organised crime. 2007 ■ Establishment of Orange Healthcare, the ■ In Madagascar, Orange is collaborating with Group’s healthcare division. the Akbaraly Foundation on a remote oncology ■ Launch of the Connected Hospital offering. project supported by the Ministry for Public ■ Launch of the electronic innoculation record. Health to increase prevention and improve the 2008 accessibility and quality of treatment of gynaeco■ Experiments with the university clinic of logical cancers. Practically speaking, it enables Navarre on the use of mobiles to monitor people slides of specimens to be analysed remotely, with chronic illnesses. instead of having to send them by mail. This 2009 service is already operational on one site and will ■ The service to help people remain in their eventually be used in three screening centres homes – designed by Orange and tested in the connected with specialist institutes in Europe. It Cantal region – received the “Territoria d’Or” will improve patient care and treatment quality, award from the Observatoire national de and will also be used to train doctors in the most l’innovation publique (France’s public innovation remote areas of the island. Orange also provides research institute) in the “service to people” catAMADIA (Madagascar diabetes association) with egory. a high-definition videoconferencing service that ■ Signing of a collaboration agreement with enables Swiss and French specialists in diabetes Sorin Group to develop a remote monitoring to share their experience with Madagascan solution for patients with implanted heart defibrilmedical teams, a great help in improving the lators. treatment of diabetes on the island. Soon four ■ Launch of the third party payment service. 112 focus Orange receives an award for its shared medical imagery project The shared medical imagery solution developed by Orange is a highly secure pooled hosting platform for medical imagery and radiology information systems. It enables the virtualisation of physical X-rays (films) and slice imagery (scanner, MRI) whilst retaining access to the images, reports and history of the examinations carried out, and enables them to be exchanged securely between health professionals. This solution received the 2011 Digital Green Growth Award and the Grand Jury Award in the first Cloud Computing Awards. To date, Orange is the only telecommunications operator to meet the regulatory demands of the confidentiality decree, and to be approved to host personal health data by the French Ministry of Health and Sport. The healthcare cooperation group for the development of pooled health information systems in Île-de-France region (GCS D-SISIF) has chosen shared medical imagery for its “Region Without Film”. Financed as part of the “Hôpital 2012” plan in Île-de-France region, the aim of the service is to support 30 establishments by the end of 2012. Almost 3 million radiological examinations are performed every year in Île-de-France region, a figure that is constantly on the rise. focus Spain: new strategic partnership to monitor diabetic patients In 2011, Orange Spain and Sanofi signed a strategic agreement to establish a remote monitoring system for patients with diabetes. This innovative solution, named “DiabeTIC”, is a genuine advance not only in the quality of life of patients but also in facilitating the work of healthcare professionals through the use of bi-directional communication tools available both in the home (on a PC) and on the move. Patients and care workers can exchange medical data, communicate by instant messaging, access documentary resources, raise alerts or use callbacks, etc. – all on a daily basis. Patients are monitored regularly and receive appropriate treatment, without having to go to the hospital each time. This solution is based on a platform developed three years ago by Orange Spain to improve the remote monitoring of patients suffering from chronic illnesses. 113 an accessible world inventing new ways of accessing education and culture the Group’s approach To enable the greatest number possible to access online resources for training, information and exposure to culture, France Telecom Orange is endeavouring to: – help educational and cultural institutions to acquire digital equipment through preferential offers; – develop innovative solutions and new uses in the fields of education and culture; – encourage the adoption of digital technology by fostering the discovery of new uses, particularly by people with learning difficulties. The Group’s involvement in these areas is also illustrated in a philanthropic sense by actions undertaken by the Orange Foundation (see p. 116 to 119). innovative tools at the service ■ In France, the Group launched a specific “Rural ■ In Poland, the “Education with Orange Poland of education digital schools” offering in 2009 to support the Internet” programme initially introduced in 2004 government’s programme to provide 5,000 rural continues to help in equipping schools with digital A great number of ICT-based applications have schools with digital equipment. As well as techresources. The programme provides Internet already been absorbed into the daily lives of parnical equipment and software, the solution access at special rates to over 14,500 schools and ents, pupils and the educational community. offered by Orange includes high added-value 4.5 million pupils. Orange Poland has also proBesides developing access and technical solutions: vided Internet access to 3,200 municipal libraries. solutions, Orange endeavours to help schools to – training suited to teachers’ requirements – both find out about new uses available to them by e-learning and “live”, with a trainer in the class■ In Slovakia, Orange created an educational raising awareness of safe and responsible uses room; portal devoted to the school environment (www. among teachers, pupils and their families (see – close support provided by the Group’s local oskole.sk) with the intention of supporting the p. 91 to 93). support and maintenance units; development and growth of digital uses in teach– easy-to-use digital tools; ing. Orange has also undertaken a number of ■ Since 2007, Espaces numériques de travail – high performance, secure digital equipment operations in schools with the assistance of (ENT – “digital workspaces”), created with the suited to the existing network. specialist psychologists (see p. 92). Group, have helped to provide the same opportunities to all, in complete safety, and have brought parents, teachers and pupils together. Digital workspaces are online service platforms that facilitate communications between teachers, administrative staff, school heads, parents and focus pupils. digital tablets, a new resource in the service of education Orange’s digital workspace provides benefits for Tablets have a number of innovative uses in education. More fun and easier to use than all. It facilitates exchanges and encourages cola PC, they also help to lighten the weight a pupil has to carry. That is why Orange has laborative work between teaching establishlaunched a number of tests on the use of tablets in education: ments. It helps to ease increasingly voluminous ■ in 2011, in partnership with the regional centre for educational documentation of the and complex technical and administrative tasks Académie de Paris, Orange provided its Read and Go service – the first French language such as managing and planning school life. It digital multi-content reading service (newspapers, magazines and books) on digital tablets, links parents more closely with their children’s in classes at the Gustave-Ferrié and François-Villon secondary schools (10th and 14th school life by providing immediate information on arrondissements respectively). homework, grades, meetings with teachers and ■ another project is under way in middle schools in partnership with county councils of absences. It uses information and communicadépartements 80, 78 and 95. Two middle schools per council are involved, and two classes tion technologies (ICT) to help support education per school (one in a densely populated area and one in a sparsely populated area); and the pupil. ■ Orange is also taking part in an experiment on the use of tablets in primary schools in the city of Puy-en-Velay. videoconferencing in schools The town council of Hoenheim, in Alsace, has provided a primary school with a broadband link for videoconferencing between the schools in the commune and twinned schools in Germany and Belgium. Videoconferencing means that the school in Hoenheim and those in Germany and Belgium can be constantly linked. These communications help to make pupils aware of life in Europe and the variety and differences in their lessons, and make it easier for them to forget difficulties of language, distance, borders. 114 ■ In Jordan, Orange launched an ambitious new strategy in 2010 to increase accessibility by the focus population to ICTs, with a specific section on Versailles “live” in the classroom! supporting education. The Orange Broadband Fund aims to increase the penetration of the Since the summer of 2011, pupils in 170 classes at schools in Yvelines, Oise, NordInternet in regions outside the capital and is lookPas-de-Calais and Marne départements have been testing a new interactive system ing to achieve three outcomes: raising awareenabling them to “visit” the gardens and palace of Versailles. ness among the population as to the importance By connecting to a collaborative online platform from their classroom, pupils and their of the Internet for learning and productivity, teachers are able to follow (via an interactive digital image or video projector) a live visit improving access to the Internet, and helping it to the palace led by a lecturer from the national museums. to become a training resource. Specifically, the Webcams film the session, and the lecturer and class communicate with each other in fund will supply an Orange ADSL connection and a varied programme (the construction of the palace, the gardens, the King’s day etc.). the necessary infrastructure and equipment to The lecturer, who operates cameras installed in the main areas of the Versailles estate, 500 schools across the country. can also enrich and supplement the presentation with video and/or music extracts. Initiated by Versailles with the support of the Ministry of Culture, this novel technological innovation is possible thanks to a video conferencing system developed by Anotherworld new ways of accessing culture and installed by Orange. Undertaken in collaboration with partner education authorities, this experiment is an educational first for a cultural establishment. It opens up perspectives Digital technology can also contribute a great in a number of fields – tourism, culture, medicine, etc. – and also in the search for deal to public mediation and social links. France solutions to facilitate access to culture and heritage by people with reduced mobility Telecom Orange has formed a number of partand those far away from museums. nerships with prestigious institutions to develop joint projects such as “VersaillesLab”, the “Communauté Louvre” (a collaborative Web platform based on the riches of the Louvre) and the Louvre’s “Galerie Tactile”. In 2009, the Group also signed a new six-year partnership with the Louvre-Lens, whose opening is scheduled for main stages of the Group’s action the end of 2012. Orange will help to integrate to integrate ICTs into education and new technologies into the Louvre-Lens in order culture to enrich access to, and discovery of, the museum by visitors. 2003 2008 ■ Launch of the Jordan Education Initiative. ■ Inauguration of the virtual museum on the In Poland, the concept of the “virtual museum” 2004 Warsaw Uprising. as envisaged by the Orange Foundation has ■ Launch in Poland of the “Education with ■ Introduction of webcams to enable virtual visits brought together a number of specialists, historOrange Poland Internet” programme to increase to the gardens of Versailles and the royal chapel. ians and IT engineers with one aim: to create a the use of ICTs in primary and secondary 2009 virtual exhibition on the Warsaw Uprising for schools and colleges. ■ Launch in France of the “Rural digital schools” Internet visitors across the planet. An initiative 2007 offering. aimed particularly at children, the “virtual ■ Introduction of virtual visits to certain parts of ■ Signing of a partnership with the Louvre-Lens. museum” is an excellent educational tool for the Palace of Versailles that are closed to the ■ Launch of the “VersaillesLab” project to enable teaching yesterday’s history using modern methpublic, using a robot with a camera that can be an interactive visit to the gardens of Versailles. ods. The Orange Foundation is also behind the remotely controlled by Internet spaces. 2010 “Orange Academy” programme, which aims to ■ Introduction of digital workspaces. ■ Launch of the Orange Academy in Poland. promote innovative activities to provide educaDigital workspaces are online service platforms ■ Launch of the “Wontanara” programme in tion in culture for children and teenagers. that facilitate communications between teachGuinea. ers, administrative staff, school heads, parents ■ Launch of the Louvre Community. and pupils. 2011 Digital workspaces provide a single secure entry ■ Launch of experiments on the use of digital point to the various populations of communities tablets in primary, middle and secondary schools. and colleges, and parents and pupils. 115 an accessible world Foundation, sponsorship: we all need to live together the Group’s approach The Foundation is the core component of the France Telecom Group sponsorship policy, which is one aspect of its extended corporate social responsibility policy. The Orange Foundation is active in four fields: health (with a historic commitment to the cause of autism), education, and assisting people to enter the job market and access culture. We believe that digital technology helps to create social links and in many countries, this cohesion comes through improving the situation of women. The Orange Foundation and the Group’s employees are active in over 30 countries to create more interdependence and help people to communicate better. transparent operation ■ In Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the main healthcare and disability projects areas of action are healthcare and education, Conscious of the need to set an example and more specifically providing schools and helping The cause of autism has been the historic focus ensure that its decisions are fully transparent, the girls to remain at school. of the Foundation’s support for over twenty Foundation has set up expert committees for ■ In Europe, the Foundation works to improve life years. But it also provides assistance for other each of its focus areas. These committees meet for people suffering from autism and people with sensory disabilities: deafness and blindness. In two to four times a year to assess the projects sensory disabilities. The Foundation also works some parts of the world and particularly in submitted. The committees consist of individuals to foster social inclusion through projects in Africa, it is also financing programmes to enable selected for their skills in the field concerned. A healthcare, education and access to culture, people to access basic healthcare. total of over 25 people work alongside the particularly collective vocal music. Foundation’s team. All projects selected for historic support for autism sponsorship are subject to an agreement, monThe Orange Foundation also participates in The Orange Foundation has been working with itoring and an appraisal. solidarity projects in emergency situations. In parent associations since 1991 to put different Equivalent structures exist on the international 2011 in Kenya, Telkom Kenya and the Orange players in touch with one another, encourage the front – the operator either chooses to undertake Foundation collaborated for the second consecrecognition of this disability by the public authorlocal sponsorship actions or sets up a local founutive year in combating food insecurity. Over ities, and raise awareness among the general dation. 350 tonnes of food were distributed. public. In twenty years, the Foundation has contributed financially to over 1,700 projects helping The Orange Foundation works in close collabto improve the lives of autistic people and their sponsorship by a global operator oration with the Group’s subsidiaries in each families. In 2011, four new calls for projects were country and in partnership with non-governmenlaunched, each on a specific theme: structures Since 2005, the Orange Foundation has been tal and other organisations to secure a successful – help for caregivers – research – leisure. Of the providing sponsorship in Africa, Europe, the outcome to projects. 226 applications received, 99 were selected and Middle East and Asia. It supports projects in With the launch of a new Foundation in Armenia were financed out of a total budget of 1.3 million 30 countries in which the France Telecomin April 2011, the Group now has a network of euros. Orange Group is present. 13 foundations including France, Spain, Mali, The Orange Foundation also extends its involveInternationally, sponsorship is divided into four Côte d’Ivoire, Cameroon, Slovakia, Poland, the ment to the development of digital resources for areas of action: health and disability, education, Republic of Moldova, the Dominican Republic, autistic families, for example the “Participate!” and helping people to enter the job market and Madagascar and Niger. information and communication platform for access culture, and is tailored to suit the ecofamilies in Belgium, and educational IT tools in nomic and social situation of the country. Spain. breakdown of sponsorship expenditure throughout the world in France by area of operation France Africa and vocal music 28% Middle East 40% 40% social links 40% Europe and Dominican Republic 32% autism 25% 116 The Foundation is also stepping up its recruithealthcare programme in Africa a few examples ment of volunteers to provide personalised In many countries in Africa, the Orange back-up support to families through the organFoundation is involved in programmes to education for girls isation Volontaires pour les personnes avec improve access to healthcare for local popula■ In Egypt, 320 women aged 15 to 45 received autisme (“volunteers for people with autism”). tions and improve mother and child healthcare. primary level education. Established in 1992 as part of a sponsorship drive by France Telecom and the Foundation to a few examples ■ In India, 70 disadvantaged young girls aged support people with autism and their families, between 15 and 22 (including 30 who suffer this organisation now has over 80 volunteers. ■ for the third consecutive year in Côte d’Ivoire, from autism) received professional training in arts the Orange Côte d’Ivoire Telecom Foundation is and crafts at the Shankara Special School. For more information: supporting free ophthalmological screening days see the Orange Foundation blog for over 8,000 people. In parallel, 28 maternity ■ In Kenya, the Telkom Kenya subsidiary has (www.blogfondation.orange.com) hospitals and health centres have been renoembarked on a five-year programme to provide vated and equipped in the past four years; schooling for girls of nomadic Pokot populadigital projects for sensory disabilities ■ in Mali, the Foundation is helping to eradicate tions. In 2011, in parallel with the calls for solidarityobstetric fistula, and financed 50 surgical kits in type projects from employees that may relate to 2010; ■ In Guinea-Conakry, the “School, a friend to sensory disabilities, the Foundation chose to take ■ in Senegal, thousands of impregnated mosgirls” project is improving the quality of teaching action on two causes at national level: quito nets have been distributed in the most in rural areas and increasing attendance rates in vulnerable areas. 50 schools. ■ audio-description in cinemas Having supported operas and theatres in putting access to digital technology on shows with audio-description for several educational projects encouraging ■ In Moldova, the Orange Foundation finances years running, the Foundation decided to prosocial and professional integration IT rooms for disabled children. mote the development of audio-description at the cinema, which will impact a larger audience, Enabling everyone to communicate better is ■ In Slovakia, a call for “Green for Seniors” prothe cinema being a favourite cultural venue for all. enabling access to everything that integrates jects is helping elderly people to integrate into Do achieve this, the Foundation is supporting the people into society. It also involves understandthe digital society. activities of the Valentin Haüy Association (AVH) ing the issues involved and helping to change to help develop audio-description in France. them. The Orange Foundation sees access to ■ In the Dominican Republic, IT rooms have In 2011, the Foundation provided a sum of education, culture and the discovery of the digibeen installed in a large number of orphanages. 75,000 euros to finance the audio-description of tal world as priorities in terms of social integra15 films. Also, given the difficulties signalled by tion. AVH in penetrating the world of cinema and obtaining the agreement of producers and direceducation for girls tors, the Foundation linked up with Studio 37 so More than 77 million children around the world that films co-produced or co-financed by Studio are deprived of the right to education. In develfocus 37 could be audio-described by AVH as far oping countries particularly, for economic and To celebrate its twenty years upstream of the mastering process as possible. cultural reasons, girls usually have to overcome of support for the cause of greater obstacles than boys to go to school and autism in France, the Orange ■ developing the talking book in France complete their education. Foundation ran a large-scale For the visually-impaired, talking or audio-books The Foundation actively contributes to educating advertising campaign with a TV and provide valued access to written texts. At the girls from the very beginning of their school cinema film, a poster and media moment, only 1.5% of written literature is pubcareers and to helping girls to stay at school campaign and action outside the lished in an audio version and the Daisy, Braille or beyond Year 4 through long-term projects run by media such as a travelling exhibition audio-book offering remains limited. various organisations. at symposia and conferences: the Always anxious to encourage access to culture by access to culture and to the heritage the greatest number possible, the Orange helping people to enter the job market holdings for people with reduced Foundation is supporting the development of talkThe Orange Foundation is currently providing mobility and remote from museums. ing books through a number of actions. In 2011, financial support to training programmes for for the third year running, the Foundation financed female micro-entrepreneurs in Africa. the awards ceremony of the “Lire dans le noir” (“reading in the dark”) Prize for talking books, and The aim of the “Microfinance and Women” prothe production by AVH of Daisy audio versions of gramme in Cameroon, Egypt and the Central the six finalists’ books in the running for the African Republic is to increase the social and Orange Book Prize. economic power of women by encouraging their The Foundation also produced an online portal entrepreneurial spirit. devoted to talking books and their distribution, The “Microfinance, Craft and Fair Trade” prowhich is fully accessible to visually-impaired peogramme in Madagascar and Morocco has been ple, with audio browsing and a user-friendly set up to improve the socio-economic situation service. The site aims to be a true platform of of women and self-employed craftsmen by information and news, gathering together organestablishing a network for marketing their prodisations and publishers involved in extending the ucts. reach of French-language talking books. 117 an accessible world access to culture involved employees sponsorship and calls for internal solidarity-type projects A world accessible to all, also means access to Employees of the France Telecom-Orange Since 2005, employees have been able to link culture by people who are excluded from it. The Group are core to the company’s sponsorship their personal commitment with that of the comFoundation gives priority to the creation of senseffort, undertaking voluntary work, sponsoring pany by proposing to the Foundation projects ory routes in museums and historic monuments, projects and joint activities for humanitarian run by an organisation in which they are involved the production of works suited to a hearingor causes, and carrying out skills mentoring. on a voluntary basis. visually-impaired audience and equipping theaAs an extension to this sponsorship scheme, the tres or opera houses with audio-description Orange digital solidarity Orange Foundation launched an exclusively equipment. These days, it is vital for both our social and internal call for solidarity-type projects in business lives to know how to operate digital September 2010, enabling employees and pena few examples tools, in the same way as it is vital to be able to sioners of the Group in France to submit proread, write, or drive. Launched in 2010, the posals for solidarity-type projects in the fields ■ In Africa (Mali, Niger, Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal), Orange digital solidarity programme aims to of social inclusion or access to culture. After works have been produced in Braille or raised letreduce the digital divide by supporting people the first call for projects launched in 2010, two ters to make them accessible to the visuallyexcluded from the digital world towards others were launched in 2011, with great sucimpaired. increased autonomy in the use of these comcess: 519 employees submitted projects, and munication tools and in understanding what they almost 200 projects have been supported. ■ The Orange Foundation partners a number of can contribute to everyday life. The programme socio-educational projects such as the Festival de consists of two sections: a call for projects to skills sponsorship Clairvaux (writing workshops and musical creation help the Foundation’s partner organisations in A long-term skills sponsorship policy has been with offenders), Music’O Senior (concerts for their digital projects, and introductory and beginset up as part of the seniors plan proposed in elderly people in retirement homes) and Concerts ners’ workshops for people who are excluded France. Employees of the company are made de Poche (concerts in difficult-to-access suburbs from those projects, tapping into the skills of a available to organisations to which they contriband rural areas). The Orange Foundation has large number of Orange employees in this field. ute skills acquired during their career. joined forces with the Paris and Lille Operas to One year after its introduction, this programme By the end of 2011, over 80 French employees popularise operatic art by rebroadcasting it live in has already enabled the holding of over with a wide variety of profiles had carried out cinemas and outdoor venues. 500 workshops at 30 sites in France thanks to long missions (from one to three years) for the involvement of over 2,000 volunteer employorganisations they had chosen. The Red Cross, ■ One of the aims of the Orange Foundation in ees. The workshops primarily benefited two the Valentin Haüy Association, Secours Moldova is to facilitate access to culture for chilorganisations: Force Femmes (almost 200 workPopulaire (help the poor), Habitat et Humanisme dren. Together with the Moldovan National Opera shops) and the Secours populaire (144 work(housing environment and humanism), and other and the Vatra Association, the Foundation has shops). more local organisations have all benefited from launched a strategic partnership to promote the Following the most recent call for projects, this scheme. company’s cultural and artistic values. This pro66 have received financial and physical support. gramme is supported by the Ministry for Culture of the Republic of Moldova. ■ In Spain, the Orange Foundation promotes access to culture for people with visual or hearing impairments using the sign-guide service and technical adaptations in 20 museums in Spain. The “Accessible Museums” programme also offers tactile visits to the Sephardic Museum in Toledo for visually-impaired people. 118 employee involvement in skills sponsorship key dates relating to the Group’s Volunteer employees of the Group step up to the sponsorship policy focus mark to help in a wide range of circumstances, In collaboration with the both in France and abroad. 1987 Orange Foundation and NGO ■ Establishment of the France Telecom Aide et Action, Orange Niger a few examples Foundation with two focus areas: vocal music is running a vast sponsorship and gymnastics. programme named “Girls at school”. ■ In Armenia, for the 12 th consecutive year, 1990 This project helps to combat poverty Orange partnered the Fonds Arménien de ■ Sponsorship “Oscar” (Admical). by promoting education for girls. France in its Phonethon campaign, which ran ■ First “Night of the Voice” at the Théatre des The results are encouraging: from 17 to 20 November. Funds raised by the Champs-Élysées, attended by 1,200 people. enrolment of girls in schools rose Phonethon help to finance projects to improve 1991 from 46 in 2007-2008 to nearly agricultural production in the Tavush region and ■ Commitment to helping people suffering from 450 following the establishment bring potable water to the villages of Karabagh. autism and their families. of the project. Orange provided the Fonds Arménien de France ■ Creation of the organisation volontaires pour with 600 volunteers in four of its call centres les personnes avec autisme (“volunteers for peo(Cachan, Lyon, Marseilles and Toulouse) to conple with autism”), made up of volunteer employtact over 50,000 families and businesses in ees from the Group. France. These centres are equipped with the 1995 communications and IT resources necessary ■ Community “Oscar” (Admical). to support the phone campaign of the Fonds 2001 Arménien de France with the assistance of ■ First Autism Days organised in partnership Orange technical experts. with parent associations. 2002 ■ In Côte d’Ivoire, employees sponsor rural ■ Phoenix Award from the UDA (French advertisschools and distribute school supplies. ers’ association). 2005 ■ In Egypt, volunteer employees give personal ■ Four new areas of commitment: healthcare, development courses to university students in visual and hearing impairment, education, comtheir own time. bating illiteracy and education for girls in developing countries. ■ In Poland, volunteer employees are active in ■ Introduction of international sponsorship. children’s hospitals, where they organise and run 2007 reading corners. ■ Twenty years of commitment... The France Telecom Foundation becomes the Orange Foundation. 2010 ■ Launch of the Orange solidarité numérique (Orange digital solidarity) programme. 2011 ■ Twenty years supporting the cause of autism. Launch of two new calls for solidarity-type projects 2012. 119 towards a greener world a better control of our impacts In a world with limited natural resources, companies will only be able to ensure their long-term success by controlling their energy consumption and reducing the environmental impact of the life cycle of their products and services. For Orange, it is obvious – long-term success is only possible if we better control our impact on the environment. 121 an ambitious environmental policy 134 optimising waste management 124 reducing the Group’s carbon footprint 138 reducing impacts linked to products and services 131 preserving biodiversity 141 contributing to the growth of the eco-citizenship 120 an ambitious environmental policy the Group’s approach France Telecom-Orange has adopted a proactive approach to managing risks and their potential impact, helping to preserve the environment and maintaining the trust of its stakeholders. For the period 2006-2020, the Group has set ambitious objectives: – reducing CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 (as against 2006); – reducing energy consumption by 15% by 2020 (as against 2006); – providing 25% of energy from solar sources for new mobile stations in the Africa, Middle East and Asia zone by 2015; – raising the awareness of all employees of environmental issues by carrying out “green gesture” campaigns in the different countries; – ensuring that the entire Group complies with the RoHS Directive on substances of concern(1) by 2015. a structured approach an environmental management a Group reference framework system helping to reduce To facilitate the deployment of the EMS and assess An environmental roadmap updated annually environmental impact its performance, the Group has developed a formalises action plans to be carried out by each reference framework and provides methodocountry to achieve the Group’s environmental In order to reduce environmental risks and logical support to the project managers responobjectives. impact, the Group is progressively introducing sible for its implementation in each country. This This roadmap ensures compliance with interEnvironment Management Systems (EMS) in its reference framework consists of: national standards and voluntary telecommunimain countries in accordance with the ISO ■ a phased implementation methodology specations sector initiatives. It also includes adher14001 reference document. This internationally cifically designed to manage this type of project; ence to the commitments made by the Group in recognised standard describes the manner in ■ Group processes and tools for key areas such the context of: which companies must be organised to manage as risk and impact assessment or the manage■ the UN Global Compact and Caring for Climate; the impact of their activities on the environment. ment of regulatory compliance; ■ and international groups such as the GeSI (Global ■ guides and checklists that enable detailed e-Sustainability Initiative) and ETNO (the Euroauditing of the EMS or its key components. pean Telecommunications Network Operators Two new countries (Mali and Moldova) commitAssociation). ted to the ISO 14001 process in 2011. 16 Group entities, accounting for 93% of the Group’s The environmental policy is managed by a dedicated organisation: ■ the Group Environment function, reporting to the Group CSR function, which coordinates and manfocus ages the action programme and provides technical increased vigilance in respect of chemical substances and methodological expertise to countries in respect of important issues such as waste, EMS, Compliance with environmental regulations is a fundamental requirement of France energy and raising employee awareness with the Telecom-Orange’s waste management policy. The Group is particularly careful to “green gestures” scheme; comply with two European directives relating to the regulation and restriction of chemical ■ a network of environment correspondents in the substances. countries in which the Group is established; ■ The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive ■ relays in the various functional and operating All products brought to market in Europe must comply with the RoHS Directive. A plan departments. of action has been defined to extend Group compliance with RoHS to 2016, including outside the European Union. ■ The European REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemicals) Regulation The Group is putting the relevant processes in place to provide information to its customers (1) Including in non-European Union countries that are not on the compliance of its products and services across Europe. A structured process was concerned by these directives. implemented in 2009 among the handset and network equipment suppliers concerned to enable the Group to inform its customers whether or not the products it markets contain one of the 15 substances defined as being “of concern” in a concentration of over 0.1%. In 2011, France Telecom-Orange coordinated joint action undertaken with the other operators within the French telecoms federation to notify the various professional federations of equipment suppliers of demands concerning the clear and accessible communication of information on the possible presence of substances “of concern” in equipment marketed by the Group. 121 towards a greener world turnover, have now begun to establish an EMS 25% of the Group’s operation is ISO 14001 certified perimeter aligned with the ISO 14001 standard. ISO 14001-certified 30% Objectives are set every year to ensure that the A key performance indicator, 25.0% subsidiaries progressively factor in more key “proportion of EMS with ISO requirements of the ISO 14001 standard (see 14001 certification”, indicates the 16.8% 12.9% 13.9% 14.0% roadmap). relative size of the certified scope compared with the Group total. This figure has doubled in four years and has now reached 25% of the overall Group figure. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 objective 2012 performance KPI Entities having obtained ISO 14001 certification by the end of 2011 Subsidiary Scope In 2011, Orange Mali and Orange Moldova embarked on the process of establishing an EMS Orange France Five key processes and six priority sites according to the ISO 14001 standard, substanOrange Spain All mobile and real-estate activities tially increasing the percentage of the Group with Orange Poland Mobile activities certification (+47% as against 2010). An increase that is all the more remarkable as the scope of Orange Business Services Cesson-Sévigné site the Group was extended with the acquisition of Orange Slovakia All activities new subsidiaries (Iraq, Democratic Republic of Congo). The Group embarked on proactive action Mobinil (Egypt) All activities plans to continue to increase the proportion of its FT Marine All installations activities holding ISO 14001 certification, with an Orange Cameroon Head Office + 1 of the 3 regional directorates objective of 30% in 2012 and 60% in 2015 (see roadmap). Orange Mali Head Office, technical sites and 100% of shops Orange Moldova All activities Besides the entities appearing in the picture, Romania and Senegal fixed objectives of ISO certification 14001 for their main activities (certification waited for 2012). main stages in the Group’s environmental policy 1993 2000 2008 ■ Creation of an Environment Committee. ■ Signing of the United Nations Global Compact. ■ Campaign to raise awareness among employ■ Agreement between the Minister for Posts and 2001 ees of “green gestures” in eight countries (France, Telecommunications and the Minister for the ■ Launch of the EMS (environment management Spain, Slovakia, Romania, Switzerland, Jordan, Environment in respect of a concerted policy on system) deployment programme based on the Egypt, Côte d’Ivoire) and in Orange Business burying telephone lines (France). ISO 14001 standard within the operating entities Services. 1996 of France Telecom. 2009 ■ Signing of the ETNO Environmental Charter. ■ First ISO 14001 certifications for FT Marine ■ Questionnaire on the implementation of the 1998 and Mobinil (Egypt). REACH Directive distributed to all handset and ■ Establishment of the Group’s Environment 2002 network equipment suppliers concerned. Office. ■ Signing of a framework agreement with 2010 1999 ADEME (France). ■ ISO 14001 certification of Orange France (four key ■ Signing in France of the Mobile Telephony ■ Establishment of a reporting tool on environprocesses and four priority sites) and the Orange Charter to manage the deployment of mobile mental factors. Business Services’ site at Cesson-Sévigné. telephony networks so as to cause minimal dis■ Publication of the Group’s first environment 2011 ruption to lifestyle and heritage. report. ■ ISO 14001 certification of Orange Mali and ■ Environmental commitment approved by the 2006 Orange Moldova. Group’s Executive Committee. ■ First campaign to raise awareness among ■ Increase in number of Orange France activities employees of “green gestures” in France. with certification (two new priority sites and one key process). 122 2011 review deadline achievements REACH regulations on chemical substances Implement procedures across Europe to provide 2011 ■ In 2011, the Group piloted an initiative by the French telecoms adequate information for our customers (particularly federation to request suppliers of equipment marketed by businesses) in collaboration with our suppliers, in order operators to provide clear and accessible information on the to satisfy our obligations in terms of REACH. presence of any substances “of concern” in terms of the REACH Directive. environmental management Continued deployment of ISO 14000 EMS in the main 2011 ■ Extension of the ISO 14001 process to two new countries (Mali countries and organisations of the Group (Orange and Moldova) in 2011. The countries that have, or are working France, Orange Business Services, Spain, Poland, towards, ISO 14001 certification account for 93% of the Group’s Slovakia, Romania, Egypt, Belgium, Senegal, Côte turnover. d’Ivoire, Cameroon, Jordan, Mauritius, FT Marine)(1). ■ Realisation of environmental management reviews to assess Development of the EMS performance assessment: the effectiveness of the EMS in 11 of the 16 organisations involved organisation of managerial reviews to assess in the process (Orange France, FT Marine, Orange Business performance (reviews of departments as per ISO 14001) Services, Spain, Poland for its mobile activities, Slovakia, Egypt, in at least two/third of the organisations mentioned Senegal, Mauritius, Moldova and Mali). above. Organisational: in our 2011 commitments, this has been replaced by FT Marine. Continue the deployment of ISO 14001 certification 2011-2012 ■ A rise from 17% to 25% in the main indicator “Extent of on sites with significant environmental impact. operations with ISO 14001 certification”. Maintain existing certification in Spain, Poland, Slovakia ■ Renewal of ISO 14001 certification for Orange Business Services, and Egypt, and for FT Marine. Orange Spain, Centertel (mobile activities in Poland), Mobinil Extend certification in France (Orange France and (Egypt), Orange Slovakia and FT Marine. Orange Business Services). Orange France: certification of two new sites and one new core Obtain ISO 14001 certification for three other major business process (production of environmental equipment), Orange Business Services websites (one in France, bringing the number of sites with certification to six, and the two outside France). number of key processes to five. Obtain initial ISO 14001 certification in new countries: ■ Orange Mali: obtaining of ISO 14001 certification for its head Romania (March 2012) and Senegal (February 2012). office, its technical sites and all its shops. ■ ISO 14001 certification for Orange Moldova for all its activities. (1) The United Kingdom left our organisation at the end of 2009. 2012 roadmap deadline continued deployment of ISO 14000 EMS in the main countries and organisations of the Group ■ Present new countries involved in the EMS process for ISO 14001 certification and extend the scope of the countries that are 2012-2013 already certified. ■ Initiate an ISO 14001 process for the new building that will accommodate the Group’s head office in 2012. continue the deployment of ISO 14001 certification on sites with significant environmental impact ■ Drive action plans in the period 2012-2015 to increase the rate of ISO 14001 certification to meet the following milestones: 2012-2015 end 2012: 30%; end 2013: 40%; end 2014: 50%; end 2015: 60%. ■ In 2012, undertake the following actions: – continue to extend certification of Orange France sites to cover new processes and major sites; – present Orange Business Service’s main Paris site and its Egyptian site in Cairo for ISO 14001 certification; – roll out Orange Spain’s ISO 14001 certification to fixed line activities to achieve total certification by the end of 2012; – present Orange Senegal’s technical function for certification in spring 2012; – present the Orange Romania’s technical function for certification in autumn 2012. 123 towards a greener world reducing the Group’s carbon footprint the Group’s approach Faced with the issue of climate change, France Telecom-Orange has made a proactive commitment: to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and its energy consumption by 15% against 2006 levels, both by 2020: a real challenge given the current growth in uses and the continuing increase in data traffic. To meet this challenge, the Group is implementing “energy” actions in every entity, focused on three complementary levers: – reducing the energy consumption of networks and buildings; – deploying solutions using sources of renewable energy to achieve its target of 25% solar-generated energy for the new technical base stations in the Africa zone by 2015; – reducing emissions caused by vehicles and employees’ business trips. To continue achieving these objectives, the Group has put in place key performance indicators that are monitored quarterly by the Executive Committee. The Group is also developing innovative solutions to enable its customers to measure and reduce their own carbon footprint (see p. 141-142). lower energy consumption optimised ventilation: 3,000 more sites The replacement of network equipment is also a by networks Optimising air-conditioning is the most effective source of substantial savings: in 2011, about lever for reducing energy consumption by net10,000 items of mobile network equipment were The networks and information systems, including works. Optimised ventilation also helps to reduce replaced by new generation, lower energy data processing centres, account for over 66% the energy consumption of the air-conditioning consumption equipment, saving a grand total of of the Group’s total energy consumption. system by up to 80% compared with a classic 22 GWh of energy(1). Since 2009, France Telecom-Orange has been system whilst at the same time eliminating refrigoperating a vast energy action plan called “Green erants, which are harmful to the environment. In ITN 2020” prioritising: 2007, this technology was awarded the Trophy ■ optimising air-conditioning; for clean and economic technologies by ADEME focus ■ optimising data processing centres; and the magazine Industrie et Technologies. By 2011: a year rich in ■ increasing the use of renewable energy; the end of 2011, it had been rolled out across achievements for Orange ■ improving monitoring of energy consumption. 14,500 technical sites in 18 countries. Dominicana By the end of 2011, this plan had been deployed more efficient data centres The Group’s subsidiary in the in 24 countries, which account for over 95% of Data centres (computer centres housing IT servers) Dominican Republic has been the energy consumed by technology within the account for 20% of the total energy consumption particularly active this year with Group. In three years, this network transformation of the Group’s networks and information system. regard to the plan to combat climate programme has already helped to save over The “Green data centres” project in progress change: 370 GWh (including 225 GWh of electricity saved since 2007 helps to reduce the energy con■ 95 solar sites installed, producing in 2011, i.e. over 87,000 tonnes of CO2 avoided, sumption of data centres by four types of action: 611 MWh of electricity, i.e. one including 22,000 linked to green energy purchases ■ improving the technical environment (choice of million!of litres of fuel saved and in Belgium). more efficient air-conditioning and electricity 2,726!tonnes of CO2 avoided; In 2011, a dedicated department was set up to supplies, optimisation of air circulation); ■ a new head office, Orange Torre, manage actions to reduce the energy consump■ replacing the oldest servers with servers that following best environmental practice: tion of network infrastructures in every country: have up to four times the processing capacity, 96 solar panels installed on the roof the EER (Energy & CO2 Emission Reduction) which will enable us to reduce their number; (an estimated saving of 100 kWh/day Programme function. It reports quarterly to the ■ rationalising information systems by limiting and 50 tonnes of CO2 avoided per Group’s Executive Committee. Its prime missions: the number of applications in use to a minimum year), LED lighting, latest generation ■ to give a detailed forecast of the Group’s energy and measuring the power consumed for each of air conditioning, etc. In 2012, another consumption and CO2 emissions by 2020; them by each user; phase of the project will see 140 “sun ■ to draw up a corrective action programme for ■ consolidating and virtualising servers, carried screen” panels installed on the facade all members of the Group in order to achieve the out as part of the Ecocenter programme, that of the building; 2020 objectives; enables several applications to be concentrated ■ the experiment with a hybrid wind/ ■ to accelerate – with the assistance of strategic on one physical server. solar system to power a radio site, suppliers – the changeover from “energy guzBy 2011, over 16,000 virtualised servers were a real technical challenge. This zling” equipment to equipment that is better deployed in the Group. This means that since experiment is the fruit of a number adapted to these new challenges. 2007 nearly 65 GWh of electricity had been of trials carried out upstream saved, thereby avoiding almost 4,800 tonnes of at Oranges Labs in Lannion and CO2 emissions. in the France Telecom network. 124 focus focus a new Bilan Carbone® (carbon inventory) in Spain Orange Business Services participates in the United France Telecom-Orange was the first telecoms operator to undertake an Kingdom’s energy efficiency assessment of the direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions of its activities programme on an international scale, over the entire lifecycle of its products and services, using the Bilan Carbone® methodology developed by ADEME. Following on from France and In the United Kingdom, the CRC Belgium in 2010, a new Bilan Carbone® was carried out in 2011 at Orange Spain with Energy Efficiency Scheme is an the assistance of Carbone 4, a specialist consulting firm. In addition to direct emissions obligatory regime imposed on large (from energy for its buildings, fuel for its vehicles, electricity for the network), which have public and private organisations that been reported annually for several years now, this method helps to identify other related consume over 6,000 MWh of sources of greenhouse gas emissions both upstream and downstream of the Group’s electricity per year. Its aim is to direct footprint. The first results of the carbon inventory carried out in Spain confirms the encourage action to improve energy facts observed in France: a large proportion of the Group’s CO2 emissions are efficiency and reduce greenhouse connected with equipment bought from suppliers. The operation of networks is the gas emissions to help achieve second largest source of emissions. In addition to efforts made to reduce its direct national objectives (80% reduction in carbon footprint, France Telecom-Orange therefore embarked on discussions with its greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 main equipment suppliers to improve the environmental performance of their products, as against 1990). The organisations and incorporated these demands in its purchase contracts. The Group also favours concerned must provide a report sharing its infrastructures with other operators, a solution that helps to significantly on their greenhouse gas emissions reduce the overall carbon footprint. and, from 2012, will be required to buy emission permits from the government. Orange Business Services United Kingdom has already successfully met the obligations of the first registration over 2,000 solar stations installed measurements. By the end of 2011, 91 technical phase by installing electricity meters For over thirty years, France Telecom-Orange sites had been equipped with these meters. A to measure electricity consumption has been involved in research into the use of dedicated project called “Electra” was launched in its buildings. An annual report renewable energies in its business. The first phoat the end of 2011 to roll this system out more on gas emissions was instituted in tovoltaic facility was set up in New Caledonia in widely and progressively equip every country in July 2011. This initiative will soon be 1975. three to five years. extended to other countries in which Today, the Group is focusing particularly on Orange Business Services operates powering base stations (antenna repeaters) with moving towards a standard methodology in order to better identify energy solar energy in Africa and southern European for calculating the energy footprint consumption, analyse it in detail and countries. of telecommunications take the necessary measures to By the end of 2011, more than 2,000 solar stations For two years now, Orange has led the work of achieve the objective of reducing had been installed (including 1,416 on mobile Study Group 5 of the ITU (International Telecomthe Group’s energy footprint by 15% radio stations already in service) in 14 African and munications Union), the main group studying the by 2020 (as against 2006). Middle Eastern countries, together with the environment and climate change. In September Dominican Republic, Vanuatu, France and 2011, this group published 12 recommendaArmenia. These solar sites represent an annual tions including one establishing a standardised production of 13 GWh of solar energy, which methodology for assessing the direct and indienables the Group to avoid emissions of 67,000 rect environmental impact of information and tonnes(2) of CO2 per year. communication technologies. Another important improving the energy efficiency Indeed, the quantity of unconsumed fuel per site recommendation standardises the requirements of buildings is estimated at 13,000 litres every year. with which an organisation must comply when it In the Dominican Republic, an experiment is also assesses its energy consumption and greenIn 2011, buildings accounted for almost 29% of under way in powering a radio site using a hybrid house gas emissions. This recommendation will the total energy consumption of France Telewind/solar generator. enable organisations in the ICT sector to assess com-Orange. their energy consumption and greenhouse gas The Group Buildings function has in charge in improved monitoring of energy consumption emissions according to a common methodology 2011 to manage actions relating to the energy In order to manage its energy action plans effectbased on the ISO 14064-1 standard and the efficiency of buildings. Every quarter, there is a ively, the Group has defined 12 key energy perGreenhouse Gas Protocol(3). It will also enable meeting of property managers of Group entities in formance indicators that are checked quarterly organisations outside the ICT sector to assess France, Spain, Poland, Orange Business Services, throughout the Group. the impact of their ICT-related activities on a Equant, and two representatives of countries in Beginning in 2009, “smart” electricity meters precise and reliable basis. A decisive step to the EME (Europe and Middle East) and AMEA have been progressively installed at the large encourage businesses to “go green” by model(Africa, Middle East and Asia) zones. technical sites in France, Spain and Poland to ling the environmental savings achieved through An action plan was launched in France in 2010 improve the reliability of energy consumption the use of new technologies. to save energy in tertiary sector buildings, and in 2011, five pilot countries (France, Poland, Spain, Egypt and Belgium) committed to action plans (1) The CO2 emission factor used is based on the electricity CO2 emission. aimed at reducing the energy consumption of (2) The CO2 emission factor used is based on the fuel CO2 emission. their office buildings. These five countries (3) The GreenHouse Gas Protocol initiative, currently called the “GHG Protocol”, is an internationally recognised method account for 84% of the Group’s total energy used for carbon accounting. Initiated in 1998 by the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), it was developed in partnership with businesses, NGOs and governments. consumption. It provides a set of resources, tools and data for calculating carbon footprints. 125 towards a greener world Lastly, two sites (Caen Venoix and Paris-Olivier focus de Serre) obtained HQE® Rénovation certificaSAVE: a full-scale test of the use of electric vehicles tion, a new assessment protocol for tertiary sector building renovation projects; Orange is taking part in an electric vehicle test carried out in the Yvelines ■ in Egypt, the Cairo site was awarded LEED Gold département since April 2011 as part of the SAVE (Seine Aval Véhicules Électriques) certification (the highest level of environmental project. It is supported by the ADEME (French environment and energy saving agency) performance in the LEED assessment system); with a budget of 6 million euros and is a real full-scale test across an area that covers ■ in Poland, the future head office of the Orange Les Mureaux and Mantes-la-Jolie. With in the long-term about 100 electric vehicles and Poland in Warsaw (construction of which began 150 charging points, SAVE is the largest test in France of entirely electric mobility. Carried in 2011) was designed in accordance with the out with the help of Renault and Nissan (that provided 100 vehicles) and also Schneider BREEAM standard. Electric, EDF and Total, it aims to test the electric vehicle’s ecosystem on a large scale. An unexpected test as it is the first time that a charging infrastructure has been deployed on the public highway, in service stations and in private and public car parks. reducing the impact of transport Some 200 charging points are planned across the SAVE area. Orange is one of the voluntary partner companies to test the capacities of the electric car provided France Telecom-Orange’s fleet of vehicles and its on a daily basis and for several months. employees’ business trips account for about 4,5% of the Group’s total energy consumption, and nearly 9% of its total greenhouse gas emisGlobeCast introduces an inter-company car-pooling service sions. If we include business travel (train, air), this “transport” item represents 13% of the Group’s In 2011, GlobeCast, a Group subsidiary specialising in content management CO2 emissions. and broadcasting solutions, introduced a home-work car-pooling service at its Issy-les-Moulineaux site. Employees are able to access a site free of charge through a more eco-friendly fleet of vehicles their intranet and view an interactive map (using a geolocation system) that displays The Group has a fleet of over 31,000 company people making similar journeys. This service covers the employees of six companies vehicles worldwide, which produce nearly 9.3% located in the business park. Employees of Orange (Les Oliviers site) and R&D working of the Group’s CO2 emissions. in the area can also take advantage of the scheme. Two months after the service was There are two levers that can help to reduce the launched, almost 170 employees from all six companies were registered. A good way CO2 emissions of the company’s fleet of vehicles: ■ more rapid replacement of the fleet (100% to familiarise themselves with new, greener and more cooperative travelling habits! managed under long-term lease contracts) by more recent vehicles, which will therefore be both safer and more eco-friendly: in 2011, 6,675 new vehicles were ordered and 3,267 old vehicles Since 2009, maintenance contracts for tertiary This tool is linked to performance contracts with removed from the fleet, with a saving of 1.6 milsector buildings in France of over 2,000 m² with incentives for suppliers in respect of energy savlion litres of fuel compared with 2010 as well, more than 200 people have incorporated energy ings, a dynamic process of improvement. The corresponding to more than 4,000 tonnes of performance objectives in conjunction with a Group expects to sign nine such performance CO2; “bonus/malus” system to provide an incentive contracts with its heating, ventilation and air ■ the progressive reduction of the number of for service providers to save energy. Energy conditioning suppliers in 2012. vehicles: since 2006, the fleet of vehicles has savings – reflected in the energy bill – are In Spain, 100% of office buildings were equipped been reduced by over 8% (over 16% for the fleet shared, with one third being allocated to the with meters in 2011. in France). service provider, one third to the Group and one Best practice identified on the sites equipped third being reinvested in the performance of the with meters will serve as a basis for improvement Since 2007, the CO2 emission level is one of the building. actions across the Group’s buildings. criteria for selecting vehicles, with the maximum threshold being progressively decreased. By the meters in buildings buildings of high environmental quality end of 2011, the Group’s average emission level To encourage energy savings in its tertiary sector For its new buildings, the Group is focusing on was 130 g of CO2 per km per vehicle. In France, buildings, the Property Division began in 2010 “high environmental quality”-type programmes. the vehicles brought into service since 2010 have to equip its largest buildings in France with intelIn 2011, new certifications were awarded within average emissions of 126 g of CO2 per km. The ligent meters enabling close monitoring of the Group, the culmination of its projects to Group’s “clean vehicles” list includes electric and consumption per type of use (heating, electricity, improve the environmental performance of its hybrid vehicles, vehicles equipped with a stopair conditioning, etc.). By the end of 2011, five properties: start system and small-engined cars emitting less pilot sites were operational in France and ■ in France, four sites obtained HQE® Constructhan 100 g of CO2 per km and delivering a com41 were in the course of being finalised. tion certification (the Orange Stadium in Saintbined consumption of almost 3 litres per 100 km. Denis, Orange Village in Arcueil, Lumine & Sens In France, the Group is a member of a bulk-buyin Bordeaux, Orange Campus in Montrouge). The ing organisation for electric vehicles established Arcueil, Paris-Olivier de Serre and Saint-Denis following the Grenelle de l’Environnement to sites also obtained HQE® Exploitation certificaencourage growth in this sector. In 2011, a fulltion, which recognises excellent environmental scale experiment in the use of electric vehicles was performance in the operation of buildings. The carried out in the Seine Aval region project SAVE. Apollo site in Montpellier obtained BREEAM Another test is being carried out in Strasbourg certification. with the Toyota Prius Plug-In (rechargeable). 126 In 2012, 100 Renault Twizy electric vehicles were key dates relating to the Group’s ■ Orange Spain receives the “Best awarenessadded to the Group’s own vehicle fleet to fight against climate change raising campaign” award in the European Energy increase car-sharing. The first Twizys will be used Trophy+ competition. by employees for urban inter-site travel, begin1999 ■ Introduction of eco-driving courses. ning with the Île-de-France region. ■ Launch of a tool (Coop’Net) that enables teams 2009 on different sites to share working documents ■ Launch of the first Bilan Carbone ® (carbon raising awareness among employees and hold teleconferences (France, Switzerland). inventory) in France. Since 2008, the Group’s travel policy has 2004 ■ Installation of energy meters on the large techencouraged employees: ■ Development of a method to assess the nical sites in France, Spain and Poland. ■ to choose the least polluting modes of transport; environmental impact of solutions, enabling the ■ Launch of the Energy Action Plan (EAP) for ■ to use videoconferencing or teleconferencing incorporation of environmental performance in networks equipment and information systems in as much as possible to reduce their travel. products and services during the design phase. Marocco, Moldova and in Uganda, which brings 2007 to 24 the number of countries having impleA number of entities have introduced schemes ■ Launch of a project to build solar base stations mented this plan. to limit the use of individual cars. Since 2008 for in Africa. 2010 example, employees at the Orange Village site ■ Launch of the server virtualisation programme. ■ Bilans Carbone ® carried out in France and in Arcueil have been able to use OTOmobile ■ Orange obtained the Trophy for clean and Belgium. (optimised transport occupation), a dedicated economic technologies awarded by ADEME and ■ Orange receives a 2010 Global Telecoms resource to enable occasional or regular the magazine Industrie et Technologies for its Business Award in the “Green power innovation” car-pooling. Since 2010, a car-pooling service patented optimised ventilation solution. category for its programme of solar base has also been offered to customers through the ■ Mobistar nominated in the Europe Fleet stations. Orange mobile portal. Awards “Best technological innovation” category. 2011 Company travel plans have been deployed in 2008 ■ Bilan Carbone® (carbon inventory) launched in 15 cities in France and at the Equant head office ■ Signing of the United Nations Caring for Spain. in Geneva. In Belgium, Mobistar has introduced Climate programme. ■ Creation of the EER (Energy & CO2 Emission a very comprehensive system with a car-pooling ■ Definition of the energy action plan for Reduction) Programme function and launch of site, cycle parks, showers and cloakrooms for networks. the green ITN 2020 programme. employees who ride to work, and there is a vol■ Launch of the European OPERA-Net (Optimising ■ Extension of the energy action plan to tertiary untary CO2 offset scheme for travel that cannot Energy Consumption of Mobile Radio Access sector buildings in five pilot countries (France, be reduced. In India, Equant has introduced a Network) research programme under the leaderPoland, Spain, Egypt and Belgium). collective taxi scheme for its employees as part ship of France Telecom-Orange. of its new company travel plan. ■ Launch of the EE IOCG (Energy Efficiency Inter-Operator Collaboration Group) initiative, of The Group is also developing eco-driving training which France Telecom-Orange is a founder courses to raise awareness among employees of member. the benefits of smooth driving, which contributes to road safety and reduces fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. In 2011, 6,000 employees received eco-driving training in France and Poland. At Orange Poland, an eco-driving competition was held for all employees; the prizes will be awarded in 2012. France Telecom-Orange uses its expertise in remote working to limit travelling by its employees. By the end of 2011, 40 telepresence rooms and almost 200 videoconferencing rooms were available to employees in a majority of countries to enable them to take part in meetings without having to travel. The Group has almost reached its objectives in terms of equipment and its efforts are now concentrated on raising staff awareness in order to encourage more widespread use of these tools Carbon calculators enable them to assess the CO2 emissions of various modes of transport and the savings achieved through remote working solutions. 127 towards a greener world energy consumption of the Group Group energy consumption: toe/1,000 customers in million toe (excluding Orange Business Services Internal and United Kingdom) 1.2 1.0 10 0.8 8 0.6 6 0.4 4 0.2 2 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 France rest of the world France rest of the world Group The action plans deployed are beginning to bear fruit, not least of all with energy savings totalling 222 GWh in 2011 in the networks, resulting in stable gross energy consumption and a reorientation of the energy consumption returned to the number of customer. energy consumption CO2 emissions by type of energy 1.42 million tons of CO2, distribution by type fuel 14.9% fuel 6.2% gas 3% gas 15% vehicles 9.3% renewable energies greenhouse 2.3% electricity 68.5% effect gas 1% electricity 72.2% vehicle fuel business travel 4.3% by plane 3.7% business travel by train 0.1% CO2 emissions CO2 emissions and emission per Group customer 1.42 million tons of CO2, distribution by country 180,000 10 8.64 1,517,691 1,531,242 rest of the world 40% France 25% 160,000 8.04 7.71 1,416,779 8 140,000 7 1,415,221 7.92 120,000 1,332,231 7.43 6 1,234,680 6.60 100,000 5 80,000 4 Spain 8% 60,000 3 40,000 2 Poland 27% 20,000 1 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 total emissions of the Group (in tons) emissions for 1,000 customers (in tons) CO2 emission trends reflect the progress made in terms of energy savings, with a stabilisation of gross emissions and a light reduction of emissions returned to the number of customer. 128 2011 review deadline achievements roll-out the deployment of the energy action plan in all 25 countries Improve methodologies for measuring 2011 ■ Deployment in late 2011 of the EAP for network equipment and information and monitoring trends. systems in 24 countries, which account for over 95% of Develop consumption simulation and the energy consumed by technology within the Group (introduction of Moldova, modelling tools to suit different scenarios Uganda and Morocco). (traffic, customer base, replacement ■ Implementation of the following actions: of equipment, energy price, proportion – installation of ventilation on our technical sites, replacing or supplementing air of renewable energy in the AMEA zone). conditioning: nearly 3,000 sites equipped, representing a total of over 14,500 sites Launch new initiatives to reduce unit ventilated in 18 Group countries; consumption. – 425 mobile sites shared with another operator in 2011 to reduce energy consumption; – replacement of about 10,000 items of mobile network equipment with more energy-efficient equipment; – continued widening of climate range in 158 new technical rooms in France; – by the end of 2011, over 2,000 solar stations were in service (including 1,416 on mobile radio stations) in 14 African and Middle Eastern countries, together with the Dominican Republic, Vanuatu, France and Armenia. ■ In 2011, extension of the EAP initiative to office buildings (about 29% of the Group’s energy consumption) in five pilot countries (France, Poland, Spain, Egypt and Belgium) that account for 84% of the Group’s energy consumption. Apply the results of the building 2011-2012 ■ France: increase from four sites equipped at the end of 2010 to 41 sites consumption measurement tool equipped by the end of 2011. to all buildings in France. ■ Launch of a call for tenders for wide-scale deployment over three to five years. continue to undertake Bilans Carbone® (carbon inventories) of activities within the Group to reduce its carbon footprint and optimise its strategic choices Deploy the programme in at least two new 2011 ■ Spain: Bilan Carbone® undertaken in 2011. countries. ■ Preparatory work in Poland for an inventory in 2012. Increase internal expertise in Bilans Carbone® ■ Inclusion of a carbon inventory module in the Bilan Carbone® training course by creating and using a training course. for the Group’s network architects. continue action to promote sustainable mobility Continue to improve fleet performance 2011 ■ Continuation of the renewal of the fleet in 2011 with 6,675 new vehicles ordered by replacing 6,000 vehicles. and 3,267 old vehicles withdrawn. Enhance the fleet management information ■ Coordinate with the fleet managers to upgrade the fleet management systems ; system to optimise the management and to optimise the management and monitoring of consumption and CO2 emissions. monitoring of consumption and CO2 ■ Full-scale experiment on the use of electric vehicles by our employees in the emissions. Seine Aval region (project SAVE undertaken in partnership). Launch an electric mobility experiment in ■ Reinforcement in France, and progressive extension internationally, of a vehicle an operational situation in a core business purchasing policy oriented towards environmental performance, with: activity. – selection based on CO2 emissions; Establish a sustainable mobility department. – introduction to the catalogue of hybrid and electric vehicles including the Renault Promote eco-driving skills among Group Kangoo; employees. – experiments with innovative electric vehicles such as the Renault Twizy. ■ Establishment of a Sustainable Mobility investment fund with the SNCF, Peugeot Citroen and Total. ■ Creation of a specific Group Business Travel function, which will contribute to the aim of reducing consumption by regrouping employee transport and vehicle fleets, and using videoconferencing. ■ Eco-driving: 6,000 people in France and Poland received eco-driving training. Launch of a competition open to all employees of Orange Poland with prizes being awarded in 2012. 129 towards a greener world 2012 roadmap deadline ■ Lead in-depth targeted work with France, Poland, Spain, Slovakia, Côre d’Ivoire and Egypt – which account for 86% 2012-2015 of the Group’s energy consumption – to select and prioritise methods of reducing energy consumption. ■ Progressively introduce systems for measuring the energy consumption of networks and ISs. ■ Continue to innovate in the fields of renewable energy, effectiveness of technical buildings, etc. ■ Model energy paths for 2012-2015. ■ Continue the installation of energy measurement tools in buildings in France. 2012 ■ Consolidate the policy of reducing consumption within the main European countries. ■ Finalise the Bilan Carbone® in Spain. ■ Undertake a carbon inventory relevant to the climate in Poland. 2012 ■ Draw lessons from the Bilan Carbone® in France and Spain. Use them as the basis for action plans and introduce this issue into the strategic thinking of the Group. ■ Continue training courses for network architects and introduce an eco-design course. 130 preserving biodiversity the Group’s approach As most businesses, France Telecom-Orange is highly dependent on services provided by the ecosystems. Beyond its commitment as an eco-citizen, the Group is conscious that preserving biodiversity is an essential condition for the long-term sustainability of its business. This is why France Telecom-Orange has engaged an approach aiming to: – assess the impact of its activities on the ecosystem by identifying business processes with the greatest impact and the geographic areas involved; – identify levers that enable these impacts to be reduced; – implement deliberate action in favour of biodiversity. a limited impact determined initiatives (CCA) salts. These chemical substances, traditionally used to extend the usage period of Compared to industrial businesses, its activities In recent years, Orange has started several wood, are highly toxic to the environment and mean that the France Telecom-Orange Group determined campaigns in favour of preserving humans, and poles that have reached the end of has a limited impact on biodiversity. However, in biodiversity. Here are some examples. their useful life therefore need to be processed compliance with its environmental policy, the through the appropriate channels. In terms of Group has engaged several initiatives aimed the protection of cave birds this agreement, the Group undertakes to mainat reducing internal impacts and developing In France, Orange has been part of regional tain its policy of sending all its treated wood to initiatives to protect biodiversity in partnership agreements for several years with the Bird Prothermal processing channels providing every with NGOs such as the Bird Protection League tection League to place stoppers on its metal telguarantee for health and the environment. (BPL) or the WWF. ephone poles and protect cave species. In 2011, In 2011, the Group initiated an approach aimed 198,000 stoppers were positioned in France and preserving forests at better understanding its impact on biodiversity 11 agreements with the Bird Protection League To preserve forest resources, which are real by identifying more precisely the business prowere signed in the following regions: Alsace, Lorcradles of biodiversity, France Telecom-Orange cesses with a potentially significant impact and raine, Aquitaine, Auvergne, Bourgogne, Franchehas for a number of years been taking action to biomes (number of ecosystems characteristic of Comté, Bretagne, Centre/Val de Loire (Loiret reduce its own consumption of paper and a bio-geographic area) impacted in a country Département), Champagne-Ardenne, Midi-Pyréenable its customers to reduce theirs. where the Group operates. nées, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, Normandie and Pays Electronic billing is the best example of this. In The main sources of impact on the fauna and de Loire. 2011, this paper-free solution helped to save flora are wired aerials and networks. over 1,750 tonnes of paper. In France, the partA specific study was carried out on rare resources reprocessing wooden poles treated nership with the WWF (see insert) enables the contained in the composition of electronic with creosote Group to pay back 1 euro for each paper-free equipment distributed by Orange. A resources In 2010, France Telecom entered into a volunbill. The sums collected in this way are used to map will be issued in 2012 to assess the Group’s tary undertaking with the Ministry responsible for replant trees in the Bordeaux region. dependency in this regard. Ecology in France relating to the reuse and For internal consumption, the Group also elimination of wooden poles and crosspieces encourages the use of recycled or PEFCor treated with creosote or copper-chrome-arsenic FSC-certified paper (both labels are a guarantee of sustainable forest management). In Belgium, Mobinil is partnering Total in a focus carbon-neutral programme to offset emissions A renewed partnership with the WWF from vehicle fleets through reforestation in depopulated areas. Consideration is currently Since March 2008, Orange France and the WWF France have been committed being given to launching more ambitious offset to a large-scale partnership based on practical action such as assessing programmes. The Group also envisages becomthe environmental performance of products marketed by Orange, the eco-design ing involved in action to pump water in Africa of its shops and products, the recycling of equipment, education about “green gestures” with the aim of promoting the establishment of undertaken among consumers and employees, and the responsible use of paper plantations and preventing desertification via the (consuming less and better). The renewal of this partnership in 2011 will help to intensify solar plant programme and establishing water and extend the cooperation initiated in 2005 to increase the use of e-billing. pumps in villages in partnership with United Orange also sponsors the WWF France, particularly by supporting action taken in Nations programmes. the context of the organisation’s mission to preserve biodiversity overseas. Orange has become a major partner in WWF France programmes connected with the eco-regions of New Caledonia and Guyana. 131 towards a greener world burying networks Electricity and telephone lines are dangerous to focus birds with large wingspans. In order to protect let it bee: a sanctuary for bees them, France Telecom-Orange has for several years been carrying out programmes to bury The major role of bees in preserving biodiversity is indisputable. For a number of fixed telephone lines, particularly in France and years though, bee colonies have been decreasing dramatically throughout the world. Poland. There are a number of factors contributing to their high mortality rate: pesticides used Partnerships have been set up to improve effiin intensive agriculture, pollution of ecosystems, scarcity of plant species, appearance of ciency. In France, the French association of invasive species such as the Asian hornet and global warming are all threats to the survival mayors (AMF) and the national federation of of bees, and the impact of which on biodiversity could be dramatic. To combat the decline state licensing authorities (FNCCR) have estabin bee colonies, Orange has decided to launch a project in France called “let it bee”, lished a system to coordinate work to bury elecwhich consists of introducing beehives on sites belonging to the Group. The concept tricity and electronic communications networks. came into being through the enthusiasm of employees keen to help preserve bees, In 2011, the sum of 1.4 million euros was allowho met through a dedicated community on Plazza, the Group’s internal social network. cated to burying 387 km of fixed line network In June 2011, an agreement was signed with the national beekeepers’ association, which cables in France. is helping to install and manage the hives. A call for applications was launched among employees and 20 projects are now under way across the country. A small gesture for biodiversity, that is also helping to create social interaction and friendly links within the Group. key dates in the Group’s commitment to promoting biodiversity 2005 ■ Launch of e-billing and first activities in partnership with the WWF to raise awareness among focus customers in France. protecting whales against the risk of collision 2007 ■ Signature of the first regional agreements with Collisions with seagoing vessels are one of the main causes of unnatural mortality the BPL to seal telephone poles. in large cetaceans. In line with its commitment to protect the environment and 2008 biodiversity, France Telecom Marine decided to install the operational version of the ■ Signature of a three-year partnership agreeREPCET system in its cable ship, the Raymond Croze. REPCET (a system that enables ment by Orange France and the WWF. cetaceans to be located in real time) is a collaborative IT tool developed by the organisation 2011 Souffleurs d’écume (working to protect cetaceans in the Mediterranean) for use in ■ Renewal of the partnership agreement with the commercial shipping, which enables the known positions of whales on navigation routes WWF. to be shared in real time through satellite communications. Other activities to protect ■ Definition of the Group’s approach to biodiversity. whales are undertaken by Orange as part of its support for the Biome fund, a non-profitmaking foundation established in June 2010 within the WWF France with the aim of financing projects to preserve and develop natural heritage in all France’s overseas territories. 132 2011 review deadline achievements paper consumption overall objective: to preserve forests and reduce the quantity of waste connected with the use of paper in the office Increase the use of recycled or FSC-certified (or equivalent) 2011 ■ Print 93.8% of Orange France’s sales documentation on FSCpaper. or PEFC-certified paper. Have 100% of sales documentation on recycled or FSCor PEFC-certified paper in the Group’s main countries. Reduce internal paper consumption by raising awareness ■ Awareness-raising campaign carried out among employees. among staff in respect of saving paper and by configuring printers to print on both sides of the paper. objectives for France: Paper consumption for sales documentation: –8%. 2011 ■ 11% drop in paper consumption for Orange France sales Consumption for sales billing: –18%. documentation in 2011 (above the objective of 8%). Consumption of office paper (internal): –9 %. ■ 7% drop in paper consumption for sales billing (below the objective of 8%). ■ Large drop in consumption of office paper (internal use) in Orange France; –22% as against the objective of 9%. objective for Spain: Internal paper consumption: –10% (achieved in 2010 2011-2012 Printing of sales documentation for external customers on recycled as against 2009: –5%). or FSCor PEFC-certified paper: ■ achieved 2011: almost 100%. Printing of marketing documentation on recycled or certified paper (greatest weight): ■ achieved 2011: 80%. Internal printing on recycled or FSCor PEFC-certified paper: ■ achieved 2011: 90%. For 2011 as a whole: 94.5% of paper consume is certified. 2012 roadmap deadline paper consumption overall objective: to preserve forests and reduce the quantity of waste connected with the use of paper in the office ■ Increase the use of recycled and certified paper with the aim of Orange France’s achieving 100% of sales documentation printed 2012-2013 on recycled or certified paper. ■ Increase the use of FSC-certified or recycled paper in the office (internal). For Orange Spain: use 100% of certified or recycled paper by 2015 for both internal consumption and customer or sales documentation. ■ Reduce the Group’s overall paper consumption through various measures, raising awareness internally, e-billing, etc. rare resources ■ Map the Group’s dependence on rare resources. 2012 133 towards a greener world optimising waste management the Group’s approach Optimising waste management is one of the priorities of the France Telecom-Orange environmental policy. The Group is focusing on two complementary areas to: – optimise the management of waste generated internally by introducing processing channels suited to each category of waste and ensuring their end-to-end traceability; – help to manage waste generated by products and services sold, with particular attention being paid to the collection and recycling of mobile handsets and other electric and electronic equipment. a processing channel ■ In Europe, in accordance with the demands of remotely, send these animations to friends and for each type of waste the European WEEE Directive on waste electric to track what becomes of the donation (traceaand electronic equipment, schemes to take bility). mobile phones and other electronic equipment ■ In emerging countries, the Group is helping to Behavioural guidelines defined in 2007 structure back from customers have been in place for a set up structured processing channels for electhe introduction in each country of industries number of years. The equipment collected is tronic equipment at the end of its life. Orange suited to the various types of waste according to then passed on to eco-organisations or specialparticipates actively in international initiatives to three main principles: ist partners who recondition the equipment to manage electronic waste in Africa, particularly 1. measuring the quantity of waste generated by return it to working condition or recycle the those undertaken by the United Nations Indusour activities by carrying out inventories in each components through the approved channels. trial Development Organisation (UNIDO), the country according to the classification decided Besides its obligations under the WEEE DirectUnited Nations Environment Programme at Group level; ive, France Telecom is committed to a proactive (UNEP), the GeSI and the STEP (Solving the 2. organising the processing of this waste in the policy to increase the rate of collection of mobile e-Waste Problem) initiative in order to foster local appropriate sectors whilst at the same time taking phones: regular campaigns to raise customer collection and processing solutions that are the local context into account; awareness, buy-back schemes for used mobile appropriate to the requirements of the subsidiar3. assuring traceability of this waste in the future phones in seven of the Group’s European entiies. Orange has also joined forces with Emmaüs by producing maps of the processing channels ties, and sales of second-hand phones (since International to open workshops to collect and in each country. 2009 in France, and under consideration in other reprocess waste from mobiles in Africa. FollowEuropean countries). Thanks to these efforts, the ing the opening of an initial workshop in Burkina Group’s European subsidiaries collected over Faso in 2010, two other workshops were creatIn 2011, the Group continued its efforts to increase one million mobile phones in 2011, an increase ed in 2011 in Benin and Madagascar, and a the traceability of waste electric and electronic of 100% in one year. fourth will open in Niger in 2012. The waste colequipment (WEEE) in the various processing ■ Orange is testing an innovative eco-system lected is returned to France by boat. Received at channels. The Group’s CSR Department commobile phone collection system.This “intelligent” the Ateliers du Bocage, a partner in the social missioned new audits of the WEEE channels collector called Mobo interacts with the user solidarity employment sector connected with the (including network equipment, IT hardware and (donor) by displaying its face on animations such Emmaüs movement, the waste is then classified customers’ equipment) in three European countries: as a smile, a wink... and remotely on a dedicatand sent to recycling plants in Europe. By the Spain, Poland and Slovakia. These missions of ed website. In addition to its basic functions, end of 2011, over 31 tonnes of waste (the equivassessment, sharing best practice, carried out geolocation and real-time transmission of the fill alent of 210,000 mobiles) had already been colby teams of the Group Procurement and factor, Mobo offers a playful and gratifying lected and 18 jobs had been created in Burkina Purchasing function, showed a good level of dimension particularly with the possibility for the Faso, Benin and Madagascar. compliance with the demands of the WEEE user to animate the Mobo of his or her choice Directive. They helped to reveal areas where progress can be made, particularly in terms of formalising regulatory demands in contracts with equipment suppliers, and of communication between the various internal departments involved. waste generated by the Group by type other non-hazardous increasing collection and waste 3.3% recycling of electronic devices paper, carboard 7.9% general industrial waste 20.8% batteries 5.5% To help to limit the quantity of electronic waste waste electrical and electronic connected with the development of digital uses, equipment (WEEE) 5.2% the France Telecom-Orange Group makes every cables 20.5% effort to give a second life to this equipment or WEEE collected ensure that its disassembly and recycling from customers 7.1% respects the environment. wooden poles 27.1% metal poles 2.6% 134 the increase in the number evolution of the quantity (tons) key dates relating to the Group’s of mobiles collected of customers’ WEEE waste management policy 1,200,000 3,500 2002 1,000,000 ■ Introduction of “Foneback”, a system to collect 3,000 customers’ mobile phones in the United Kingdom, 800,000 2,500 and first pilot operations in France. 600,000 2006 2,000 ■ Mapping of waste processing channels in 400,000 France. 200,000 1,500 2007 0 1,000 ■ Definition of guidelines on waste applicable to 2009 2010 2011 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 all Group countries. rest of the world Switzerland Belgium Poland OBS 2008 Slovakia Romania Spain France ■ Introduction of a system to collect business WEEE (routers) from Orange Business Services item reviewed by Deloitte: moderate level of assurance customers. 2009 The increase in the number of mobiles collected (100% between 2010 and 2011) shows the effectiveness of action plans deployed in European countries to encourage customers to return their old mobile telephones and particularly buyback ■ Audits of WEEE collection and processing mechanisms, that for example in Romania reached a 14% collection rate in one year channels in France, the United Kingdom, Spain The increase in quantities collected is particularly linked to increased collection initiatives by all WEEE categories carried out and Poland showing a good level of compliance in France. Efforts will continue in 2012 to increase WEEE collection in other European countries. with the requirements of the WEEE Directive. ■ Questionnaire on the implementation of the REACH Directive distributed to all handset and network equipment suppliers concerned. ■ Launch of buy-back schemes for old mobile phones in France, the United Kingdom, Switzerfocus land and Romania. Orange Islands: less waste, more recovery ■ Introduction of a new processing channel for old phone sets, cables and batteries in Senegal, In 2010, Orange Islands in Cesson-Sévigné was the first Orange Business Services with the waste being sent to a processing centre site to obtain ISO 14001 certification for its environment management system. in Europe. The renewal of the certification in December 2011 confirmed OBS’s continuing desire 2010 to improve its eco-responsibility with regard to its customers and employees. As part ■ Participation in work undertaken by the United of this ongoing progress initiative, optimum waste management was introduced to reduce Nations Industrial Development Organisation the quantity of waste produced and improve sorting with the aim of achieving a maximum (UNIDO) to optimise the management of elecrecycling rate. To do this, a waste sorting area was built on the site. Paper, cardboard tronic waste. and packaging, and waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) are therefore sorted ■ Establishment of two mobile phone collection separately for recycling. A total of 59% of the waste produced by the site was recycled and recycling channels in Burkina Faso and in 2011 (56% of which was common waste and 71%, hazardous). In addition, efforts Benin in partnership with Emmaüs International to reduce waste at source helped to decrease the quantity of waste produced by 8% and Ateliers du Bocage. between 2010 and 2011. ■ Launch of buy-back schemes for mobile phones in a further two countries (Slovakia and Spain). Orange Poland brings the reconditioning of electronic equipment in-house ■ Signing of a voluntary charter of commitment (in 2011, 284 tons have been treated) on the reuse and elimination of wooden poles treated with creosote or copper-chrome-arsenic In 2007, Orange Poland (the Polish subsidiary of the France Telecom-Orange Group) (CCA) salts. introduced a scheme for taking back and reconditioning electronic equipment from 2011 its!customers (decoders, modems, Liveboxes, etc.), enabling them to put equipment ■ Establishment of new workshops to collect and in!working order back into circulation and thereby increase its length of life. In 2010, recycle mobile phones in Benin and Madagascar. to!improve quality control across the process, Orange Poland launched a project to ■ Pilot deployment in France and Slovakia of recondition equipment in-house – this had previously been outsourced to a specialist Mobo, a prototype intelligent mobile phone company. The in-house reconditioning centre, located in the Orange Poland’s main depot collector. in Oltarzew, has been operational since 2011. Besides improving quality control of!the reconditioning, allowing 100% of components to be recycled, bringing the process in-house helps to reduce transport because everything is processed on site. Over 700,000!broadband devices (particularly Livebox 2.0s) have been reconditioned in-house in!this way since March 2011. With a processing capacity of 600 units per day, the centre offers significant prospects for progress, and Orange Poland is planning to make its expertise available to external companies. 135 towards a greener world 2011 review deadline achievements waste management development of new processing channels in African countries Deployment of new WEEE collection and processing 2011 ■ Active participation in the working group coordinated by initiatives in the AMEA zone in partnership with local the GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) and the United Nations commercial and industrial enterprises and specialist Environment Programme (UNEP) to develop collaborative local international organizations (UNIDO, UNEP, STEP). solutions for the processing of electronic waste in emerging Target countries: Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal, Egypt. countries. Increased participation in working groups from these ■ Launch of a number of initiatives in various Orange countries organisations dealing with waste processing in emerging in Africa: countries. – launch by Orange Tunisia of its environmental initiative; – launch by Mobinil (Egypt) of an initiative for collecting mobiles among employees. ■ Continuation of the partnership between Orange and Emmaüs International to establish workshops in various African countries to process electronic waste (mobiles, PCs): project under consideration in Côte d’Ivoire in cooperation with the local subsidiary. WEEE Directive Strengthen initiatives to collect and process commercial 2011 ■ In response to new regulatory requirements on the processing WEEE (routers, PABX, LAN equipment) from our business of business WEEE in France, the Group launched a process to study customers in France, by incorporating approval from one optimising the collection, reuse and elimination of equipment sold, or more eco-organisations focusing on commercial WEEE. rented or provided by Orange. Promote the reuse of the equipment collected whenever ■ Two experts carried out assignments in 2011 in Slovakia and Spain possible. 2011 on electronic and other hazardous waste in order to: Step up joint multi-operator actions in respect of audits for – increase the Group’s expertise in waste management; common suppliers outside Europe to ensure an equivalent – ensure a high level of compliance by subsidiaries with regulatory level of environmental performance. requirements; Assess WEEE processing channels (household, business, – deploy innovative solutions for collection and processing. internal and networks) in our European subsidiaries (particularly Slovakia, Romania, Spain and Poland) in order to ensure a high level of transparency and traceability. tertiary waste Extend the programme to improve tertiary waste 2011 ■ Support to subsidiaries in emerging countries in establishing management initiated by OBS in Egypt in 2010 to other their waste management process (Côte d’Ivoire, Mali, etc.). emerging countries by signing contracts with partners. collection and recycling of mobile phones Increase collection and recycling of mobile handsets. 2011 ■ In 2011, one million mobile phones were collected across Europe, Achieve a collection rate of 10% in the second half an increase of 100% in one year corresponding to an overall rate of 2011. of 6.4%. Extend commercial buyback offerings in the seven main ■ Deployment of commercial buy-back offerings in the seven main European countries. European countries, with significant results in some countries Together with our partners, deploy an intelligent collection (a collection rate of 14% in Romania). system for used mobiles and ambitious eco-citizen ■ Deployment in pilot phase, in France and Slovakia, of Mobo, collection actions in a number of European countries the intelligent collector (unveiled at the “hello demain” show in (France, Spain, Austria, Slovakia, etc.). June 2011). Deploy collection offerings for the business market. ■ Incorporation of collection offers in tenders for key accounts Develop the second-hand mobile market in AMEA and in the business market. Europe. ■ Continuation of the sale of second-hand mobiles in France, Develop collection and recycling programmes in Africa. particularly on the orange.fr website. ■ Studies on the sale of second-hand mobiles in other European countries and several countries in the AMEA zone. ■ Continuation of the first pilot collection operations in three African countries. 136 2012 roadmap deadline waste management development of new processing channels in African countries ■ Play a pioneering role in developing subsidiaries and solutions enabling African countries to collect and recycle their waste efficiently and effectively. 2012-2015 ■ Contribute to the various reflections launched on this topic (e-waste academy, etc.). ■ Mobilise Orange subsidiaries in these countries and support local initiatives with all the players concerned, particularly in Egypt, Tunisia and Côte d’Ivoire. WEEE Directive ■ Launch new initiatives for business WEEE and institute improved channels to collect, process and reuse this equipment, satisfy 2012 changes in regulations and improve our response to customers’ demands. ■ Continue Group initiatives to enable European subsidiaries to increase the collection of WEEE and other waste, and optimise the processing of this waste whilst taking into account the latest changes in the WEEE Directive. collection and recycling of mobile phones give a new dimension to the mobile recycling policy to continue to increase the rate of collection by over 50% per year ■ Deploy Mobo (the smart collector) and its ecosystem in pilot phase in France and other European countries. 2012 ■ Launch second-hand mobile offerings in a number of European countries. ■ Extend the collection of mobiles to the business market as part of the replacement of fleets of handsets. ■ Launch civic collection actions in European countries. ■ Study the feasibility of large-scale collection and recycling schemes in Africa. 137 towards a greener world reducing impacts linked to products and services the Group’s approach As well as limiting its direct impacts, France Telecom-Orange is working hard to reduce the environmental impact of products and services offered to customers over their entire life cycle. To that end, the Group is working on two core areas: – continuous improvement in the environmental performance of its products and services, by way of eco-design initiatives; – encouraging customers to adopt environmentally responsible usages, with a pioneering eco-labelling initiative for its products, and by providing carbon calculators and organising awareness campaigns. developing eco-design initiatives In 2011, the France Telecom Group worked in promoting environmentally particular on the eco-design of the next generafriendly usage As early as 2007, as part of a strategic partnertion Livebox, which is due for launch in 2012. ship with Sagem, Orange launched an ecoThe Group is also pursuing its experimental proAs well as eco-design for its products and design initiative for the Livebox and decoders ject in eco-designing services: several pilot services, Orange encourages its customers to distributed under its brand. schemes were launched in 2011, including one contribute, through their personal and profesLife-cycle analyses (LCA) guided work on reducfor a Cloud Computing offering. sional usage behaviours, to protecting the ening environmental impact in priority areas: enervironment. To that end, the Group has set up gy consumption, reparability and “recyclability”, The Group has also contributed to work by the transparent information tools presenting the and packaging. GSMA and ITU to design a joint solution for a environmental performance of products and The Livebox 2 launched at the end of 2009 on universal mobile phone charger, which would services offered. the French and Spanish markets benefited from avoid the need to change charger every time the results of these LCAs, which had revealed you change phones, and could free the way for a pioneering environmental labelling initiative that energy consumption during use was the terminals and chargers to be sold separately. A Orange was the first European operator to dominant element in the overall environmental standard for this solution was officially adopted implement, as early as 2008 in France, evaluation assessment. The new version included a Wi-Fi by the European Commission in 2011, and will and public labelling of environmental performswitch enabling the user to turn off the Wi-Fi lead to a reduction across the entire sector of up ance for the telephone terminals it distributes. signal at their convenience, while still benefiting 51,000 tonnes of electronic waste, made up of This innovative initiative, developed in partnership from the Livebox’s other services. This Wi-Fi stockpiles of different chargers, as well as with an LCA consultancy and the WWF, meets a button, together with the on/off switch, enables improving service to the customer. In 2011, dual objective: our customers to reduce a box’s electricity Orange implemented the micro-USB interface ■ building customer awareness of the environconsumption by up to 30% (the savings made across the board, meaning this charger can be mental impact of the terminal bought, with guidby switching the box off when it is not in use). used with the majority of smartphones distributed. ance, if desired, towards the greenest model in The next version of the Livebox, due for release the range selected; in 2012, will offer even better environmental Orange is testing an innovative ecosystem ■ encouraging manufacturers to produce more performance. mobile phone collection system environmentally friendly terminals. As mentionned previously, this “smart” collector To pursue the roll-out of this initiative and called “Mobo” interacts with the user (donor) by Orange’s environmental labelling assesses enachieve general integration of eco-design in its displaying its face on animations such as a vironmental impact using three criteria scored product development process, Orange is using: smile, a wink... and remotely on a dedicated between 1 and 5: ■ a team of eco-design experts; website. In addition to its basic functions, geolo1. “CO 2 reduction” measures the amount of ■ ongoing training in eco-design for all actors in cation and real-time transmission of the fill factor, greenhouse gas emitted in the key stages of the the product innovation chain, using a dedicated Mobo offers a playful and gratifying dimension product’s life-cycle: manufacture, distribution, training module created in 2010: seven training particularly with the possibility for the user to use, recycling; sessions took place in 2011 in France and the animate the Mobo of his or her choice remotely, 2. “Natural resource protection” measures the UK; send these animations to friends and to track quantities of non renewable materials (gold, ■ the “Eco-Design Guide”: a popularisation and what becomes of the donation (traceability). silver and tin) used in the product; awareness manual distributed to Technocentre Mobo is the result of a joint creation process 3. “Eco-design” rates other initiatives to improve project managers; with consumers (design, functional specification) the product’s environmental performance, like ■ an LCA library steadily built up to provide and the collaboration of French SMEs (IT soluthe minimal use of hazardous substances, the assessments of products’ environmental impact tions, production). traceability of sensitive resources (gold, silver, tin, and identify areas of improvement at the design tantalum), the reparability of the product and the phase. amount of recycled material used. 138 Overall score: the 3 indicators are combined to In several European countries, specific mechproduce an overall score labelled: eco-rating. anisms have been implemented to encourage The higher the eco-rating, the better the terminal customers to return their old mobile phones (see is for the environment. p. 134-135). Almost all suppliers of Orange’s mobile and fixed terminals have now signed up to this initiative. key dates in the Group’s By the end of 2011 environmental labelling had eco-design and environmental been deployed in France, Spain and Romania, labelling initiative as well as across the Business market. Roll-out will continue in 2012 in the other European 2004 countries. ■ Evaluation method developed to assess the This pioneering project earned Orange selection environmental impact of solutions, so environto lead the national environmental labelling mental performance could be integrated into experiment launched by the French state in products and services from the design phase. 2011, following its Grenelle de l’Environnement 2007 roundtable. ■ Signature of a strategic partnership with Sagem to develop eco-design for Liveboxes. Orange is also working with other GSMA oper2008 ators and the European Union to create an ■ Launch of the first eco-labelling system for international standard for eco-labelling terminals. mobile phones in partnership with the WWF. ■ Launch of the Livebox 1.2 with a weight carbon calculators for business reduction of 35%, energy consumption when in Orange Business Services is developing very use reduced by 26% and CO2 emissions over accurate calculation tools to evaluate potential the entire life-cycle reduced by 19%. greenhouse gas emission savings derived from ■ Creation of an eco-design guide for Technoremote working solutions, helping businesses centre product managers. include carbon impacts into their investment ■ Launch of the Orange CO2 saving tool, the first decisions more easily. carbon calculator for customers. Orange Business Services carries out LCA with 2009 assistance from specialist external consultancies ■ Launch of the eco-designed Livebox 2 on the to measure the true impact of solutions. They French market. have already delivered very detailed results for the ■ Eco-labelling deployed on Orange France’s Business Everywhere, Telepresence videoconfixed and mobile terminals, on the French busiferencing, Computing package (Forfait informaness range of terminals and on Orange Spain’s tique), Flexible Computing and Business VPN mobile terminals. solutions. In 2011, a study was launched into ■ LCA carried out on the DSL, FTTH and 3G the “Flexible Computing Express” Cloud service, networks, as well as on three services from the results of which will be communicated exterOrange Business Services: Telepresence videonally once the critical review required to comply conferencing, Business Everywhere and Comwith the standard has been carried out. puting package (Forfait informatique). 2010 In 2011, following analysis, a new carbon calcu■ Eco-labelling launched in Romania. lator enabling customers to evaluate CO2 emis■ Two new online calculators go live, showing the sion savings deriving from the “Cloud computing potential gains from installing the Telepresence infrastructure as a service” solution went live on and Business Everywhere solutions. the Orange Business Services website. This ■ New service LCAs carried out (videoconfermakes it the third calculator provided, alongside encing and digitising music). the ones for the Telepresence and Business 2011 Everywhere solutions. ■ New online carbon calculator goes live for the “Cloud computing infrastructure as a service” long-term awareness for customers offering. The majority of the countries regularly organise ■ Participation in France in the national experiawareness campaigns to encourage their cusment in eco-labelling. tomers to adopt environmentally responsible behaviours: opting for electronic billing, not leaving equipment on standby, returning used equipment for recycling or simply keeping it longer; these are all simple actions that can help protect the environment. In France, Orange set up a dedicated information site to encourage its customers to adopt six “green reflexes”: www.agir-reflexesverts.orange. fr The Orange environmental channel http://actu. orange.fr/environnement/ also broadcasts all the latest environmental news, with practical tips for action in everyday life. 139 towards a greener world 2011 review deadline achievements environmental performance of products and services Continue with the roll-out of eco-design initiatives. 2011-2012 ■ Eco-design for new Liveboxes (out in 2012) at the Technocentre. Eco-desig products for the domestic network. ■ Finalising the new “eco-design” action plan, gradually integrating Implement service eco-design. eco-design for services. Pursue creation of an LCA library. ■ Continuing with training (seven sessions in 2011 in France Generalise training for the marketing division. and the UK). Define policies and methods for rolling out the universal 2011-2012 ■ General application of the micro-USB interface for the majority charger as soon as it is available. of smartphones acquired by Orange. environmental labelling Roll-out eco-labelling in more European countries: Poland, 2011-2012 ■ Roll out in France, Spain and Romania, as well as in the business Slovakia, Switzerland, Belgium, Armenia. market. Promote eco-labelling with international bodies. ■ Orange selected to lead the national eco-labelling experiment launched by the French state. promoting eco-behaviours Pursue roll-out programmes for e-billing in Europe, 2011-2012 ■ Electronic billing: see figures p. 141. with a 2012 target of 80% penetration for the Internet, ■ Launch of “SIM-only” offerings in France (Sosh). 50% for mobile telephony and 30% for fixed telephony. ■ Ongoing sale of discounted mobile terminals in France. Promote longer technical and commercial life and usage ■ Ongoing sale of mobile phones to wholesalers with a view of mobile terminals. to remarketing reusable returned terminals. 2012 roadmap deadline environmental performance of products and services ■ Regain the lead in eco-design for the domestic network with the launch of new Liveboxes and set top boxes. 2012 ■ Develop eco-design for services. ■ Introduce eco-design tools and methods across the board for training and processes around innovation and product launch. ■ Prepare to market mobile terminals and chargers separately, to derive all possible benefit from the recent introduction 2012 of a standard for a universal charger. environmental labelling ■ Continue with the international roll-out of eco-labelling for mobile terminals and contributions to setting an international standard 2012 (GSMA, European Union). promote eco-behaviours ■ Pursue roll-out programmes for e-billing in Europe, with a 2012 target of 80% penetration for the internet, 50% for mobile 2012 telephony and 30% for fixed telephony. ■ Promote longer technical and commercial life and usage of mobile terminals. 140 contributing to the growth of the eco-citizenship the Group’s approach In the face of environmental challenges, information and communication technologies present a unique opportunity for progress. This is why France Telecom-Orange is constantly innovating to develop technological solutions that give everyone the means to live and act as eco-citizens: – new ways of working in business (remote working, collaborative working, digitised processes, etc.); – new mobility (vehicle sharing, geo-location, etc.); – new ways to approach city-life and the lived environment (home automation, digital communities, etc.). digitising exchanges reduced and less travel is involved in transportmeeting the challenges ing results. Results are archived in storage facilof sustainable mobility France Telecom-Orange offers its customers a ities that have achieved “Ecocenter” certification. number of solutions for digitising their exchanges: This solution won Orange the “Eco-committed less business travel e-billing, HubEDI, WebEDI and Contact Everyone, digital company” prize at the 2011 Digital Green Orange Business Services offers companies and Public Video Points (Points Visio Public), etc. Growth Awards (Prix de la croissance verte professionals several remote collaborative working There are multiple environmental and economic numérique). The prize rewards creativity, invention solutions that can reduce greenhouse gas emisbenefits: and digital technology working towards sustainsions and save on travel costs while improving ■ ink and paper savings; able development. individual and collective productivity: ■ energy savings; ■ Business Everywhere gives access to the user’s ■ waste reduction; working environment (desktop) while away ■ preservation of forests, which play an important optimising IT infrastructures from the office, using any available network. “carbon sink” role; Over 1.4 million people around the world are ■ lower greenhouse gas emissions from reducTo optimise energy efficiency in IT infrastructures, already using it; tions in travel. the Group has developed true expertise in the ■ Business Together combines the best in Web, field of virtualisation. voice and videoconferencing technology to 1,770 tonnes of paper were saved in 2011 through facilitate collaborative work; e-billing to mass-market customers (fixed and ■ Server virtualisation consists of having a single ■ videoconferencing and telepresence solutions mobile). server run all applications that traditionally would like Open Videopresence, available in 106 couneach run on their own server. These solutions tries, mean meetings can be organised in France In medicine, the shared medical imaging solucan lead to a significant reduction in server numand internationally, whether internally or between tion is innovative in its connected approach to bers and optimum usage levels of existing different companies. In 2011, Orange Business medicine and the reductions in environmental hardware. For some customers, the solutions Services secured major partnerships with BT, impact achieved by digitising results from X-rays, installed have led to reductions of over 80% in Tata Communications and Telefónica to guaranscans, MRIs, etc., while ensuring they can be server numbers, over 90% in energy consumptee equipment and network compatibility, proshared and exchanged. Chemical consumption tion and over 50% in total cost of ownership. viding intercompany Telepresence capacity. associated with developing films and scans is Orange Business Services also facilitates remote ■ Workstation virtualisation consists of creating a exchanges with its customers’ customers, for user environment (desktop) on a server rather example with the Visio Contact solution where than on each workstation. This means that no customers with a webcam can establish a direct data or application is stored at the workstation. videoconference link with a company by clicking They are handled remotely and at no time leave on its website. The solution is intended for comfocus the secure environment of the data centre. Once panies with one or more websites who wish to Orange is investing again, there are significant environmental beneprovide their customers with a human, secure in sustainable mobility fits. A workstation running virtually: and easily accessible remote service. – lasts longer than an ordinary PC (five years As well as solutions for business, the Group also In November 2011 Orange instead of three); offers solutions like the Public Video Point (Point linked up with SNCF, PSA Peugeot – uses around 10 times less electricity when in Visio Public), enabling the public to make conCitroën and Total to found use; tact with their local authority services without Ecomobilité Ventures, Europe’s first – is far more easily shared by several users; having to travel. investment company dedicated – has fewer electronic components and so is to sustainable mobility. Ecomobilité easier to recycle. optimising vehicle fleet management Ventures will have a capital of As well as its standard offers, the Group makes The Fleet Performance solution developed by 30 million euros to invest in young, its expertise available to customers through Orange Business Services enables many business innovative companies. Through this Orange Consulting, providing support for sussectors (transport, public works, maintenance and project Orange and its partners plan tainable development initiatives. In 2011, Orange repair technicians, sales reps, local organisations, to contribute to the emergence Business Services linked up with JouleX to offer etc.) to optimise the movements of thousands of of a new mobility ecosystem that the first global energy audit service for IT infravehicles in real-time, also improving ongoing mainbreaks the traditional sector barriers. structures in France, to help businesses achieve tenance. Distance travelled is reduced and engines energy savings and reductions in CO2 emissions. that are well-maintained generate less pollution. 141 towards a greener world There is a double benefit: increased productivity, ■ improve timetable adherence with vehicle develop the applications reduced CO2 emissions. geolocation facilitating real-time reaction to inciof the future In 2011, Orange Business Services launched dents and traffic; their “Fleet Performance fleet management” ■ improve transport network security with video Intelligent management of electric networks (Fleet Performance gestion de parc) offering and audio alerts in real time from cameras and (“smart grids”), vehicles, buildings and individual which tracks time in use and kilometres travelled recorders installed on board and at the roadside; houses... Orange is already working to develop without feeding back geolocation data. It can ■ manage maintenance costs thanks to remote applications that will help optimise energy manhelp companies make significant reductions in detection and resolution of technical problems in agement, program electric vehicle recharging vehicle fleet operation costs. DEF for instance, a real time. during off-peak hours or to continue developing fire safety specialist, reduced its fuel costs by multi-modal transport in the near future. These 50,000 euros and CO2 emissions by 62 tonnes are all solutions that are making a contribution to by equipping over 140 vehicles. building the “sustainable city” the fight against climate change. In 2012, an eco-driving offer will be launched to of the future help companies encourage environmentally responsible driving and CO2 reduction for their Projects for “sustainable cities” and “zero CO2 vehicle fleets. quarters” rely chiefly on information and communication technology. developing remote monitoring services Orange Business Services, a member of the Orange has developed innovative remote monNew Cities Foundation, has been designing, itoring solutions based on M2M(1) connectivity, installing and operating communication solutions which can carry out a number of remote tasks: for smart cities since 2006. As part of its “Smart ■ remote meter readings (gas, water, etc.); Cities” programme (one of the Group’s six strat■ remote stock management (ATMs, vending egic programmes), several major projects have machines, printing systems, etc.); been delivered in this field. ■ supply chain automation; The smart sustainable city concept, developed ■ remote checks and maintenance for industrial by Orange Labs in partnership with local authormachinery; ities, is a multi-network solution (radio, GPRS, ■ remote management of public infrastructure Internet) providing the municipality with a wide (lighting). range of data contributing to optimising its management: environmental monitoring, and manAll these solutions contribute to optimising risk agement for street lighting, waste containers, and energy management as well as reducing municipal irrigation, traffic, etc. The concept has logistical and maintenance costs (movement of been piloted since 2007 in the south of France technicians) while limiting CO2 emissions and town Cagnes-sur-Mer, and since the end of simply making life easier. 2010 in the urban community of Nice Côte focus For example, as part of its “Smart Cities” strategic d’Azur. Having developed this expertise, the Orange selected for the third programme for smart urban sustainability, Orange Group has signed consultancy contracts for time in the Verdantix Leaders’ Business Services linked up with Veolia Eau in smart city projects in the Middle East, and is Quadrant 2011 to create m2o city, an operator specialising running other pilot projects with key actors in the in remote reading of smart water meters and world of transport and smart networks. Orange Business Services confirms environmental data collection. m2o city offers For example, at the end of 2010, Orange Busiits sustainable development local authorities and organisations a service that ness Services and European waste manageleadership in the telecommunications uses an ultra-low energy radio network to collect ment leader Plastic Omnium Environnement market according to the 2011 report information from both water meters and environcombined their know-how to offer local authoripublished by Verdantix, a firm of mental sensors (to monitor sound or pollution ties an all-in service that aims to optimise waste independent analysts specialised levels, for instance). collection. The service is based on an integrated in questions of climate change, and very secure M2M solution. With it the two sustainable development and energy. making public transport more attractive partners can help local authorities implement the For the third consecutive year, Orange Business Services offers services to help incentivised pricing structure launched by the Orange features in the leading improve the passenger experience on public Grenelle de l’Environnement roundtable. The position in the Green Quadrant transport: information on timetables, traffic conM2M tracking capability means the local Sustainable Telecoms Europe ditions and combined transport, as well as Wi-Fi authority has access to a wealth of data (vehicle ranking, confirming its strong connections for Internet access and online activity, collection circuits carried out, service commitment to sustainable games and videos, etc. With our solutions transtake-up by users, quantity of waste collected, development both in terms of the port operators can: etc.) with which to analyse the efficiency of its solutions proposed to its customers collection service and optimise its collection and its corporate social responsibility routes, reducing kilometres covered and associfor the Group as a whole. ated CO2 emissions. (1) Machine to Machine (M2M) technology enables machines, technical equipment and other objects to exchange data with other machines, people or information systems, remotely and in real time. 142 appendices 144 about this report 146 note on methodology 148 external opinion 150 social data 152 environmental data 155 global presence 156 for more information 143 appendices about this report This report is intended to provide a fair and balverification of the report compliance with GRI guidelines anced view of the global performance of the France Telecom-Orange Group over the 2011 As in previous years, France Telecom-Orange This report has been drawn up with reference to calendar year. requested one of its auditors to review a seletion the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines It endeavours to meet the main requirements for of achievements described in tables in the 2011 version G3. In line with the method of assessinformation expressed by the Group’s stakeholdreport and verify a selection of 16 key performent recommended in the guide to the GRI G3 ers (customers, shareholders, rankings agencies, mance indicators and the application of the application levels, the self-assessment of this employees, suppliers, public authorities and AA1000 APS (2008) principles. The items sumreport has been undertaken using application local communities). marised for these 16 indicators have been exterlevel A+. For more details, please consult the nally verified are identified by the symbol . GRI – Global Pact correspondence table availaThe conclusions of this work appear on pages ble on the orange.com website, in the “Responperiod and frequency of report 148-149. sibility” section). Every year since 2002, the Group has published an annual report on sustainable development application of AA1000 principles correspondence with and corporate social responsibility. This report the Global Pact covers the period from 1 January to 31 December In all significant aspects, the process of drawing 2011. It also includes a number of qualitative items up the 2010 corporate social responsibility France Telecom-Orange signed up to the United from early 2011 (outstanding achievements). report adheres to the three principles (completeNations Global Pact in July 2000. The manner in ness, materiality and responsiveness) of the which the Group incorporates the principles of AA1000APS (2008) standard, a benchmark in the Global Pact in its activities is presented in the scope and methodology the matter of corporate social responsibility table page opposite. of report focusing the recognition of stakeholders’ requirements (www.accountability21.net). The content of the report has been produced on correspondence with the ISO 26000 the basis of indicators selected in such a way as completeness standard to give an account of the main economic, social, The identification of our stakeholders’ requiresocietal and environmental impact of the ments is a key element in our process of identifyThe international ISO 26000 standard published Group’s activities. The choice of these indicators ing sustainable development issues. The list of the in November 2010 provides guidelines on the has been partly determined by the recommenGroup’s main stakeholders appears on page 56. social responsibility of organisations. dations of international benchmark bodies such This standard was drawn up following a multias the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the UN materiality stakeholder approach with the participation of Global Pact, the guiding principles of the OECD The selection of the most significant sustainable experts in various aspects of social responsibility and the new ISO 26000 standard on the social development issues connected with the Group’s from over 90 countries and 40 organisations that responsibility of organisations. activities takes account of requirements are either international or have an extended The indicators have been collected, calculated expressed by stakeholders and an internal priorregional base. France Telecom-Orange contriband consolidated with the support of dedicated itisation of risks, which is regularly reassessed uted as an expert to the preparatory work carIT tools. Unless otherwise stated, the data pre(see p. 53-54 and 60-61). ried out by the French ISO 26000 Commission. sented covers all the Group’s activities and the The ISO 26000 standard revolves around seven countries in which it operates. For environmental responsiveness central issues covering various areas of action data, the scope of the report covers an average Action plans covering sustainable development connected with the social responsibility of of 98% of the Group’s sales. The rate of coverissues significant to the activities of France organisations (see GRI-ISO 26000 correspondage, estimated as a percentage of the sales of Telecom-Orange are reassessed annually, and ence table on the orange.com website, in the the entities included in the reporting scope, is new issues are identified at the same time – “Responsibility” section). given for each environmental indicator in the these issues and plans are set out at the end of table of data on pages 152 to 154. each chapter of this report. For social data, the rate of coverage estimated The report is an essential element of the Group’s as a percentage of the Group’s workforce is response to the requirements expressed by its given in the table on pages 150 to 151. stakeholders. Published annually, it enables us to recognise the impact of, and progress with, undertakings made to these stakeholders. France Telecom-Orange takes account of suggestions for improvement transmitted by its readers, as well as conclusions drawn from the verification work undertaken to improve the quality of its reporting. 144 principles of the Global Pact page human rights > principle 1: support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights through 57-58 and 62 to 64 our sphere of inﬂuence > principle 2: make sure that our own company is not complicit in human rights abuses labour > principle 3: uphold the freedom of association and recognise the right to collective bargaining 57, 69, 70, 73 > principle 4: eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 57 > principle 5: abolish child labour 57 > principle 6: eliminate all forms of discrimination 57, 78 to 81 environment > principle 7: adopt a preventive approach to environmental challenges 120 to 140 > principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 120 to 140 > principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 141-142 anti-corruption > principle 10: combat corruption in all its forms 57, 58 145 appendices note on methodology background were redefined in 2011, as was the scope of the CO2 emission factor for short-haul air transport report. The scope does not include all Group in the GHG Protocol (180g CO2/km per passenThe method of calculating CO2 emissions relatentities due to the organisation of the report. At ger ) has been used for all flights (short-, medied to the consumption of electricity in France Group level, the health and safety report covers umand long-haul). The CO2 emission factor was altered in 2011 to incorporate the Ademe 83% of active employees. In France, health and for train transport is taken from the “Bilan Caremission factor. Historical data has also been safety indicators only cover FTSA (88% of active bone™” method when available for the correrecalculated in order to calculate Group emisemployees). In Poland, they only cover TPSA sponding country. sions. (62% of active employees). In the other countries, a standard factor of 100!g Local purchase indicators were reprocessed in The report on accidents in the workplace with CO2/ km per passenger is used. 2011 to include new purchase categories and stoppages includes accidents recognised as Besides Carlson Wagon Lits, local travel agenconsolidated purchase volumes. accidents in the workplace and those awaiting cies that have provided a report are also includrecognition. As for the fatal accidents reported, ed, as are journeys made by families of expatrithese are only accidents recognised by the comate employees. social data petent local authorities. CO2 emissions The social reporting in this document is based All the emissions factors are taken from the on HR-Info, an information system that differs environmental data GHG Protocol, with the results (2008) of its most from that used for the annual report and referrecent update (2011), with the exception of the ence document (Magnitude) because only The environment report for this document is electricity emissions factor in France, which is HR-Info allows distinctions to be made by genbased on an information system named Indicia. taken from Ademe. The emissions factor for der and grade (upper management, manageOnly countries consolidated in the Annual report Orange Business Services International entities ment and non-management). HR-Info was not were included in the RSE report. Equatorial throughout the world corresponds with the able to collect the detailed data for 4 girls ComGuinea and Mauritius were therefore excluded “world” factor of the GHG Protocol 2005. panies of the Group (Cityvox, Saint Pierre et from the environment report. No new countries The coefficients used for the other kinds of fuel Miquelon, and two small Belgian companies) were added to the report in 2011. (gas, fuel oil, coal, petrol, diesel and LPG) are where from the difference of 59 persons (56 also taken from the GHG (2007). permanent contract, and 3 fixed-term conenergy Ademe’s coefficient for France has been applied tracts), that is 0.03 % of the employees of the The energy consumption of data centres and within the framework of the Grenelle 2 Act, Group. networks shared with other operators are article 75 (methodology consultable on: http:// accounted for either partly or totally. The conwww.developpement-durable.gouv.fr/IMG/ male-female management split (permanent sumption of mixed equipment (network and pdf/110912_Art-75_Methodologie_generale_ contracts at end of period) mobile) in France is allocated in its entirety to the vfinale.pdf). The rule for calculating the “management perindicator covering the consumption of networks ■ The carbon base gives the average emissions sonnel” indicator is based on the active workoutside the mobile activity. factor for France: 78!g CO2/kWh (average over force on permanent contracts. The energy consumption of premises, particuthree years, 2008-2010) (emissions factor The “management personnel” indicator correlarly shops, for which the France Telecom Group uncertainty 10%). sponds to upper management. does not pay an invoice directly, is not reported. ■ Prior to 2008, the IEA’s emissions factor for the Entities outside France use a correspondence The consumption of energy from urban heating period 2006-2008 was: 86!g CO2/kWh (emistable to determine which employees to include plants is not accounted for due to the difficulty of sions factor uncertainty 10%). as “management personnel”. estimating the related CO2 emissions. These figures have been used to update the Polish consumption is calculated from a statistihistoric CO2 emissions for France, and therefore percentage of women in the “Leaders” network cal sample of invoices received during the finanthe Group. The “Leaders” network is a management netcial year. In the same way, the consumptions of work that consisted of 1,143 members of manelectricity of Orange Spain and France networks electronic waste (e-waste) collected from agement at the end of 2011. These members of are based on a part of estimation. customers management hold positions with very high “Fuel consumption (all buildings, all usage)” WEEE collected from “private” customers conresponsibility issues within the France Telecom groups together the consumption (excluding sists of WEEE (mobile, landline and multimedia Group. vehicles) of domestic heating oil, diesel and petterminals) returned to sales outlets, by mail or rol together with the consumption of heavy fuel collected by service providers on behalf of number of leavers oil and diesel by vessels of the FT Marine subOrange. The “number of resignations”, “number of redunsidiary. This indicator includes the mobile phones of dancies/dismissals” and “number of leavers per Group employees. It includes batteries and gender” only include departures of active transport accumulators that are part of equipment when it employees on permanent contracts. Departures The data relating to train and air travel derives is returned by a customer, and other types of of “inactive” employees (those on long-term sick mostly from Carlson Wagon Lits, which is batteries and accumulators collected separately leave, leave for business creation, early retireresponsible for more than 80% of the distance at various collection points. ment, etc.) are not included in the report. covered by employees. Distances covered durIn France, WEEE from “business” customers ing train and air journeys are estimated using the (OBS France) is not included in this indicator but Health and safety indicators great circle route method (the shortest distance rather in the internal WEEE indicator (network). The definitions of health and safety indicators between two points on the Earth’s surface). The 146 waste produced and processed CAPEX: In France, only waste handled by a service pro■ civil engineering works; vider having signed a framework contract with ■ set-up fees and access to the local loop; the France Telecom Group is listed in the report ■ land, buildings and improvements: network); as office waste and non-customer network ■ land, buildings and improvements: stores; WEEE, with the exception of cables and other ■ other land, building and improvements: non hazardous waste (including bilge water and network). sludges) from FT Marine and a limited quantity of OPEX: waste from FTR&D and FT Marine. ■ network: outsourcing site maintenance (NetDifferent dedicated service providers are used, work: subcontr. on site maintenance intervendepending on the type of waste concerned tions); (copper cables, paper, network equipment, bat■ network: energy; teries, wooden poles, etc.). Particular attention is ■ property: shop rent; paid to wooden poles, in order to prevent their ■ property : other property rent; reuse and to ensure they are properly eliminated. ■ public occupancy charges; For all sites on lease, household and similar ■ property: operating and maintenance; waste is not reported, as they are managed by ■ vehicles: Operating and maintenance; the landlord. ■ advertising: media buying; In the rest of the world, the quantities of waste ■ marketing/communication, direct marketing; reported include only waste disposed of through ■ distribution – points of sale marketing; identified channels. ■ sponsoring; Given the lack of identified channels for some ■ patronage; types of waste in a number of countries, more ■ press relations; particularly in the AMEA zone, the quantities of ■ travel and living; waste reported may well be non-exhaustive. ■ temporary staff; ■ postage and courier; environmental management system ■ training; The “Number of ISO!14001-certified sites or ■ operators: landline; activities” indicator reflects electricity consump■ operators; tion covered by ISO!14001 certification as a ■ property: rents, network sites; proportion of total electricity consumption. ■ selling fees. For FTSA, this indicator is calculated by taking the number of employees covered by the certifiThe 2010 and 2011 data was updated on cation as a proportion of the total number of 15 March 2012 in order to take into account: employees. ■ new categories of purchases added in 2011 (in red) and more local purchases (100% for CET (Customer Experience Tracker) training, 80% for the others); The indicator published corresponds to the aver■ amounts for consolidated purchases: extracage score given by Orange customers for the tions made in mid-December or at the end of following question : “[…] Would you recommend December do not include “complete year” valOrange mobile/broadband Internet to your ues but do include budget values that do not friends and family?” reflect reality; the new extraction (on 16 February Those questioned awarded a score on a scale of 2012) includes reliable non-reviewable data for 0 to 10. The scores were averaged out and mul2010 and 2011. tiplied by 10 to give a score out of 100. Orange Business Services International local purchases OBS International reporting is based in 133 sites For each country, the percentage of local purin 11 countries where OBS operates. These chases corresponds to the relationship between countries represent 72.6% of staff and 60% of the total CAPEX and OPEX directed to local building areas (m2) occupied. The countries are suppliers and the total CAPEX and OPEX .The Australia, Brazil, Switzerland, Egypt, Germany, phrase “total CAPEX and OPEX directed to local India, Mauritius, Russia, Singapore, United suppliers” means the partial or total sum of a States and United Kingdom. certain number of CAPEX and OPEX categories considered to be local purchases. These percentages are common to all countries. The categories selected are as follows: 147 external opinion report of one of the statutory auditors on the corporate responsibility reporting process year ended 31 December 2011 (This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers) For the attention of France Telecom Executive nature and scope of our work ■ We compared the material issues described Management. by France Telecom in its report with those preWe performed our procedures in accordance sented by the main telecommunications sector At your request and in our capacity as one of the with applicable professional guidelines and companies in their corporate responsibility statutory auditors of France Telecom, we have ISAE 3000 and AA1000 AS (2008) standards. reports and those arising from our review of the conducted procedures on the following items: Our procedures satisfy the requirements of a sector’s press in 2011. (1) the description given by France Telecom on Type 2 verification in accordance with AA1000 page 59 of the 2011 Group Corporate AS (2008) standard. (2) work on the main achievements Responsibility Report (“the Report”) on the ■ We assessed France Telecom’s description of compliance with AA1000 APS (2008) princiThe Professional Code of Conduct governing the state of progress of the objectives set in the ples of inclusivity, materiality and responsivethe statutory auditor profession, to which we are report’s roadmaps and of the validity of the presness in the report’s preparation process (“the bound, guarantees our independence with entation of the main achievements by conductPrinciples); regard to the criteria required by AA1000 AS ing interviews and collecting substantive evi(2) the description made by the Group on pages (2008). dence from the relevant entities. 66, 74, 81, 87, 90, 94, 97, 102, 106, 110, 123, 129, 133, 136, 140 of the report on the We implemented the following procedures, in (3) work on the selected performance indicators state of progress of the objectives set in the order to obtain: report’s roadmaps and of the validity of their Moderate assurance presentation (“Main achievements”); ■ a reasonable assurance that the description of ■ For the indicators identified by the symbol , (3) a selection of corporate responsibility key the principles (1) (defined above), the description we assessed each reporting criteria used to performance indicators selected by France of the main achievements (2), and the selected elaborate the selected indicators with regard to Telecom that are identified by the symbol indicators (3) identified by the symbol are their relevance, reliability, neutrality, understandor among the information published on true and fair in all material respects. ability and completeness. pages 65, 83, 135, 150, 151 and 154 of the ■ We met the people responsible for the appliReport (“the selected key performance indi■ a moderate assurance that the selected indication of the reporting criteria at the France cators”); cators (3) identified by the symbol and the Telecom headquarters (Executive committee, (4) France Telecom’s self-assessment of the GRI self-assessment does not contain any corporate social responsibility department and report based on GRI G3 guidelines (“the GRI material misstatements (4). A higher level of Human resources department), OBS (Equant in self-assessment”), available for download on assurance would have required more extensive the United States and in Russia) and a sample of the Web page: http://www.orange.com/fr_ work. entities and divisions in the following countries: FR/responsabilite/notre_approche/documenArmenia (Orange Armenia), Belgium (Mobistar), tation/ (1) work on the description of the principles Côte d’Ivoire (OCI and CIT), Egypt (ECMS), ■ We met the people responsible for corporate Spain (France Telecom España), France (FTSA, These items were prepared under the responsiresponsibility at the France Telecom headquarOrange France SA), Jordan (Orange Jordan), bility of Group management in accordance with ters (Executive committee, corporate social Mali (Orange Mali), Poland (TP SA and PTK the following reporting criteria: responsibility department and Human resources Centertel) and Romania (Orange Romania) rep(1) for the principles, AA1000 APS (2008); department), OBS (Equant) and a sample of resenting 93% of France Telecom’s headcount (2) for the Main achievements, the corporate entities and divisions in the following countries: and 89% of the energy consumed (excluding responsibility policies and guidelines prepared Armenia (Orange Armenia), Belgium (Mobistar), transport), 87% of the CO2 emissions and 95% by the France Telecom Group and described Côte d’Ivoire (OCI and CIT), Egypt (ECMS), of the internal waste produced and treated in the 2011 roadmaps; Spain (France Telecom España), Jordan (Orange published by the Group. (3) for the selected key performance indicators, Jordan), Mali (Orange Mali), Poland (TP SA and ■ We performed validation tests on the selected all the procedures relating to the reporting of PTK Centertel) and Romania (Orange Romania) indicators at corporate level and for the sample environmental, social, and societal indicators, representing 92% of France Telecom’s revenue, of entities and divisions defined above. available for consultation at the quality and in order to assess the implementation of the corporate social responsibility department, report’s preparation process as defined by Reasonable assurance that are summarized on pages 146-147 of France Telecom and the identification of signifi■ For the indicators identified by the symbol the report; cant events in 2011. , the level of measurement accuracy and (4) for the GRI Self-Assessment, the GRI G3 ■ We conducted tests at corporate level and for the conduct of more extensive procedures than sustainable development reporting guidethe above-mentioned entities on the implementhose described previously, particularly concernlines. tation of the procedure relating to: ing the number of samples, enabled us to – identification of the stakeholders and their express a reasonable assurance. It is our responsibility to express a conclusion on expectations; these items based on the work we performed. – identification of material corporate responsibilOur work covers only these items and not the ity issues; entire report. – implementation of corporate responsibility policies and guidelines. 148 (4) work on the GRI self-assessment Without calling into question the conclusions of ■ Based on the GRI cross-reference table shown our work mentioned above, may we draw your in the report’s appendix and on the corporate attention on the fact that, considering the responsibility and sustainable development’s absence of identified fields in many countries, Internet site, we satisfied ourselves that for each notably in the AMEA zone, the quantities of indicator contributing to the A+ application level, waste reported in the indicators “internal waste a disclosure was provided in the report or in produced and treated” hold a risk of nonanother document referred to in the table and exhaustiveness. published by the Group. (4) GRI self-assessment In order to assist us in conducting our work, we Based on the work we performed, we did not referred to the specific competencies of our identify any material anomalies likely to call into firm’s multidisciplinary team of social and enviquestion France Telecom’s self-assessment of ronmental responsibility experts, managed by the report based on the GRI G3 guidelines that Éric Dugelay. contributed to the A+ application level. Neuilly-sur-Seine, 16 May 2012. conclusion One of the statutory auditors, Reasonable assurance Deloitte & Associés (1) description of the principles Frédéric Moulin. In our opinion, France Telecom’s description on page 59 of the Report on compliance with (1) http://www.accountability21.net/aa1000series (2) http://www.globalreporting.org/GRIReports/ApplicationAA1000 APS (2008) principles of inclusivity, Levels/. The report can be given an A GRI application level if materiality and responsiveness in the report’s the company (i) has reported information for all the indicpreparation process is true and fair in all material ators required by this standard, (ii) has explained for each respects. indicator category the managerial approach adopted and (iii) has provided information on all of the key indicators required by the standard. It can be given an A+ application (2) main achievements level if the existence of this information has given rise to an In our opinion, the description of the state of external verification. progress of the objectives set in the report’s (3) http://www.accountability.org/standards/index.html guidelines and of the validity of the presentation of the main achievements on pages 66, 74, 81, 87, 90, 94, 97, 102, 106, 110, 123, 129, 133, 136, 140 of the report is true and fair in all material respects. (3) selected key performance indicators In our opinion, the data identified by the symbol were prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting criteria. Moderate assurance (3) selected key performance indicators Based on the work we performed, we did not identify any material anomalies likely to call into question the fact that the data identified by the symbol were prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned reporting criteria. 149 social data scope (in % of the overall indicators GRI France Europe Group’s headcount) France Poland Spain Belgium Romania Switzerland Slovakia Armenia in the Group (end of the year) Number of male employees LA13 100% 67,281 13,041 1,860 1,156 1,450 805 927 212 Number of female employees LA13 100% 38,600 10,519 1,327 615 1,396 445 441 184 Total number of employees LA1 100% 105,881 23,560 3,187 1,771 2,846 1,250 1,368 396 Percentage of women among the employees LA13 100% 36.5% 44.6% 41.6% 34.7% 49.1% 35.6% 32.2% 46.5% Total number of employees CDI (permanent contracts) LA1 100% 104,148 22,488 3,146 1,763 2,607 1,193 1,242 389 Total number of employees CDD (temporary contracts) LA1 100% 1,733 1,072 41 8 239 57 126 7 Total number of employees (full time) LA1 100% 100,696 23,286 3,095 1,723 2,793 1,190 1,367 395 Total number of employees of the previous year LA1 100% 102,552 25,080 3,181 1,635 2,708 1,219 1,331 357 Number of men (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 20,090 2,632 310 459 426 383 472 39 Number of women (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 8,367 962 113 171 299 102 90 15 Number of employees (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 28,457 3,594 423 630 725 485 562 54 Percentage of women (CDI) in management positions LA13 100% 29.4% 26.8% 26.7% 27.1% 41.2% 21.0% 16.0% 27.8% Percentage of women in the “leaders” network LA13 100% Global ﬁgure (concerning 1,143 leaders end 2011) Average age of the workforce LA1 100% 46.8 39.6 38.2 37.2 31.1 34.0 34.0 28.7 Total number of permanent employees (CDI) in 2010 LA1 100% 100,726 24,136 3,172 1,628 2,562 1,143 1,252 348 Number of redundancies LA2 100% 93 809 86 77 – 51 43 – % of redundancies per country LA2 100% 0.1 % 3.4 % 2.7 % 4.7 % 0.0 % 4.5 % 3.4 % 0.0 % (compared to 2010 permanent employees) Number of external recruitments LA2 100% 3 783 1 498 151 342 362 234 106 77 % of external recruitments (compared to 2010 permanent LA2 100% 3.8% 6.2% 4.8% 21.0% 14.1% 20.5% 8.5% 22.1% employees) Number of resignations LA2 100% 572 1 185 56 105 308 124 60 31 % of volontary departures LA2 100% 0.6% 4.9% 1.8% 6.4% 12.0% 10.8% 4.8% 8.9% (compared to 2010 permanent employees) Total number of employee departures (male) LA2 100% 984 2,032 83 153 160 115 53 16 Total number of employee departures (female) LA2 100% 743 1,023 62 35 148 64 50 15 Total number of employee departures < 30 years LA2 100% 397 681 12 82 195 72 32 24 Total number of employee departures 30-50 years LA2 100% 557 1,676 130 101 111 97 70 7 Total number of employee departures > 50 years LA2 100% 773 698 3 5 2 10 1 – Nb. of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA4 85% 105,556 18,054 2,745 – – – – – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 85% 99.7% 76.6% 86.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% agreements (compared to 2011 employees) Total number of trained workers LA10 92% 90,398 22,951 3,106 1,692 1,637 746 1,457 – Total number of hours devoted to training LA10 92% 3,427,545 597,190 181,368 60,261 36,246 15,496 60,059 – Average number of hours of training per year and per employee LA10 92% 32.4 25.3 56.9 34.0 12.7 12.4 43.9 – % of employees who had a performance appraisal (2) & (6) LA12 83.0% 99.3% 97.7% 81.2% The 4 indicators below are temporary values on a restricted scope of reporting (2), (3) & (4) Number of fatal accidents LA7 83% 3 0 0 0 0 – 0 0 Number of related work accidents (2) & (3) LA7 83% 687 45 6 6 0 – 1 1 Number of days lost due to non-fatal work accidents LA7 83% 47,712 2,419 608 194 0 – 15 1 Total number of days lost due to illness LA7 83 % 1,511,153 133,923 11,676 13,076 9,234 – 9,242 904 (1) OBS International takes into account : Equant (which number of employees throught 160 countries including France, represents 93,5% of the overall number), 11 Etrali subsidiaries (2,1%), 7 Globecast subsidiaries (2,9%) & 7 Silicomp subsidiaries (1,5%). (2) The given ﬁgure for France concerns only the FTSA employees. (3) The number of accidents have been reported on nine countries: USA, UK, Brazil, India, Singapore, Australia, Germany, Belgium, Egypt and Mauricius, or 7,475 emmployees (61% of OBS Intl); missing reporting countries: Russia and Switzerland. (4) For Poland, collected reporting on only TPSA (62% of employees). 150 –!: not avaible na: not applicable nc: not collected item reviewed by Deloitte: reasonable level of assurance item reviewed by Deloitte: moderate level of assurance other Orange Group Europe AMEA Group countries / Business Group total total world Services total 2011 2009 2010 others organisaInternational (7) (without Dominican Côte (6) Moldova Luxembourg Senegal Mali Egypt Jordan Kenya countries tions (1) UK) Republic d’Ivoire AMEA 480 102 627 1,248 329 836 3,544 1,825 1,341 1,588 1,347 9,176 109,175 107,112 108,212 449 57 616 622 95 525 1,233 605 371 1,045 605 2,965 62,715 61,287 62,195 929 159 1,243 1,870 424 1,361 4,777 2,430 1,712 2,633 1,952 12,141 171,890 168,399 170,407 48.3% 35.8% 49.6% 33.3% 22.4% 38.6% 25.8% 24.9% 21.7% 39.7% 31.0% 24.4% 36.5% 36.4% 36.5% 928 149 1,243 1,870 382 1,351 4,777 2,156 1,712 2,228 1,826 12,050 167,648 164,406 166,439 1 10 – – 42 10 – 274 – 405 126 91 4,242 3,993 3,968 929 157 1,241 1,870 424 1,361 4,777 2,430 1,712 2,633 1,938 12,136 166,153 163,607 167,057 878 139 1,256 1,854 415 1,585 3,503 2,494 2,075 2,434 1,758 11,902 168,356 168,107 171,811 84 13 33 222 60 107 369 147 131 289 643 5,648 32,557 31,206 29,484 46 4 22 87 19 39 108 40 60 89 308 1,557 12,498 11,833 11,084 130 17 55 309 79 146 477 187 191 378 951 7,205 45,055 43,039 40,568 35.4% 23.5% 40.0% 28.2% 24.1% 26.7% 22.6% 21.4% 31.4% 23.5% 32.4% 21.6% 27.7% 27.5% 27.3% difﬁcult to split between the different countries, because of transverse-corporate activities 23.80 % 23.15 % na 30.0 32.6 30.7 40.7 34.0 39.0 30.8 35.4 40.7 32.9 35.2 38.0 42.6 42.8 42.4 878 132 1,256 1,854 331 1,539 3,503 2,201 2,074 2,064 1,719 11,847 164,365 164,372 166,882 – 1 110 – – 6 33 3 394 40 41 263 2,050 3,311 3,770 0.0% 0.8% 8.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% 0.9% 0.1% 19.0% 1.9% 2.4% 2.2% 1.2% 2.0% 2.3% 130 26 163 85 64 13 368 111 126 413 411 1,700 10,163 10,090 7,168 14.8% 19.7% 13.0% 4.6% 19.3% 0.8% 10.5% 5.0% 6.1% 20.0% 23.9% 14.3% 6.2% 6.1% 4.3% 49 8 53 14 – 5 264 100 71 140 241 1,196 4,582 4,052 3,845 5.6% 6.1% 4.2% 0.8% 0.0% 0.3% 7.5% 4.5% 3.4% 6.8% 14.0% 10.1% 2.8% 2.5% 2.3% 22 12 77 96 10 155 225 91 380 125 250 1 130 6,169 5,718 6,150 28 4 86 23 3 40 83 30 108 99 121 397 3,162 3,143 3,529 39 6 97 3 1 – 208 56 44 106 147 635 2,837 2,840 2,738 11 10 64 19 12 69 93 57 407 113 209 790 4,603 4,107 4,630 – – 2 97 – 126 7 8 37 5 15 102 1,891 1,914 2,311 – – – 1,870 – 780 – – – 1,332 90 1,652 132,079 130,393 131,372 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 57.3% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 50.6% 4.6% 13.6% 76.8% 77.4% 77.1% 615 – 1,033 – 265 739 2,795 1,963 – 1,069 284 8,683 139,433 139,139 137,337 31,653 – 40,918 – 13,302 26,208 69,156 52,488 – 44,401 4,847 206,898 4,868,034 4,755,346 4,818,308 34.1 – 32.9 – 31.4 19.3 14.5 21.6 – 16.9 2.5 17.0 28.3 28.2 28.3 77.8% 90.9% 71.9% na na na 0 – 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 nc 0 4 na nc 2 – 5 2 0 14 18 40 16 5 nc 4 852 na nc 142 – 76 128 0 213 346 1,369 362 288 nc nc 53,873 nc nc 5,712 – 3,485 6,568 911 4,549 8,654 8,425 684 3,118 nc 2,329 na na nc (5) Corrected 2010 Group Total (taken out of the HR data of Mauritius –1,726 employees and Equatorial Guinea –491 employees, unconsolidated entities in 2010). (6) The given percentage refer to the mid year performance employees appraisal campaign. For France & OBS, it concerns performance appraisal of senior managers (level E, F, G); for the other countries, when values are available, it concerns the complete population of employees. (7) A difference of 59 employees (56 CDI & 3 CDD), or 0.03 % of the total number of employees, exists between the registration document and the CSR report. This is due to the impossibility to collect on time the appropriate data from four small entities. 151 environmental data scope, indicators units GRI (% Group’s France Europe turnover) France(1) Poland Spain Belgium Romania Switzerland Slovakia facilities presenting a risk fuel tanks units 98.2% 2,338 1,504 274 0 316 0 20 energy consumption scope 1 facilities presenting a risk m3 EN3 98.7% 14,502 2,851 3,569 464 101 119 29 fuel tanks m3 EN3 99.4% 16,538,741 4,085,454 0 144,729 0 22,236 507,607 energy consumption tons EN3 100.0% na 87 na na na na na gazoline + GPL for company’s vehicles liters EN3 98.2% 72,904 1,265,165 78,196 0 240,929 26,321 204,466 diesel gazoline for company’s vehicles liters EN3 98.2% 29,325,544 4,804,306 580,983 1,888,664 846,872 154,509 423,758 total energy scope 1 GWh EN3 99.0% 636 136 48 26 12 3 12 CO2 emissions – fuel-gas-coal tons CO2 EN4 99.0% 73,751 15,745 9,565 1,523 270 361 1,056 CO2 emissions (vehicles) tons CO2 EN5 98.2% 80,819 16,223 1,784 5,194 2,902 488 1,652 scope 1 CO2 emissions tons CO2 EN3 99.5% 154,569 31,968 11,349 6,717 3,172 848 2,708 (energy only) CO2 emissions from green house gas tons CO2 EN19 13.0% 0 5,960 0 0 474 0 0 scope 1 CO2 emissions tons CO2 EN16 98.0% 154,569 37,928 11,349 6,717 3,646 848 2,708 scope 2 electricity EN4 99.2% 2,194 535 287 108 100 58 75 of which green energy GWh EN6 100.0% 0 0 0 108 0 0 0 scope 2 CO2 emissions GWh EN16 99.2% 171,159 349,349 93,376 0 41,491 1,588 16,331 scope 1 + scope 2 CO2 tons CO2 EN16 98.5% 325,729 387,276 104,724 6,717 45,137 2,436 19,039 scope 3 flight distances for business trips km EN29 98.0% 180,103,765 7,150,034 8,459,905 1,253,189 4,130,417 1,008,987 1,453,592 train distances for business trips km EN29 98.0% 101,103,691 5,552,982 2,688,110 866,188 7,813 1,259,840 0 scope 3 CO2 emissions tons CO2 EN16 33,379 1,842 1,661 267 744 186 262 total emitted CO2 (scope 1 + 2 + 3) tons CO2 EN16 98.0% 359,108 389,119 106,385 6,984 45,881 2,622 19,300 KPI: total energy consumption/customer kWh/customer 99.2% 30.86 22.01 19.91 22.90 9.68 35.73 25.18 KPI: CO2 emitted (all energies)/customer kg/customer 99.2% 2.41 14.38 6.49 0.00 4.04 0.98 5.47 KPI: total energy consumption toe/1,000 99.0% 9.4 6.6 4.7 5.9 2.3 8.2 7.2 (scopes 1 + 2) /1,000 customers customers KPI: total energy consumption kWh/ 99.0% 39.8 27.6 23.2 28.4 10.8 37.8 29.1 (scopes 1 + 2) /customers customer KPI : CO2 emitted (all energies)/ kg/customer 99.0% 5.1 16.0 7.4 1.5 4.5 1.6 6.5 (scopes 1 + 2 + 3) /customer consumed water (m3) m3 EN8 97.1% 1,245,513 782,261 27,181 11,061 40,160 8,658 30,751 paper and carboard: internal (offices) and external (marketing, invoicing, directories, tons EN1 97.1% 13,231 1,933 6,457 0 637 0 721 packaging…) treated internal waste common industrial waste (general waste) tons EN22 98.2% 7,434 nc nc 102 nc 51 129 internal (network and tertiary) WEEE tons EN22 98.2% 1,419 284 19 0.56 34 26 77 metal poles tons EN22 98.2% 995 nc na na 8 na na wodden poles tons EN22 98.2% 11,879 24 na 0 na na na cables tons EN22 98.2% 8,369 325 na na 0 na na batteries tons EN22 98.2% 1,582 21 3 14 156 80 40 fluorescent tubes tons EN22 98.2% 0.37 0.00 0.00 0 0 0 0 paper and carboard tons EN22 98.2% 2,582 237 149 27 157 32 135 printer cardridges tons EN22 98.2% 38 0.09 4 0 3 1 0 other hazardous waste (PCB included) tons EN22 98.2% 289 0.13 0 0.31 0 0 11 other non-hazardous waste tons EN22 98.2% 0 619 0 0.0 0 105 220 total treated internal waste tons EN22 98.2% 34,586.8 1,510.21 175.20 143.64 357.75 295.01 612.25 tons/M€ KPI: tons of waste treated / M€ of turnover 98.2% 1.3 0.42 0.04 0.09 0.40 0.30 0.84 of turnover WEEE collected from customers (including tons EN22 98.2% 2,981 0.17 0 11 11.27 2 1 batteries) kg/1 000 KPI: WEEE collected from customers 98.2% 41.93 0.01 0.00 2.28 1.10 1.24 0.46 customers EMS KPI EMS : importance of ISO 14001 % 92.5% 10.7% 30.0% 96.9% 0,0% 0,0% 0,0% 100.0% certified scope 152 – : not available na: not applicable nc: not collected Europe AMEA Orange Business Services International (2) Dominican others Moldova Armenia Senegal Mali Côte d’Ivoire Egypt Jordan Kenya Republic countries AMEA 0 0 397 0 0 372 165 239 0 0 42 1 19 2,612 1,471 4,499 1,944 29,550 509 3,765 11,677 117 20,155 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 343,565 na na na na na na na na na na na 290,332 150,610 819,600 38,696 0 529,042 935,218 304,110 184,853 163,765 581,227 137,889 55,150 66,505 697,033 342,555 569,128 0 895,199 287,425 310,560 1,347,792 4 2 38 24 56 33 351 18 48 140 24 43 51 6,999 3,941 12,058 5,211 79,193 1,364 10,089 31,295 976 1,070 510 2,134 2,009 942 2,824 2,226 3,186 1,230 1,244 5,089 1,113 561 9,133 5,950 13,000 8,035 81,419 4,550 11,320 32,539 6,065 0 154 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 948 1,113 715 9,133 5,950 13,000 8,035 81,419 4,550 11,320 32,539 7,013 22 13 27 53 14 41 208 52 33 51 115 0 0 1 3 2 1 0 0 1 3 5 10,225 2,062 16,619 28,053 5,976 17,932 95,838 30,863 10,589 23,724 54,916 11,338 2,777 25,752 34,003 18,976 25,967 177,257 35,413 21,909 56,262 61,928 2,021,257 1,644,217 4,279,786 3,116,902 311,524 173,072 2,805,267 1,983,388 2,856,817 1,297,010 66,335,942 944 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,685,067 364 296 770 561 56 31 505 357 514 233 12,109 11,702 3,073 26,523 34,564 19,032 25,998 177,762 35,770 22,423 56,496 74,037 11.88 21.62 8.72 8.14 2.10 6.62 6.28 15.68 29.69 4.37 na 5.56 3.56 5.35 4.34 0.93 2.89 2.89 9.23 9.50 2.04 na 3.0 5.2 3.0 2.1 1.2 2.0 2.3 4.0 10.2 2.0 na 14.2 25.3 21.1 11.9 10.7 11.9 16.9 20.9 72.9 16.4 na 6.4 5.3 8.5 5.4 2.9 4.2 5.4 10.7 20.1 4.9 na 12,152 70 40 123,612 33,264 81,493 1,288,374 42,689 0 24,034 73,909 0 0 16 0 0 111 0 64 0 0 44 456 nc 65 nc nc nc 51 nc nc nc 826.18 nc nc 96 nc 256 3 34 nc nc nc 24 0 0 na 0 na 0.32 150 nc 0 na na 0 0 na 0 na 0 na nc 0 na na 0 0 na 58 na 2.34 80 nc 134 na 0.65 22 0 80 30 44.00 6.35 274 13 0 23 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 nc 0 0 0 34 8 0 0 0 0 40 nc 0 0 81.06 0 0 0 0 0.20 0.54 0 nc 0 25 3.40 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 nc 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 47 nc 0 15 45.87 512.35 8.18 241.17 88.06 300.00 12.61 676.75 12.85 133.80 63.85 995 3.72 0.33 0.58 0.15 1.18 0.03 0.55 0.03 1.86 0.08 0.49 0 0 80 3 0 0 0 nc 0 0 32 0.00 0.00 25.63 0.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 na 0.00 0.00 na 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 11.0% 0.0% 153 environmental data Group 2011: Group validated values indicators units estimated non Group 2011: Validated Values (updated without United Kingdom, for years 2006 to 2009) reported validated values + estimated information information recall 2010 recall 2009 recall 2008 recall 2007 recall 2006 facilities presenting a risk fuel tanks units 5,666 nc 5,666 5,992 5,996 6,445 5,601 3,916 energy consumption scope 1 facilities presenting a risk m3 77,798 5,050 82,848 71,087 80,750 49,480 44,872 51,117 fuel tanks m3 21,662,486 147,242 21,809,728 23,836,444 23,867,165 24,729,068 25,285,598 27,988,080 energy consumption tons 87 na 87 119 197 271 284 213 gazoline + GPL for company’s vehicles liters 5,885,434 400,000 6,285,434 6,867,479 9,518,387 10,442,078 13,513,958 12,970,338 diesel gazoline for company’s vehicles liters 42,733,872 900,000 43,633,872 45,091,672 44,358,123 46,326,910 42,299,296 42,084,210 total energy scope 1 GWh 1,610 73 1,683 1,587 1,716 1,391 1,331 1,424 CO2 emissions – fuel-gas-coal tons CO2 253,491 13,818 267,309 239,159 264,565 181,010 165,924 336,475 CO2 emissions (vehicles) tons CO2 131,524 3,427 134,951 140,344 144,637 152,138 150,410 146,599 scope 1 CO2 emissions tons CO2 385,015 17,245 402,260 379,503 409,203 333,147 316,334 483,075 (energy only) CO2 emissions from green house gas tons CO2 7,536 5,406 12,942 15,881 14,105 24,309 15,185 scope 1 CO2 emissions tons CO2 392,551 22,652 415,203 395,384 423,308 357,456 331,519 483,075 scope 2 electricity 3,984 59 4,043 4,039 3,916 3,700 3,123 3,346 of which green energy GWh 123 – 123 8,37 9,74 9,77 12 77 scope 2 CO2 emissions GWh 970,090 29,689 999,779 1,098,629 1,054,319 1,007,145 867,683 812,404 scope 1 + scope 2 CO2 tons CO2 1,362,641 52,341 1,414,982 1,494,013 1,477,627 1,364,601 1,199,202 1,295,478 scope 3 – flight distances for business trips km 290,385,071 10,000,000 300,385,071 284,772,951 215,613,397 254,818,910 242,680,598 184,211,947 train distances for business trips km 113,164,635 4,000,000 117,164,635 105,266,548 86,939,923 96,283,916 62,030,773 59,901,669 scope 3 CO2 emissions tons CO2 54,139 2,200 56,339 53,110 40,063 50,620 35,479 36,752 total emitted CO2 (scope 1 + 2 + 3) tons CO2 1,416,780 54,541 1,471,321 1,531,242 1,517,691 1,415,221 1,234,680 1,332,231 KPI: total energy consumption/customer kWh/customer 19.03 na 19.08 20.17 21.23 21.21 20.57 21.97 KPI: CO2 emitted (all energies)/customer kg/customer 4.50 na 4.53 5.37 5.46 5.50 5.70 5.00 KPI: total energy consumption toe/1,000 5.7 na 5.7 6.21 6.55 6.57 6.50 6.83 (scopes 1 + 2)/1,000 customers customers KPI: total energy consumption kWh/ 27.5 na 27.9 28.16 30.82 29.46 29.20 32.07 (scopes 1 + 2) /customers customer KPI : CO2 emitted (all energies)/ kg/customer 6.6 na 6.7 7.43 7.92 7.71 8.04 8.64 (scopes 1 + 2 + 3) /customer consumed water (m3) m3 3,825,222 3,825,222 3,835,075 3,267,350 3,180,810 2,858,518 3,921,562 paper & carboard: internal (offices) and external (marketing, invoicing, directories, tons 23,215 23,215 25,278 23,615 32,238 25,890 34,733 packaging…) treated internal waste common industrial waste (general waste) tons 9,113 9,113 7,406 11,243 8,091 9,146 4,811 internal (network and tertiary) WEEE tons 2,273 2,273 2,125 2,517 2,433 1,787 1,990 metal poles tons 1,153 1,153 950 722 547 1,625 415 wodden poles tons 11,903 11,903 11,740 9,360 11,868 10,861 11,830 cables tons 8,968 8,968 8,214 5,698 5,698 7,106 4,663 batteries tons 2,402 2,402 2,664 1,546 1,863 2,455 2,188 fluorescent tubes tons 1 1 10 12 4 17 0 paper and carboard tons 3,482 3,482 2,957 3,057 2,520 2,216 746 printer cardridges tons 77 77 48 55 54 57 262 other hazardous waste (PCB included) tons 301 301 533 593 173 235 8 other non-hazardous waste tons 1,052 1,052 644 904 793 937 2,376 total treated internal waste tons 40,725 40,725 37,292 35,707 34,045 36,441 29,289 tons/M€ KPI: tons of waste treated / M€ of turnover 0.90 0.90 0.82 0.78 0.71 0.78 0.58 of turnover WEEE collected from customers (including tons 3,121 3,121 1,607 1,357 1,586 1,913 1,632 batteries) kg/1,000 KPI: WEEE collected from customers 15.35 15.35 8,219 8 10 13 12 customers EMS KPI EMS: importance of ISO 14001 % 25.0% 25.0% 16.8% 14.0% 13.9% 12.9% na certified scope item reviewed by Deloitte: reasonable level of assurance item reviewed by Deloitte: moderate level of assurance 154 global presence at 31 December 2011 enterprise business local presence in 160 countries and territories and seamless network in 220 countries and territories consumer / enterprise business Armenia – Austria – Bahrain – Belgium – Botswana – Cameroon – Central African Republic – Côte d’Ivoire – Democratic Republic of Congo – Dominican Republic – Egypt – Equatorial Guinea – France – Guinea – Guinea Bissau – Iraq – Jordan – Kenya – Liechtenstein – Luxembourg – Madagascar – Mali – Mauritius – Moldova – Morocco – Niger – Poland – Portugal – Romania – Senegal – Slovakia – Spain – Switzerland – Tunisia – Uganda – United Kingdom 155 appendices for more information France Telecom Group websites Orange Guinea Caring for Climate www.orange-guinee.com www.unglobalcompact.org/Issues/Environment/ France Telecom Group Climate_Change Orange Equatorial Guinea www.orange.com www.orange.gq European Commission www.europa.eu.int main entities Orange Jordan www.orange.jo CSR Europe Orange Business Services www.csreurope.org www.orange-business.com Orange Kenya www.orange.co.ke ETNO Orange France www.etno.be www.orange.fr Orange Mali www.orangemali.com GeSI Orange United Kingdom www.gesi.org www.orange.co.uk Orange Madagascar www.orange.mg Global Compact Orange Spain www.unglobalcompact.org www.orange.es Mauritius www.mauritiustelecom.com GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Orange Poland www.orange.mu www.globalreporting.org www.orange.pl Orange Niger GSM Association Europe www.orange.ne www.gsmworld.com Orange Austria Orange Réunion GSM Europe www.orange.at www.orange.re www.gsmworld.com/gsmeurope Mobistar (Belgium) Orange Central African Republic Mobile Phone Partnership Initiative (MPPI) www.mobistar.be www.orange.cf www.basel.int/industry/mppi Orange Moldova Orange Senegal OCDE www.orange.md www.orange.sn www.oecd.org Orange Romania Orange Uganda WHO www.orange.ro www.orange.ug www.who.int/fr Orange Slovakia UNEP Caribbean www.orange.sk www.unep.ch Orange Caribbean Orange Switzerland www.orangecaraibe.com www.orange.ch Orange Dominican Republic Africa, Middle East www.orange.com.do Orange Armenia contacts www.orangearmenia.am other websites For any questions or comments on this report, please contact: Orange Botswana AA1000 France Telecom www.orange.co.bw www.accountability21.net Ofﬁce for corporate responsibility and sustainable development Orange Côte d’Ivoire Afom 6, place d’Alleray – 75505 Paris Cedex 15 www.orange.ci www.afom.fr e-mail: contact.csr@orange.com Orange Cameroon ANFR www.orange.cm www.anfr.fr Mobinil (Egypt) Business for Social Responsibility www.mobinil.com www.bsr.org www.orange.com 100% postconsumer fibres, process chlorine free France Telecom-Orange – Corporate social responsibility division – SA with a capital of 10,595,541,532 euros – RCS Paris 380 129 866 – Design and creation: – Publisher: Marc Fossier – Editor in Chief: Christine Hermann, Frédérique Limido-Milesi – Texts: Moringa – Photo credits: Stéphane Foulon – Marc Ginot – @ P. Allan – Image Library France Telecom, Orange Library, Orange Brand Site) – All rights reserved. France Telecom-Orange 6, place d’Alleray – 75505 Paris Cedex 15 – France Tel.: 33 (0)1 44 44 22 22 www.orange.com
