Profile of SEKEM’s Report on Sustainable Development 2011 The reporting period of the Report on Sustainable well, the hard facts in the Performance Report will update Development 2011 is January to December 2011 and thus them on the newest developments. continues the Sustainable Development story of the 2010 If not otherwise stated, the scope includes all SEKEM report that had been published at the end of August 2011. companies as of page 18-19, excluding SEKEM Europe SEKEM uses the report for communicating on all four and Predators. Where stated, the SEKEM Development dimensions of the Sustainable Development Flower including Foundation was included into the data. The basis for this the financial statement. report is mainly deduced from certified management and In this fifth Report on Sustainable Development, some changes quality management systems. We aimed to ensure that the were made regarding the structure. We have separated the data and information provided in this report is as accurate descriptive part of our approach to sustainable development as possible. Wherever data is based on estimations and/or from the annual hard facts. This was done to make the other limitations apply, this is indicated. In cases of significant information more accessible for all readers. For those just changes, these are described directly in the context. getting to know what SEKEM is all about, reading the first part A detailed index of the information requested by the GRI will be a good start. For those who already know SEKEM quite 3 and the Communication on Progress (CoP) of the UN Global Compact is provided at page 84 to 92. SEKEM GROUP ECONOMIC LIFE 2008 2009 2010 2011 Sustainable Developement Balance Product Portfolio Responsibility to Customer and Consumer Score Card Evaluation Innovation In order to assess its overall performance of continuous Organizational Process sustainable development and regeneration, SEKEM uses Partnerships the Sustainable Development Balance Score Card (SBSC). Economic Value Distribution The evaluation steps are represented in the traffic light SOCIETAL LIFE colors – green stands for excellence, red for no action or Labor Rights negative impact and yellow means that awareness exists Health and Safety and actions have been taken, but that there is room for Diversity improvement. In the current review process of the Sustainable Employee Loyality and Motivation Development Flower, which forms the basis of the assessment Governance and Compliance framework, some performance aspects have been merged or Advocacy for Sustainable Development reformulated. The concrete explanations for the classification CULTURAL LIFE and annotations concerning changes are presented in the Training and Education Annex (see page 81). Research and Development Employee Self-fulfillment and Vitality n.a. Values and Spiritualty 2011 Developments at the group level ECOLOGY Soil Quality * The new performance aspect “Partnerships” is one of SOIL Soil Use our core competencies. Through longterm partnerships Seeds we were able to develop the organic market in Egypt. PLANTS Biodiversity and showed positive impact (evaluated as “green”). Animal Husbandry Due to the political unrests and the resulting unstable ANIMALS Natural Habitats economic situation, the sales did not increase as we would Energy Use have expected under normal conditions. Accordingly, we ENERGY Energy Sources evaluate the status as yellow. AIR Emission Reduction The second new performance aspect “Employee SelfWATER Water Use fulfillment and Vitality” was added to the CULTURAL Water Sources * LIFE dimension. To analyse our performance, we plan to Positive impact 14 20 19 18 analyse the values and motivation of our employees and Initiatives for positive impact 11 5 6 8 the perception of their workplace in the year 2012. No actions / negative impact 0 0 0 0 The reformulation of the performance aspects “Soil Not relevant / not available 2 2 2 1 Quality” and “Water Sources” let to a downgrading to the level “yellow”. *downgraded after redefining the Performance Aspect and its For more detailed information, see from page 48 into the requirements, see page 32 and 41 “Performance Report for 2011” 1) 2) 3) 5) 4) EGYPT SEKEM Local and Export Markets SEKEM Locations AMERICA EUROPE 1) SEKEM Farm, Bilbeis SEKEM Farm is the founding site of the SEKEM United States of America, Austria, Belgium, initiative and does not only refer to the farmlands Canada France, Germany, that are cultivated there. It is also the main site for Greece, Hungary, all SEKEM Group companies including production AUSTRALIA Italy, The Netherlands, facilities. Furthermore, it is the base for the Norway, United educational and medical institutions of the SEKEM Australia, New Zealand Kingdom, Slovenia, Development Foundation and offers eco-tourism Sweden, Switzerland opportunities at the SEKEM guesthouse. AFRICA Egypt (local market), South Africa GULF Region 2) Headquarters, Salam City, Cairo The SEKEM Headquarters premises host the SEKEM United Arab Emirates Holding as well as some management functions ASIA Kuwait, Qatar, Oman of the SEKEM Group companies, the Heliopolis Japan, South Korea, China Kingdom of Saudi Academy for Sustainable Development and the Arabia Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA). SEKEM Europe SEKEM Europe, Bochum, Germany 3) New Farm Sinai 4) New Farm Minya 5) New Farm Bahareya II The Concept of the Sustainable Development Flower What is the Sustainable Development Flower? Why does SEKEM use the Sustainable Development Flower? The Sustainable Development Flower represents a management, assessment and communication tool The Sustainable Development Flower supports SEKEM symbolizing the concept of sustainable development in its in: four dimensions (economic life, societal life, cultural life • Understanding all important development processes, and ecology with its six sub dimensions). It was developed setting targets and taking action accordingly within a network of international organizations from the • Making development transparent for all stakeholders organic / biodynamic movement cooperating under the of SEKEM (clients, employees, customers, investors, umbrella of the „International Association of Partnership business partners, media etc.) for Ecology and Trade“ (IAP). • Giving a platform to disclose SEKEM’s self-concept as In the process of revising the Sustainable Development a responsible company and, thus, make it possible that Flower, we added a new element that represents the SEKEM serves as a role model for other organizations cosmic influences on our planet. Examples for those that aim at sustainable development effects are the low and high tides of our oceans and the planet’s magnetic field. These forces also influence all living organisms. While this year’s report does not How does SEKEM use the Sustainable address this new element in the text and assessment yet, it already displays it graphically. The cosmic influences Development Flower? are displayed as the symbols of the zodiac on the In the operations of the SEKEM companies, the blue background surrounding the dimensions of the Sustainable Development Flower is fully applied in Sustainable Development Flower (see page 9). its three functions as a management, assessment and Each dimension consists of several performance aspects, communication tool. defined in detail through performance indicators. These In the dimension ECONOMIC LIFE, SEKEM reflects what are, wherever possible and applicable, linked on the kind of products it sells and in which way it distributes international standard for sustainability reporting, the values along the value chain. In SOCIETAL LIFE, the GRI G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative. protection and regulation of human rights is in the focus. In the last years we learnt a lot through applying this CULTURAL LIFE concentrates on the question of how concept to our work; also which performance aspects to support the development of the individual. These are easy to assess and which are not. In a thoroughly three areas of society are surrounded by the six subreview process we adapted the Sustainable Development dimensions of ECOLOGY: SOIL, PLANTS, ANIMALS, Flower framework according to our learnings, so ENERGY, AIR, and WATER; to understand the positive that also other companies can make better use of the and negative impact on the environment. tool. This year we use for the first time the redefined For our annual evaluation process, we formulated framework to assess our performance (comments on strategic, tangible targets aligned with SEKEM’s vision, mergers and reformulation can be found at page 81). mission and policies. The continuously ongoing data In order to make the provided data more accessible collection on SEKEM’s economic, social, cultural we separated the detailed status and target overviews and ecological performance results in a Sustainable filled with hard facts from the general information about Development Scorecard that we use for improvement SEKEM. and communication purposes e.g. for our annual Sustainable Development Report. ACTION Sustainable Development Performance Performance Goals Targets Measurement Evaluation Communication Flower Aspects Indicators Dimensions implementation and regular review process annual evaluation process III Table of Contents I Report Profile II Export and Local Market Sustainable Development Balance Score Card III The Concept of the Sustainable Development Flower 2 CEO Statement 46 Chairman’s Epilogue 3 The SEKEM Idea 4 SEKEM Story APPROACH INTRO PERFORMANCE REPORT 8 Our Vision, Mission, Values 48 Introduction 9 Our Goals within the Sustainable Development 49 Sustainable Development Organization Flower Framework 50 Sustainable Development Balance Score Card 10 Timeline ECONOMIC LIFE PERFORMANCE REPORT ECONOMIC LIFE 11 Management Approach 52 Status and Target Overview 12 Focus: Resilient Business Model 55 Financial News 14 Product Portfolio of SEKEM 56 Performance Graphs 16 Partnerships 58 Consolidated Financial Statement 17 Suppliers of SEKEM 18 The SEKEM Group of Companies 20 Economic Value Distribution SOCIETAL LIFE PERFORMANCE REPORT SOCIETAL LIFE 21 Management Approach 60 Status and Target Overview 22 Focus: Stability through respect and fairness 62 Awards and Memberships 24 Human Rights and Code of Conduct 63 Organizational Structure of the SEKEM Group 26 Workforce 64 Performance Graphs 27 Health and Safety 66 SEKEM’s Board of Directors 28 Advocacy for Sustainable Development 67 SEKEM’s Advisory Board 68 Stakeholder Approach CULTURAL LIFE PERFORMANCE REPORT CULTURAL LIFE 29 Management Approach 70 Status and Target Overview 30 Focus: Freedom and Education 72 Performance Graphs 32 The SEKEM Cultural Institutions 33 Children and Youth Education 35 Employee Training 37 Holistic Research: Heliopolis Academy 38 Self-Fulfillment 38 Values and Spirituality ECOLOGY Performance Report EcoLOGY 39 Management Approach 76 Status and Target Overview 40 Focus: Regenerative Agriculture 79 Performance Graphs including Carbon Footprint 42 Soil 83 SBSC Evaluation Methodology 43 Plants 86 GRI Indicator Overview amd Level Approval 43 Animals 92 UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 44 Energy 93 Independent Auditor’s Report 44 Air 95 Glossary and Abbreviations 45 Water 97 Imprint CEO Statement Dear Readers, Egypt entered a new era, an era of hope and change. The year 2011 will go down in the history books. Egypt’s uprising in early 2011 brought millions of people onto the streets fighting for freedom and social justice, two values that SEKEM is trying to advance since its inception. We are proud to say that SEKEM didn’t stop working for a single day while employees even helped guarding our facilities at night. It shows that our path to foster human development is bearing fruits. In this time of change and volatility, there was a last attempt from the former regime to embark and approach the revolutionaries by sacrificing leading figures from politics and business. In this context, charges were pressed against me personally that alleged that SEKEM wrongfully benefitted from Industrial Modernization Center services during my time in the board of directors. After three months in remand custody, we all were very relieved that I was finally released. I am very thankful and proud about all SEKEM employees who endured this difficult time with dedication and hard work! I myself used this time of absence to study and refocus on what is important for me, for SEKEM and for Egypt. In particular I dedicated myself in this time to two issues that will have great impact on Egypt: to the 100% organic study that proves that organic agriculture will soon be more competitive than conventional agriculture if it not already is; and to the further planning of Heliopolis University that aims at educating the people on how economics, pharmacy and other fields can be transformed to promote sustainable development. An economic crisis followed the Egyptian uprising and made 2011 a rather difficult business year for SEKEM. With this fifth Report on Sustainable Development, we would like to share with you our progress, as well as our challenges, in relation to each of the four dimensions of sustainable development: Economic Life, Societal Life, and Cultural Life, embedded in our planet’s Ecology. In 2011, the second year in our three-year cycle of target setting has come to an end. We substantially revised and advanced the Sustainable Development Flower which refined our reporting in this year’s report. In the ongoing review process, we removed redundancies, included new indicators and quantified them where appropriate. Cairo, 25th of March 2012 With respect to the extraordinary circumstances, our performance in 2011 proved Helmy Abouleish resilient in all of the four sustainability dimensions. Our economic performance Managing Director of SEKEM Group however faced losses: sales decreased by 7.9% with a profit margin of 1%. In comparison to most of the other Egyptian companies, SEKEM did well even without extensive layoffs. Instead, we were even able to hire qualified staff that will help us to quickly overcome the crisis. We also updated the Code of Conduct and plan to give relevant courses in 2012. Our cultural activities were highlighted by the start to set up a community at Minya farm according to the model that has been practiced on the main farm for over 30 years. Community building and thereby promoting ownership is vital to ensure sustainable development and success on our farms. In the ecological realm, we aim to further decrease our footprint by strict adherence to Demeter standards and pushing for innovative solutions such as our new cooperation with Hydrip GmbH and DEG to improve irrigation efficiency. 2011 showed us that SEKEM’s sustainable business model proved resilient to these exogenous shocks. It reinforces and validates our strategy to include human development and to not only incorporate economic but also societal and cultural life as well as the ecology into all our management considerations. We will do our very best to further promote the concepts of sustainable development and regenerative agriculture through our transactions and projects in our companies, the SEKEM Development Foundation and hopefully very soon the Heliopolis University. SEKEM Report on 2 Sustainable Development 2011 SEKEM Idea SEKEM was founded by Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish in 1977 and is sold on the national and international market. The returns located about 60 km northeast of Cairo in rural Egypt. In 2003, of these companies are partly reinvested into the social and the SEKEM Initiative was honored with the Right Livelihood cultural activities. Award for its holistic business model which integrates societal Today, the SEKEM Development Foundation runs a school, a and cultural dimensions and thereby successfully supports medical center, a vocational training center,various programs sustainable development. With the practices of biodynamic for socially disadvantaged children and several research and agriculture, Dr. Abouleish turned desert land into fertile training programs. Furthermore, the foundation is currently soils. Today, these soils form the very basis for the successful engaged in establishing the Heliopolis University for sustainable cultivation of herbs, fruits and vegetables. The raw materials development. SEKEM`s approach to sustainable development are further processed by the companies of the SEKEM Group unites social, cultural and economic components interacting in to create high quality food, clothes and medicines, which are harmony with nature. Cultural Societal Life Life • The SEKEM Development Foundation (SDF) • SEKEM engages with all its stakeholders in a operates a broad range of educational holistic and transparent way. institutions, provides health services • In 2011, the SEKEM Group of companies and supports the cultural and artistic and the Foundation employed 1,669 and 176 development of SEKEM employees and people respectively. members of the surrounding communities. • SEKEM actively endorses the UN Global • SEKEM established the Egyptian Biodynamic Compact principles and promotes human Association (EBDA) to spread knowledge rights using its Code of Conduct as a basis. about biodynamic agriculture. • SEKEM was awarded a prize by UniFem for • SEKEM established the Heliopolis Academy providing all its female employees with equal and University for Sustainable Development opportunities in 2009. to foster research & development. • SEKEM is at the forefront of national and international initiatives for sustainable development. Economic Ecology Life • The core businesses of the SEKEM Group • SEKEM cultivates 1,628 feddan (ca. 684 are land reclamation, organic farming, ha) of farmland and its suppliers from food, phytopharmaceuticals and textile the EBDA cultivate 6,977 feddan (ca. production. 2,930.34 ha). • SEKEM companies include the largest • In total 16.3% (ISIS: 39.9%) of the raw producer of organic herbal teas in the materials used in processing come Middle East. from SEKEM companies. • SEKEM companies are compliant with 14 • SEKEM constantly monitors and international standards and certificates improves the efficiency of water usage (Demeter, Fairtrade, ISO, etc.). and energy consumption. • The SEKEM Group has implemented • One of the major priorities of SEKEM a comprehensive management system, is caring about the fertility of soil, the integrating the four dimensions of biodiversity of plants and the related sustainable developmentand annually ecosystem. reports on progress and achievements. • Animal husbandry at SEKEM includes cattle, sheep, bees and pigeons, all living according to Demeter standards. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 3 SEKEM Story “Those who embark on a true search will return to themselves” A short story from SEKEM It may happen that something once thought lost is found again. It may also be that it remains lost forever but that the search itself turns out to be so precious that it exceeds by far the value of what was to be found. And if what one was looking for is indeed found again after having spent time and effort, a double reward is one’s great gift. This is exactly what happened to a visitor in SEKEM. He had lost a ring without much value but with many personal memories attached to it. And since the driver to the airport was not scheduled to arrive for another two hours, the visitor decided to use his remaining time to look for the ring once again. The visitor started in the Round House, a building with a beautiful courtyard, a dining room and seven rooms where SEKEM accommodates its guests. He went on to see the Mahad, a small building hosting the institute for adult training. The soft shapes of the building make it fit perfectly into its environment, a rich vegetation with many trees. It was only when consciously and slowly walking down the paths in SEKEM that he discovered the organic forms of everything that was built or created. A very particular sense of beauty emanates from all creations in SEKEM a place that was nothing but a desert 35 years ago. SEKEM Report on 4 Sustainable Development 2011 SEKEM Story Behind the Mahad, the road continues towards the schools and the mosque, going past the firms. Escaping fragrances reach those passing by. The visitor had already visited the firms on a guided tour before and had been astonished by the high standards of production, the friendliness of the employees, and the nice working atmosphere. He then reached the nursery and walked by the school with its 12 grades, the vocational training center and the special needs school. Though he did not find the lost ring on his slow and attentive walk, it still brought back some memories. The visitor remembered the hundreds of children, teenagers, and young adults Egypt’s future generation that will not only have acquired concrete knowledge and skills from their school in SEKEM, but will also have learned to respect and care for everything living and to peacefully connect the needs of each individual with those of the community. Our visitor continued his way behind the school towards the big amphitheater. Its steps, naturally carved into the soil, form a semi-circle from where the stage can be seen. It is a place where art and community are celebrated throughout the year. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 5 SEKEM Story Slowly making his way back to the Round House on a wide alley, he passed by the chamomile fields whose harvest is processed by LOTUS. „Why am I still looking for my small ring here in SEKEM“, he thought, „with every step I make, I find circles that connect people, nature and cosmos, just like a ring.” Where people work together like in SEKEM, they form circles to see and understand each other. Everyone realizes how much each one of us owes to the others and what the others owe to each of us. Isn’t agriculture, with its people and animals, also part of a big cycle that recurs with the seasons of the year? And aren’t the products grown here, in Minya, Bahareya and the Sinai, and brought to SEKEM for processing, also part of a big cycle? Dates from Bahareya are transported to ISIS and are packaged there. Potatoes from the Sinai are brought to HATOR, where they are sorted and then delivered to the different retail markets. Precious medicinal herbs are taken to ATOS Pharma for processing into natural medicines. Containers full of dolls and children’s clothing produced by NATURETEX are shipped everywhere in the world. Producers, distributers, and consumers are connected through small and big cycles. SEKEM Report on 6 Sustainable Development 2011 SEKEM Story In his mind, the visitor suddenly understood of the big cycle of God’s creation?”, he asked how the various circles are all connected himself. together to form rings. He was struck by the It was then that he understood the image beauty of the farm, its rich vegetation and its and vision of sustainable development: animals, its many carefully designed buildings, an incredible diversity, embedded in an and hundreds of people working and learning environment in which nothing is lost and together. And he realized how this farm was where every small part is carried on by a great connected with many people all over Egypt and all-encompassing cohesion. and the entire world. „Aren’t we ourselves part When he was back in the Round House, he said goodbye to the staff who had gently cared for his needs over the past days. With a bright smile on his face, one of the employees handed him a ring that had been found in the dining room. „It looks like there are even more circles than what I had thought“, said the visitor and expressed his thanks. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 7 Approach to Sustainable Development SEKEM was founded with the idea of sustainable development and building of a prosperous future for the surrounding communities and Egypt. The vision that brought Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish to dig the first well in the vast desert land still resounds in SEKEM’s approach of conducting business. Like a compass, the vision, mission and values guide the employees in the everyday work in all SEKEM companies. The Code of Conduct of SEKEM builds the ruling framework (see page 24). Our Vision Sustainable development towards a future where all humans can unfold their individual potential; where human kind is living together in social forms reflecting human dignity; and where all economic activity is conducted in accordance with ecological and ethical principles. Our Mission To realize our Vision for Sustainable Development in Egypt… ...we establish biodynamic agriculture as the competitive solution for the environmental, social and food security challenges of the 21st century. ...we support individual development through holistic education and medical care. ...we create workplaces reflecting human dignity and supporting employee development. ...we build successful business models in accordance with ecological and ethical principles. ...we innovate for sustainable development through Selfresearch in natural and social sciences. assertion Integration ...we locally and globally advocate for a holistic approach to sustainable development. Expansion Conservation Our Values Competition Cooperation In nature, every organism is independent and at the same Quantity Quality time systemically inter-connected to other organisms. Inspired by ecological principles, representing the wisdom of nature and the universe, we continuously Sovereignty Partnership strive to gain and sustain a harmonious balance between the following polarities and to integrate them into our development: SEKEM Report on 8 Sustainable Development 2011 Approach to Sustainable Development Our Goals within the Sustainable Development Flower framework The Sustainable Development Flower (also see “The concept of the Sustainable Development Flower” in the fold out cover) builds the framework for our performance monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Therefore, the structure guides the reader through this report. It reflects the fourfoldness of sustainable development, with the ecological dimension broken down into separate elements and spheres. Throughout this report, we communicate the basic philosophy, our hands-on management approach as well as a detailed performance evaluation for the separate flower petals. For each of them, we defined an overall goal as depicted below. Securing of animal welfare, Efficient usage of energy natural habitats and and application of wildlife diversity alternative energy Economic Life Societal Life Fair and ethical value creation in harmony with the environment, Equal opportunity (along human and societal and cultural rights), respect and human development dignity for every stakeholder Biodiversity and organic seeds of Improving air quality and highest quality avoiding Greenhouse Gas emissions Enhancing and Efficient and sustaining the fertility responsible usage of soil of water Cultural Life Holistic continuous development of values, knowledge, capacities and consciousness for individual empowerment SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 9 Time Line 1977 Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish establishes SEKEM on 2000 SEKEM Academy for Applied Arts and an area of 70 hectares of desert sand. Science (medicine, pharmacy, agriculture and 1981 First medicinal herbs and food ingredients are arts, later Heliopolis Academy) starts work; shipped to the U.S.A. and the Cooperative of SEKEM Employees (CSE) is founded. 1983 The two brands SEKEM HERBS and ISIS are established. 2001 SEKEM Holding is established. 1983 The Society for Cultural Development in 2003 SEKEM and Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish receive the Egypt (SCD) is founded (later renamed as Right Livelihood Award; SEKEM Academy SEKEM Development Foundation, SDF). introduces Eurythmy training at the workplace 1984 Employee training in arts and science begins 2004 Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish is selected as under the umbrella of The Egyptian Society for «Outstanding Social Entrepreneur» by Cultural Development (SCD). Schwab Foundation; higher education activities start with participation in EU project 1986 ATOS PHARMA is established. “DOPSE-TEMPUS”. 1987 The SEKEM Kindergarten and the Mahad 2005 LOTUS starts work as a company processing Adult Training Institute open their doors. organic herbs and spices; SEKEM Europe is 1988 LIBRA is founded and specializes in packing founded to support the goals of the and exporting fresh fruit and vegetables to Holding to process and market healthy and Europe. ethical products made from biodynamic ingredients. 1989 Primary and secondary SEKEM schools open. 2006 EL-MIZAN for organic seedlings is established. 1990 LIBRA exports fresh organic produce to Europe; SEKEM encourages the foundation of 2007 LOTUS Upper Egypt and the Water Research the Center of Organic Agriculture in Egypt Department at Heliopolis Academy start (COAE), an independent certification body. work; LIBRA cooperates with Soil & More Egypt to produce compost from organic matter 1993 LIBRA for Organic Cultivation is established. (2008 also in Alexandria). 1994 CONYTEX (later NATURETEX) and the 2008 SEKEM for Land Reclamation (SLR) is Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA) are established (North Sinai, Bahareya Oasis and founded. Minia; in total 6000 feddan [= 2,630ha]); 1996 HATOR is established; the first Nature’s Heliopolis Academy establishes the Sustainable Best Shops open in Cairo, SCD opens the Entrepreneurship Center. Medical Center; the International Association of Partnership in Ecology and Trade (IAP) is 2009 Heliopolis University for Sustainable established by SEKEM and many of its business Development receives its acknowledgement partners. by the Presidential Decree No. 298; First “Heliopolis Academy Innovation Award”. 1997 SEKEM, ATOS PHARMA, CONYTEX and HATOR are ISO 9001 certified; SCD opens 2010 The joint venture “PREDATORS” for a Vocational Training Center (VTC), an art breeding insects for organic pest control is school and Literacy Program for disadvantaged founded. children; ISIS is founded to manufacture 2011 ATOS builds a new factory and SLR starts organic foodstuffs. implementation of a subsurface irrigation system with the Austrian company Hydrip. SEKEM Report on 10 Sustainable Development 2011 ECONOMIC LIFE Modern societies around the world are mainly characterized by the division of labor into economic activities. Through cooperation, values are created and then exchanged as products and services. In this exchange, it is essential that those creating the values be rewarded for their efforts with a fair income. This income must enable them, within their social environment, to achieve and to improve such results in the future, too. Therefore, the establishment of a worldwide cooperative network of value creation, accumulating values for fair interchange relations, is fundamental for a sustainable development of the economy. Management Approach Finally, every element in the value chain that is part of the production has to receive the appropriate share of economic value created. A fair price policy applies to We take a long-term perspective towards our our purchases and a salary allowing for a decent living is development and give high priority to the preservation the minimum for our employees. of nature for future generations. This is why we aim, amongst others, for the highest product quality based exclusively on organic raw materials that have a low Impact, Risks and Opportunities impact on the environment. The certification of our products according to a wide range of standards such as Our economic activities are based on nature and the Fairtrade, International Demeter standards and Global cultivation of organic raw materials, which form the Gap shows our commitment to not thinking in financial basis for all subsequent steps of value creation. Our core figures only. businesses, including food, textiles and pharmaceutical production, depend on our capability to assure that Process improvements The quality management systems of the SEKEM our products are organic and compliant with the see page 53/54 companies are certified according to the ISO 9001 International Demeter standards and, as far as possible, standard. The requirements for this certification include Fairtrade. We are aware of the risk of non-compliant the continuous improvement of control and of all behavior of our suppliers that we try to compensate quality relevant processes, as well as the enhancement through certification by independent certifiers and of customer satisfaction. The standards ISO 14001 and support of the EBDA (our pool of suppliers) that helps OHSAS 18001 guide us in proper environmental as well its members assure compliance. Due to a general surge as health and safety management. Any operational of health awareness and a growing customer base, planning or product related decision is evaluated for we expect the global demand for organic products to its influence on SEKEM’s sustainable development path increase, especially in Egypt. To satisfy this demand, we and discussed in the weekly management meetings of extended our farmlands by three further sites in 2008, all companies. where we started to reclaim over 6000 feddan (= 2,630 We measure success throughout all dimensions of ha) of desert land. For irrigation and hygienic matters, the Sustainable Development Flower. This extensive the responsible and efficient use of water and energy performance evaluation framework used to monitor our is not only in our interest because of reduced costs, key performance indicators is our way to incorporate but also because of the reduced negative impact on the the precautionary approach (Article 15 of the Rio environment, which is the basis for our competitive Principles) into our business model. advantage. Our ambitious goals can only be achieved by building long-lasting partnerships throughout our value chain. This is why we are committed to supporting our suppliers How can we design sustainable products and in satisfying our qualitative, social and environmental services? requirements and cooperate with peer companies to How can we build partnerships with our suppliers? share practices and learn from each other. How can we share the created value in a fair way? SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 11 ECONOMIC LIFE Sustainable Development 2011 Sustainable Business Model = Resilient Business Model In the first decade of the 21st Century, SEKEM grew processing (e.g. ISIS) but also developed an integrated significantly. SEKEM was restructured to meet the value chain. The value chain consists of a seed breeding challenges of growth by establishing the SEKEM Holding program (EL-MIZAN), several facilities to produce and several companies of the SEKEM Group. Yet, compost (LIBRA) and growing and harvesting herbs several severe crises, both national and international, and foodstuffs (SEKEM for Land Reclamation). These accompanied SEKEM’s ascent. In 2008, a global food crisis raw materials are then processed (LOTUS, LOTUS rocked the international agriculture markets, having a Upper Egypt, HATOR) and further refined to end significant impact on food prices that virtually ‘exploded’. consumer products (ISIS, ATOS, NATURETEX) to be In the following year, the international financial crisis distributed to the wholesalers and shops by its own put the financial markets and the banking sector under fleet. Although SEKEM still purchases a significant severe pressure, which in turn made governments and share of raw materials from suppliers, the integrated businesses struggle to uphold their finances. value chain helped SEKEM become less dependent on external suppliers and processors. Further, the location In 2011, the Arab region experienced an unprecedented proximity of its different facilities reduces risk and costs period of uprisings and violence, which led to the that occur through transportation and storage. toppling of several regimes. Egypt went through historical events leading to the downfall of Mubarak on February 11, 2011. The economy came under pressure due to an economic standstill that lasted several weeks. Philanthropy vs. This led to unemployment and a weakening of the local Investment markets. Many companies had to be dissolved due to insurmountable losses in this period. Other companies had to lay-off many employees in order to cope with the new realities. Philanthropy comes from the Greek term philantropos, which is a combination of two words: philos, meaning “loving” and anthropos meaning “human being”. This is indeed what SEKEM is about: the love of humanity, and the devotion to holistic and sustainable development of every individual, society and the environment. Commonly, however, philanthropy is understood to signify giving away money for free, as a gift for a good cause but without any financial return. While the business model of SEKEM is clearly motivated by social and environmental goals, we are by no means a charity or philanthropic endeavor. Our way to reach our goals is by making investments. At SEKEM, we constantly invest in our community, company and country, and re-use some of SEKEM faced losses in this period as well. Yet, the our profits to invest in further development. This 2011 crisis also showed how crisis resilient SEKEM is. is an essential feature of our business model, This resilience is inherent to the business model that which is inherently social, and a continuous cycle SEKEM pursued and developed over several decades of investment in economic, social and cultural until today. SEKEM focused on developing its business development. not only in farming (SEKEM for Land Reclamation) or SEKEM Report on 12 Sustainable Development 2011 ECONOMIC LIFE Sustainable Development 2011 SEKEM is engaged in the food and beverage, built up its export share as a second strong pillar next to pharmaceutical and textile sectors. The diversified its sales on the local markets. product portfolio and the fact that it is the market leader in the ‘organic’ (niche-)market in Egypt further While in 2012, it is widely anticipated that the economy strengthens SEKEM in times of crisis for apparent in Egypt recovers, SEKEM will continue its resilient path reasons. Particularly the food and beverages sector of business by increasing the share of cultivated area on and the pharma sector proved relatively resilient in its farms, finding new export markets and integrating 2011despite the general struggling economy. The textile innovative technologies and processes to improve industry was not problematic for SEKEM subsidiary efficiency in the long run. NATURETEX because it mainly exports its products. Here lies another resilience increasing factor: SEKEM International Association for Partnership NATURE SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 13 ECONOMIC LIFE Product Portfolio of SEKEM Fair Prices for Suppliers The prices for raw materials are set according to Fairtrade principles and assure a fair distribution of the value generation to our suppliers. We foster our long-term relations with our suppliers through guaranteeing purchase of certain amounts of raw material and helping to pre-finance the cultivation (see also page 17). Affordable We offer products in all pricing categories. Humane Customers of all income groups can afford at Our strong commitment to the UN Global least some SEKEM products, for example ATOS Compact and ILO Conventions underlines the medicinal tea. We also strive to adapt our pricing respect we pay to basic human and labor rights in policy according to factors like differences in our operations and along our supply chain. Through purchasing power. Also, a study by Soil&More our Code of Conduct we hold all our employees showed that organic agriculture will soon be accountable (see also page 24). cheaper than conventional agriculture. Healthy and Safe Accessible The most tangible benefits of our products are In Egypt, most ISIS products can be found in all their health advantages, along with their story of hypermarkets and in many supermarkets. ATOS positive impact on human development. The ban phytopharmaceuticals and SEKEM health products of pesticides and genetically modified organisms such as medicinal teas are available in 80% of in our production avoids any negative impact on the pharmacies in Egypt. Our sales personnel the human body. The raw materials arriving at ISIS, Coverage in %, continuously works on the extension of the LOTUS, ATOS and NATURETEX are checked in see page 52 distribution area. physical, chemical, microbiological and pesticide tests. During production, we do not use additives like flavor enhancers. Environmentally Fair Prices In fact, the fruits, vegetables, spices, teas and other Conventional cultivation ignores the negative foodstuffs enrich the consumers’ diets while the long term impact on soil and biodiversity. textiles are pleasant for the skin. Consequently, we consider the cheaper nonorganic products as “unfairly” priced. The hidden costs lay in environmental degradation, cleaning Biodynamic of contaminations and the burden for future We apply biodynamic agricultural methods. This generations. Through our commitment to organic means we use compost, resilient (not genetically products and environmentally friendly production, modified) crops and natural predators instead we face extra costs in the production that do not of external inputs such as chemical fertilizers accrue directly for conventional producers but and pesticides. The application of biodynamic avoid the so called external costs. agriculture means thinking about agriculture in closed nutrient cycles, including livestock. SEKEM produces its own compost, grows cereals to feed Positive for the Community the livestock and enhances the soil fertility through 10% of the profits go to the SEKEM Development crop rotation. Soil, plants, animals and humans Foundation which realizes educational, health together create a holistic and living organism. and research projects to benefit the surrounding The contracted farmers of SEKEM use biodynamic communities of SEKEM in particular and Egypt in growing methods as well and from season to general. The private SEKEM school offers a gradual season are able to show an increase in productivity fees scale so that all children can afford to receive and superior food quality. quality education. SEKEM Report on 14 Sustainable Development 2011 ECONOMIC LIFE Vital Efficient Organizational Processes We recognize the effect of the sun, the moon, the planets and the signs of the zodiac on the plant development. Using this knowledge and biodynamic Packaging preparations, we can harmonize and connect our For the packaging of our products, we continuously % of recycled input, farming operations with nature and cosmos and maximize the share of recycled input material. We strive see page 54 achieve a significant vitalization of our plants. to solely use reusable or recycable materials. The largest amount of packaging comes from boxes and paper that offer the possibility for recycling. Due to the missing infrastructure in Egypt, we cannot From Healthy Soils offer a refund and recycling-system for bottles. SEKEM We started to grow on desert land. With the help plans to cooperate with major customers in order to of compost, we built up organic matter in the first improve the situation. 30 cm of the soil, which is now full of life. The water holding capacity increased as well as the carbon sequestration capacity, while the risk of Transport erosion sank. Driven by this success, we are now reclaiming further land in different regions of Egypt The distribution fleet of SEKEM consists of 80 vehicles, (Sinai, Minya and Bahareya). mainly transportation cars. They distribute mostly ISIS products to grocery stores and supermarkets but also deliver ATOS products to pharmacies. The export shipment is mainly done by shipping and the total food Certified exports measured in sales value via airplane do not A large amount of our purchased raw materials exceed 5%. are certified according to Demeter – one of the highest organic standards world-wide – Fairtrade Waste and other standards. This way we, as well as our Waste numbers, see page 53 customers, can be sure that the suppliers comply with certain rules and receive their fair financial At its main site close to Belbeis, SEKEM has set up share. a waste sorting facility processing the companies’ Though 94%* of our products are of organic origin output of waste materials. Waste produced during the and come mainly from farms which are compliant processing and production within the SEKEM companies with the Fairtrade principles, we only print the is sorted into glass, plastics, carton, paper, organic waste Demeter and Fairtrade label on the packaging and remaining non-recyclable materials, such as metals when our customers ask for it. This is simply or hazardous waste from the Medical Center, which because labeling license fees are high. Inspectors gets either landfilled or transported to special end-of-life from COAE, FLO-CERT, ICEA and TUEV regularly treatment centers. All organic waste is composted on assesses our premises and operations (see page site by LIBRA and valuable non-organic waste is sold for 18 and 19 for all certifications per company). recycling. Innovation Innovative numbers, see page 53 As a pioneer for organic products, we constantly expand into new markets in Egypt. We were the first to introduce organic cotton, teas and a broad variety of other products. We continuously do research on various subjects concerning agriculture, medicine, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and other scientific areas and translate our findings into products, e.g. herbal medicine of ATOS, which spends 2% of profits *The remaining 6% come from conventional sources. This remains in per year for studies at the Heliopolis Academy. case of ISIS limited to our honey production or results from shortages in organic raw material supply for spices or teas and nuts. Some of the Furthermore, we support our customers in ingredients for ATOS products are not avaible as organic. realizing new ideas like various baby clothing and Of course, we state this on the package. This motivates us even more toys in NATURETEX. to enlarge the capacity for our own raw material production. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 15 ECONOMIC LIFE Partnerships Building partnerships based on mutual trust is not Responsibility to Customer only important in private but also in economic life. and Consumer Business is not possible without good relations to other stakeholders, may they be businesses, consumers or suppliers. SEKEM would not have been possible without The most responsible way of dealing with longstanding partnerships that have been developed clients consists of two parts: education and over the years to the strong foundations of today. We listing nutritional information. In Egypt, there keep on striving for reliable and value driven partners. is still a need to spread information about the health impact of organic food. We see it as our responsibility and are convinced of the positive The International Association of Partnership impact on the community when we provide health related information and advice on products, on our websites, Facebook pages and Arguably, the most important partnership network through our customer service. Furthermore, our is the International Association for Partnership in product information and labeling is compliant Ecology and Trade (IAP). In 1996, it was established by at least with country-specific regulations, and SEKEM and several of its long-term European business even beyond. partners to create a dynamic interaction between A new customer service department has been farmers, producers, and traders with the goal to established for ISIS in order to be in direct provide consumers with high quality organic products. contact with end consumers and to answer The IAP is a cooperation forum for organic agriculture all kinds of questions, inquiries or complaints. that enhances commitment to nature and a higher Through the new websites of ISIS and SEKEM, clients and users can easily find information food quality. The partners have cooperated since 1984 about our products, ingredients and benefits, to strengthen the basis for biodynamic and organic as well as organic and sustainable development agriculture world-wide. topics and are lead to the hotline, email form or IAP members exchange market information, plan Facebook page for further information. strategic initiatives for marketing of organic products, In order to ensure long-term customer satisfacfinance new projects and strengthen existing ones. These tion, all SEKEM companies regularly refer to Customer actions are taken to facilitate the development of organic customer feedback through standardized quessatisfaction cultivation movements across the world. The partners tionnaires, which are part of their Integrated see page 52 try to meet four times annually to evaluate progress, Quality Management System. While differenimplement decisions, and discuss new strategies. tiating between local and export customers, Currently, there are 14 constant members who are all topics such as quality, communication, annual planning, deliveries, prices and financials are high-level businessmen in their respected companies. analyzed. Long-Term Relationships with Suppliers While IAP partners are mostly buyers from SEKEM companies, SEKEM Group also has an extensive network of suppliers (see next page). The network of suppliers consists of both the SEKEM companies, themselves being the suppliers of other companies such as LIBRA (compost) for SEKEM for Land Reclamation or EL-MIZAN, and external suppliers. All agricultural suppliers are members of the Egyptian Biodynamic Association. SEKEM Group provides their suppliers with inputs (such as compost or biodynamic preparations) and knowledge, offers pre-financing for their activities (depending on the case) on a seasonal Supplier figures basis and a buying guarantee for the pre-financed see page 54 harvest. SEKEM knows about the importance of these mutually beneficial relationships and tries to nurture them as much as possible. International Association for Partnership SEKEM Report on 16 Sustainable Development 2011 ECONOMIC LIFE Supplying Partners of SEKEM The reliability of SEKEM’s production depends, apart from our own cultivation (SEKEM for Land Reclamation: 1,628 feddan [ca. 684 ha]), on the supply of high quality, biodynamically grown produce, cotton and herbs. 86.2% of all raw materials come from external sources. Our suppliers are members of the Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA) which cultivated an area of 6,977 feddan (2,930.34 ha) in 2011. Approximately one smallscale farmer works on 5 feddan (2.1 ha). That means we are dealing with around 1400 farmers organized in 137 farms. In order to guarantee the suppliers’ compliance with our expectations, we implemented a supply chain management throughout the SEKEM Group. Each SEKEM Pharma, ISIS, LOTUS, LOTUS Upper Egypt or company is responsible for its own suppliers. Our goal NATURETEX process the raw materials. The SEKEM is to continuously improve our local and exporting Group Compliance Manager works in close cooperation activities. Our approach combines the control of clear with the companies’ quality departments. It is under requirements based on international management and his responsibility that the SEKEM companies are technical standards with building vital partnerships with all certified according to the standards mentioned the farmers. before, or to manage successfully the transition to get certified. Furthermore, we evaluate all suppliers annually according to our own quality evaluation methods in the Certification of Raw Materials form of surveys and assessments. In this way, we reduce certified the number of complaints and have less return. purchase value Like our own companies, all our suppliers are Demeter see page 54 certified or in transition. Next to the International Demeter standards, we ask our suppliers for compliance Capacity Building in the Supply Chain with additional standards depending on the product and on clients’ demands (e.g. EU regulations on organic Following the principles of transparency, we implement farming, Kosher, Hand-in-Hand by Rapunzel, Bio Suisse, an honest and fair collaboration throughout the whole Global Gap and US National Organic Program). supply chain (see previous page). The prices for raw After inspection by technical engineers in physical, materials are set according to Fairtrade principles and chemical, microbiological and pesticide tests, ATOS assure a fair distribution of the value generation to our suppliers. For some of our products, customers ask for a Fairtrade certification; e.g. for oranges, potatoes, rice, The Center of Organic hibiscus, chamomile, mint, lemon grass and cotton. Agriculture in Egypt (COAE) Our supply chain management approach ensures that we contribute to the improvement of living conditions and the development of our supplying In 1990 the Demeter Association, IMO farmers throughout Egypt. In 1990, we established the Switzerland and the Egyptian Biodynamic independent Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA) Association (EBDA) jointly established the Center of Organic Agriculture in Egypt (COAE) in order to offer training, technical assistance to farmers as an independent inspection and certification and conduct research on biodynamic agriculture. Our body. COAE ensures and guarantees that the suppliers are becoming more and more aware of the International Demeter and EU standards advantages of biodynamic agriculture and promote it for organic production are fulfilled. COAE is within their own community; usually rural areas. responsible for the certification process in The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization SEKEM. (FAO) states that organic agriculture can provide over 30% more jobs per hectare than non-organic farms and, thus, create employment opportunities. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 17 ECONOMIC LIFE The SEKEM Group of Companies The SEKEM Group of Companies forms an integrated value chain based on biodynamic agriculture, which starts with agricultural production and ends with the delivery of products to the end consumer. This vertical integration helps us to ensure adherence to our standards and requirements along the value chain, as well as to secure the availability of high-quality raw materials. The SEKEM Holding supervises, evaluates and supports all its subsidiary ventures and acts as an investor and money lender to them. • International Demeter standards ATOS Pharma, founded in 1986 as the • Good Management Practice • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 phytopharmaceutical branch of SEKEM, manufactures • Environment management acc. to and markets an array of natural medicines and healthcare ISO14001 products of superior quality for effective causal treatment • Health and safety management acc. to OHSAS 18001 combined with maximum tolerability. ATOS products • Laboratory tested acc. to ISO 17025 are marketed and distributed nationally as well as in the Middle East/North Africa region. • Fairtrade criteria by FLO (Fairtrade ISIS, founded in 1997, produces healthy food from Labeling Organization) • International Demeter standards carefully selected raw materials, free of artificial • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 additives and preservatives. The foodstuffs processed • Food safety management acc. to ISO and packed by ISIS include organically grown cereals, 22000 • Environment management acc. to rice, vegetables, pasta, honey, jams, dates, spices, herbs, 14001 edible oils, beverages such as herbal teas, coffee and • Health and safety management acc. to juices as well as other multi-ingredient products. OHSAS 18001 • Kosher With its operating branch named HATOR, ISIS also sells biodynamically grown fresh produce to local and international markets, mainly in Europe. • International Demeter standards LIBRA, founded in 1988, forms the agricultural • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 • Environment management acc. to foundation of the SEKEM supply chain following 14001 biodynamic principles and producing milk, eggs, beef, • Health and safety management acc. to sheep, chicken and compost. LIBRA launched with Soil OHSAS 18001 • TÜV CO2 Compost and Crop & More International BV a commercial compost project in 2007 that has today two compost sites, one in Sharkia and one in Alexandria. Since 2010, LIBRA has begun to concentrate on cattle management only and has handed over its agricultural cultivation responsibilities to its sister company SEKEM for Land Reclamation. • Fairtrade criteria by FLO LOTUS, was originally founded in 1977. It was the • National Organic Program of the USA • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 first company of Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish and started with • Food safety management ISO 22000 the name of SEKEM. It produces, imports and exports • Environment management acc. to organic and biodynamic, thus natural and chemical free, 14001 • Health and safety management acc. to herbs, spices and seeds for its sister companies ISIS and OHSAS 18001 ATOS, as well as for the export market according to • International Demeter Standard International Demeter Processing Guidelines. Taste, • Kosher • Bio Suisse aroma and their natural medicinal effectiveness are the highest priorities. SEKEM Report on 18 Sustainable Development 2011 ECONOMIC LIFE UPPER EGYPT • Fairtrade criteria by FLO LOTUS Upper Egypt, established in 2007, is mainly • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 • Food safety management acc. to ISO concerned with drying the herbs and spices of the 22000 SEKEM farms in Upper Egypt. • Environment management acc. to 14001 • Health and safety management acc. to OHSAS 18001 • Fairtrade criteria by FLO NATURETEX, founded originally under the name of • International Demeter standards CONYTEX in 1998, is a high quality producer of fabrics, • Quality management acc. to ISO 9001 • Environment management acc. to fashionable home textiles, dolls and colorful baby wear 14001 based on organic cotton. The products are produced • Health and safety management acc. to and sold on national and international markets under OHSAS 18001 • Global Organic Textile Standard its own brand named Cotton People Organic (CPO), NATURETEX or under private labels such as “Under the Nile” or traded via Alnatura “BioBaby” and “PWO People Wear Organic”. El-MIZAN, also referred to as MIZAN, was founded in 2006 as a 50/50 joint venture between Grow Group Holland and SEKEM Group Egypt and offers grafting and plant cultivation services for fruit and vegetable plants. Healthy, profitable inand outdoor grafted seedlings are provided to Egypt’s vegetable producers and SEKEM for Land Reclamation. PREDATORS, was founded in 2010 as a joint venture between LIBRA, Envision and Bioproduction (Denmark) to professionally breed insects that serve as a natural substitute for toxic and hazardous chemical pesticides • Fairtrade criteria by FLO SEKEM for Land Reclamation (SLR), was • Global GAP (for Adleya and Sinai farm) • National Organic Program of the USA established in 2008 for reclaiming and cultivating new for Land Reclamation • International Demeter standards pieces of land according to biodynamic principles. • Bio Suisse In the first place, therefore, it was responsible for enlarging the cultivation area in Sinai, Bahareya and Minya and for supplying high-quality raw materials from these farms to the SEKEM companies. In 2010 SLR overtook, additionally, the whole land cultivation of LIBRA. SLR engages in assuring fair prices, securing the supply of organic quality raw material, practicing crop rotation, as well as planning and producing for the Egyptian Biodynamic Association (EBDA) members and stakeholders. • International Demeter standards SEKEM Europe, located in Bochum, Germany, is a • Bio (Europe) subsidiary of the SEKEM Holding. SEKEM Europe GmbH • Fairtrade criteria by FLO EUROPE operates in the areas of import and sales of SEKEM’s ready-made consumer goods and fresh produce, raw materials and ingredients. The entity provides services to SEKEM in the field of customer care, export marketing, market development and public relations for Europe. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 19 ECONOMIC LIFE Economic Value Distribution Financial distribution see page 54 Our goal is to create economic value and ensure its fair and sustainable distribution amongst all stakeholders. Employees Our suppliers receive their appropriate share in the In Egypt, the differences between the living standards of same way as our employees. Within SEKEM, certain the social classes is drastic. While the upper class lives investments for new machinery, infrastructure and the according to Western standards, the public minimum employees are made. SEKEM was born with the idea wage of 400 EGP is too low to ensure a decent living for of giving back to the community, which includes an the lower classes. After the ‘revolution’ in spring 2011, affordable price for our products but also investment debates put new pressure on the government to develop into our surroundings, and therefore into our future and a fair minimum wage for private companies. Until this the common welfare of Egypt. is realized, SEKEM does not use the official numbers as guidance for its compensation policy. In 2011, the minimum entry-level salaries started at 650 EGP per Supplying Partners month, depending on the educational background of the person and based on individual performance. We established a fair price policy for our suppliers. The ratio between lowest and highest salary is around An increasing amount of our purchased raw materials 1:55. Though SEKEM tries to keep the salary scale as come from Fairtrade certified suppliers. In this manner, narrow as possible, it reflects the societal reality of very we want to assure that the price paid is not below the different qualification levels and the nationwide income average production price and that the suppliers receive inequality. The lowest salaries are earned by unskilled % nonmonetary an additional premium payment which can be used for a workers. benefits see page 61 development project to enhance any of the aspects of SEKEM provides all full-time employees with benefits, sustainable development. including optional medical insurance (see page 25), life insurance in case of disability and retirement plans. Contribution to the latter two amounts each to 2% of the salary, paid equally by one of the SEKEM companies Company and the employee. A so called “friendship fund” for emergency cases like severe injuries or death but also SEKEM’s role as an organic agriculture producer in Egypt for rather joyful events such as marriages and births forced the company from the first day on to follow an is funded by a membership fee from every SEKEM innovation strategy. employee. This fee reflects the employee’s salary and Thanks to the diverse product portfolio (see page 14SEKEM pays each time the same amount into the fund. 15 and 18-19), the internal value chain and a healthy balance of export and local market, SEKEM proved to be economically resilient (see page 12-13). SEKEM will continuously invest into the companies, Community employees and cultural activities. One focus in the next years will remain desert land reclamation. The second To improve the common welfare in our community, main investment project is the start of the Heliopolis SEKEM founded the Egyptian Society for Cultural University. Development in 1984 – which was later renamed SEKEM Development Foundation (SDF). Today, it offers many social and cultural services, usually for a very low price or for free: medical care, education, training, research, Shareholders and arts (more at page 29ff).The SEKEM Group fills with 10% of its profits the financial gap which the foundation SEKEM Holding is a joint stock company. With 76.03%, cannot cover.This way, all running costs can be broken the main part of the shares belongs to the Abouleish even by own means. Some projects are financed by the family. The remaining 23.07% are split evenly between SEKEM Friends network that is very active in fundraising GLS Bank and Triodos Bank, both operating with in Europe. high ethical standards. We try to keep the external participation as low as possible. The dividend distribution does not happen on a regular basis but depends on the approval of the shareholders. SEKEM Report on 20 Sustainable Development 2011 SOCIETAL LIFE The place of the individual in society shapes our social relationships, while the laws of a society determine individual opportunities. In a fair and just society, the individual human being is recognized to have innate rights, is equal to all others in front of the law and is granted equal opportunities for participation. A just cooperation of human beings worldwide can be regarded as the main prerequisite for peaceful development, today as well as in the future. Management Approach Assuring an environment and conditions that contribute a healthy and safe working environment is essential for to the development of our employees and the the continuity of our operations and for the respect and cooperation with farmers and their communities is one dignity of our employees. We see employee diversity of the predominant goals of the SEKEM Initiative. and gender equality as essential because this enriches We regard as a basic necessity the strict adherence the working environment and reflects our core values. to and enforcement of the international standards for We support and benefit from all initiatives aiming human rights, especially labor rights, health and safety towards sustainable development. We see it as our duty regulations and general working conditions. As guidance and opportunity to get involved in this momentum on a for our employees and business partners we created our national and international level. Code of Conduct, based amongst other guidelines on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It defines the corridor in which we conduct our activities so that all SEKEM companies follow a responsible and ethical path. With respect to our employees, we focus on equal treatment (especially regarding women’s rights), loyalty and motivation through non-monetary benefits. We established a medical center under the SEKEM Development Foundation that aims to promote and offer health care not only for our employees but also for the broader community. To advocate our position on sustainable development, for example on the fatal misjudgment of genetically modified organisms or the essentiality of individual development, we use our expertise and participate in several international initiatives. We strive to have positive impact far beyond the corporate borders. Impact, Risks and Opportunities To apply transparency and enforce human rights How can we assure equal opportunities for all throughout our value chain is challenging but important. stakeholders? The same high priority lies with anti-corruption and Which obstacles do we have to overcome to cherish fair business relations. Furthermore, the guarantee of the human dignity of every stakeholder? SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 21 SOCIETAL LIFE Sustainable Development 2011 Stability through respect and This logic of respect and fairness bringing along cooperation and trust which can finally lead to well-being fairness and prosperity does not only apply on a macro-level for peoples and societies but also on a micro-level for the workforce of companies and associations. Management Societal life is built upon human relationships. When decisions that violate these principles of respect and these relations are of mutual respect and fairness, they fairness most certainly result in an increasing turnover lead to cooperation and trust. Cooperation and trust of staff and decreasing work efficiency due to lack of in turn lead to both the well-being of the people and motivation. Despite the extraordinary impact of the a prospering society. If, however, these relationships public uprising on the economy, the fluctuation (of staff suffer from disrespect and unfair treatment, people working over 1 year) at SEKEM increased in 2011 only become discontent. While governments can sanction by 2.4 per cent. The overall figure even decreased. The people for any violations against the law, the people reason lies in the management’s decision to abstain have almost no means to sanction violations from the from involuntary lay-offs. Expiring contracts, however, government. In countries with a strong democratic spirit were usually not extended to ease some of the financial and institutional structures that support the rights and pressure. freedoms of the people, everyone can claim their rights in front of a court – also against governmental actions. In countries where these structures are missing, violations from governments usually go unpunished. In these cases, discontent among people can result at some point in societal disruptions as we experienced in early 2011 in Egypt in the form of the popular uprising of millions of people. The uprising was directed against Mubarak’s government which was blamed for being the root of social inequalities, disregard of human rights and suppression of certain oppositional groups. The result was not only the end of Mubarak’s rule but the loss of life of hundreds of people and an economic crisis from which the country has still not fully recovered. To ensure a positive working atmosphere, it is important that the employees know and feel that their voices are heard and that the employer stimulates their working efficiency with positive incentive mechanisms rather than punishment. Complaint boxes in every SEKEM company (though rarely used), the HR manager as a contact point for any other concern, the Cooperative for SEKEM Employees, which provides for example the cafeteria or the transfer of employees from their homes to the workplace, an updated Code of Conduct and salary incentives are ways through which SEKEM aims at elevating the employees’ morale and loyalty. SEKEM Report on 22 Sustainable Development 2011 SOCIETAL LIFE Sustainable Development 2011 Within the context of the National Employment Pact support and the adherence to certain standards, meaning (NEP), SEKEM pledged to create 200 jobs until summer safe working environment and the protection of human 2012. The NEP is an initiative launched by the German rights is likely to have supported what happened during Development Ministry, its affiliated organizations and the insecure times of the uprising in early 2011: the the German Arab Chamber of Commerce and Industry, decision of employees to protect the SEKEM facilities. In which aims at creating quality jobs for blue collar fact, they spent several nights in front of the companies workers. SEKEM was chosen as one of the participants together with guards, which ensured that SEKEM did not due to its adherence to certain standards that ensure stop work for one single day. safe working environments or the protection of human rights. There is still great leeway to improve these efforts but the way SEKEM went through the 2011 crisis is a positive Throughout the years, the inclusive business model of signal and supports the management approach that SEKEM provided healthcare, empowerment, technology aims at fostering a comfortable relationship between and knowledge transfer as well as financial and technical management and workers. assistance to the surrounding communities. Community SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 23 SOCIETAL LIFE Human Rights and Code of Conduct Respect and dignity for every individual within our companies and in the broader community are the guiding principles that we use to create human relationships. The SEKEM Code of Conduct explicitly states our commitment to protect and advocate for human rights in all our activities and spheres of influence. In all the steps of our value chain, we strive to provide and support fair salaries (see “Economic Value Distribution”, page 20), as well as healthy and safe work places (see “Health”, page 27). To ensure human rights adherence along our supply chain, we strictly apply Fairtrade principles within our purchasing practices (see page 17). In the SEKEM Development Foundation, we have started a community school to prevent child labor (see „Children and youth education”, page 33). We consider literacy as a human right. All illiterates at SEKEM have the opportunity to receive reading and writing lessons. Furthermore, together with our project partners and our main investors, we monitor human rights adherence and consider human rights clauses in our investment decisions. Topics of SEKEM’s Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct The SEKEM Code of Conduct (CoC) forms, together with the Corporate Governance Index, the framework • Legal compliance of values guiding the operations of the SEKEM Group • Human rights of Companies. This basis refers to the SEKEM Vision • Child labor / young employees for Sustainable Development, the ten principles of the • Forced or compulsory labor United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which we joined in 2004, and the relevant United Nations and • Freedom of association and International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions, collective bargaining e.g. ILO Labor Standards and the Universal Declaration • Disciplinary measures for Human Rights (UDHR). Accordingly, the CoC • Health & Safety formulates explicit commitments regarding legal • Anti-discrimination compliance, business ethics and anti-corruption, labor standards and human rights, as well as environmental • Compensation responsibility. The code applies to SEKEM operations • Working hours and all associated business partners and is subject to • Work ethics regular review and development. • Literacy • Environmental protection • Bribery and corruption • Management systems SEKEM Report on 24 Sustainable Development 2011 SOCIETAL LIFE Monitoring Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored Anti-Bribery and and enforced by the compliance and technical auditing Anti-Corruption managers of the SEKEM Group. The department also provides guidance and information on the application of the code and serves as an internal and external contact SEKEM is aware that it operates in a country point for concerns about non-compliance, which can also where corruption and bribery unfortunately be raised anonymously. The SEKEM CoC is provided in pose a real threat for doing sound business English and Arabic to all SEKEM employees in the SEKEM and for engaging with all stakeholders in an Information System (SIS). Furthermore, we will start in ethical, responsible manner. Egypt fell 20 2012 to train our employees regularly and hand out the positions to the 112th rank of 182 countries CoC to each newcomer. on Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index in 2011. Our membership in the United Nations Global Compact illustrates Since the official Fairtrade standard certification also that the principles of anti-bribery and antiincludes social development as one of its common corruption are part of our core beliefs. This principles we use this certificate as an orientation if our is why we have explicitly formulated a strict suppliers comply with the core standards of labor rights. zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption and Where applicable, the SEKEM companies purchase up bribery of all forms in the SEKEM CoC. to 100% from Fairtrade and likewise Demeter certified farmers and farmer associations. Corporate Governance Core standards of labor rights Corporate Governance defines the structure in which SEKEM conducts its business. The reliability of an organization depends on the way decisions are taken and • Freedom of association: workers are opinions with stakeholders are exchanged. The Board encouraged and allowed to join trade of Directors (BoD) advises and supervises the SEKEM unions which are independent of Group Management in regards to sustainable economic government and employer influence; prosperity, business development and strategy. The composition, current members, voting rights, access to • The right to collective bargaining: workers information, responsibilities, meeting procedures, duties have the right to negotiate with employers and tasks are defined in the Corporate Governance Code. collectively, as opposed to individually; All provided information is considered confidential and • The prohibition of all forms of forced principles regarding any conflict of interest are in effect. labor: includes security from prison labor The operational management, led by the Managing and slavery, and prevents workers from Director Helmy Abouleish, takes the advice and being forced to work under duress ; propositions of the BoD originating from their meetings, • Elimination of the worst forms of child where upon these expectations are directly translated labor: implementing a minimum working into action plans and achievements. Any following age and certain working condition shortcomings are assessed in the next meeting. The requirements for children; quarterly financial report, sent out for review to the • Non-discrimination in employment: equal BoD members, provides constant updates on new pay for equal work. investments, products, volume analysis and risks. Six members of the BoD, all except Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish and Helmy Abouleish, are nonexecutive members; three are totally independent from SEKEM’s operations. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 25 SOCIETAL LIFE Workforce Hiring Procedures Human dignity is precious. Our daily mission is to cherish the dignity of each of our 1,669 employees. Our goal is to establish a long-term relationship with all employees After assessing the applications, Benefits and turnover by treating them fairly and satisfying their needs. In promising candidates are interviewed by see page 61 return, we hope for their loyalty. the Human Relations department and SEKEM tries to create as many jobs as possible for the low qualified villagers in the surroundings. On the one the direct manager. The final candidate hand, biodynamic agriculture creates significantly more is also interviewed or approved by the workplaces then conventional approaches (according to Managing Director of the company. If UN Food and Agriculture Organization 30% on average any changes in the senior management for organic agriculture). On the other hand, SEKEM at holding level occur, the Board of deploys technical solutions in the processing design only where manual work is not feasible, especially in ISIS Directors must give its consent. During production. a probation period of three months, any contract can be cancelled immediately Working Hours from both sides. In line with the Egyptian labor law, the minimum notice period In comparison to the nationwide average, the weekly is one month for terminations and all working hours at SEKEM are a little higher. But they also other operational changes. include several events per week for self-development and training as well as cultural activities (around 10% of working time). The compliance officer monitors the ILO requirements concerning working time, minimum age, hand, we strengthen the women’s position in the % of part time, etc. which are also part of the external certifications like outer community through microcredit and education see page 61 Fairtrade. Almost 4% of our workplaces are part time programs. Due to traditional rural habits, the majority jobs, mainly for physicians, teachers and researchers. of women marries early and concentrates on family During the lunch break, the employees receive a warm life. Therefore, the average salary differs from the and healthy meal and can enjoy the green surroundings male average. NATURETEX offers the opportunity of the main premises and the head office, which also for female employees to continue their work at home, impress the visitors. Long working hours because of especially during production peaks. This allows married production peaks occur only rarely. Whenever the women to contribute to the family income and keep order situation is suitable we engage new employees. their independence. Furthermore, we offer childcare for women who continue the work at the SEKEM main Workforce Diversity and Equal Treatment premises. For SEKEM’s efforts in supporting women, World Bank Working hand in hand at the different SEKEM premises, and UN Women granted the SEKEM Group of companies we seek to give all our employees the same chances no the “One Business Community, Equal Opportunity Seal” Diversity matter if they are male or female, disabled or healthy, which is valid until the end of 2012 numbers, see page 61 notwithstanding their religion or nationality. The main premises are located in Sharkeya, so are most of our …for people with different cultural backgrounds employees. The SEKEM group of companies complies SEKEM is aware of intercultural and religious differences with a hiring procedures to secure equal rights during between employees, especially between Muslim and the recruiting process but does not follow a policy for Christian rituals, and addresses them with awareness local hiring. raising and dialogue, mainly during the weekly morning lectures with Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish or in some of the …for women Monday forums at the head office (further information To support women’s empowerment, we engage in on page 38). In Egypt, the population consists of around activities inand outside the company. On the one hand, 90% Muslims (mostly Sunni), 9% Copts and 1% other our social workers support SEKEM female employees Christians. Most of the SEKEM employees are of Islamic in any work-related or personal issues. On the other belief. SEKEM Report on 26 Sustainable Development 2011 SOCIETAL LIFE …for the disabled 53 disabled persons are integrated into the workplaces Health and Safety of the group of SEKEM companies. Most of them first The provision of a safe environment and access to took part in our special education project that takes health services are some of the main requirements for a six years (see page 34). According to their capabilities humane workplace. We differentiate between two levels and the state of health, the graduate afterwards starts a of action: First, health and safety at the workplace, and, three year qualification phase for example at the cattle second, a broader approach towards health promotion farm, the nursery, the paint or sanding workshop. These in the community. are particularly safe spaces. During the first weeks of work, a teacher accompanies the student in his new environment. The amount of work gradually increases From Certified Management… until the student feels confident in the new work. After this period, during which the student learns skills and In all organizational processes, health and safety aspects experiences besides the continual educational process, have to be taken into account.To follow-up on, for everyone receives a certificate of qualification. example, any reported safety problems or accumulations of incidents, a precise documentation is needed. Tangible targets have to be set, and trainings on all relevant health Transparency and Co-Determination and safety issues have to be carried out and repeated regularly. To make sure that our health and safety All essential information (salary levels, cost evaluations, management system works according to internationally minutes of manager meetings) are accessible through the recognized standards, all our companies have been intranet. Regular meetings with the management foster certified according to the well-known OHSAS 18001 information exchange and offer free space for questions standard since 2005. In every company, a health and for all employees. Furthermore, SEKEM publishes the safety team is responsible for ensuring that standards Sustainable Development Report with extensive data. are met. The team meets annually to discuss the related Injury statistics, Each company has put up suggestion boxes for employees, company statistics and to formulate action plans for see page 60/65 for either contributing ideas or complaints regarding prevention if needed. topics such as health and safety, working conditions and personal or community well-being. This opportunity for employees to raise their voices is not yet used as widely …to the Individual Level as SEKEM had planned. In the future, the involvement of employees in having a hand in their working environment Nonetheless, only by keeping the workplace safe, the needs further improvement. For direct conversation, all challenge of a healthy lifestyle is not addressed. Each employees have the opportunity to contact the social working day, we serve our employees a warm and workers in their company who is responsible for the healthy lunch including organic vegetables. Furthermore, improvement of critical issues raised by the employees, our small sporting club uses the football field, which we as well as for communicating any kind of proposals to the built for the school at the main premises. Even more management. Furthermore, employees’ representatives important is the individual medicinal support for all are elected for three months to act as the spokesperson employees, which they receive at the Medical Center. for a certain number of employees. The SEKEM Medical Center Visit numbers, The SEKEM Medical Center is part of a comprehensive see page 60 plan for community development for offering health care services to SEKEM employees and the general public. It was established under the umbrella of the SEKEM Development Foundation in 1995. Education and health awareness programs for patients are designed to meet the needs of the local community. People are told about sanitation and hygiene, provided with information on health, nutrition, disease prevention and environmental issues, and are motivated to use the services of the Medical Center for preventive and curative treatments. Our team consists of 23 doctors, eight nurses, three SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 27 SOCIETAL LIFE administrators, four technicians and chemists. In 2011, we treated 3,996 cases from SEKEM employees Advocacy for Sustainable and 29,527 cases from people of the surrounding communities.The service portfolio encompasses: Bone`s Development Clinic, cardiology, dentistry, dermatology, ENT (ear, In 2011, Helmy Abouleish withdrew from numerous nose and throat), general medicine, gynecology, internal committees and boards in the course of refocusing medicine, medical analysis, neurology, ophthalmology, his energy and time on the initiatives that are most orthopedics, pediatrics, pharmacy, physiotherapy, promising and time-efficient. Among others, he was surgeries, and urology. In our radiology department, we particularly engaged in the World Future Council’s offer X-Rays and ultrasonic examinations. In 2011, we (WFC) activities, the International Foundation for worked with 13 international specialists in the fields of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM), Demeter and respiratory, digestive, and parasitic diseases. UN Global Compact to provide his expertise in climate Employees have the choice to opt for a basic change policies. Together with IFOAM and several governmental health care insurance, or add a private other key players in organic agriculture, we pushed the insurance provider that is jointly paid by SEKEM and establishment of the Sustainable Organic Agriculture the employees. The employee’s contribution to medical Action Network (SOAAN) to develop activities that insurance depends on the level of the individual wage positions organic agriculture and its related supply and can be extended to the family of the employee. chains as a holistic, sustainable approach to agricultural For the children in our SEKEM School, the health care production for all of human society. services are free of charge. Egyptian National Competitiveness Council Cooperative for SEKEM Helmy Abouleish is the founder of the Egyptian National Competitiveness Council (ENCC). The ENCC has Employees created a National Competitiveness Strategy for Egypt, with the pillars of Innovation, Green Transformation and Education, as focus topics. In this respect, he worked The Cooperative for SEKEM Employees closely together with different governmental authorities (CSE) was founded in 2000 to and ministries to drive agendas and priorities into promote meaningful work in a healthy, the direction of sustainable development. In 2011 he safe and humane environment. The withdrew from his previous very active involvement as a governmental Cooperative Union of chairman due to changing national political circumstances and refocused on single initiatives as a normal member Social Affairs oversees its activities. of the ENCC. The goal is to achieve social justice and decent human life for everyone in the International Engagement SEKEM Initiative. The current activities of the CSE are the pharmacy at the Internationally, Helmy Abouleish worked together with main SEKEM premises, the library, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), Bund Oekologischer Lebensmittelwirtschaft the cafeteria that provides healthy and (Federation of Organic Food Industry), the UN Food and warm meals for the employees every Agriculture Organization (FAO) and many organizations day and the transfer of workers to and such as universities, research institutions, NGOs and from the companies. Currently, the associations. CSE has 220 members based on the Together with the International Association of Partnership (IAP, see page 16), a cooperation forum of distribution of shares. On top of this, several international SEKEM business partners, SEKEM SEKEM employees are encouraged to engaged in the active development of sustainable take part in a labor union, which is agriculture, food quality, environmental sustainability welcome to promote its activities on and social responsibility. One central outcome is the company premises anytime. concept of the Sustainable Development Flower (see “Approach to Sustainable Development”, in fold out cover). SEKEM Report on 28 Sustainable Development 2011 CULTURAL LIFE Sustainable cultural development means individual human development. The people need to be guided to their individual inspirational sources, whether these are sciences, philosophy, religion, arts or beauty. This can only be achieved through freedom in cultural life through the establishment of connections with other local cultures and through a global network. Management Approach Impact, Risks and Opportunities Humanity creates the world from ideas. All learning, addressed and developed. researching, inventing and artistic activities are ideally SEKEM is exposed to a multitude of cultural and religious free and not influenced by material benefits. It is only influences and supports this cultural and spiritual diversity. through holistic thinking and acting that a materialistic With our trainings and artistic activities, we stimulate society can be transformed into a cultural society guided human development and people’s consciousness as by meaningful values. Therefore, free education and being integrated into community and nature. spiritual development of all human beings must be the We aspire to have a culture of learning, then leading highest priority. to innovation. This is the main driver for growth and development for us and for Egypt. We also focus on The advancement of every individual is a continuous different research and development topics with high challenge in the fields of education, science, art, religion practical relevance and want to send out an impulse of and spirituality. Without a sound understanding of the knowledge and development, ultimately benefiting from world around them, people will not be able to live in the stimulus that is returned. unity with nature and fellow human beings. Lifelong learning enables the individual to improve living conditions and contribute to the development of the community and country. Children who have been given the opportunity to receive a holistic education are likely to become free-spirited and responsible individuals. SEKEM’s approach to sustainable development therefore embraces culture as a fourth, equally treated, petal of the Sustainable Development Flower. SEKEM contributes to the cultural development of its employees and the broader community through its constantly growing cultural institutions like the SEKEM School, Heliopolis Academy and other projects in different fields.The range of activities spans from music, theater and fine arts to education, teacher trainings and scientific research. Our approach is based on the belief that only the combination of feeling, willing and thinking, all human senses can be How can we develop consciousness for sustainable development? How can an individual achieve the stadium of selffulfillment? SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 29 CULTURAL LIFE Sustainable Development 2011 Human development – a matter of freedom and education 2011 was a year of crisis for Egypt and SEKEM but everyone tried to keep their heads clear amid all the emotion and horror endured. In times of crises like these, it is even more important to be aware of responsibilities and to understand the concept of sustainability – a concept which needs to be pursued and implemented in all aspects of life. Only a free and educated mind can achieve this. Freedom and education are probably the two most important aspects for a peaceful and prosperous Without education, however, freedom is not Egypt. Freedom, after decades of oppression through sustainable. Without learning, understanding and autocratic regimes and centuries of foreign occupation, critical thinking, freedom will only be partial and a was the most pressing demand. Since January 2011, temporary trend until the next oppressive regime many songs were written about “horreya”, the Arabic will deceive the people with populist promises they word for freedom. True freedom, however, means cannot hold. Particularly in Egypt, there is dire need not only freedom from political oppression, but also to reform the educational system. Until today, only economic, cultural and religious freedoms. Of course, money can buy a decent education. The vast majority every region has its own particular traditions and faces crowded classrooms, old-fashioned teaching customs, which form its cultural identity and everyday methods and an evaluation system that takes away life. As long as new ideas and developments are not the freedom of choice of what a person wants to do suppressed and peaceful co-existence of people later in life. SEKEM’s educational institutions try a that have their own cultural identities is guaranteed, different approach and incorporate concepts such as freedom has a valid chance to become embedded into sustainable development in their curricula and do not society. foster hands-on experience, which is more important than ever on the job market. The crucial point, however, is that the development of every human being has to go beyond mere transfer of knowledge. The body and spirit have to be developed, too. SEKEM is well aware of the importance of holistic human development for a peaceful co-existence, social cohesion, the economy and nature. This is why the SEKEM Development Foundation initiates and supports many initiatives that aim to improve the lives of the people. Schools, a medical center, projects to support rural development and an own research and development center, the Heliopolis Academy, are but some examples of how SEKEM fosters sustainable cultural life. This inclusive business model ensures not SEKEM Report on 30 Sustainable Development 2011 CULTURAL LIFE Sustainable Development 2011 only widespread public support but also supports the wellbeing of its current and future employees and customers, which is closely interlinked to SEKEM’s wellbeing. One milestone has yet to be achieved: The establishment of a fully operational Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development (HU). The HU will start in fall 2012 as the non-profit university declaring sustainable development as its overall guiding principle. It was brought into existence to drive promising research activity and deliver innovative findings that can serve as sustainable solutions for the accommodation of the major issues affecting the Egyptian society. The students will learn to think critically and develop a social-entrepreneurial spirit to become the drivers for change. A center called Dar as-Salam (House of Peace) will be created within the HU. It is intended to represent the cultural cooperation at the heart of the university and expand the university’s activities in many different directions. Bringing together the Arab cultures with all kinds of different cultures has always been a vital element of SEKEM’s activities, and will be continued at HU. This cultural cross-fertilization helps improve education and sustain freedom, leading the way to a better future for Egypt. Bringing the SEKEM spirit to the Minya farm In 2011, we developed Minya in the same spirit as the SEKEM main farm by emphasizing community-building measures in order to achieve sustainable development in a holistic manner. In this regard, the daily morning ‘circle’-meetings and community activities have been introduced. There is also the plan to build a mosque and cooperation with local cultural organizations. Only through human development and a functioning community, sustainable land reclamation and economic success go together. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 31 CULTURAL LIFE The SEKEM Cultural Institutions Initial Structure of Heliopolis University All institutions involved in providing cultural services Heliopolis act under the umbrella of the SEKEM Development University Foundation (SDF): the Heliopolis Academy, the Vocational Training Center, the schools, the SEKEM Faculty of Pharmacy Medical Center and the Adult Training Center. There Faculty of are 27 employees working for the SDF at the Head Engeneering Quarter and 149 at the farm. The total expenses of the SDF in 2011 were 9.3 mio EGP. Faculty for Business & Economics for Sustainable Development Overview of all Entities of the SEKEM Development Foundation SEKEM Development Foundation Vocational Adult Training Heliopolis Academy for Schools Medical Center Sustainable Development Training Center Center Kindergarten Electrical Technician Clinics Theater Agricultural Research Primary School Industrial Mechanics Radiology Music Bio Technology & Microbiology Preparatory School Fine Arts Reserach Textile Technican Operation Market Secondary School Office Eurythmy Creative Arts Health Education Studies Administration Vocational SEKEM Agricultural Medical Pharmacy Training Center for Environmental Mechanization Research Employees Science Center Carpentry Health Center Pharmaceutical Special Education Research Foreign Plumbing Consultants Community Product School Development Sustainable Development Special and Sponsored Program Training Center Water Research SEKEM Report on 32 Sustainable Development 2011 CULTURAL LIFE Children and Youth Education SEKEM Community School: The Chamomile Children Student statistics, In 2011, 46 children were enrolled in the SDF Child labor is a widespread social problem in Egypt and see page 70 kindergarten, 167 students in the elementary school, other developing countries. Many poor families cannot 89 in the middle school, 43 in the high school, and 27 afford to send their children to school and instead let in the special education program “Fassl el Fagr” (class them work. So, they grow up illiterate. of dawn). Additionally, 8 children benefitted from the To alleviate the child labor problem and to provide Day-Care Center which was run by two teachers. The as many children as possible with the most essential SEKEM Community School provided education for 45 education, the SEKEM Community School was designed Chamomile Children, and 249 trainees were enrolled with small classes and intensive pedagogic supervision. at the Vocational Training Center. 60 full-time and 4 The goal is that the children graduate at least from part-time teachers teach at our facilities, receive training primary school to be able to find their place in society. and are enrolled in awareness raising workshops and The curriculum at the Community School in SEKEM seminars. These educational institutions are embedded encompasses subjects like English, Mathematics, Arabic, in the SEKEM Community with its societal, economic Religion and Arts. Afterwards, the children have the and ecological activities. possibility to attend a one-year vocational training. The educational part is coupled with an opportunity to gain some experience and income through adequate SEKEM Kindergarten work, mainly related to the harvest of flowers and leaves of medicinal plants (at the beginning most of the flowers Young children live in a rich world of play and discovery. where chamomile which is why those children are called They are completely open to and deeply influenced “Chamomile Children”). by their surroundings. These young spirits learn by The program is officially approved by the Egyptian touching, smelling, listening, moving and imitating what government and covered by the Egyptian law that they see. Unconscious imitation is the natural mode of allows light work for children between 12 and 16, learning for a pre-school child. especially in the agricultural sector, if it is coupled with Accordingly, the SEKEM Kindergarten is a world of adequate training and the right working conditions. harmony, beauty and warmth. In the Kindergarten, the To improve health care and hygiene, the SEKEM Medical main goal is to give each child the opportunity to develop Center conducts awareness programs and offers soundly at his or her own individual pace. medical services free of charge for the children. Warm, nutritious meals and adequate clothing are provided for The SEKEM School the children as well. The private SEKEM School is accredited by the Egyptian Ministry of Education and follows the Egyptian state curriculum. Nonetheless, we believe that education consists not only in teaching abstract knowledge, but also in training students in practical skills, crafts and artistic exercises such as eurythmy, painting and playing music. The goal is to awaken students’ creativity and critical thinking and to create a generation that enjoys learning. The SEKEM School aims at graduating independent young persons who are interested in world issues and in developing their country. To prevent that only students whose families can afford to pay the school fee enroll in the school, we established a social payment scale that is linked to the parents’ income. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 33 CULTURAL LIFE SEKEM Environmental Science Center (SESC) SEKEM Special Education The SEKEM Environmental Science Center offers The SEKEM Special Education program provides a variety interactive science classes on environmental topics to of educational and therapeutic programs for children students from the SEKEM Community, as well as from and young adults with special needs, such as physical local and international schools. The one-day field trips and mental disabilities and serious learning difficulties. consisting of practical activities cover a wide variety The students gain independence and self-confidence by of subjects including chemistry, biology, physics and learning how to master practical, everyday life activities geography. 15 different groups participated in field and basic skills in reading, writing and mathematics. trips offered by SESC in 2011. For security reasons, Furthermore, for those who are adults and need to the activities had to be minimized during and after the work in a sheltered environment, we provide adequate Egyptian turmoil in the beginning of 2011. placements within the SEKEM institutions (see page 27). Vocational Training Center The Vocational Training Center (VTC) provides young people with abilities that are needed in the local labor market. Given the current lack of opportunities in the Egyptian labor market, the curriculum prepares students for self-employment. Through training courses, the apprentices are guided through every aspect of their chosen trade. In line with the SEKEM philosophy “learning by doing and doing by learning”, on-the-job training is emphasized and practical skills are judged to be just as important as theory. Trainees participate in a threeyear program, taught by both local and foreign-trained staff. Since 1999, the VTC has been accredited by the Initiative for Industrial Schools for Vocational Training (former the Mubarak-Kohl-Initiative), a highly successful German technical assistance project in Egypt. Accredited courses include: mechanics, plumbing, ready made garment, carpentry, agriculture machinery mechanics, general administration and electronic technology (incl. computer maintenance). In 2006, an organic model farm was established for education in agriculture. During 2011, a community service helper from Germany helped significantly in structuring the work and instructing the students. Heliopolis University Egypt In September 2012, Heliopolis University Egypt (HU) will open its doors for the first students. The opening was postponed several times due to different reasons, both administrative and strategic.The preparation now moved into high gear at the SEKEM head office, where the university will start until it moves to Ismailia. More information at www.hu.edu.eg SEKEM Report on 34 Sustainable Development 2011 CULTURAL LIFE Employee Training In addition to cultural activities offered to employees in the form of artistic courses as well as weekly presentations and meetings, the SEKEM Holding takes care of the personal development of its employees. They participate in weekly meetings to discuss critical issues about their everyday and work life, led by the founder of the SEKEM Initiative Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish who portrays, explains and passes on the basic vision of holistic development (see page 8). Furthermore, the employees are involved in constant development and specific trainings directly related to their work tasks and Arts Training challenges. On average 10% of their working time is used for the individual development. To develop entrepreneurial competence, three main The Human Relations department works closely together skills are important: Creative, conceptional and with the Adult Training Center from the Heliopolis communication skills. Creative skills enable us to Academy for Sustainable Development to optimize develop ideas and lead to new thoughts. Conception appropriate trainings and personality development skills give us the possibility to structure old concepts programs for the employees. into new processes. Communication skills help us to link creative and conceptional activities and integrate them into social life. The more we embed these competences in our feelings Professional Training and our way of thinking, the more we can inspire our work life with a forward looking attitude. Unfolding a SEKEM Holding takes care of the personal development lively spirit, art enables us to develop an encompassing of its employees. Based on a Personal Performance and emphatic perception of the world as well as an Agreement (PPA), managers and supervisors, which enthusiastic approach to life. The development of make up about 10% of our employees, receive these competences is addressed through artistic incentives directly related to their work tasks and activities (active and observing) for all employees at all challenges. In regular performance review meetings, levels under the umbrella of the SEKEM Development individual goals and training needs are discussed. Foundation.Due to the unstable situation after the Other employee levels receive a similar performance popular uprising in Egypt in 2011, we could not realize report from their direct manager. the planned international arts projects but continued the intensive work with the employees. Training figures We differentiate between two types of training. Firstly, see page 70 training for soft skills, such as presentation and speech skills, which is mainly done for the management and sales Fine Arts – Perceiving and Painting personnel. Secondly, training for vocational skills, which is tailored to the practical needs of each company, such Colors have an immediate effect on a person’s soul and as production standards and procedures, and therefore mood (either positive or negative); be it while perceiving foremost directed towards manual labor workers. an artist’s work or painting oneself. The eyes learn to Additionally, the teachers of the SEKEM Schools receive admire the colors and through that the beauty in nature one hour of training each day in order to enlarge their and the environment. knowledge and skills needed in everyday work with In all SEKEM offices, along the corridors and in public children; amongst others English language classes, areas of SEKEM, we display fine arts from different painting courses and speech skills. artists. Regular exhibitions are shown in the public areas of SEKEM. Most of the painters are our employees or friends whom we offer to use the painting atelier of the SDF. All colors have been carefully selected to enhance the dynamic quality of the buildings’ architecture. The pictures in their bright colors give each space an inspiring and exhilarating atmosphere. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 35 CULTURAL LIFE Music: Joyful, Smart and Healthy Music is a storage and treasure for cultural heritage. Eight Egyptian eurythmy students attended the School of Playing music and especially singing lead to the roots Arts at Heliopolis Academy working towards a diploma of people’s cultures. As rhythm and tone, like fine arts, in eurythmy (number includes the ongoing of one already touch the inner life and soul of human beings, music can graduaded eurythmist). The integrative training of trigger a change in people’s way of thinking, feeling and studying and practicing eurythmy at the same time makes willing. it possible for the teacher-students to provide eurythmy In the SEKEM Holding, companies and cultural institutions, lessons at all levels of the SEKEM Schools. A trainer from all major meetings, lectures and festivals open either the Instituut voor Eurythmie in Werkgebieden, Den with classical European live music or traditional Arabic Haag (Netherlands), who has cooperated with SEKEM live music. This prepares the participants for a successful for a long time, offers a four weeks course for advanced meeting, as they start to listen actively and carefully, eurythmy teachers from different countries each year, which is the basic skill for an interactive process. to dive into the integration at the workplace. As the The teachers receive music lessons for singing and course takes place in the factories of the SEKEM Group playing instruments, so that they can pass on these skills of companies, the students of Heliopolis Academy are to their students. A SEKEM choir for advanced voices deeply involved. performs on stage during many internal celebrations. SEKEM employees can regularly enjoy performances on Each year, young students from different countries, stage. School kids and the eurythmy students show the including students from the SEKEM School come latest studies and plays during the school celebration on together at the main farm for one week to intensively Thursdays or on occasional special events. work on a hand-picked program, supported by professional musicians from Cairo. As a highlight, the group goes from factory to factory as “Choir and Theater, Storytelling, Recitation, Literature Orchestra Caravan” and also performs directly in the Words and speech are important tools of our everyday working areas of e.g. LOTUS, ISIS and NATURETEX, at life to connect people with another. Speech triggers the Adleya Farm and in the Heliopolis Academy. mirror neurons in our brain that reflect what has been said and translate the words into emotion and reaction. '' Life will reveal for those whose We have the responsibility of how and for what we use speech, as it has an immediate effect on our social perception is educated through art.'' relations. For many years, several speech specialists and narrators have visited SEKEM regularly for trainings, own performances and rehearsals of poems and theater plays with SEKEM employees. Eurythmy Integrated in Social Life The word Eurythmy means “beautiful rhythm” describing a unique vital performance art, unifying speech, music and expressive movements. It creates a sense of solidarity Eurythmy Performance among human beings, amplifying the personality and “Don’t go back to sleep” developing creative and social skills. Eurythmy can be applied in different areas of life, such as education, therapy, in the working place and on stage. Don’t go back to sleep’ was a line from a poem Eurythmy at the workplace builds higher awareness of the of Galal el Din Rumi in the English translation. surroundings and, thus, improves the concentration and At the same time, it was the title of a Eurythmy program that has been the artistic answer to the endurance of the employee. Furthermore, it cultivates revolution. Arabic poems written over the last communication and cooperation skills, as well as team 600 years showed how human consciousness and management abilities. All employees receive training developed and what could be next tomorrow. in eurythmy and gymnastics which are designed to relax The SEKEM Eurythmy Group performed at from typical movements at work. In 2011, 45 courses Heliopolis Academy and the SEKEM School. took place in 13 different companies or institutions, each eurythmy course lasting around 14 to 30 days. In total, 450 people participated. SEKEM Report on 36 Sustainable Development 2011 CULTURAL LIFE Holistic Research: Heliopolis Support of Research Activities Academy for Sustainable The close ties to the SEKEM companies enable the different science centers to come up with practical Development and marketable innovations (see also Infobox). The Special & Sponsored Programs Department (SSP) was In 1999, the SEKEM Development Foundation (SDF) established in 2008 under the umbrella of Heliopolis established the Heliopolis Academy for Sustainable Academy for Sustainable Development to assist in the Development as a major independent research fundraising process for the research projects and to act Project statistics institution. In the Academy, a network of scientists as the central coordination point for all grant proposal see page 71 and artists, national and international, collaborates and submissions. Furthermore, to maximize synergies works on practical solutions for challenges encountered between the projects, the SSP supports all entities of during the development process. Through a number the Heliopolis Academy in the strategic alignment of of activities, the Academy’s program aims to improve research activities. Egypt’s capacity to conduct, publish and disseminate relevant scientific research in the areas of medicine, pharmacy, biodynamic agriculture, sustainable economic, Continuous Research social sciences, community development, and arts. Program The departments of the Heliopolis Academy mainly fulfill three tasks. First, they conduct funded research projects Department of Agricultural Research from different programs and frameworks. Second, the • Breeding of medicinal and aromatic plants, medical, pharmaceutical, agricultural and biotechnology acclimatization of imported plants and production of seed and seedlings research departments provide services to the SEKEM • Implementation and production of successful group of companies. Third, the training department research in species varieties offers capacity building and job-specific knowledge • Scientific support transfer for all SEKEM employees. Furthermore, the Department of Biotechnology and Academy launched in the last three years two rounds of Microbiological Research the Innovation Award for outstanding Egyptian projects • Producing substances from micro-organisms in sustainable development, called INNOVA. In 2011, and metabolites like bio-fertilizers, bio-control 26 full-time employees and 7 part-time researchers agents, bio-treatment of environmental conducted 14 ongoing research projects in all fields. pollutants and others • Analysis services Department of Market Studies • Marketing research • Development of marketing plans, providing “Science discovers, arts training programs and other marketing creates“ (Naguib Mahfouz) consultation activities to the SEKEM Group and other stakeholders. Department of Medical Research Research is also done in the arts. For example, • Medical research a research project was conducted on stress • Clinical trials reduction on the working place through the • Scientific support practicing of eurythmy. One of our eurythmy Department of Pharmaceutical Research teachers investigated this on the base of a • Developing pharmaceutical products from master thesis. 15 supervisors in the textile medicinal plants production of NATURETEX participated in Department of Water Research the project. It was found that there was a • Research on wastewater treatments and significant decrease in the stress hormone implementation Cortisol. Another study addressed the close • Drinking water disinfection and treatment relationship between music and human beings. • Monitoring of water quality Arts Department • Eurythmy book in Arabic SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 37 CULTURAL LIFE Self-Fulfillment The development of a meaningful community that is working consciously on the overcoming of social and ecological problems, on the development of personality as well as on the whole country, forms one of the main elements of SEKEM’s identity. For the individual, this community builds the basis to find the path of selffulfillment. To many new employees, the extra cultural activities of SEKEM seem unusual at first, but they generally start to see the added value soon. Each morning, the employees of all SEKEM companies and SEKEM Development Foundation institutions meet in a circle to start the day together. At the end of the week, on Thursday afternoon, the employees of all SEKEM institutions located at the SEKEM main farm gather in a big circle in order to celebrate the achievements of the previous week. In the symbol of the circle, many are included in one unity. Cultural activities like choirs and eurythmy support further team building, especially, eurythmy at the work place. Trust and reliability link the employees to each other (see more at page 35). Twice a week, the employees meet during working hours for presentations and discussion panels with Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish. Amongst others, each Monday at the head office, the Heliopolis Academy offers a cultural program for all employees. Experiencing literature, eurythmy, music and poetry gives an understanding of Values & Spirituality culture and society. Next to Dr. Ibrahim and Helmy Abouleish, SEKEM employees and guest lecturers enrich The values of SEKEM (see page 8) are reflected in all the Monday forum. In 2011, the event took place 38 our activities. In addition, religion and spirituality are times. recognized in SEKEM as a central pillar of personal development, while tolerance, reflection and dialogue are fostered throughout SEKEM’s institutions. This SEKEM’s Microcredit includes, for instance, a mosque on the farm grounds, 10 Program official praying rooms and the communal celebration of religious holidays. Being originally part of a three-years project in Those people living at the farm meet each morning our surrounding community, our microcredit except Friday to read and speak about various topics program has been a continuous success story such as Sufism, biodynamic basics or Egyptian poetry. since it was established in 2007. Since 2008 the youth of SEKEM meets regularly under We offer the initial financing to independence. the umbrella of SEED the SEKEM Entrepreneurship So far, we have helped 314 men and 283 Development Program to discuss how SEKEM’s values women to build up their own existence for can be transferred to the unknown future. example workshops, raising animals or little groceries. Today the total credit sum counts For visitors, Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish annually holds a almost 2.9 mio EGP. seminar on a holistic understanding of Islam, including artistic expressions such as Islamic poetry reading, Arabic script, Qur‘an recitals and Arabic songs. SEKEM Report on 38 Sustainable Development 2011 ECOLOGY Management Approach All major religions share the idea that man is appointed the production cycle. Higher temperatures will lead to as a steward on earth who has to sustain and develop increased costs for air conditioning to protect products it. In accordance with this approach, our governing during their growth, processing and transport. The principle is not only to reduce our ‘ecological footprint’, changing climate will influence consumption patterns, but to spread life and to contribute towards a better which can be a great opportunity for SEKEM, resulting in and healthier condition of the land and the people a different product portfolio. that we work with. This is the only way to create and SEKEM, as a biodynamic agriculture company, sustain conditions for a planet with more than seven has inherently reduced CO2 emissions and water billion people. We thus commit ourselves to sustaining consumption compared to conventional producers. and further developing all ecological spheres. Through Environmentally friendly production will provide great biodynamic agricultural principles, quality standards competitive advantages in the future when governments and efficiency improvements, the application of new implement stricter environmental regulations on technologies and education of all our stakeholders, companies. Therefore, the subsequent risk of negative we wish to achieve “eco-literacy.” This means keeping impacts of new regulations is currently low for SEKEM. the environment in balance and taking the scarcity of all resources into consideration. To assure that our environmental management system works effectively, we have aligned it with the ISO 14001 standard. The responsibilities related to corporate environment protection (e.g. water, energy, waste) are organized centrally under the General Compliance Manager. Impact, Risks and Opportunities Based on a biodynamic approach of cultivation, we constantly monitor our impact on soils, plants, animals, energy, air and water. Our existence and success are closely linked to the quality of these natural resources. We do not only take from nature but also strive to give back. How can we reduce our direct and indirect ecological Global warming affects harvesting patterns due to footprint along the organization´s value chain? gradual shifts in heat and cold periods. This can lead to How can we integrate our operations within the higher costs of raw materials and, eventually, changes in ecological system? SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 39 ECOLOGY Sustainable Development 2011 Regenerative Agriculture SEKEM has been farming organically for over 30 years. and methods shows, that desert land can be reclaimed More specifically, it applies biodynamic agricultural and thus regenerated. For over 30 years, SEKEM methods. Biodynamic agriculture stands for a selfhas been building up living soils in desert land and contained and self-sustaining ecosystem without any implementing closed nutrients cycle with livestock unnatural additions. Soil, plants, animals and humans integration and a diverse range of crops, plants and together create an image of a holistic living organism. trees. By farming without chemicals, the health of the The majority of people will call this sustainable farmers and the consumers who eat organic products agriculture. But is sustainable agriculture grasping all regenerates. The returning wildlife also benefits, which aspects of SEKEM’s way of cultivation and application of in turn gives back to the farm by helping to keep down biodynamic agricultural methods? insect pests. Most agricultural experts understand ‘sustainable’ as To strengthen the local genetic resources, SEKEM ‘self-sustaining’. The verb “to sustain” itself only means built up a seed program. Additionally, the surrounding ‘to endure’ or ‘to last’, and ‘sustainable’ therefore communities and water reservoirs are regenerated as became an expression for anything that has the capacity the farm recycles natural waste products into the fields to endure. A plastic bag that is buried in soil and does and thus reduces local pollution points. Regenerative not decay is thus also ‘sustainable’, at least linguistically agriculture is therefore very social and important for speaking. From this perspective, sustainable agriculture social justice. excludes the regenerative powers of agriculture. The term ‘regenerative agriculture’ dates back to the late Regenerative agriculture stands in direct contrast to 1970s and 80s, when it was introduced by the Rodale business-as-usual industrial agriculture. The latter Institute. In regenerative agriculture, lost ecological relies heavily on external inputs, spreads vast areas of systems can ultimately begin ‘regenerating’ back into monocultures over the planet and even changes the existence. plants’ genetic source codes to increase resistance to pests and adapt to climate change. Numerous scientific The desert is such a lost ecosystem, at least from studies have, however, shown that industrial agriculture an agricultural perspective. The soil lost most of its and the application of genetically modified organisms nutrients and completely lacks any organic soil structure affect the ecosystems negatively and in fact rather and water-holding capacity. Under these conditions, degrade than regenerate them. agriculture is not possible unless organic matter can Global population has passed the threshold of seven serve as both a foundation and a catalyst for growing billion people.One billion is suffering from hunger and plants and accommodating animals. one billion from overweight. In a world where climate SEKEM’s approach to agriculture is regenerative. The will change and the population will further increase, very fact that it turns desert into living soils through only regenerative agriculture will be able to ensure food the application of compost and biodynamic concepts security in a social way. SEKEM Report on 40 Sustainable Development 2011 ECOLOGY Sustainable Development 2011 SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 41 ECOLOGY Soil Soil is a living organism. The solid and limited surface of the Earth is the habitat of countless organisms and offers stability for the roots of the plants. Soil is the fundamental basis for food production. In the future, the global surface can only produce enough food for all human beings if we preserve its fertility, avoid erosion and enable an adequate water storage capacity. Vital Soils Soil numbers, Each feddan cultivated by SEKEM has to be turned see page 76 from desert land into vital soil. Today, the top layer of SEKEM’s first farm soils (varying between 0 to 30 cm in depth) is rich of organic matter and a broad spectrum of microbiological life; a main requirement for an increased water holding capacity. Furthermore, the microorganisms are essential to make nutrients such as potassium, phosphate or nitrogen available to plants. For creating this vitality in the soils, three techniques Composting at SEKEM help us: First, the application of compost, compost tea Under the umbrella of LIBRA, SEKEM produces its and other organic fertilizers, second, the rotation of own compost, mainly from cow manure and plant crops and, third, the use of biodynamic preparations. residues. The two production sites in Adleya and close to Alexandria each have a capacity of approximately To build-up the first organic matter in empty desert soils, 200 tonnes of input material per day. The aerobic we use compost that we produce at our own premises conditions throughout the composting process are the (see below). The continuous treatment of the field with basis of acquiring methane avoidance based carbon compost tea (a mixture of compost with molasses and credits, a project which LIBRA developed together with water aerated for 16 hours) maintains and accelerates Soil and More International. In 2011, SEKEM produced the activity of the microorganisms in the compost. In 64,847.12 tonnes of compost compared to 66,916 some cases, we have to add further organic fertilizers. tonnes in 2010. By rotating nitrogen consuming with nitrogen enriching % of legumes, In order to constantly monitor and improve soil quality, see page 77 crops like legumes, we prevent the depletion of soils. SEKEM conducts soil and compost analysis in its Instead, the roots of e.g. clover and beans built more Biotechnology and Agricultural Microbiology Research organic matter. In general, we plan to always cover at Department (see page 37). least 20% of the cultivated area of a farm with legumes and at least every fifth season in the same plot or green house. A distinctive difference to other organic agriculture methods is the use of eight biodynamic preparations in the cultivation. SEKEM uses horn manure (cow manure filled into cow horns and buried in our soils during winter) and horn silica (silica filled into cow horns and buried in our soils during summer). Both are sprayed on the field. For the compost, SEKEM uses six different medicinal plants prepared in a special way by building a connection to cosmic powers that vitalizes the plants. SEKEM Report on 42 Sustainable Development 2011 ECOLOGY Plants (GMO). We follow a strict “No GMO” policy. The reasons for this can be found on our website. SEKEM holds 136 organic seed varieties in its own seed Plants constitute the dress of the Earth. In many parts of the bank and in its botanical garden at the Adleya farm. The planet, they reflect the seasons. More than 500,000 species are agriculture department of the Heliopolis Academy (see enrooted in the Earth, building their substance through sunlight, Seed figures, page 37) continuously works on their improvement. In see page 76 carbon dioxide and water. Generating the necessary oxygen, forests can be regarded as the lungs of the Earth. With all their parts, addition, SEKEM actively researches the acclimatization plants provide nourishment and serve as medical remedies, as well of foreign plants to the Egyptian environment. The as multifunctional raw materials. They can be preserved in their optimal living conditions of the plants like lighting and diversity and further developed in their effectiveness through diligent temperature are simulated in order to create the care. possibility to grow certain organic plants in Egypt. Plants and their fruits are the essential ingredients of the products of the SEKEM Group of companies; be it Animals herbs for medicine or oranges for juice. According to Animals populate and enliven the Earth with several millions of the Demeter requirements, we do not use any chemical species. They live in almost all regions of the Earth and play a fertilizers or pesticides to grow them. Instead, we rely crucial role in the balance of all ecosystems. They are capable of on natural solutions for pest control and growing a large different patterns of behavior and even show emotional life in their variety of plants for keeping up the natural balance. higher stages of development. Like human beings, they are sensitive Each plant has its own task in the soil and ecosystem. to pain. Treating animals in a species-appropriate way means to For example, beneficial organisms and predators at respectfully deal with life itself. different types of plants. To keep the natural balance, it is important to avoid monocultures and, instead, combine different plants at a farm, also through green Animal Husbandry corridors between single fields. In SEKEM’s Demeter based understanding of farm and At all our farms, we planted different types of shrubs cattle management, animals are not only raised in ways as well as about 200,000 Casuarina trees along the appropriate to the species, but also with the physical Husbandry field borders. In the working and living areas, trees and requirements of their natural development. statistics see page 77 colorful gardens give delight to employees and visitors. We keep cattle, sheep, bees and pigeons. The cattle live In an agroforest experiment in Bahareya, we planted unbound in an open space covered by a shading roof. 5,300 palm trees and 1,500 other trees on the same Their nutrition consists of corn-silage, clover, straw, field as the legume licorice. Looking at the main farm fodder beat, corn, soya, cotton seeds and wheat bran. and Adleya, 7.6% (= 20 feddan [8,4 ha]) are covered by The average milk production per cow per day is around forest and gardens; on ground that was desert before. 23 liters. The sheep nutrition consists of clover and regularly grazing, with a production of around 1000 kg Natural Pest Control of wool in 2011. The two other animal species kept on the main farm and in Adleya are flying in the skies: bees We use the extract of neem trees to stop the growth for honey and pigeons for meat. of cankers and others and also apply pheromones to Apart from cow and pigeon meat, milk, wool and honey, catch or irritate insects. In 2010, we started to produce the most important product is the manure of the cows, beneficial organisms under the name of “Predators sheep and pigeons that goes directly to the compost Production Company”, in cooperation with the Danish production in LIBRA. Manure from animals adds vital companies EWH Bio Production and Envision. The parts to the mixture with green residue. organisms are used on SEKEM’s own fields, but are also sold on agricultural markets as an efficient alternative to regular pesticides or other artificial chemical products Natural Habitat which are harmful to soil, plants, air and humans. Animals close the cycle of eating and being eaten. To keep the natural balance around the farm, animal wildlife GMO Free Organic Seeds and Seedlings diversity has to be realized through opportunities for nestling and living. Over the years, we built up a habitat With regard to the question of food security in the for wild life such as foxes, mungos, hedgehogs, lizards, future, conventional food companies often justify the chameleon, mice, snails, rats, a variety of reptiles and development and usage of genetically modified organisms birds, of which 11 are rare species. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 43 ECOLOGY Energy Air The sun lights life and grants human beings their physical The air of our atmosphere is vital for all aerobic creatures. and spiritual strength. Sunlight, wind and hydropower are Only in an environment with clean air, humans and animal natural sources of energy – infinite, at least from a human can live in a healthy way. Global warming drastically illustrates perspective. Physically, energy can be neither generated the importance of balanced conditions and temperatures of nor consumed. The human way of using energy, however, the atmosphere. Stabilizing these temperatures is the best contributes substantially to climate change. Through carbonway to avoid natural disasters related to climatic conditions. neutral power generation from renewable energies, the emission of dangerous greenhouse gases can be reduced significantly. The climate above the surface of the soil is one factor that determines how fast soil degrades and water evaporates. By planting trees (see page 43) around the SEKEM maintains on-going small scale renewable fields, we achieve several effects, on top of a pleasant energy projects, such as a small photovoltaic station at scent: The trees break the wind so that it cannot blow the headoffice, several hybrid solar dryers for herbal away the top soil; the shade brings cooler and more production, two Sheffler mirrors to produce steam for humid air, which creates a micro climate among the production processes at the main farm and several solar surrounding tree lines of a field; the photosynthesis of water heaters on the roof of production sites. In the field the trees uses carbon dioxide and emits the needed of energy savings, we continue to make slow progress, oxygen instead; and in the long term, the groundwater mainly due to insufficient data of ongoing energy usage. It level slowly rises because of the cooler surface and is necessary to implement an energy flow analysis on the brings additional microclimatic change. Energy company level in order to improve the current energy Green Waste into Carbon Credits statistics, see page 77 usage situation. By processing the green waste of SEKEM and of surrounding farms into compost (as opposed to Carbon footprint, conventional waste management methods), greenhouse see page 78/81 gas emissions are decreased substantially. In 2011, a total amount of 79,500 VERs (Verified Emissions Reductions) was issued by the TUEV certification body for our methane avoiding composting method. One credit (= one VER) offsets one tonne of CO2 emissions. We then trade those received carbon credits internationally. Solar Thermal System for Steam Production In summer 2011, SEKEM and the Heliopolis University, together with partners from Austria (SEKEM Energy, GREENoneTEC solar industry and PINK GmbH), started a project for developing the market of solar thermal systems for industries in Egypt. After adapting the technology to the Egyptian environment to avoid existing problems with dust and maintenance, key stakeholders will receive training in sales, engineering and plumbing. A demonstration plant in an industrial context will be built at the SEKEM main premises in 2012. The hot water will feed a steam vessel that supplies ISIS and ATOS Pharma SEKEM Report on 44 Sustainable Development 2011 ECOLOGY Water Water constitutes the basis of all life. The hydrological cycle of planet Earth is similar to the human blood circulation system: Water evaporates, falls back down as rain and runs Sub-Surface Irrigation from fresh water rivers into the salty oceans. Without the influence of human beings, the water clears and cleans itself along the way. 71% of the surface of the Earth is covered by At the end of 2011, we started a project to water, mainly salt-water. Potable water is a scarce resource analyze the water efficiency of subsurface and must neither be wasted nor polluted any further. irrigation under local conditions. Together with the Austrian company Hydrip GmbH, we directly compare drip irrigation and subsurface SEKEM needs water to irrigate the plants on the fields and drip irrigation in combination with different green corridors, for processing and for the employees. soil conditioners. We do this for tomatoes and Water statistics, We use three sources of water: Nile water, governmentrosemary, on a test field of 1.7 feddan (0.71ha) see page 78 distributed water and well water. In all companies and all at the Adleya farm. The project is planned to farms, certain rules for water usage apply though they last for two years and is funded by DEG Invest are not yet enforced through a written policy. Such a (German Investment Corporation). written policy is planned for 2012. The waste water from all companies is reused after treatment as irrigation water for the trees at the main SEKEM farm. We support the CEO Water Mandate, a UN Global Compact Initiative. As Egypt will be hugely impacted by the world’s water scarcity, we regard it as one of our Waste water treatment with EM highest priorities to raise awareness for the careful and EM stands for effective microorganisms in a watery mix efficient usage of the country’s water sources. of 84 aerobic and anaerobic varieties such as the family of yeast, lactobacilli and photosynthesis bacteria. When applied to waste water, two effects can be observed. Due to the activities of the microorganisms, the odor is drastically reduced and sludge in the sewage treatment plant is decreased by 50%. We get our high quality EM from a company in Germany and rebreed them only twice to avoid uncontrollable mutations. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 45 Chairman`s Epilogue Dear Readers, The ‘Egyptian Rebellion’ in 2011 has shown the world, that economic growth is not sufficient for a peaceful coexistence. Profit maximization for the benefit of a few rather opposes social cohesion. Actions and commitments to promote socially responsible and ethical business practices enable the participation of larger parts of the population in sharing wealth and prosperity. SEKEM’s business conduct has been following these values for a long time, for which an award giving committee of Nobel Laureates honored me with the Business for Peace Awards 2012. The year 2011 urged SEKEM to focus on its core business and competencies. As a consequence, we SEKEM Report on 46 Sustainable Development 2011 Chairman`s Epilogue withdrew from several national and international future decision-making. Adequate human education public advocacy activities in order to fully commit and training is the precondition for these people to ourselves to steer SEKEM through the challenging develop the creativity and skills to handle the great new economic realities. This report shows that we challenges of today and the future. did not cede our mission for sustainable development due to external pressure but managed to meet our The establishment of the Heliopolis University high standards of being a sustainable development for Sustainable Development is our contribution initiative. Years of cultural engagement and activities to educate and enable young people to develop for our employees strengthened the inner ties with an entrepreneurial spirit and thereby becoming our employees to an extent that SEKEM was widely a pro-active member of the society. After years spared from strikes and even profited from employees of preparation we finally start with the first three securing SEKEM facilities in times of crisis. faculties in fall 2012 (Sustainable Management and Business, Pharmaceutical Sciences, Engineering: However, the revolutionary events that have taken Renewable Energy, Water, Mechatronics). The place in 2011 have also demonstrated the necessity start of Heliopolis University constitutes a new and of education as the centerpiece of sustainable important chapter of our efforts to intensify holistic development. Economic wellbeing should be the human development and replicate the socially consequence of human and environmental wellbeing responsible and ethical business practices SEKEM is and should not occur at their expense, as it was the renowned for worldwide. case in Egypt. A widespread mind shift is necessary to grasp this perception, which is not possible without education on sustainable development. We Sincerely, must make sure that the old realities will never come back again and keep the momentum of early 2011 alive. We perceive these times of change as a great opportunity to further stimulate young people’s minds Prof. Dr Ibrahim Abouleish to incorporate ethical and social questions into their Chairman of the Board of Directors SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 47 PERFORMANCE REPORT 2011 Introduction In this fifth Sustainability Development Report, some dimensions. We use the reviewed performance aspects changes were made regarding the structure. We have and the newly defined performance indicators as basis separated the descriptive part of our approach to for evaluation on the Sustainable Development Balance sustainable development from the annual hard facts. This Score Card (SBSC). Due to the on-going review process, was done to make the information more accessible for some indicators may change next year. The result of the all readers. For those just getting to know what SEKEM SBSC of both the group level and the company level can is all about, reading the first part will be a good start. be found at the next page. For those who already know SEKEM quite well, the hard The explanations of the abbreviations used in the table facts in the Performance Report will update them on the are shown in the description below. The evaluation newest developments. of the performance indicators are aligned only to the The core of the Performance Report are the status and current target, not to the overall performance which is target overviews in the sequence of the dimensions of reflected in the SBSC. the Sustainable Development Flower (see page 9 and In general the targets in the status and target overviews fold-out cover): ECONOMIC LIFE, SOCIETAL LIFE, are set for 2013. In some cases a target setting was only CULTURAL LIFE and ECOLOGY with its six subfeasible until 2012. LOTUS (incl. LOTUS Upper Egypt) NATURETEX ISIS LIBRA SEKEM for Land Reclamation SEKEM Development Foundation Performance Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Unit SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT SDF Indicator Total Target 2010 tion* Indicator x Target 2013 Target for entities EL-MIZAN ATOS Pharma If not stated otherwise the goals per entity Total 2011/2010 and total target and total are for 2013 Included is the sum for the applicable entities only. Not PA = Performance Aspect incl. applicable is marked with “-”. evaluation from the SBSC * First steps First results Half the way Almost there Achieved SEKEM Report on 48 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report ORGANIZATION Sustainable Development Organization The Sustainable Development Center (SDC, former The concept of the Sustainable Development Flower Sustainable Entrepreneurship Center (SEC)) supports guides the work of the SDC. Together with the Group the internal management of the SEKEM Group in Compliance Manager and the relevant departments, questions of sustainable development topics. The team the team collects the needed data for measuring the is situated under the umbrella of the Heliopolis Academy performance of SEKEM and its companies and translates for Sustainable Development and works together with the results into the Sustainable Development Balance all management divisions of the SEKEM Holding as well Score Card (SBSC, see next page). Additionally, the as the general managers and relevant departments of the performance is evaluated with regard to the targets in group companies. the near future. The results are discussed internally in regular management meetings and published annually in the SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development. Sustainable Development Structure SEKEM Holding Order Heliopolis Academy Managing „Sustainable Development Service Director Center“ Delivery Sustainable Development Strategy & Reporting Performance Analysis & Improvement Communication Stakeholder Dialogue SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 49 Performance Report SBSC Sustainable Development Balance Score Card Evaluation In order to assess its overall performance of continuous and actions have been taken, but that there is room for sustainable development and regeneration, SEKEM uses improvement. In the current review process of the Sustainable the Sustainable Development Balance Score Card (SBSC). Development Flower, which forms the basis of the assessment The evaluation steps are represented in the traffic light framework, some performance aspects have been merged or colors – green stands for excellence, red for no action or reformulated. The concrete explanations for the classification negative impact and yellow means that awareness exists and annotations concerning changes are presented in the Annex (see page 53). SEKEM GROUP 2008 2009 2010 2011 ECONOMIC LIFE Product Portfolio 2011 Developments at the group level Responsibility to Customer and Consumer Innovation The new performance aspect “Partnerships” is one of Organizational Process our core competencies. Through longterm partnerships Partnerships we were able to develop the organic market in Egypt. Economic Value Distribution and showed positive impact (evaluated as “green”). Due to the political unrests and the resulting unstable SOCIETAL LIFE economic situation, the sales did not increase as we would Labor Rights have expected under normal conditions. Accordingly, we Health and Safety evaluate the status as yellow. Diversity The second new performance aspect “Employee SelfEmployee Loyality and Motivation fulfillment and Vitality” was added to the CULTURAL Governance and Compliance LIFE dimension. To analyse our performance, we plan to Advocacy for Sustainable Development analyse the values and motivation of our employees and CULTURAL LIFE the perception of their workplace in the year 2012. Training and Education The reformulation of the performance aspects “Soil Research and Development Quality” and “Water Sources” let to a downgrading to Employee Self-fulfillment and Vitality n.a. the level “yellow”. Values and Spiritualty ECOLOGY 2011 Developments at the company level Soil Quality * SOIL Soil Use Only EL-MIZAN and LIBRA succeeded to increase the Seeds PLANTS sales numbers in 2011 including a positive net profit Biodiversity margin. Animal Husbandry Apart from NATURETEX, with a new product sales share ANIMALS Natural Habitats of 94%, the innovation activity at most companies is quite Energy Use low. Though ATOS puts a lot of efforts into research and ENERGY Energy Sources development, the outcomes are not necessarily reflected AIR Emission Reduction in sales numbers as development and registration time Water Use can take up to several years. NATURETEX, instead, can WATER implement new products without any upfront scientific Water Sources * Positive impact 14 20 19 18 work. Initiatives for positive impact 11 5 6 8 EL-MIZAN is rated red for not providing any training to No actions / negative impact 0 0 0 0 its employees in 2011. Not relevant / not available 2 2 2 1 *downgraded after redefining the Performance Aspect and its requirements, see page 76/77 and 85 SEKEM Report on 50 Sustainable Development 2011 SEKEM FOR LR EL-MIZAN LIBRA LOTUS ISIS ATOS NATURETEX 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 ECONOMIC LIFE Product Portfolio Responsibility to Customer and Consumer Innovation Organizational Process Partnerships Economic Value Distribution SOCIETAL LIFE Labor Rights Health and Safety Diversity Employee Loyality and Motivation Governance and Compliance Advocacy for Sustainable Development CULTURAL LIFE Training and Education Research and Development Employee Self-fulfillment and Vitality n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Values and Spiritualty ECOLOGY Soil Quality SOIL SBSC Soil Use Seeds PLANTS Biodiversity Animal Husbandry ANIMALS Natural Habitats Energy Use ENERGY Energy Sources AIR Emission Reduction Water Use WATER SEKEM Report on Water Sources Positive impact 0 14 16 0 15 16 21 16 16 17 14 15 14 14 15 15 15 13 12 13 14 Sustainable Development Initiatives for positive impact 0 9 7 0 7 6 2 5 7 4 7 7 7 7 7 6 6 9 9 8 8 No actions / negative impact 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2011 Not relevant / not available 27 4 3 27 5 4 4 5 4 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 Performance Report 51 52 Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT Comments SEKEM Report on Total Target 2010 tion % of sales value of organic products % 100 100 100 100 90 71.5 100 94.3 ATOS: 71.5% is the current Sustainable Development n.a. highest possible share of organic Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 90 71.5 100 94.3 products within product portfolio 2011 % of sales value of products that have We only print the Demeter logo % 56 77 0.85 49.9 a Demeter certificate 11.4 on the produt when requested Target 2013 61 82 6 55 from customer, see page 14-15 % Product Portfolio Performance Report % of sales value of products that have We only print the Fairtrade logo % 4.6 2* 0.52 1.6 a Fairtrade certificate 0.7 on the produt when requested Target 2013 % 10 7* 5 13 from customer, see page 14-15 % of raw materials assessed** for % 100 100 100 100 100 100 health and safety impact 100 Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 100 100 % of final products assessed** for % 100 100 100 100 100 health and safety impact 100 Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 100 % of sales value with representitive % 86.9 13.1 0 70.3 31.8 product carbon footprints n.a. Target 2013 % 100 50 50 100 67 Number of customer claims number 4 42 73 10 29 136 158 Customer claims are not end % increase of customer claims % 75 + 2.4 31.5 40 + 24 -13.9 + 23.4 consumer but only major clients ECONOMIC LIFE Target 2012 % 0 -14 0 16.7 30.6 120 % fulfillment of orders to customer % 90 100 97 93.7 80 94 92.5 See above 93.7 Target 2012 % 95 100 99 98 100 96 98 Status and Target Overview for ECONOMIC LIFE (1) % of orders delivered to customer on See above % 92 100 98.5 99 69 95 92.3 the committed date 96.7 Target 2012 % 97 100 100 100 100 97 99 % of hypermarkets coverage of ATOS: SEKEM Herbs/ % 100 15/0 SEKEM products in Egypt n.a. ATOS Pharma Target 2013 % 100 70/0 average % of available assortment per ATOS: SEKEM Herbs/ % 50 30/0 hypermarket n.a. ATOS Pharma Responsibility to customer and consumer (1) Target 2013 % 60 30/0 % of supermarkets coverage of ATOS: SEKEM Herbs/ % 50 20/0 SEKEM products in Egypt n.a. ATOS Pharma Target 2013 % 60 20/0 *Export Market ** ISIS fruits and vegetables: physical plus pesticide analysis for organic products; ISIS (raw material except fruits and vegetables), LOTUS raw materials, ATOS herbs raw materials and SLR outgoing raw materials: physical, chemical, microbiology analysis plus pesticide analysis for incoming organic products; NATURETEX raw materials: physical analysis plus pesticide analysis for outgoing raw cotton Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT Comments Total Target 2010 tion Average % of available assortment per ATOS: SEKEM Herbs/ % 25 10/0 supermarket n.a. ATOS Pharma Target 2013 % 30 10/0 % of groceries coverage of SEKEM % 10 products in Egypt n.a. Target 2013 % 15 Average % of available assortment per % 5 grocery n.a. Target 2013 % 10 Number of boutiques with SEKEM number 39 products in Egypt n.a. Target 2013 number 80 % of pharmacies coverage of SEKEM ATOS: SEKEM Herbs/ ATOS % 57.5 70/80 0 Responsibility to customer and consumer (2) products in Egypt Pharma; n.a. Target 2013 s. comNATURETEX coverage target for % 70 70/80 ment 2013: 200 pharmacies Average % of available assortment per ATOS: SEKEM Herbs/ ATOS % 15 30/40 pharmacy n.a. Pharma Target 2013 % 20 30/40 % of sales going into research % 0.73 2 n.a. Target 2013 % 1 2 % of sales from new products % 0 84 0.6 2.1 1.4 0.9 94* 18.44* 4.3* Innovation Target 2012 % 2 5 2 2 5 5 50 15 Number of internal quality and susEach month an internal quality and number 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 tainability audits per year n.a. sustainability audit takes place ECONOMIC LIFE Target 2013 number 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 x of y improvement points of ISO 87 % of sales come from ISO x/y 3/3 4/4 2/3 1/2 1/1 11/13 14001 program solved n.a. 14001 and ISO 9001 certified Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 100 100 processes (see page 18-19) x of y improvement points of OHSAS 89.7% of employees work in OHx/y 3/3 2/3 2/3 14/15 8/8 29/32 18001 program solved n.a. SAS 18001 certified environment Target 2013 (see page 18-19) Organizational processes (1) % 100 100 100 100 100 100 Total weight of waste ‘000 tonnes 252.9 43.7 15.3 82.1 243.6 4.2 58.8 700.6 337 The main part of the waste of SEKEM Report on kg/ I000 1.43 SLR, LOTUS and EL-MIZAN is EGP sales 11.04 10.66 0.52 2.15 2.19 0.12 0.17 3.56 organic and goes directly into the Sustainable Development kg/ I000 compost; see page 56 for waste Target 2013 10 9 0.4 2 2 0.06 0.1 3 EGP sales graph incl. categories 2011 Performance Report * NATURETEX: Innovation has been newly defined. New products includes all garments with new pattern plus all garements with new fabric, new fabric color or new finishing details (embroidery, print, special stitches) for the reporting year. Therefore, this number is not comparable with last year. 53 54 Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT Comments SEKEM Report on Total Target 2010 tion % of organic waste recycled % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 All organic waste is composted on Sustainable Development site by LIBRA Target 2013 % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 2011 % of non-organic waste recycled % 100 23.1 11.9 40.6 39.2 100 22.6 50.4 47 Without taking the Medical Center Target 2013 and lab waste into consideration % 100 28 16 45 34 100 27 55 % recycled input material of total Difference due to redefinition of Performance Report % n.a. n.a. n.a. 9.99 n.a. 20.70 n.a. 3.53 6.2*** packing material used indicator Organizational processes (2) Target 2013 % n.a. n.a. n.a. 15 n.a. 26 n.a. 10 % of suppliers with whom we have a LOTUS: In case of seasonal con% 100 100 91 85 100 100 49 84 purchasing committment >1 year tracts the committment to purn.a. chase next year is agreed orally; Partnership Target 2013 % 100 100 95 90 100 100 55 90 For more about partnerships with business partners see page 16 % of purchase value of raw materials* Fairtrade certificates do exist only % 1.04 3.5 100 9.4 4.7 with Fairtrade certificate for a limited range of products. In Target 2013 general the suppliers are compliant % 6 8 100 15 with the Fairtrade principles. % of purchase value of raw materials* More certifications on page 15 % 71.8 57.4 73.4* 100 65.7 64.3 with Demeter certificate and 18/19. Target 2013 % 77 62 78 100 70 Total amount of annual net sales mio EGP 22.9 4.1 29.7 38.1 111.2 35.4 34.4 209.4 235 Sum of companies’ sales is higher ECONOMIC LIFE than total sales because the later is % increase of annual sales % + 640.2 + 22.2 + 26.9 18.5 6.8 2.1 7.5 7.9 + 21.5 Economic Value Distribution consolidated, companies sales not. Target 2012 mio EGP 20.7 4.1 27.3 54.7 143.7 56 33.9 275.9 Profit (before tax) margin in % % -7 3 7 -7 9 6 4 1 7.3 Status and Target Overview for ECONOMIC LIFE (2) Target 2012 % 0.6 -10.1 1 8.7 8.5 8.2 10.7 4.6 Total amount of investments mio EGP n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 20 56.11 Into SEKEM Companies; without Heliopolis University Target 2013 mio EGP n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 10 Equity ratio % 76.03 76.03 = % of shares owned by founder Target 2013 % 76.03 Average % of purchase of raw materi= raw materials only from own % 3.9 39.9** 0.7 16.3 13.8 als from SEKEM for Land Reclamation farm soils Target 2013 % 6 40 5 20 Highest salary times the lowest salary ratio 1:8.3 1:8 1:13 1:21.4 1:46 1:39 1:30 1:55 n.a. Target 2013 ratio n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 1:50 % net profit invested into community to SEKEM Development % n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 10 10 development Foundation (160,000 EGP) Target 2013 % n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 10 *raw materials: ATOS only herbs, **only ISIS Food and Vegetables; no data avaible for ISIS Herbs, *** Redefinition and -calculation results into different number Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE News from the SEKEM Companies ISIS NATURETEX In 2011, ISIS developed a 5-year marketing strategy to In 2011, the price for cotton strongly increased in increase sales. Total turnover for the year, however, Egypt, leading to a fall in domestic cotton sales. Exports, was lower than expected because the license needed however, increased thanks to new contracts with to proceed with opening the new water processing partners overseas. Market analyses also showed a lot of facility was not issued given the economic and political potential for NATURETEX products in Egypt, which is instability. One new manager was hired to work in why a new domestic sales manager was hired. particular on increasing the logistic efficiency of the supply chain. No further major expenses occurred since many investments had already been made in previous SEKEM for Land Reclamation years. Total cultivated area did not increase in comparison to the previous year. Instead, the focus was on improving LIBRA the already reclaimed land. The majority of investments occurred in this area. A new team in Minya and new Since no new desert reclamation projects were planned farmers in the Sinai worked on optimizing processes and for 2011, LIBRA focused on animal husbandry. No major increasing infrastructure quality and yield. In this context, investments were needed. a new community modeled on the main SEKEM farm is being developed in Minya. It is notably this community building and related human development that make LOTUS possible the sustainable development and economic success of desert agriculture. LOTUS concentrated mostly on increasing efficiency and capacity utilization of existing facilities. No major investments took place. LOTUS Upper Egypt LOTUS Upper Egypt struggled with capacity utilization due to low quantities of raw material in 2011. This is expected to improve in 2012. EL-MIZAN EL-MIZAN, like ATOS, was not hurt by the crisis but did not achieve a significant increase in financial turnover either. In line with the overall strategy, some investments were made. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 55 Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE Waste Production from SEKEM Group Waste produced during the processing and production within the SEKEM 80 companies is sorted into glass, plastics, 745 70 carton, paper, organic waste and 2009 remaining non-recyclable materials, 60 2010 such as metals or hazardous waste from 475 2011 the Medical Center, which gets either 50 landfilled or transported to special endTonnes 40 337 of-life treatment centers. Kitchen waste, 288 stickers and juice packages are difficult 30 to separate and are not accepted by 195 recycling companies; egg packages are 20 137 115 100 75 polluted and cleaning them is too costly; 10 32 35 26 28 46 29 25 the waste from the Medical Center refers 1 6 7 19 20 0 to cotton contaminated with blood, test Total Other Glass Organic* Paper Card board Plastic tubes and used syringes. ATOS’ lab * All Organic waste is used for composting waste results from the manufacture of rivets or chemical materials. Packaging Material used in SEKEM Group 2500 2000 1,969 2009 1,514 1500 2010 Tonnes 2011 1,124 1000 885 803 503 552 500 446 400 255 143 104104 91 70 129 32 15 32 13 14 10 0 3 2 Boxes, Glass Stickers Plastic Metal Natural Others Total Paper& Carton SEKEM Holding Financial Highlights Export Share 2011 (Consolidated) Export Sales 2009 Local Sales 235 209 2010 193 2011 EGP (Million) 113 30% 107 83 70% 7 15 0.09 Net Sales Gross profit Net profit SEKEM Report on 56 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE Planned Investment Amount by Business Fixed Assets Sector for 2012 (Property, Plants & Equipment and Biological Assets) 392 409 347 10 EGP (Million) EGP (Million) 4.5 3.5 1.3 0.7 Farming FMCG Pharma Textile Total 2009 2010 2011 (MIZAN, LIBRA, (Fast Moving ATOS NATURETEX LOTUS, SEKEM Consumer Goods) for LAND ISIS (incl. HATOR) RECLAMATION) SEKEM Net Sales by Business Sector 120 2009 110 The sum of all revenues of the companies is 2010 100 98 higher than the consolidated revenues for 2011 the group as there are revenues within the EGP (Million) 79 group. That is why the percentages below 63 do not mirror the total net sales numbers. 36 35 42 32 34 34 Farming FMCG Pharma Textile (MIZAN, LIBRA, (Fast Moving ATOS NATURETEX LOTUS, SEKEM Consumer Goods) for LAND ISIS (incl. HATOR) RECLAMATION) Net Sales Share by Business Sector in 2011 This is the net increase where depreciation 16% 11% is already taken into account. Farming 17% FMCG Pharma Textile 56% SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 57 Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE Consolidated Financial Statement Balance Sheet SEKEM Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. on 31st December 2011* 2011 2010 EGP EGP CURRENT ASSETS Cash and bank balances 10,922,027 34,155,681 Other assets 81,767,499 62,538,850 Trade and other receivables 73,809,058 72,889,242 Trade inventories 130,969,102 121,478,310 Biological assets inventory 4,944,726 5,221,824 Total current assets 302,412,412 296,283,907 CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and notes payable 20,793,801 26,936,078 Bank overdrafts 245,695,833 244,694,048 Provisions 6,239,063 4,318,163 Other liabilities 22,437,886 18,457,005 Current portion of long-term loans 46,900,275 11,873,987 Current portion of obligations under finance lease 14,735,578 8,009,063 Total current liabilities 356,802,436 314,288,344 Working capital (54,390,024) (18,004,437) NON-CURRENT ASSETS Fixed assets 467,484,524 382,695,500 Biological assets 5,534,157 5,005,458 Goodwill 53,867,282 Investments available for sale 93,500 93,500 Advances for purchase of fixed assets 1,008,000 53,867,282 Total non-current assets 527,987,463 441,661,740 TOTAL INVESTMENT 473,597,439 423,657,303 Financed as follows: NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Term loans 134,849,093 144,417,668 Obligations under finance lease 32,762,295 35,138,306 Other long-term liabilities 3,680,982 24,838,479 Shareholders convertible loan 18,247,332 Deferred tax 8,002,054 7,118,320 Total non-current liabilities 197,541,756 211,512,773 EQUITY Reserve for shareholders convertible loan 1,752,668 Share capital 149,509,000 149,509,000 Legal reserve 9,575,739 9,089,613 Revaluation surplus 64,271,067 Foreign currency translation reserve (9,189) (69,314) Retained earnings 37,331,901 40,893,570 Total equity attributable to equity holders 262,431,186 199,422,869 of the company Non-controlling interest 13,624,497 12,721,661 Total equity 276,055,683 212,144,530 TOTAL FINANCING 473,597,439 423,657,303 *changes in the wording and calculation basis in comparison to the Report on Sustainable Development 2010 are due to the change of the external assurance company SEKEM Report on 58 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report ECONOMIC LIFE Income Statement SEKEM Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. for the year ending on 31st December 2011* 2011 2010 EGP EGP Revenues 209,235,005 235,024,991 Export subsidy – incentive on export sales 4,409,757 4,717,014 Cost of sales (117,532,937) (136,980,106) Gross profit 96,111,825 102,761,899 Investments income** 1,001,815 (Loss) / Gain on disposal of fixed assets (618,961) Marketing and distribution expenses (38,480,750) (36,877,295) Administration expenses (22,813,936) (25,893,154) Finance cost Finance cost (29,728,805) (25,386,735) Foreign exchange losses (9,370,281) (5,053,591) Provisions (2,354,242) (4,903,575) Provisions no longer required 2,750,000 Fair value (loss)/gain arising on forward foreign exchange contracts (1,045,468) 6,463,186 Realized losses from finished goods burnings (3,828,524) Other income 6,164,736 9,417,143 Profit before tax 1,233,079 17,082,208 Income tax (262,227) (842,924) Deferred tax (883,734) (496,132) Profit for the year 87,118 15,743,152 Profit for the year attributable to: (87,086) 15,169,507 Equity holders of the company 174,204 573,645 Non-controlling interest 87,118 15,743,152 (Loss)/Earnings per share (0.06) 10.15 * changes in the wording and calculation basis in comparison to the Report on Sustainable Development 2010 are due to the change of the external assurance company ** Investment income is the return “credit interest” SEKEM Group received from holding time deposits and saving certificates with local banks, i.e. the deposit of the SEKEM Holding secures bank loans which SEKEM receives for its subsidiaries. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 59 60 Level Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Comments SEKEM Report on HO SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT SDF Total Target 2010 tion % of purchase value of raw mate% 1.04 3.5 100 9.4 Sustainable Development rials* with Fairtrade certificate 4.7 Target 2013 % 1.5 4 100 10 2011 Number of social workers per More about social Labor Rights number 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 8 company 8 workers at page 26 Target 2013 number 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 8 Performance Report % employees with private health Share of employee deinsurance partly financed by % n.a. 3.6 6.2 15.5 21.7 62 83.8 5.6 21.6 33.9 pends on the salary level; Health SEKEM n.a. Pupils of SEKEM School Target 2013 % n.a. 10 10 20 25 67 88 10 25 38 receive free health care Number of sick leave days for all number 840 322 563 180 24 336 15 1440 employees n.a. n.a. Target 2013 tendency decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease decrease Number of employees visiting In general we want our number n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 3,996 6,954 Medical Center employees to be healthy % increase of visits n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 42.5 7.9 so that they do not need % to see the doctor. The decrease of 2011 is extraordinarily high. More about health at page 27 Target 2013 tedency n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. decrease Decrease due to security SOCIETAL LIFE reasons in the aftermath of the Egyptian ‘revolution’ Number of other visitors of the Less patients because of Status and Target Overview for SOCIETAL LIFE (1) number 29,527 29,527 30,360 Medical Center the cirrcumstances % increase of visits % 2.7 2.7 -3.7 during and after the popular uprising Target 2013 % + 10 + 10 Number of injuries number n.a. 0 0 5 6 6 4 1 n.a. 22 See page 67 to injuries according to risk level % increase of injuries % n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. -15.4 26 Target 2013 % 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of fatal injuries number 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Target 2013 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 number *raw materials: ATOS only herbs Level Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Comments HO SLR MI LI LU ISIS AT NT SDF Total Target 2010 tion Number of employees number 216 140 32 71 78 534 235 358 176 1,840 2,127 The high decrease was % increase of employees % 0 +14 38 34 14 16 -2 -5 35 13 not caused by lay-off but rather through the special Target 2013 + 20 circumstances while and % +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 +5 after the popular uprising % share of females % 7.4 1.4 31.3 2.8 12.8 16.9 29.8 30.7 31.3 18.3 20.1 Workforce diversity Target 2013 % 12 6 35 8 16 23 35 35 37 23 % share of females in % 9.5 7.7 0 16.7 18.2 15 12.5 33.3 6.7 13.9 managerial position 9* Target 2013 % 15 13 5 20 23 20 18 33.3 10 18 % of employed disabled % 0 3 0 9 1 2 4 1 3 2.9 persons from all employees n.a. Target 2013 % n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 5 % employee turnover % 22 0 8 15 17 29 35 n.a. 22 Incudes only employees 18.5 which leave after a period Target 2013 % 15 0 8 10 12 20 20 n.a. 18 longer than a year. Number of part time workers numbers 0 1 0 0 0 3 3 0 63 70 % share of part time workers % 0 0.7 0 0 0 0.6 1.3 0 35.8 3.8 n.a. Target 2013 % 0 0.7 0 0 0 0.6 1.3 0 35.8 3.8 % of non-monetary benefits Worker: 4.8% % n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 4.7* against overall salaries n.a. Middle Management: 4.1% Workforce loyalty and motivation Target 2013 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 4.7* Top Management: 5.2% % % of new employees received 100% of the SEKEM % started in 2012 0 introduction to the CoC Group of companies is 0 Target 2013 covered by a Code of % 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 SOCIETAL LIFE Conduct (CoC) Number of training hours on number started in 2012 0 CoC per employee 0 Target 2013 number 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Number of events with Code of = Monday Forum at the number 21 Conduct related topic n.a. headoffice Governance and Compliance Target 2013 number 20 * Revised after recalculation; last year we published 0.6%. This was the share of women in managment position of all employees not only among management personnal SEKEM Report on ** partly based on estimations Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report 61 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE Status and Target Overview for SOCIETAL LIFE (2) Though travelling was Awards and Memberships Plus 61 web, 1 radio and Comments reduced during 2011, we Overview of most important Memberships (selection): In 2011, SEKEM won the IMPACT Business Award 2011 upheld our engagement 8 TV items from the GIZ and the German Ministry for International from Egypt Cooperation and Development. SEKEM also became one of 16 New Sustainability Champions which were presented by the World Economic Forum and the EvaluaBoston Consulting Group. Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish won tion the Special Award in the category “International” from Total the German ecological economic initiative B.A.U.M. for n.a. n.a. 14 his life’s work revolving around SEKEM. 2010 Total 2011 Total Target Board of Trusties: (Helmy Abouleish) 10 10 50 60 13 13 • The Egyptian Junior Business Association (EJB) Board member in (Helmy Abouleish) SDF 10 10 n.a. n.a. • Chair of the Egyptian National Competitiveness Council (ENCC) NT n.a. n.a. • Egyptian Energy Saving Council for Industry • Arab Sustainability Leadership Group (ASLG) AT n.a. n.a. • Science and Technological Development Fund (STDF) ISIS n.a. n.a. • The Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI) • Egyptian German High Joint Committee for LU n.a. n.a. Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection LI n.a. n.a. • Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency (EEAA) SEKEM is a member in MI n.a. n.a. • Social Entrepreneur Council (Schwab Foundation) • Schwab Fellow of the World Economic Forum (WEF) SLR n.a. n.a. • World Future Council (WFC) – Climate and Energy Commission HO n.a. n.a. 13 13 • Ashoka Foundation Selecting Panel in Egypt • International Association of Partnership (IAP) with number number number number number number leaders of international organic movement Unit SEKEM is collaborating with and participating in Number of articles in renowned • United Nations Industrial Development Number of articles in renowned Number of active memberships Organization (UNIDO) Performance Indicator • United Nations Economic, Social and Cultural publications on sustainable publications on sustainable in ILO and/or Millenium Goals Organization (UNESCO) • United Nations Development Fund for Women development per year development per year (UNIFEM) Target 2013 Target 2013 related organisations Target 2013 • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) (written by SEKEM) (written by others) • United Nations University via the Regional Center of Expertise (RCE) on Education for Sustainable PA Advocacy for Sustainable Development Development within Heliopolis University SEKEM Report on 62 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE Organizational Structure of the SEKEM Group SEKEM Holding Board of Directors SEKEM Holding BOD Corporate Audit & Risk Governance Committee Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (Chair) Mr. Hassan Taha Mr. Helmy Abouleish (M.D.) Mr. Christoph Werner Mr. Rafik Georg Costandi Mr. Hatem Shafie Mr. Rafik Georg Costandi Mr. Hans Schut Mr. Hans Schut Mr. Gerhard Waterstradt Mr. Gerhard Waterstradt Mr. Christoph Werner Mr. Hassan Taha Mr. Hatem Shafie Mr. Christophe Floride Board of Directors Chairman Advisory Board Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish Committee Mr. Nehad Ragab Mr. Zakaria Shams Managing Director Mr. Peter Blom (Triodos) Mr. Thomas Jorberg (GLS) Mr. Helmy Abouleish Wilfried Roeder (DEG rep.) Human Resources Compliance & Technical Information Technology Chief Financial Officer Business Development Director Director Director Director Mr. Ashraf Saleh* Eng. Christophe Floride Eng. Wael Kamal Mr. Hatem A. Shafie Mr. Helmy Abouleish * Acting as HR Director Board of Directors of SEKEM Group Companies LIBRA BOD ATOS BOD LOTUS BOD ISIS BOD NATURETEX BOD Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Eng. Christophe Floride (Managing Director) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Mr. Ahmed Rashad (Member) Eng. Christophe Floride (Member) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Member) Mme. Gudrun Abouleish (Member) Mme. Konstanze Abouleish (Member) Mr. Thomas Abouleish (Member) Mr. Ahmed Rashad (Member) Soraya Abouleish (Member) Mme. Gudrun Abouleish (Member) SEKEM LAND RECLAMATION BOD HATOR BOD MIZAN BOD LOTUS UPPER EGYPT BOD Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish (President) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Mr. Helmy Abouleish (Managing Director) Mr. Ahmed Rashad (Member) Mme. Gudrun Abouleish (Member) Soraya Abouleish (Member) Soraya Abouleish (Member) SEKEM Holding (Member) SEKEM Holding (Member) Distribution of SEKEM Holding Shares Compared to last year, there were no changes in the structure of financial ownership. The majority of the 1.5 million shares are owned by the Abouleish family. Since 2007, the GLS Bank and the Triodos Bank, each hold a share of 2.5 million EUR. Both banks are specialized in ethical-ecological financing with headquartes in Germany and the Netherlands respectively. The Abouleish Foundation was established to hold the Abouleish family capital of SEKEM in the future. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 63 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE SEKEM Holding 2010 SEKEM Holding Number of Employees by Age 2010 Employee Distribution by Category 2011 2011 1120 1025 960 Number of Employees 927 Number of Employees 706 577 247 276 279 173 154 180 128 129 17 11 13 4 46 23 26 29 Number Number Number Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of employees employees employees employees employees employees employees of Senior of Middle of Jounior Shop Floor aged 14-15 aged 16-17 aged 18-21 aged 22-35 aged 36-45 aged 46-60 aged>60 Managers Managers staff Number of Employees and Gender Distribution 2011 In 2011, the SEKEM Group had 38 women in managerial positions; a share of 23.03% Men within this employee category. Every eighth Number of Employees 534 Women women works in a managerial position 444 358 Total while only every eleventh man is hired at that same level. The amount of female 216 248 235 200 employees grew proportionally with the 140 165 138 110 71 78 90 70 growth of the workforce. 310 women were 68 16 2 32 10 22 69 5 0 5 10 employed, with a decrease in their share 2 only slightly from 20.1% in 2010 to 18.6% Holding/ SEKEM EL-MIZAN LIBRA LOTUS LOTUS ISIS ATOS Headoffice for Land NATURETEX Upper Egypt in 2011. NATURETEX is, with 30.73%, by Reclamation far the company with the highest share of female employees. At SEKEM, the average annual female salary of 16,405 EGP lies below the annual average male salary of 21,881 EGP. The increase from last year for male and female salary averages was 16%. The gap between the Employee Distribution by Region two averages originated from a lower share of highly educated or long-time experienced 1% 2% 2% female employees. Due to traditional rural habits, the majority of women marries Belbeis (SEKEM Farm) early and concentrates on family life. The distribution of age among females shows Salam City, Cairo that females older than 21 are under(Headquarter) proportionally represented compared to 29% Assiut (ISIS) male employees. Delta (ISIS) 66% Alexandria (ISIS) SEKEM Report on 64 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE Employee Turnover The overall employee turnover is 22% (2010: 18.5%) taking into account those employees that have worked for SEKEM for more than one year. The rate increased by Turnover rates 2011 2011 3.5% in comparison to the preceding year Entity # employees turnover due to several reasons. The public uprising brought change into ATOS 235 29% the life of our employees and caused some ISIS (incl. HATOR) 534 17% turnover. Furthermore, employee groups LIBRA 71 8% that typically face a higher rate of turnover, LOTUS 78 15% like the sales department from ATOS and ISIS, have a significant share in the overall LOTUS U.E. 5 60% workforce and therefore increase the EL-MIZAN 32 0% average rate. Another reason for the rather NATURETEX 358 35% high fluctuation can be the fact that the SEKEM main farm and SEKEM Headquarters SEKEM L.R. 140 22% are far from the city and employees spend a Holding / HQ 216 * lot of time in Cairo’s traffic. The previously SDF n.a. n.a. introduced five-days-week was extended again by one day and the working hours Total 1669 were evenly distributed over the days. * Included in the numbers of the companies. LOTUS Upper Egypt stopped working. The employees had the possibility to continue work in one of our other companies. Number of Injuries 2011 No. of injuries during work (over 3 days) Number of Employees 25 No. of injuries during work (minor) 20 7 15 10 14 5 5 5 1 1 0 0 0 3 1 5 0 0 ing NA DF S ATO S S ISI Lo tus SLR Tot al Ho ld TU RE ELLib ra TEX MI ZA N SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 65 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE SEKEM’s Board of Directors Dr. Ibrahim Ahmed Abouleish Mr. Helmy Ibrahim Abouleish Chairman Deputy Chairperson and Managing Director Right Livelihood Award Laureate and Founder of the SEKEM Initiative Dr. Ibrahim A. Abouleish (*1937) is chairman of the Board Helmy Abouleish (*1961), in addition to serving as Deputy of Directors of the SEKEM Holding. Besides the eight firms Chairperson and Managing Director of the SEKEM Group, operating under the umbrella of the SEKEM Holding, he also is a Schwab Fellow of the World Economic Forum as founded several non-governmental organizations such as the well as board member of the Arab Sustainability Leadership SEKEM Development Foundation, the Heliopolis Academy Group (ASLG) and the German-Arab Chamber of Industry for Sustainable Development and the Egyptian Biodynamic and Commerce (GACIC). Helmy Abouleish also is a member Association. He received the Right Livelihood Award in 2003 of the International Federation of Organic Agriculture and in 2004 he was chosen as Outstanding Social Entrepreneur Movements (IFOAM), the International Demeter Organization by the Schwab Foundation. (IDO) and Social Entrepreneur Council (Schwab Foundation). Mr. Rafik Georg Costandi Mr. Gerhard Waterstradt Member Member Since 1990, Rafik Costandi (*1960) has been Head Teacher and founding Gerhard Waterstradt (* 1940) was a manager in the finance department member of the SEKEM school on the premises of the SEKEM farm. at a German subsidiary of a large US company. After that he was Before that he managed the purchasing department for all companies. appointed as treasurer and member of the committee at a nonprofit organization. Since 1995 he was a member of the Board of Directors of the GLS Bank. In 2007, he retired from the GLS board and is now working among others as freelancer for the GLS bank. Mr. Hans Schut Member Hans Schut (*1953) is a senior manager of Triodos Investment Mr. Christoph Werner Management, part of the European Triodos Bank group. His focus is Member on renewable energy investment funds. Before joining Triodos Bank, he worked in industrial companies and an energy utility company Christoph Werner (*1972) worked in Marketing at GlaxoSmithKline development. Consumer Health Care in France until the end of 2010. Before joining GlaxoSmithKline, he worked for four years in Marketing at L’Oréal in France. He holds an International Executive MBA from the University of Pittsburgh (USA). In 2011, Christop Werner joined the retail chain dm Mr. Hatem Ahmed Shafie established by his father; for the time being as Head of Marketing and Member Procurement. Hatem Ahmed Shafie (*1961) came back to SEKEM Group in 2009 to be the Chief Financial Officer, a position he held already from 2004 to 2007. Between 2007 and 2009, Mr. Shafie was the assistant to the Chairman of Cairo & Alexandria stock exchange. Before joining SEKEM, Mr. Shafie Mr. Hassan Taha Member served in several positions such as General Manager Corporate Finance in White House Securities and Senior Manager Marketing and Credit in Hassan Taha is founder and president of First Capital, LLC, a boutique Arab African International Bank. financial advisory firm specialising in M&A and corporate finance activities. First Capital, LLC was involved as a sell-side advisor in the largest private equity transaction in the corporate history of Egypt involving the sale of a prestigious pharmaceutical company for over 3 billion EGP. Mr. Taha was Mr. Cristophe Floride also Chief Financial/Investment Officer in AWFI/Lokma and International Member Partner in Price Waterhouse Coopers, Cairo, Egypt. Christophe Floride (*1959) is Managing Director of LOTUS and since 1986 serving as Technical Manager for the SEKEM Group. Before joining SEKEM, Christophe Floride was head of CNC department of Feinmechanische Werkstaetten Baumgaertel GmbH in Malsch/Karsruhe, Germany. SEKEM Report on 66 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE SEKEM’s Advisory Board Anette Burbank is representing the DEG, member of KfW Bankengruppe (KfW banking group), which finances investments of private companies in developing and transitioning countries. As one of Europe’s largest development finance institutions, it promotes private business structures to contribute to sustainable economic growth and improved living conditions. Thomas Jorberg represents the GLS Bank, which focuses on cultural, social and ecological projects that try to tackle challenges in our society by developing creative solutions. Loans are offered to projects like independent schools and kindergartens, organic farms, institutions using therapeutic pedagogy, nursing homes, projects for the unemployed, health-food stores and communal living projects, as well as sustainable businesses. The European Triodos Bank, represented by its CEO Mr Peter Blom, finances companies, institutions and projects that add cultural value and benefit people and the environment, with the support of depositors and investors who want to encourage corporate social responsibility and a sustainable society. Triodos Bank has won the Financial Times Sustainable Bank of the Year Award 2009. Nehad Ragab is the Chair of SIAC, an Industrial Construction & Engineering Company, which was established in 1986 to be a leading construction firm. Zakaria Shams id Chair of Al Shams agro group, one of the leading companies in Egypt offering the ability to export fresh citrus around the world. The group is currently managing over 2,400 acres of cultivated ground raising citrus fruits, mangos, guavas and grapes. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 67 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE Stakeholder Approach When referring to our stakeholders, we include all groups regulators or certification bodies and monitor their of people who are affected by SEKEM in any form and demands. The identification process of the stakeholder on any level of cooperation. Stakeholder management at groups is ongoing and is ensured through a close SEKEM consists of dialogue and empowerment through interaction with all these groups. cooperative development. Although we only disclose our management approach related to the primary stakeholders here in the report, we are aware of the secondary stakeholders such as Stakeholder Needs Our management approach Ways of group engagement Employees • Feeling of respect and esteem The Cooperative of SEKEM Employees (CSE) • Weekly meetings through organizational culture is assigned with providing supportive working • Regular dialogue • Clear job framework and jobconditions, trainings on human rights as between related contact point for personal well as health and safety issues. It is a forum managers and development for collective bargaining or other interest social workers of • Contact point for social issues discussions of the employees. To nurture all companies • A forum to discuss grievances and close relations with SEKEM employees and possible remedies farmers, founder Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish meets regularly with all employees to deepen their knowledge in specific topics or to address ways how to improve SEKEM’s contribution to the community at large. Farmers • Fair and reliable contracting Our approach to supply chain integration Weekly meetings conditions and prices means fair prices and Fairtrade regulations for and regular dialogue • Cooperative future planning of all our 350 contracted farmers. Consulting and with the FDA and companies’ needs training along the way of organic and biodynamic the EBDA • Training enabling to apply the cultivation characterizes the close collaboration. organic and biodynamic agricultural Within the quality management, supplier profiles method help us to clarify quality, communication, planning, delivery and pricing issues with the individual suppliers via regular ratings and reviews. Sub• Fair and reliable contracting Our subcontractors are companies that • Regular planning conditions and prices cover certain pre-processing activities for our meetings contractors • Cooperative future planning of companies ISIS and NATURETEX. In general, we • Regular quality companies’ needs apply the same technical standards as in our own certification • Support in applying technical and production facilities and try to foster long term process quality standards cooperation. A future goal is to encourage these companies to comply with our management and human rights standards to ensure an even higher quality. SEKEM Report on 68 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report SOCIETAL LIFE Stakeholder Needs Our management approach Ways of group engagement • Excellent performance to ensure With our internal performance management, Sharea profitable investment on all we are not only ensuring our business case Quarterly board meetings holders dimensions profitability but we also set the foundation • Reliable forecasting and long-term for the identification of gaps and the need for sustainable development of the improvements. company Retailers & • Excellent quality meeting the By constantly applying general and specific Regular planning customers’ standards quality standards and guidelines we cooperate meetings and Wholesalers • On-time and on demand delivery with our retailers and wholesalers by monitoring satisfaction • A story to tell the consumer and improving quality, availability and on-time questionnaires delivery of our products. once a year End• Excellent quality of healthy products In order to react to our consumers’ wishes and Customer with benefits for social and inquiries in the most personal and flexible way satisfaction surveys consumers environmental development possible, we have established a free customer every 1-2 years • Easy availability and access service hotline which helps to answer any questions and notes complaints for adjacent improvement. Broader • Benefit from the companies’ profits The surrounding and broader community • Dialogue through in kind contribution of SEKEM is the basis for our sustainable through service community • Support of deficient areas like development approach. Therefore, we provision education, health care and other engage with our associated NGO, the SEKEM • Weekly meetings development needs Development Foundation, in development • Outreach projects aligned to the communities’ needs. programs National/ A project and development partner With our associative approach, we facilitate • Regular International collaborations inside and between networks engagement in and organizations in the different fields of conferences Partnership economy, human rights, politics and culture. • Strategic Organizations Nationally and internationally, we benefit from cooperation these relationships and try to give back as much knowledge and commitment as we can. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 69 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE Status and Target Overview for CULTURAL LIFE Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Group SDF Comments Total Target 2010 tion Total man hours of vocational For detailed data see Training and education number 11,954 11,954 71,037 training page 72 Target 2013 number 71,000 71,000 Total man hours of soft skills See page 72; low number number 371 * 371 31,858 training due to temporary reallocaTarget 2013 number 32,000 * 32,000 tion of working hours Total man hours of manageE.g. for our health and number 1,629 1,629 n.a. ment system training safety management system Target 2012 acc. to OHSAS 18001 number 705 705 Total man hours of arts For detailed data see number 6,130 * 6,130 n.a. training page 72 Target 2013 number 13,000 * 13,000 Average hours of arts and soft number 255* 255 255 skills training for teachers Target 2013 number 255* 255 Number of children in SEKEM number 47 47 46 Kindergarten Target 2013 number 50 50 Number of students in SEKEM For detailed data splitted number 347 347 335 School according to school level % increase of student number % +3.5 +3.5 +3.6 see page 75 Target 2013 % 0 0 Total number of SEKEM number 148 148 139 School graduates since 1998 Target 2013 number 168 168 Number of students in High increase after having number 249 249 173 Vocational Training Center before a year without new % increase of student number % +30 +30 +6.4 pupils because of the reintroduction of sixth grade Target 2013 % 0 0 in Egyptian school curricula Total number of VTC in 2004; For detailed data number 423 423 346 splitted according to secgraduates since 2000 tion see page 75 Target 2013 number 583 583 Number of students in SEKEM number 28 28 26 Special Education Target 2013 number 30 30 Total number of Chamomile The project started earlier number 1480 1480 1460 but the project was full-time Children since 1987 since 1987, the number was Target 2013 number 1490 1490 estimated Number of students in profes1 Egyptian and 1 German number 8 8 9 student received their sional training for eurythmy eurythmy diploma in 2010; numbers include ongoing Target 2012 number 6 6 training of the Egyptian graduate Number of art events per year number n.a. n.a. 3 9 Arts events = International and/or high scale events in Target 2013 tendency n.a. n.a. increase music, eurythmy, fine arts exhibitions and/or theater % of agricultural suppliers with % 100 100 membership in the EBDA Target 2013 % 100 *SDF: Teachers receive daily training in soft skills and arts; stated in seperate indicator for training in the companies SEKEM Report on 70 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE Total 2011 Total EvaluaPA Performance Indicator Unit Group SDF Comments Total Target 2010 tion Number of ongoing science Research and development number 14 14 projects 17 Target 2013 number 10 10 Number of science project number 7 7 proposals in evaluation n.a. Target 2013 number 7 7 Number of science project number 3 3 proposals accepted n.a. Target 2013 number 6 6 Number of science projects 2012: Four projects number 2 2 successfully completed n.a. 2013: Six projects Target 2013 number 10 10 Total number of direct benefiFarmers, children, youth number 1389 1389 ciaries from all social projects 1389 and women, excluding Chamomile Children. Target 2013 number increase increase Total number of loans in Average credit volume per number 597 597 micro credit program 468 person: EGP 5,000 Target 2013 tendency increase increase Total number of established Results range from bioand sustained products / serfertilizer and development vices / expertise / social links number 22 22 methods to curricula and through research & developn.a. builiding up infrastructure. ment projects Target 2013 tendency increase increase Employee analysis on values, Planned for 2012 Self-Fulfillment motivation and perception of number 0 0 0 the workplace 0 Target 2013 number 1 1 1 We plan to built a mosque Values and spirituality Number of prayer rooms number n.a. n.a. 10 at the Minya farm 10 Target 2013 number n.a. n.a. 11 % of employees who can reach a prayer room within % 100 100 100 five minutes 100 Target 2013 % 100 100 100 SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 71 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE Training per man-hours and share of employee cat3egories (SEKEM Group) 71.0 2010 The reason for the strong decrease of training hours 2011 can be found in the difficult situation SEKEM found itself in the aftermath of the Egyptian ‘revolution’ when the staff focused on short-term crisis hours (0 0 0) management instead of improvement of long-term 31.9 qualifications. 21.1 0.4 Vocational Soft Skills Share of total hours of vocational training by Share of total hours of soft skills training by employee category 2011 employee category 2011 Mng Junior Staff Shop Floor Mng Junior Staff Shop Floor 1% 5% 2% 31% 94% 67% Share of management system training by employee category 2011 Share of cultural training by employee category 2011 Mng Junior Staff Shop Floor Mng Junior Staff Shop Floor 1% 5% 34% 22% 65% 73% SEKEM Report on 72 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE Number of Employees in the SDF 25 54 Vocational Training Center 36 Medica Center Schools Heliopolis Academy 43 Volunteers 78 Number of students enrolled in SEKEM Primary School, class size and student/teacher ratios during the period 2003-2011 Number of children Year No. of classes No. of teachers Average Student/Teacher ratio Males Females Total Class size 2003 5 10 72 52 124 24.8 12.4 to 1 2004 5 10 71 50 121 24.2 12.1 to 1 2005 6 10 80 72 152 25.3 15.2 to 1 2006 6 10 90 64 154 25.6 15.4 to 1 2007 6 10 89 66 155 25.8 15.5 to 1 2008 6 10 90 70 160 26.6 16 to 1 2009 6 10 90 73 163 27.1 16.3 to 1 2010 6 10 92 73 165 27.5 16.5 to 1 2011 6 11 92 75 167 27 15.1 to 1 Number of students enrolled in SEKEM Preparatory School, class size, and student/ teacher ratio during the period 2003-2011 Number of students Year No. of classes No. of teachers Average Student/Teacher ratio Males Females Total Class size 2003 3 9 20 37 57 28.5 6.3 to 1 2004 3 9 41 30 71 23.6 7.9 to 1 2005 2 9 26 23 49 24.5 5.4 to 1 2006 2 9 27 27 54 27 6.0 to 1 2007 2 9 24 25 49 24 5.4 to 1 2008 3 9 42 33 75 25 8.3 to 1 2009 3 9 41 39 80 26.6 8.8 to 1 2010 3 9 42 43 85 28.3 9.4 to 1 2011 3 9 44 46 90 30 10 to 1 SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 73 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE Number of students enrolled in the Secondary School, class size, and student/teacher ratio during the period 2003-2011 Number of students Average Year No. of classes No. of teachers Student/Teacher ratio Males Females Total Class size 2003 3 9 20 37 57 28.5 6.3 to 1 2004 3 9 41 30 71 23.6 7.9 to 1 2005 2 9 26 23 49 24.5 5.4 to 1 2006 2 9 27 27 54 27 6.0 to 1 2007 2 9 24 25 49 24 5.4 to 1 2008 3 9 42 33 75 25 8.3 to 1 2009 3 9 41 39 80 26.6 8.8 to 1 2010 3 9 42 43 85 28.3 9.4 to 1 2011 3 9 44 46 90 30 10 to 1 Number of graduates Note on low number of graduates in 18 comparison to total number of students: In general, many students leave the 16 15 secondary school without graduating and 14 14 14 decide to continue vocational training 13 instead. The preparatory school certificate 12 11 (successful graduation of 9th class) is 10 10 sufficient for this. 9 In 2010, we had no graduates because the Egyptian primary school was extended by one year in 2004. 2 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 SEKEM Report on 74 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report CULTURAL LIFE Number of children enrolled in SEKEM Kindergarten from 2003-2011 Number of children Year Total Males Females 2003 22 24 46 2004 23 24 47 2005 22 22 44 2006 21 22 43 2007 21 22 43 2008 23 25 48 2009 22 26 48 2010 24 22 46 2011 30 17 47 Number of children with special needs 28 28 26 24 22 22 17 11 11 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of students at SEKEM Vocational Training Center in the years 2003-2011 300 250 34 200 32 28 19 22 34 150 10 33 28 18 21 20 31 16 28 19 32 22 22 10 9 19 19 100 43 41 10 18 20 21 46 40 42 39 10 26 26 28 36 50 34 33 36 37 38 24 25 24 36 33 34 34 34 35 35 36 35 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Iron & Mechanic Plumbing Textile Production technology Carpentry General Administration Electricity, Computer, Maintenance & Electronic Technology Agricultural Machinery SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 75 Performance Report ECOLOGY Status and Target Overview for ECOLOGY (1) DimenTotal 2011 Total Evaluasion PA Performance Indicator Unit Comments Total Target 2010 tion Size of reclaimed land feddan 1,628 1,628 SOIL Soil fertility % of reclaimed land of total land % 26 26 owned (6,000 feddan) Target 2013 % 0 * % Organic matter of farm soils % 0.8 7.5 Minya: 0.80 2.3% Bahareya: 5.80 7.5% n.a. Adleya: 2.1 4.5% Target 2013 % 1.72 5.1 Sinai: 0.75 1.72 % Minya: 0.5 1.3% * % of soil organic carbon (0-10 cm) % 0.43 4.4 2009: Bahareya: 3.4 4.4% 0.241.39 Adleya: 1.1 2.6% Target 2013 % > 4% Sinai: 0.43 1.0% % organic matter of produced Compost quality % 30-32 compost 37.4 Target 2013 % 25-60 Amount of beneficiary nematodes in juv/100g 105 300 produced compost n.a. Target 2013 juv/100g 2000 3000 Amount of micro-organisms per gr of CFU/g 1.5x103 4.2x107 produced compost n.a. Target 2013 CFU/g 1.5x103 4.2x107 Amount of compost produced tonne 64,847.12 66,916 % of tonnes sold to conventional % 81.25 26.82 customers Target 2013 % 90 Soil use Non-organic fertilizer application kg/ha 0 0 Target 2013 kg/ha 0 Amount and volume of significant liter 0 spills or other impact on soil 0 Target 2013 0 % of seeds used by SLR from own PLANTS (1) Seeds % 73.6 production 50 Target 2013 % 100 % of our seeds varieties that we equals approx. 75% of the % 25 improved during reporting year 15 seed production Target 2013 % 25 Number of varieties in own seed bank number 136 85 Target 2013 number 220 % of used seeds that are organic and % 100 untreated 100 Target 2013 % 100 * In future, the soil laboratory will use another method as the data for 2011 were too high. SEKEM Report on 76 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report ECOLOGY DimenTotal 2011 Total Evaluasion PA Performance Indicator Unit Comments Total Target 2010 tion Area not-compliant to planting Adleya: 10.9 % PLANTS (2) Biodiversity % 10.9 -15.3 legume every fifth cycle Minya: n.a. (3 seasons: 100.0%) n.a. Bahareya: n.a. (3 seasons: Target 2013 % <10 33.3%) Sinai: 15.3% % of reclaimed land not used for SEKEM 1,2,3 Alone in 2011 we planted cultivation categorized* by increasing % Adleya 48,820 trees at all farms biodiversity 2. *+ 4.* = 7.6 n.a. Target 2013 % 7.6 % of animals that are kept according ANIMALS Animal Husbandry % 100 to Demeter standards 100 Target 2013 % 100 Mortality rate of cows % 2.4 1.4 Target 2013 % 1.2 Mortality rate of sheeps % 0.7 0.9 Target 2013 % 0.35 Average number of days between number 420 giving birth of cows n.a. Target 2013 number 400 Average number of lambs per number 3 mothersheep in two years n.a. Target 2013 number 3 Constant: 4 Energy Use** Natural Habitat Number of seldom birds found space number 11 Visitor: 7 at SEKEM farms 11 Target 2013 number 11 Total amount of electricity usage ‘000 kWh 4,020 4,620 Total 2011 equals 14,472 GJ ENERGY kWh/1,000 Relative amount of electricity usage EGP sales 19.2 19.7 100% of organization entities under full energy % of increase of relative electricity assessment and monitoring; % 2.4 8.5 usage Target 2013 % -5 Total amount of gasoline Total 2011 equals 27,341 GJ ‘000 liters 828 922 consumption Relative amount of gasoline Increase mainly due to liters/1,000 3.95 3.92 gasoline use at the new consumption EGP sales farms. For more details see % of increase of relative gasoline page 77 % + 0.7 14.4 consumption Target 2013 % -5 * Categories with increasing biodiversity: 1. green grass, 2. flower and plants, 3. different types of shrubs, 4. trees ** The performance aspect “Energy Sources” is discussed at page 44. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 77 Performance Report ECOLOGY Status and Target Overview for ECOLOGY (2) DimenTotal 2011 Total Evaluasion PA Performance Indicator Unit Comments Total Target 2010 tion Total amount of emissions tCO2e 7,925.7 7,850* 100% of organization AIR Emission reduction kgCO2e/1,000 entities under full emission Relative amount of emissions EGP sales 33.8 33.4 assessment and monitoring % of increase of relative emission % + 13.2 + 17.7 Detailed carbon footprint reduction on page 81 Target 2013 % -5 Number of successfully audited carVERs = Verified Emissions VERs 79,500 bon credits for compost production 80,001 Reductions Target 2013 VERs 80,000 Total amount of water usage for 100% of organization entiWATER Water Use ‘000 m3 104.3 136.3 company and personal use ties under full water usage Relative amount of water usage for m3/1,000 assessment and monitoring 0.5 0.6 company and personal use EGP sales % of increase of relative water usage % 14.1 + 26.4 Target 2013 % -5 Total amount of water usage for The calculation of the ‘000 m3 1,766.9 4,519 agricultural use relative amount of water Relative amount of water usage for includes that the agricultural m3/feddan 1,729.6 2775.8 activities were interrupted agricultural use for one season at the farms % of increase of relative water usage % 38 n.a. in Minya and Bahareya in Target 2013 % -5 2011 % recycled water in litres of total % 100 water used (as watering for trees) 100 Target 2013 % 100 % difference from actual to old level Water Source % 0 of ground water in last 3 years n.a. Target 2013 % 0 Amount of significant spills in litres or liters 0 other impact on water 0 Target 2013 liters 0 Adleya and main farm wells Monitoring of salinity of wells are analysed regularly; wells n.a. in Minya and Bahareya are Improvement of consistency of tested organoleptic Target 2013 well water analysis *revised, see page 81 SEKEM Report on 78 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report ECOLOGY Number of animals (husbandry) on the farm 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fattening bulls 57 29 64 61 Dairy cows 236 276 403 271 Calves 220 189 63 59 Sheep 464 396 492 423 Laying hens 27,000 25,000 35,500 0 Broilers 0 12,000 0 0 Pigeons 600 600 600 600 Bee colonies 45 65 82 85 Gasoline consumption by end usage (‘000 liters) 638 2009 576 2010 2011 310 291 147 155 158 131 119 69 15 28 Vehicles Vehicles Power Generation Power Generation (new farm) (old farm) (old farm) (new farms) SEKEM Electricity consumption from bills (‘000 kWh) 4620 4381 4020 2009 kWh(‹000) 2010 2011 990 1055 863 732 1031 885 850 616 605 853 718 289 475 714 203 459 284 194 279 225 230 23 182 225 3 00 12 00 ATO HATO LIB LO S N ZA EX ING SE SD HQ TOTA S R RA TU RE T LD KE F L RE M FO MI S+ ELNATU HO CL R L ISI AM A AT ND ION SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 79 Performance Report ECOLOGY Entity Electricity Diesel* Commuting* Waste Total % ATOS Pharma 329,336 60,083 152,928.50 925.55 543,272 7% ISIS 398,160 1,402,984 347,505.62 53,099.54 2,201,749 28% LIBRA 76,126 95,724 46,203.93 3,343.84 221,398 3% LOTUS 323,270 346,972 52,060.77 17,900.68 740,203 9% EL-MIZAN 125,334 162,260 20,824.31 9,530.17 317,948 4% NATURETEX 333,234 60,794 232,971.93 12,806.88 639,807 8% SDF 134,557 134,635 9,613.44 154,492 2% SEKEM for Land Reclamation 81,720 2,147,594 91,106.34 55,127.65 2,428,385 31% Headquarters 206,352 3,200 439,325.78 648,878 8% Total 1,936,612 4,414,245 1,382,927.18 162,347.76 7,896,132 100% * Diesel emission factor is 2.66 according to Defra 2009 Water consumption for company and personal use 2010 2011 m3(‘000) 136.3 104.3 33 18 74.8 70.3 28.5 0 0 15.9 0 0 0 0 Q) me (H ms ) ) ms Q) l Tot nt r (H a ate wa far far wa Go ter tw ver (ol d w ter nm (ol n (ne en df arm me water wa We ll tw n ter ver ate s) We r (n Go ll We ll Go ew ver far ms n ) Water consumption for Agricultural Use The agricultural activities were interrupted 2150 for one season at the farms in Minya and 2010 Bahareya in 2011 2011 m3(‘000) 1288 619 462 460 435 501 372 SE ah are nya S in ai 1,2 KEM ya Mi ,3 fa A rm Wa dli hat/B a SEKEM Report on 80 Sustainable Development 2011 Performance Report ECOLOGY Corporate Carbon Assessment 2011 Electricity Consumption Related Greenhouse Gas Emissions In order to calculate the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 31st 2011 were collected and multiplied with the generic grid related to the electricity consumption at the SEKEM Holding’s emission factor, as provided by UNEP. The individual entity facilities (factories, farms and offices), the documented consumption results from a distribution based on head counts. consumed kWh’s for the period from January 1st to December kWh-Consumption and kgCO2e 2010 kWh KgCO2e Electricity Consumption by Company ATOS 731,857 329,336 ISIS +HATOR 884,800 398,160 ATOS LIBRA 169,169 76,126 ISIS + HATOR LOTUS 718,377 323,270 EL-MIZAN 278,520 125,334 11% LIBRA 17% NATURETEX 740,520 333,234 1% 7% LOTUS SLR* 299,016 134,557 SDF 22,764 10,244 MIZAN 17% 21% HQ 458,560 206,352 NATURETEX Total 4,303,583 1,936,612 6% 17% SDF * Since 2011, SEKEM for Land Reclamation was established 4% SEKEM for Land Reclamation which was formerly under LIBRA HQ Fuel consumption related GHG emissions incl. employee commuting. In order to calculate the GHG emissions related to the fuel Emissions from Diesel and Fuel Consumption (diesel and petrol) consumption at the SEKEM Holding’s by Area of Use facilities (factories, farms and offices) including employee commute, the documented consumed liters of diesel and fuel 1% 11% for the period from January 1st to December 31st 2011 were Power Generation (new farms) collected and multiplied with the generic fuel specific emission Power generation (old farm) factor, as provided by the IPCC. 30% Vevicles (old farm) 58% Vevicles (new farm) Fuel Consumption by end use Diesel (Liters) kgCO2 Power Generation (new farms) 185,067 492,278 Power Generation (old farms) 952,043 2,532,434 Vehicles (old farm) 500,130 1,330,346 Vehicles (new farm) 22,250 59,185 Total 1,659,490 4,414,243 Total Travel/Commuting of Employees Total km Total fuel Total emissions travelled consumption (l) (kgCO2e) SEKEM Farm To calculate the employee commute, the following assumptions public transport (farm) 706,500 141,300 375,858 were taken into account: 1,099 employees at SEKEM Farm, Private cars (farm) 1,648,500 164,850 392,343 567 employees in the head office (this includes also employees total 2,355,000 306,150 943,601 from the SDF), 300 working days per year, 100 km daily travelled distance (return trip) for farm employees except for Total km Total fuel Total emissions 15% of the farm employees who walk to work or come by travelled consumption (l) (kgCO2e) bike, 50 km daily travelled distance (return trip) for head office SEKEM HQ public transport (HQ) 362,475 58,624 155,939 employees using public transport and 20 km daily travelled Private cars (HQ) 1,190,700 119,070 283,387 distance (return trip) for head office employees using private total 1,553,175 177,694 439,326 cars. The different passenger capacities to use public transport and the different fuel consumption amounts per vehicle type Total 3,908,175 483,844 1,382,927 were taken into account. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 81 Performance Report ECOLOGY Waste treatment and transport related GHG emissions Emissions related to waste treatment To calculate the GHG emissions related to the transport and transport and treatment of waste at the SEKEM Holding’s facilities 0% (factories, farms and offices), the total amount of 1% 0% waste occurring during the period from January 1st to Recycling treatment emissions December 31st 2011 was assessed regarding its transport and treatment and the total tonnage was factored in Recycling transport emissions with the applicable emission factors for recycling or solid land filling treatment emissions waste disposal. land filling transport emissions 99% Waste Waste Treatment Transport Total Tonnes of emission emission Emission Waste (kgCO2e) (kgCO2e) (kgCO2e) Treatment Recycling & composting 534.34 3,976.25 1,681.12 5,657.37 Landfilling 191.34 154,487.92 2,202.48 156,690.40 total 725.68 158,464.16 3,883.60 162,347.76 Note: Recycling has only waste transport related emissions. The waste treatment related emissions from recycling are out of our scope and belong to the subcontractors that do the recycling. Overall Carbon Footprint by type (tCO2e) 9000 7.723 2009 8000 7.851 7000 2010 6000 5.492 2011 5000 4.412 4000 3.600 3000 1.809 2.601 1.383 2000 2.340 1.471 1.883 1.580 1000 119 118 101 0 ity esl ng Wa ste TOTA tric Dis mu ti L Ele c Co m SEKEM Report on 82 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX Sustainable Development Balance Score Card Evaluation Methodology The aim of the Sustainable Development Flower is to The targets presented in the Status and Target be a facilitating framework for building up a corporate Overview sections are related to the SEKEM Sustainable strategy, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and a rough Development Scorecard (SDSC) but are evaluated measurement tool to classify performance statements independently. A ‘green’ SDSC evaluation does not according to a red, yellow, green scheme as detailed on the necessarily mean that we have achieved all our targets following pages. It is important to know that the criteria and vice versa. given in the tables express minimum requirements for a The comments in italic are concerning any changes from specific classification.While ‘green’ stands for excellence, the old Sustainable Development Flower to the new ‘yellow’ covers a potentially broad range from initial (more information at the fold-out cover). steps up to significant engagement. Initiatives for No Action / Comprehensive Positive Impact Negative Impact Positive Impact (below: min. requirements) Performance Aspect ECONOMIC LIFE Product Portfolio No assessment / negative First single issue initiatives Ecoand Socio-friendly (merged from “Ecoand Socioeco-effect and socio-effect to improve eco-and socioproduct portfolio proven by friendly products”) of products friendliness labels and certificates Responsibility to CusBasic product informaSingle issue CRM (at cosComprehensive CRM (at tomer and Consumer tion but no engagement tumer and end-consumer costumer and end-consumer (added end-consumer) in Costumer Relationship level) and consumer relevel) and consumer reManagement (CRM); rather search search low distribution rates Innovation No innovation, rather Random innovations without Comprehensive innovation business-as-usual a specific strategy and strategy and process which technologies process does not set the company at risk Organizational Process No waste management nor Single issue waste manComplete, continuous (was before partly “Eco-effective initiatives for efficiency in agement and efficiency in management of waste life Packaging and Transportation”; material use; no proper material use; management cycle; mangement systems “Sustainable Waste Managemanagement systems for systems implemented but certified by external expert ment”, “Sustainability Strategy quality, environmental, not audited by external Performance Management”) health and safety issues experts Partnerships No transparency towards Some long term agreements Longterm committments (is completly new) business partners, no longwith business partners towards business partners term committments Economic Value Negative economic Economic growth, Single Healthy economic growth Distribution development without good issue management improveand plan for next 20 years, (was before “Economic Developreason, No specific management, fair distribution of Fair distribution of crated ment and Growth”; partly “Supment of supply chain or value created partly asvalue along the value chain ply Chain Management”; partly transparency about fair value suered “Company’s cultural developdistribution ment strategy”) SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 83 ANNEX Initiatives for No Action / Comprehensive Positive Impact Negative Impact Positive Impact (below: min. requirements) Performance Aspect SOCIETAL LIFE Labor Rights No human rights Single issue human rights Full compliance with ILO (was before Human Rights considerations or assessinitiatives implementation and UN Global Compact adherence and impact over the ment requirements company’s value chain) Health and Safety No consideration of labor Assessment and action plan Labour conditions support (before: work force and the conditions as well as health for the reduction of risks for employees’ development, company’s impact on labor conand safety risks at employee employees fully implemented and ditions and health & safety) and community level reviewed H&S management. Provision of health services to the community Diversity No diversity, discrimination Identified lack of diversity, Diversity and tolerance (was before Work force diversity of certain groups / minoridiscrimination issues, action throughout the company and equal treatment) ties plan for improvement regarding all aspects Employee Loyality and No support Single issue support Deeply-seated community Motivation support for self-organization and enforcement of their rights Governance and ComAnti-compliance issues Code of Conduct developImplemented value managepliance recorded ment / efforts to minimize ment system; anti-corrupanticompliance tion organizational culture; issues no anticompliance issues Advocacy for SustainNo activities Awareness and slight Heavy involvement able Development involvement (Policy work for sustainable development and world challenges) CULTURAL LIFE Training and Education No training plan Single issue training initiaTarget driven training plans (was before Company’s cultural tives with plans for some for all employees with development strategy) employees performance evaluation on individual & corporate level; provision of education to the community Research and No research activities Single issue research activiComprehensive and longDevelopment ties term research goals and (was before Scientific research implementation engagement) Employee SelfEmployees have very limited Single activities to enable Comprehensive program fulfillment and Vitality possibilities for self-fulfillemployees for self-fulfillment with measurable success (is completly new; “Health” was ment merged in SOCIETAL LIFE) Values and Spiritualty Forbidding religious activities Tolerating religious practices Spiritual work; Religion (was before “Religious and supported in the employee’s Spiritual Activities”) work environment SEKEM Report on 84 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX Initiatives for No Action / Comprehensive Positive Impact Negative Impact Positive Impact (below: min. requirements) Performance Aspect ECOLOGY Soil Quality No assessment; Heavy Testing single criteria for Testing comprehensive (includes “Impact on soil depletion of soils soil quality; No impact on criteria catalogue for soil quality and fertility”) soil quality quality; Raising soil quality SOIL Soil Use Heavy use of non-organic Single issue risk assessment; Comprehensive risk assess(before: “Environmenpesticides and fertilizers; single use of non-organic ment; no use of non-organic tal compatibility” and significant spills pesticides and fertilizers pesticides or fertilizers; no “Impact on non-renewable significant spills mineral resources”) Seeds Use of genetically modified Committment not to use Participation in seed banking; (GMO) and/or treated seeds GMO and treated seeds “No GMO” policy PLANT Biodiversity Negative impact / no Single actions for assessAssessed, positive contribuassessment on plant ment, no visible positive tion through building up biobiodiversity impact diversity next to cultivation Animal Husbandry Inappropriate treatment Improvement initiatives for Completely species-appro(before: “Species-appropriappropriate treatment priate treatment ANIMALS ate treatment”) Natural Habitats Negative impact / no assessSingle actions for assessCreation of new habitats (before: “Impact on animal ment ment, no visible positive and advancement of seldom diversity and habitats”) impact endangered animals Energy Use No assessment; no initiatives First pilot assessments, Full assessment, Compre(includes “Energy saving”) to save energy Single issue projects hensive saving goals and implementation ENERGY Energy Sources No action First single initiatives to Carbon neutral company (before: “Proportion of implement clean energy clean(er) / renewable resource usage i. t. energy mix”) Emission Reduction No action First single issue initiatives Comprehensive reduction (includes “Emission offsetgoals, complete carbon AIR ting” and partly “Ecofootprint of the company at effective Packaging and all scope levels Transportation”) Water Use (includes “Reduction of Implemented action plan for Water Usage and ImNo assessment / action First single issue initiatives comprehensive reduction WATER provement of Water Life and re-usage goals Cycle”) Water Sources Comprehensive analysis, (before: “Sustaining of No assessment and action / First single source analysis goals and implemented Water Sources”) potential depletion and action action plan SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 85 ANNEX GRI Indicator Overview The Report on Sustainable Development 2011 of transparency and renders the Group’s sustainability the SEKEM Group of Companies is guided by the performance comparable with that of other companies. internationally recognized G3 Guidelines of the Global Further information can be found on the website at Reporting Initiative (GRI). www.globalreporting.org. These guidelines require the disclosure of information on management approach, strategy and goals with respect With regard to the application of GRI’s G3 guidelines to sustainability, as well as of numerous performance the Report on Sustainable Development 2011 of the indicators in the categories of Economy, Product SEKEM Group of Companies attains Level B, checked Responsibility, Labor Practices, Environment, Society also by the GRI. Please, find the GRI Application Level and Human Rights. Applying these guidelines boosts Check online at www.SEKEM.com. Profile Comment Status REF. I. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO Statement 2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 11, 21, 29, 39 II. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name 96 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 14 2.3 Operational structure 63 2.4 Headquarters FC 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates FC 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 24, 63 2.7 Markets served FC 2.8 Scale of the organisation 18-19, 56, 64 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 2, 63 regarding size, structure or ownership 2.10 Awards 62 III. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period January-December 2011 FC 3.2 Date of most recent previous report August 31st, 2011 FC 3.3 Reporting cycle Yearly FC 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 96 3.5 Process for defining report content acc. to Sustainable Development Flower FC framework 3.6 Scope of the report FC 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the FC report 3.8 Basis for reporting on enterprise entities with FC significant affect on comparability 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of FC calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of FC information 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods FC 3.12 GRI content index 84 3.13 External assurance for the report Audit only of Financial Statement 92-93 Legend : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover Black: Core Indicator : Partially reported BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number SEKEM Report on 86 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX Profile Comment Status REF. II. Corporate Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 25, 66 67 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the Supervisory 25 Board is also an executive officer 4.3 Number of independent members of the highest 25 governance body 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 68 69 provide recommendations 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the No general linkage, only in case of highest governance body distributing dividents by the company 4.6 Ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 24 4.7 Qualifications and experience of members of the 64 highest governance body 4.8 Internal mission or value statements, codes of 8, 24 conduct and principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s sustainability FC, 25 performance 4.10 Evaluating the highest governance body’s own No general process in place sustainability performance 4.11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or 11 principle is addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed sustainability charters, 28, 62 principles or other initiatives 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy 62 organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged 68-69 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 68-69 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 68-69 4.17 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 68-69 dialogue Management Approach and Performance Indicators EC: Economic Performance Indicators Management Approach 11, 14-17 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 20, 56-59 EC2 Financial implications for the organization’s 39 activities due to climate change EC3 Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 20 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from 59 government EC5 Local minimum wage 20 EC6 Locally-based suppliers 17, 54 EC7 Locally-based employees 26, 64 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided 20, 32, 70-71 primarily for public benefit EC9 Indirect economic impacts 11, 21, 29, 39 SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 87 ANNEX GRI Indicator Overview, Part 2 Performance iNDICATOR Comment Status REF. EN: Environmental Performance Indicators Management Approach 15, 39-45 EN1 Materials used 56 EN2 Materials used that are recycled input materials 54 EN3 Direct energy consumption 77 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 77 EN5 Energy saved and energy efficiency 40-41, 44, 77 EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based 14, 44, 77 products and services EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 40-41, 77 EN8 Total water withdrawal 78 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 78 of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled 78 and reused EN11 Land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, SEKEM is not situated in or next to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 77 value EN12 Impacts of activities, products and services on Not relevant (see EN 11) biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored Not relevant (see EN 11) EN14 Strategy, aims and measures for managing impacts Not relevant (see EN 11) on biodiversity EN15 Endangered species in areas affected by operations Not relevant (see EN 11), no species at risk EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 44, 79-80 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 44, 79-80 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 44 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not relevant as no ozone-depleting substances are released EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions Not relevant as no NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions are released EN 21 Total water discharge 45, 76 EN 22 Waste by type and disposal method 15, 53, 56 EN 23 Significant spills No significant spills EN 24 Waste deemed hazardous transported 15, 56 EN 25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly No siginicantly affected water bodies and affected by the reporting organization’s discharges habitats through water and runoff of water and runoff EN 26 Mitigate environmental impacts of products and 14-15 services EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging 15 materials that are reclaimed EN 28 Significant fines and sanctions for noncompliance No fines with environmental laws and regulations EN 29 Environmental impacts of transport activities 79-80 EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures SEKEM Report on 88 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX Performance iNDICATOR Comment Status REF. LA: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Management Approach 26-27, 35 LA1 Total workforce 26, 60-61, 64 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 65 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees only 20, 61 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 24, 26, 68 bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 26, 68 changes LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in management–worker health and safety commit28 tees LA7 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days and 60, 67 absenteeism LA8 Health care and consulting 27 LA9 Health and safety agreements with trade unions No agreements existing LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 70, 72 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong 35, 38 learning LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor35 mance and career development reviews LA13 Diversity in the workforce and governance bodies 61, 64 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women 26, 64 HR: Human Rights Performance Indicator Management Approach 24, 26, 34 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights 24 clauses HR2 Suppliers and contractors that have undergone 17, 54 screening on human rights HR3 Employee training on aspects of human rights 24, 61 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and No incidents 26 actions taken HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and No operations identified 27 collective bargaining may be at risk HR6 Child labor 17, 24-25, 34 HR7 Compulsory labor 17, 24-25, 34 HR8 Security personnel trained in aspects of human 24 rights HR9 Incidents of violations of the rights of indigenous No incidents people Legend : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover Black: Core Indicator : Partially reported BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 89 ANNEX GRI Indicator Overview, Part 3 Performance iNDICATOR Comment Status REF. SO: Society Performance Indicators Management Approach 24, 26, 34 SO1 Programmes and practices that assess and manage No comprehensive impact assessment of 17 the impacts of operations on communities operation in the community SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to No risk analysis 25 corruption SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies/ 24, 61 procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of 2 corruption SO5 Participation in public policy development and 28, 62 lobbying SO6 Contributions to political parties and politicians No contributions SO7 Number of legal actions for anticompetitive No relevance fo a niche market company, behaviour no actions taken SO8 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with laws No fines 2 and regulations PR: Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Management Approach 14-15, 24-25 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts 17, 52 of products are assessed PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations No incidents concerning health and safety impacts of products and services PR3 Product and service information required by 14-16 procedures PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations No incidents concerning product and service information PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 16, 53 PR 6 Responsible advertising Only engagement in general advertisement PR 7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and No incidents voluntary codes concerning advertising PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of No collection of customer data customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations No fines had to be paid concerning the provision and use of products Legend : Fully reported FC: Fold-out Cover Black: Core Indicator : Partially reported BC: Back Cover Grey: Added Indicator : Not reported REF.: Refernce to site number SEKEM Report on 90 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX GRI Level Check SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 91 ANNEX UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 SEKEM joined the Global Compact Millennium Development Goals. initiative of the United Nations (UN) The UN Global Compact principles are based on: in 2003. The company is commited • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights to the ten principles of the UN • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration Global Compact concerning human on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work rights, labor standards, environmental protection as well as anti-corruption • The Rio Declaration on Environment and and their implementation in all business processes. Development Since its foundation in 2000, the UN Global Compact • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption has been and continues to be an international leadership The Report on Sustainable Development 2011 forms network for business, government, labor and civil society the newest Communication on Progress (CoP) that through a common goal: to realize the implementation gives detailed insights into how the UN Global Compact of the ten UN Global Compact principles in day-to-day principles are implemented at SEKEM. The table below business and to enforce broader UN goals, including the refers to the relevant pages in this report. UN Global Compact principles Relevant content Page Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and • International human rights adherence along our value chain including risk 17, 24 respect the protection of internationally and impact assessments proclaimed human rights • Code of Conduct of SEKEM; refers to international conventions and other 24, 25 Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure international instruments (e.g. the Universal Declaration of Human Rights they are not complicit in human rights (UDHR)) abuses • Employee Health and Safety 27, 66 • Inclusion of minimum human rights standards in contracts with suppliers 24 and other relevant business partners • Process for dealing with incidents 24 Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold • Support employee community organization 24, 27 the freedom of association and the effec• Reflection on the relevance of the labor principles for the company 21-23, tive recognition of the right to collective 26 bargaining Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold • International human rights adherence along our value chain 24 the elimination of all forms of forced and • Impact on the community 11, 21, compulsory labour 29, 39 Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the • Performance related to adherence of the International Labor Organization 60ff effective abolition of child labour Standards Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the • Performance related to work force diversity and equal treatment 26, 61 elimination of discrimination in respect of • Salary for decent living and benefits 20, 54 employment and occupation • Hiring procedure that secures equal rights 26 • Rate of employee turnover 65 Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a • Biodynamic agriculture, environmental stewardship and biodiversity 39ff precautionary approach to environmental • Environmental risk and impact assessments 39, 76ff challenges Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake • Product and customer responsibility 14-15 initiatives to promote greater environmen• Saving of natural resources 42ff tal responsibility • Partnerand Membership in initiatives for environment protection 16, 62 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage • Audits/screenings for compliance in the value chain 17 the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work • Code of Conduct of SEKEM; refers to Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery 24, 25 against corruption in all its forms, including • Risk and impact assessments in the area of anti-corruption 25 extortion and bribery SEKEM Report on 92 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX Independent Auditor’s Report TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF SEKEM HOLDING FOR INVESTMENT COMPANY S.A.E. Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Sekem Holding for Investment Company S.A.E., which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as of 31 December 2011, and the consolidated statements of income, changes in equity and cash flow for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. Management’s responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s Management as Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Egyptian Accounting Standards and in the light of relevant Egyptian laws and regulations. The Management’s responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. This responsibility also includes selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit , we conducted our audit in accordance with Egyptian Standards on Auditing and in the light of relevant Egyptian laws and regulations. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity›s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 93 ANNEX Basis of Qualified Opinion As mentioned in Note (17) to the consolidated financial statements, four of the subsidiary companies “Isis for Food Processing, Lotus for Organic Products Company, Naturetex for Clothes Company, and ATOS Company for Herbal Medicine Manufacturing” account for the sale and lease-back arrangements in accordance with the International Accounting Standard No. 17 Leases, instead of the Egyptian Accounting Standard No. 20 “Accounting for Finance Leases” which resulted in increase in the profit for the year before tax by L.E. 5,292,547 (2010: L.E. 1,837,730) and increase in retained earnings by L.E. 9,736,882 (2010: L.E. 4,542,207). Qualified Opinion In our opinion, except for the effect of the matter referred to in the preceding paragraph on the consolidated financial statements, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Sekem Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. as of 31 December 2011, and its consolidated financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Egyptian Accounting Standards and in the light of relevant Egyptian laws and regulations. Emphasis of Matter Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention that: • Two subsidiaries of the Group “Lotus Upper Egypt for Organic Products Co., and Organic and More Egypt a) Co.” had accumulated losses amounting to L.E. 6.5 million as of 31 December 2011 which exceed 50% of their paid up capital resulting in a deficiency of assets amounting to L.E. 1.4 million which indicates that these subsidiaries will not be able to meet their liabilities as they fall due. However, the financial statements have been prepared under the going concern concept. According to Article No. 69 of the Companies Law No. 159 of 1981, an Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting is required to be held to decide on the continuity of the two subsidiary companies operations. • b) • the financial statements, that during the year 2011, the fixed assets’ depreciation rates have been modified according to the applied rates by company’s management as a result of the increase in the expected future economic benefits. This resulted in decreasing depreciation expenses and increasing the profit of the year by L.E. 8,994,196. Taha M. Khaled Chartered Accountant R.A.A. 5136 Cairo, 13 June, 2012 SEKEM Report on 94 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX Glossary AA1000 The AA1000 Framework is a standard for measuring and reporting of ethical behaviour in business. It includes the principles of accountability, transparency, materiality, stakeholder engagement and reporting. Biodynamic agriculture Biodynamic agriculture is a method of organic farming that treats farms as unified and individual organisms, with emphasis on balancing the holistic development and interrelationship of the soil, plants, animals as a closed, self-nourishing system. Carbon Footprint The total amount of greenhouse gases produced to directly and indirectly support human activities, usually expressed in equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2e). CO2 equivalent emissions (CO2e) Carbon dioxide equivalents provide a universal standard of measurement against which the impacts of releasing (or avoiding the release of) different greenhouse gases can be evaluated. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. Low-carbon economy A low-carbon economy is a concept that refers to an economy that has a minimal output of greenhouse gas emissions (e.g. carbon dioxide) into the biosphere. Stakeholder A stakeholder is a person, a group, organization, or system who affects or can be affected by an organization’s actions. Sustainable Development Flower The Sustainable Development Flower is a framework for a holistic perspective on sustainability performance and communication for food and agriculture-related companies. Its design is based on the GRI principles and was developed in cooperation with the IAP companies. Threefold order The threefold order is a sociological theory developed by Rudolf Steiner. It distinguishes between three realms of society: the economy, politics & human rights and cultural institutions. According to Steiner the three can only function together in harmony if each is granted sufficient independence. “True cost” prices True cost pricing attempts to include negative externalities (e.g. environmental, economic and social costs) of products and services into the price for the consumer and thereby arrive at the “true costs”. Turnover (Employment) Employment turnover is the rate at which an employer gains and loses employees. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary agent driving globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies. 13-villages project The 13-villages project was an EU-funded social development project for the 13 villages in the surrounding area of SEKEM including trainings on hygiene, medical services and waste management. SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 95 ANNEX Abbreviations BoD Board of Directors CEO Chief Executive Officer CFO Chief Financial Officer CO2 Carbon dioxide COO Chief Operating Officer CPO Cotton People Organic COP15 15th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change CSE Cooperative of SEKEM Employees DEG Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft EBDA The Egyptian Biodynamic Association EGP Egyptian Pound ENCC Egyptian National Competitiveness Council EU European Union Expolink Egyptian Exporters Association FAO Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations FDA Famers Development Association Feddan 1 feddan = 0.42 hectare FLO Fairtrade Labeling Organization GA General Assembly GDP Gross Domestic Product GERPI Genetic Resources Policy Initiative Egypt GMP Good Manufacturing Practice GRI Global Reporting Initiative Gt Giga tonnes HQ Headquarters HR Human Relations IAP International Association for Partnership IMC Industrial Modernization Center ISO International Organization for Standardization IT Information Technology kg Kilogram kWh Kilowatt hour MENA Middle East North Africa mio Million NGO Non-Governmental Organization NOP National Organic Program NREA New & Renewable Energy Authority OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Standards PR Public Relations R&D Research & Development SDF SEKEM Development Foundation SESC SEKEM Environmental Science Center TUEV Technischer Überwachungsverein / Technical Inspection Association UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development Organization WEF World Economic Forum WFC World Future Council SEKEM Report on 96 Sustainable Development 2011 ANNEX Imprint Issuer/Publisher SEKEM Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. Responsible for Content Helmy Abouleish, Managing Director, SEKEM Group Consultancy Services and Scientific Guidance Sustainable Development Center at the Heliopolis Academy for Sustainable Development; Compliance Manager, SEKEM Group of Companies Concept and Realization: Anne Mordhorst Text of SEKEM Story (pages 4-7): Daniel Baumgartner Texts: Matthias Keitel, Anne Mordhorst Layout Ahmed Mokhtar, ISIS Graphics Design Studio Photos Ahmed Mokhtar, ISIS Graphics Design Studio Anne Mordhorst, Heliopolis Academy Evelyn Schindler, SDF Yvonne Floride, SDF SEKEM Photo Archive Drawings, page 4-7 Lone Hertel Printing Printed in Egypt Publication Date July 4th, 2012 Contact SEKEM Group P.O. Box 2834 11361 El Horreya, Cairo, Egypt Email: sustainabledevelopment@SEKEM.com SEKEM Report on Sustainable Development 2011 97 ANNEX 3, Cairo-Belbeis Desert Road, El-Salam City. P.O. Box: 2834 El-Horreya, 11491 Cairo, Egypt Tel.: (+20) 2 265 64 124/5 Fax: (+20) 2 265 66 123 Email: info@sekem.com www.sekem.com facebook.com/sekemgroup SEKEM Report on 98 Sustainable Development 2011 3 Cairo-Belbeis Desert Road, El-Salam City. P.O. Box: 2834 El-Horreya, 11491 Cairo, Egypt Tel.: +20 2 265 64 124/5 Fax: +20 2 265 66 123 Email: info@sekem.com www.sekem.com
