2011 Sustainability Report Green Dream YES EXCELLENCE ACTION SURPRISE TRUST ABOUT This This is the fourth Sustainability Report that aT (Korea Agrofisheries & Food Trade corp.) has published. aT is committed to communicate with stakeholders by opening the sustainability REPORT management activities through this report to be remained as sustainable company. Contents of publication First : March 2009 Second : March 2010 Third : March 2011 Fourth : March 2012 Principle of the Report aT’s Sustainability Report is based on G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Scope and Period of the Report The report contains economic, environmental and social activities of the aT headquarter and local branch offices from January to December of 2011 and will be issued every year. Some quantitative data shows three-year long report (2009-2011) about change in trend. Verification on the Report In order to enhance the reliability of information contained in this report, aT has requested for third party verification to Korea Productivity Center. Verification has been undertaken in accordance with AA1000AS 2008 verification criteria and it has been confirmed that the A+ application level of GRI guideline has been satisfied. In the case that any additional information is required in relations to sustainable management and other activities of aT, you may have the access on such information through our website (www.at.or.kr). For more information and inquiries, contact us through the contact points below. Contact information aT Center, 27 Gangnamdaero, Seocho-gu, Seoul 137-787, Korea CS Management Team, Korea Agro-Fisheries & Food Trade Corporation Tel : +82-2-6300-1044 Fax : +82-2-6300-1602 E-mail : atcsr@at.or.kr CONTENTS GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report Economic Value Generation of Environment Value Economy_1 14 Environment 29 1. Strengthening of Global Competitiveness of Korean 1. Supporting Eco-friendly Agro-fisheries Industry Agro-fisheries Products 1. 1 Facilitating distribution of eco-friendly 1. 1 Building up the export foundation agricultural products 1. 2 Generation of export growth engine 1. 2 Spreading green food life 1. 3 Overseas marketing ABOUT aT 04 2. Green Management of aT Economy_2 18 CEO Message 2. Innovation of Distribution Structure 2011 Highlight 2. 1 Facilitating producer-consumer direct transaction Company Profile Generation of Social Value 2. 2 Strengthening Competitiveness in Distribution aT Vision & Mid-to Long-term Strategy Organization of the Producing Area Process Overview Society 32 2. 3 Strengthening the function as a wholesale market and facilitating operation 1. Customer satisfaction 2. 4 Collection of distribution information 2. Welfare for employees aT Sustainable Management 09 3. Contribution to local community Economy_3 22 4. Accompanied growth 1. Sustainable management system 3. Expansion of Food Industry Infra 2. Corporate governance 3. 1 Development of the food industry 3. Ethical management 3. 2 Agro-fisheries food consumption promotion Appendix 36 4. Risk management business 5. Participation of Stakeholders 3. 3 Promoting globalization of Korean cuisine Summarized Financial Statements Economy_4 25 4. Expansion of Demand and Supply Management Capability 4. 1 Stable supply/demand management of staple food 4. 2 Undertaking national grain procurement system 4. 3 Survey on overseas import information 04 05 GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report CEO Rewarding experience for farmers and ﬁshers 2011 aT Sustainable Management Satisfaction to customers MESSAGE Endless conﬁdence and happiness to people Highlight About aT Launched as the Agro-Fisheries Development Corporation in 1967, With the full-scale opening of our market, we will strengthen the competitiveness of our agro-fisheries industry through export promotion. Highlight 1 aT is born again as Korea Agro-fisheries & Food Trades Corp (Jan. 2012) Launched in 1967 as Agro-Fisheries Development Corporation, aT has been aT that has been the leader of agExport of agro-fisheries product is the foundation and basis of confidence that our agrocarrying out its functions for Korean agricultural and fisheries products. With riculture history of Korea is born fisheries can compete with the global market. In particular, 2012 has important goal of acits second founding, aT is committed to lead the 10 Billion USD export of again as the Korea Agro-Fisheries complishing 10 Billion USD of export for agro-fisheries product. With the thorough overseas agro-fisheries product while earning respect and trust from people through Trade Corporation. Please keep strengthening its functions in food industry development, demand and Sustainability market survey and discovery of new development network, support for marketing and on watching aT that is committed other policies, we will open up the new era of 10 Billion USD of export for agro-fisheries supply stabilization and others. to born again as the public organiproduct and bring vitality to our facilitation industry. 2 zation specializing in developing Established aT Grain Company, a national grain company in the North American region global agro-fisheries industry with We will develop and advance the domestic food industry. Highlight aT has established aT Grain Company, a grain company in the North Amerithe trust of people. Everyone acknowledges importance of promotion in the food industry. Through the primacan region through the consortium of private and public corporation. It has ry production, the added value in agro-fisheries business will be increased with the enlargeundertaken national grain procurement system by carrying out pilot introment of people engaging in the industry as the vast economic effect of food industry. With duction of beans. Through this effort, aT has laid down the foundation to Economy ‘aT Corporate Support Center’, established with the goal of promotion and development of supply food stably under the global climate change. food industry, we are committed to strengthen the competitiveness of agro-fisheries, food and restaurant companies by comprehensive support for consulting, counseling and others in expanding the infra and facilitate companies to advance to overseas markets. Highlight 3 Surpassed 7.7 Billion USD of export in agro-fisheries product After the earthquake in Japan, aT has organized Export Action T/F Team to aT aims for the stabilization of product cost with stable food supply in 2012. overcome its export crisis. In addition, as a result of placing efforts in adGlobal grains market can be described as war due to rapid climate changes and bio-energy vancement of export strategic items, introduction of global star items sysEnvironment developments. By constructing national grains supply system with the cyber exchange, we tem and prevention of dumping export with self-regulated export guidewill continue to stabilize food supplies with a long term plan with the direct trading of food line, export of agro-fisheries product in 2011 recorded the greatest increase materials for food companies via online as well as group meal services, including the school rate ever for 30% and accomplished 7.7 Billion USD of export. meal service in a way of significantly improving the distribution costs. aT will duly carry out its social responsibility and become the nation’s leading public oﬃce with the trust from people. Highlight 4 Agricultural Product Cyber Exchange accomplished 164% over its business goal in 2011 With the efforts in trading cabbage in reservation, direct transaction for restaurants and procurement of food ingredients for school meal, the sales By establishing modern ethical management system, we are being praised as one of the record has significantly increased from 175.5 billion won in 2010 to 625.5 bilSociety cleanest public offices across the nation. Also, aT is focused on improving lion won in 2011. Through the expansion of direct trading by consumers, 37 company efficiency by working closely with the labor union. Based billion won cost savings was resulted and Cyber Exchange (www.eat.co.kr) on our environmentally friendly operations, we also aim to meet has become an innovative distribution channel. the government’s goal in becoming a leader of green growth and sustainable management. Highlight 5 Presidential Commendation conferred in 2011 public purchase promotion At the ‘2011 public purchase promotion conference’ that SMBA hosted and Appendix CEO Kim, jae-su Kbiz managed, aT was conferred with the Presidential Commendation due Korea Agro-Fisheries & Food Trade Corporation to effort for its social responsibilities with expansion of purchase ratio of SME products through diverse system improvement to expand the opportunity for SMEs. 06 07 GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report COMPANY Public Enterprise Specializes in Promoting Global Agro-fisheries Product Industry VISION and PROFILE with the Trust of People Korea Agro-fisheries & Food Trade Corporation MID-TO LONG-TERM STRATEGY About aT Founded as the Agro-Fisheries Development Corporation in 1967, and expanded and reVision and Mission newed as the Agricultural and Fishery Marketing Corporation in 1986. aT is a corporation Mission Vision statement which leads the future of the Korean agricultural product industry through export and disPublic enterprise specializing in distribution for tribution as it strengthens wholesale market development, distribution training, information global agro-fisheries product with the trust of thereof and others and expanding the business territory with the export promotion projects general public and agro-fisheries product consumption promotion projects.. Agro-fishSecuring the firm trust from all general public as the Securing Sustainability With its name change in 2012 into Korea Agro-fisheries & Food Trade Corporation, aT has eries & food stable food pre-requisite for undertaking the role as public enindustry established its new vision as ‘the Public Enterprise Specializes in Advancing Global Agrofor people promotion terprise fisheries product Industry with the Trust of People’ with its focus on revising the functions for aT expands its overseas network in its scale and specialized business structure by significantly supporting the functions to support the agrifunction on midto long-term basis to develop the cultural industry. aT is committed to performing its corporate social responsibility with the global project system effort placed on new value creation for our agriculture as specialized promotion agency. Strengthening the role of industrial promotion in the Improving point of view to continuously perform the purpose the quality | Export of agro-fisheries product for each major country in 2011 | (Unit: Million USD) of establishment of aT as expressed in the mission of life Economy Advance into a company accomplishing the public purpose while securing the position as specialist in Japan 2,374 agro-fisheries product field EU 338 China 1,381 Strategic direction Rotterdam Environment Strengthening of Beijing Expanding growth engine Tokyo business specialization Qingdao Osaka LA New York Shanghai Strengthening the project specialization by Hong kong Expanding the project that meets the policy facilitating export and distribution with acneed on supply and demand in food, and cumulated knowledge, experience, informaASEAN 1,032 Singapore US 600 tion, professional human resource, project network and others settling the new growth engine projects consistently Hong Kong 310 4UP Enhancement of Strengthening of management innovation global competency Society | Corporate status | Gangwon Incheon Striving for sustainable management by exStrengthening the overseas project comCorporate name Korea Agro-Fisheries & Food Trade Corporation panding H/W function in management, S/W petency and continuously developing the SeoulGyeonggi Head Oﬃce based efficiency, customer satisfaction, ethiglobal project for improving the global comDec. 1, 1967 (Launched as Korea Agro-Fisheries Development Date of establishment cal management, and social responsibility petitiveness Corporation) Chungbuk 4 Head Offices/ 18 Office, Bureau, Center/11 domestic Organization structure Daejeon-Chungnam branch offices/10 overseas branch offices Daegu-Gyeongbuk Head office location aT Center 27, Gangnam Daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul Jeonbuk Key businesses Export promotion, stable demand and supply, distribution Busan-Ulsan Core value Appendix innovation, and food industry development No. of employees 559 (as of the end of Dec. '11) Gyeongnam Yes Excellence Surprise Action Trust Capital 86.2 billion won (legal capital: 300 billion won) Gwangju-Jeonnam 72.1 billion won (agriculture stabilization fund and agriculture Government subsidy ('11) special accounting) YES Positive Expert Customer Taking Mutual Corporate type Quasi-government institution Jeju Thinking Knowlege Satisfaction an Action Trust 08 PROCEss OVERVIEW Agro-fisheries distribution and key businesses of aT Production Distribution Consumption 4 2 Distribution organization Consumption Domestic market consumer (wholesale / retail) Domestic Food company 3 10 11 producer 9 (processing / restaurant) 1 5 Export company 6 (agro-fisheries product / food) Overseas 7 consumer 8 12 14 Storage base(aT) 13 Overseas 15 Global grain company producer Food industry Food demand and Distribution innovation Export support development supply management 1 Producer support 5 Building up export base 9 Food company development and 13 Base food management 2 Development of local distribution •Export agro-fisheries product support •MMA/TRQ import management organization safety management •Food and restaurant company 13 Demand/supply instable item •Establishment of city and •Building up export complex fund support management county distribution companies 6 Building up export specialty •Food/restaurantc ompany •Import (purchase) reserve •Jointm arketing organization consulting •Demand and supply information •Training •Export organization support 10 Consumer marketing 13 Overseas grain procurement 3 Wholesale market support / •Training of export professional •Agro-fisheries product conconsigned operation sumption promotion 7 Export support 4 Operation of Cyber Exchange 11 Spread of green food life •Organization of export council 12 Promoting globalization of •Discovery of export promising Korean cuisines items 8 Overseas consumer marketing •Hostingint ernationale xhibitions/ participating •Invitingb uyers 10 11 SUSTAINABILITY GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 1. Sustainable management system Strengthening and facilitating specialties of non-executive directors About aT aT provides diverse support for improving specialization of non-executive directors. Newly appointed The Public Enterprise Specialized in Advancing Global non-executive directors are provided with the guideVision Agro-ﬁsheries Product Industry with the Trust of People book and support for participation in field trip at work sites. In 2011, it held on-site board of directors Slogan Green Dream aT! (3 times) to view diverse business sites in food and export companies. Also, it has participated in KOREA Sustainability FOOD EXPO and other events to have the higher unStrengthening of Strengthening of derstanding on business matters. Focused sustainable communication Carrying out soGenerating Practicing green task management for interested cial responsibility customer value growth system parties 3. Ethical management Through undertaking continuous ethical management, it has the honor of winning Economy Result of promotion for sustainable management ‘The Most Integrity Institution’ from 2005 to 2009 and it was selected as the ‘2011 The KoBEX SM(Korean Business Ethics index SustainWinning the presidential commendation at public most outstanding agency for integrity and ethics’ at the ‘Asia’s Best Audit Leadership ability Management) purchase promotion conference Forum and Korean Auditors’ Conference’ that was managed by Korea Auditors AsKoBEX SM implementAt the ‘2011 public pursociation. ed by the Ministry of chase promotion conferKnowledge Economy ence’ that SBMA hosted Promotion organization Practical program for ethical management for ethical management Environment and KIEP is the status and Kbiz managed, aT survey on sustainable received the Presidential aT has operated General Office of Ethical Management Ethical education for employees management for major public corporations and priCommendation due to which comprehensively governs the ethical management aT has implemented continuous ethical management vate enterprises. Compared to ‘A rating’ of the previan effort for its social reand also organized the ‘integrity innovation task force training for all officers and employees to adapt to the ous year, it has ‘AA rating’ this year 11.6 points imsponsibilities by increasteam’ in charge of anti-corruption and integrity affairs for ethical working environment. (Numerous officers and proved in controlling structure, local community and ing purchase ratio of SME strong undertaking of the ethical management activities. employees including executives have undertaken the environment management fields. aT will continue to products with diverse ethics and integrity related training) In particular, it Operation of enterprise promotion organization for ethical management expand its sustainable management leadership. system improvement. held mock trial experience training on ethical dilemma cases in 2011 to strengthen practice of ethical manSociety Monitoring CEO Audit agement for officers and employees. Anti-corruption Integrity Innovation Team Ethics Committee General Oﬃce and integrity training was held with the nationwide (special committee within of Ethical Integrity Innovation the board of directors) Management Promotion Planning Team branch offices. 2. Corporate governance Integrity Innovation Practice Leader Integrity Ombudsman (Customer Advisory Ethical education for employees Integrity Circle Committee) aT has structured the board of directors-oriented controlling structure to improve its specialization and efficiency. (first rate water) 20.2 Board of directors – The board of directors is the highest decision making organization to govern the aT management Appendix CS Management Personnel General Aﬀairs and that it is organized for 4 executive directors, including the CEO, and 5 non-executive directors. For the management Team Team Facilities Team 14.5 39.3% Customer Welfare for officers Social monitoring and control function on the board, the ratio of the non-executive directors has been managed for 50% and ethics and employees contribution or more. WOW aT Task aT “Love Share Team” In 2011, the board of directors held 13 meetings with 22 passed and 28 reported cases for total 50 cases of agenda. Force Team 2010 2011 12 13 SUSTAINABILITY GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report Ethics and Integrity corporate culture expansion program Clearing of factors interfering the fairness under the Risk response for changes in management environment About aT With the voluntary participation of all officers and emcorruption assessment In March 2011, the severe earthquake and tsunami in the northeastern part of Japan Main marine transport route for ployees, aT operates diverse programs to build up clean In 2011, aT made efforts to remove the corruption Korea’s agro-fishery food caused crisis of the largest export market for Korean agro-fisheries product. For the initial Areas with earthquakes corporate culture with ethical and integrity mind. caused by contract, personnel, audit, institution opresponse after the earthquake, aT organized TF for export to Japan and took actions to eration expenses and review resolution committee. In help out the exporters. As a result, it was the opportunity to expand the export market Self-check test Sustainable Contents Integrity Contents addition, it has realized the transparent administration for safe agro-fisheries product of Korea. by disclosing the company regulations of aT on the homepage. Risk management in demand and supply for Sustainability key agro-fisheries products Operation of reporting system for all possibilities aT pays particular attention to risk management since there is growing instability for Communication channel for interested parties If any employee or external customer of aT was involved demand and supply of agro-fisheries product following climate change. With the drastic Improvement of unethical or corrupt action, they could use diverse reCustomer price hike of agricultural products in 2010 and 2011, the “demand and supply managecorruption prevention system porting systems. • Customer satisfaction Index ment department” was newly established in 2011 for intense management of demand • Customer Committee aT has structured diverse systems to cut off the fundaand supply stability to strengthen its functions with distribution information survey and • Customer meeting mental cause of corruption that may occur. Establishment of clean card monitoring system • Customer proposal system others. With the cooperation With the Ministry for Food, Agriculture, Forestry and FishSelf-Development of the system improvement task Efforts have been made to prevent the illegal use of • Management disclosure eries, it undertakes the demand and supply stabilization project under the manual to Economy • Sustainability management report With respect to the factors for corruption highly likely for corporate card named ‘Clean Card’. In particular, in 2011, stabilize the demand and supply for each phase. each project department, the system improvement task clean card instruction revision and full-time monitoring Employees is discovered voluntarily to undertake improvement on system have been structured in reference to the legal • Survey on satisfaction of employees vulnerable field. violation and waste of budget in other institutions. • Labor-management joint workshop • Labor-management council, 5. Participation of stakeholders • aT newsletter • Intranet Communication channel for interested parties • Grievance committee Entering into MOU between public inEnvironment • Clean Tea Time Communication with the interested party has become an important way to carry out stitutions for transparent management • CEO Employees meeting sustainable management. For this purpose, aT gathers opinions and interested points by Following the MOU with Korea Tourism Organization utilizing diverse communication channels for each group of interested parties. Government /public organizations in 2010, aT made MOU with ‘Korea Cadastral Survey • Regular meeting with government Corporation’ in 2011. Through these efforts, both • Employee dispatch Importance evaluation process • Oﬃcial Contact point agencies have made effort to enhance transparency • National organization participation aT has implemented evaluation on sustainable management issues formulated from in public institutions through cross inspection in auinterested parties and has selected the core issues to intensely promote by aT through dit, integrity and ethics fields. Cooperative companies the priority evaluation for each issue. • Cooperative company proposal system • Step 1 : Confirmation of issues Society • Complaint reception and feedback • Cooperative companies meeting By confirming the internal issues related to the sustainable management and formu• Project conference lating the external issue through insider communication, internal and external issues Media/NGOs are confirmed. In particular, qualitative and quantitative issues are confirmed through • Press data questionnaires. 4. Risk management • Seminar and forum • Customer Committee • Step 2 : Selection of priority sequence • NGO partnership participation On the basis of interest and influence on aT, the issues selected for each territory of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) sustainable management, economy, environment, society and others have been a toAppendix This ERM is used to implement the ‘risk management instruction’. By classifying possible crisis and establishing manLocal communities tal of 44 issues. • Resident inviting event agement procedure for each case, effective response plan has been prepared. Vice President undertakes the office of • Local communities meeting • Step 3: Importance evaluation and reflection of report the CRO (Chief Risk Officer) to oversee the risk management at normal times. Upon emergency situation, Risk Man• company-town relationship Depending on the level of importance, 18 issues were selected as the intense report • Activities for social responsibility agement Committee is organized with CEO and executive directors taking active roles. categories on 2011 aT sustainable management report under the importance matrix. 14 ECONOMY_1 15 Strengthening of Global Competitiveness of Korean Agro-fisheries Products GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 1 Generation of Economic Value Strengthening of Global Competitiveness Economic impact of agricultural product export and aT’s contribution of Korean Agro-fisheries Products aT, which is in charge of supporting export of agricultural products, serves a comprehensive supporting function About aT through consistent supporting system from domestic production to overseas market development. The export of agro-fisheries product has reached 7.7 Billion USD in 2011. It has created production stimulating effect of 14.7 Billion Export and Export and distribution distribution USD, added value amounting to 5.6 Billion USD, and 59,000 jobs. companies companies Building up Overseas Overseas market Sustainability the export base market marketing Production stimulation amount 7,691 Billion USD 14,691Billion USD Export and Export and 59,000 distribution distribution companies companies • Development of export leading organization • Development of export leading organization employment 2011 the amount of export Added value • Development of export specialized human resources • Development of export specialized human resources generation in agro-fisheries product 5,606 Billion USD • Safety management of export agro-ﬁsheries • Safety management of export agro-ﬁsheries • Providing overseas trade information www.kati.net • Providing overseas trade information www.kati.net • Brokerage for internet trade transaction www.AgroTrade.net • Brokerage for internet trade transaction www.AgroTrade.net ●Structuring overseas export logistics ●Expansion of export growth engine *Reference: 2009 Industry Atlas, Bank of Korea 2011 Economy • Structuring of overseas post base for exporting agro-ﬁsheries product • Export commercialization support ●Other export support • Direct sales business • Support of export logistics expenses • Group brand management and operation (www.whimori.at.or.kr) • Production complex specialized horticulture evaluation and post-management • Group marketing support for Export Council 1. 1 Building up the export foundation Status of export in agro-fisheries product (Unit: Million Dollars) The export of fresh agricultural products, processed agriPrinciple Our Approach 7,692 Environment cultural products and fisheries product has been increas5,880 We support the expansion of agro-fisheries product for Building up the export base, system improvement, ex4,809 4,368 ing until 2011 thanks to our efforts in supporting local global advancement. pansion of growth engine and overseas market mar3,208 2,559 keting. agro-fisheries exporting companies. We are continuing Export of Korean agro-fisheries product by Korea exceeded 1,798 2,308 our efforts in creating foundation for export of Korean 1,511 739 874 1,016 3 Billion USD in 1988 for the first time and it took 0ver 20 aT has continuously built up the export base for agroyears to accomplish 3.8 Billion USD in 2007. However, with fisheries product, improved system, and expanded growth agro-fisheries products by nurturing professional talents 2009 2010 2011 the aggressive export drive policy, it has accomplished 5.9 engine in 2011, and has made consistent effort to develin export market as well as by providing global market Fresh agro-fisheries product Processed agro-fisheries product Billion USD in 2010 and 7.7 Billion USD in last year. With the op the overseas markets. Thanks to such export support, information and marketing strategies. Fisheries products Total export good performance of main items, enhancement of Korean the export in agro-fisheries product has steadily grown competitiveness, K-Pop and new Hallyu fever, Korean agrowith the export in 2011 to be 7.7 Billion US as the largest Developing export leading organizations export expansion through revision into the advanced fisheries product of Korea is continuously popular in overamount ever. aT supports export-leading organizations, which deal export system. Society seas markets. with the whole export process from production to export, in order to expand exports by strengthening Development of Classification Detailed categories Units Major outcome competitiveness in export field. The export-leading orexport-specialized human resource 2009 2010 2011 ganizations were summed up to a total of 16 products aT provides the opportunity to acquire high class inforLeading organization development Places 13 21 18 Building-up the export base and 18 organizations in 2011. “Korean-style Zespri Ormation and high-tech-intensive technology through Export experience Education on site Times 6 3 2 ganization” has been formed (7 places) to promote the advanced agriculture training for export-leading proAppendix Commercialization support for export Places 38 43 33 Expansion of export growth engine High-class brand development for export Units 8 Korean brand in the international market. In 2011, the ducers that produces export-promising items to develOverseas market marketing Export support consultation and sales revenue (*) Million USD 512 756 861 total amount of export was decreased by 4%, but the inop elite export-specialized agriculture producers. Export amount Export amount 100 Million USD 48 59 77 crease rate of the export leading organization was 19% In 2011, aT enhanced competitiveness in export ag(estimated) and it has generated the growth engine for ricultural products through the support activities of * Export support consultation and sales revenue: total amount of consultation with exhibitions, large distributor and buyers and sales revenue 16 ECONOMY_1 17 Strengthening of Global Competitiveness of Korean Agro-fisheries Products GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report advanced agriculture technology, cultivation trend of Promote internet transaction (Agro Trade) 1. 3 Overseas marketing About aT new items, training on overseas marketing technique It is a website utilized to advertise Korean agro-fisheries and others with field trip to advanced agricultural instiproduct to international buyers and entice other buyers Hosting and supporting with exporters. In 2011, BKF (Buy Korean Food) and 4 tutions and on-site education (Netherland PTC+) for 2 to Korean produce and it provides multi-lingual smart international fairs other major export consulting sessions were held to times, consulting with overseas experts for 7 times and e-catalogue along with various mobile homepage, proaT has been participating in various food exhibitions in match 479 export companies with 239 overseas buyers. Gyeongnam ATEC field trip for 4 times for export-driven motion, agency for Internet trade process, buyer list and overseas since 1988 with domestic promising exporters. In addition, through the distribution field trip program, agriculture producers in outstanding horticulture-specredit information. (www.Agrotrade.net) Through this project, aT has been a great help in adit has contributed to enhance the trust of buyers on cialized production complex. vancing overseas markets and developing SME exportsafety of Korean cuisine. Furthermore, it has undertaken Sustainability AgroTrade mobile ers. It also assists for export competitiveness through tailored invitational project in consideration of producInformation about agro-fisheries product comparative analysis with famous products around the tion, harvest time and others for enhancing the project trades (KATI) world. support effect. KATI is a specialized site to provide export information Such our effort for exhibitions has been accepted as efwhere over 1 million or more visits each year. It provides fective means to develop overseas markets of Korean Overseas PR marketing local and overseas news, publications, buyer trend and agro-fisheries products. And, in particular, it had 36 aT actively facilitates the worldwide “Korean Wave” as other major agro-fisheries trade news to the producers times of exhibitions in 2011 and undertook a critical role the catalyst of overseas PR of agro-fisheries product. mobile web QRcode mobile App and consumers. (www.kati.net) to accomplish 7.7 Billion USD in agro-fisheries product “Wonder Girls” are commissioned as the ambassadors Economy export. of agro-fisheries product export. aT produced PR contents (K-Food Party M/V) to have the online marketing Working with diplomatic oﬃces through famous portal and SNS in 5 Asian countries and 1. 2 Generation of export growth engine aT has worked with 49 diplomatic offices in 33 countries strengthen the culture marketing in connection with around the world in 2011 to advertise our agro-fisheries the Korea Culture especially in Chinese culture region Organization/operation of export consultation body products and Korean cuisine. aT places effort for practiand Southeastern Asia. Environment aT organizes and operates item-specific export consultation body to prevent excessive competition among domescal expansion of export by jointly undertaking PR projWondergirls Music Video Road Show in China tic companies in the export market and establish cooperation system among them. In 2011, it newly established ects with domestic exporters, local import buyers, local Strawberry Export Consultation Council was created to have a total of 17 consultation bodies are created for different governments and others. produces. Transactions by inviting overseas buyers Developing promising export items aT has invited influential overseas buyers to large scale aT provides support for product development, export consulting, and overseas marketing expenses for three years export session to support for 1:1 export consultation from the initial phase of export to the settlement in local market with the new market advancement of existing export items and product development in localization as appropriate for the consumers in exported countries for developing export promising items to lead the future export in agriculture products and food. Society Structuring of direct export network for Result of sales promotion in connection with overseas major distribution companies – Amount and cases (Unit: 1,000 USD) Management and operation of a joint brand (Whimori) overseas large distribution companies aT promotes sophistication and standardization of the joint brand ‘WhiaT has supported sales promotion events with over148 mori”. With a single brand, aT enhances export competitiveness, encourseas distribution companies, vendors, large distribu123 ages systematization and standardization of the company, and creates tion stores, and domestic exporters to expand the added value and increases brand value through execution of Integrated export. In addition, it has implemented large-scale Appendix 68 34,069 Marketing Communication (IMC) in the export market. sales promotion events by entering into MOU with 14,574 27,255 major distribution companies. As of 2011, it has direct export network through MOUs with 31 major 2009 2010 2011 distribution companies in 10 countries. 18 ECONOMY_2 19 Innovation of Distribution Structure GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 2 Generation of Economic Value Innovation of 2. 1 Facilitating producer-consumer direct transaction Distribution Structure aT has made effort to lead the sustainable agro-fisheries product distribution paradigm by structuring the Cyber ExAbout aT change which makes mutual direct transaction online with the advanced IT infra and e-commerce conditions. ●Development of local distribution organization and support of ●Development of wholesale market and consigned managements Reduction of distribution stages through the Cyber Exchange operation facilitation • Evaluation of operation performance of wholesale market • APC construction support project • Operation facilitation of wholesale market and systematic improvement • Local distribution funding support • Consigned management and operation of wholesale market for agro-ﬁsheries Producer Distribution stage 1 Distribution stage 2 Distribution stage 3 Retailer Consumer Sustainability • Metro distribution development and support product in Chuncheon City • Structuring for low-temperature distribution system for horticulture products • Support for funding for horticulture products • Support for Agricultural brand development Consumption area Producer Cyber exchange for agro-fishery food B2B company -B2B through e-catalog and electronic payment Eco-friendly farms -B2C through integrated home delivery and internet B2C Consumer Distribution in Wholesale Producer Consumer producing area distribution Status of major projects for the Cyber Exchange Economy Direct transaction B2B transaction Sales on B2C (shopping mall) The B2B transaction system for online agro-fisheries On the need of eco-friendly agro-fisheries product, re●Support of direct transaction and fair transaction of agro-fisheries product provided simple transactions in publicity, gional specialty product and conventional wine for sales product • Fund support for cooperation between Consumer and local search, order and others, but the B2B transaction system routes expansion and consumption promotion, the Cy• Operation of direct transaction and fair transaction support center of the Cyber Exchange for aT provides not only the existber Exchange contributes for transaction activation for • Support of facilitation of agro-ﬁsheries product direct transaction, Environment www.esingsing.co.kr ing system but also the payment, forwarding, verifying PR, consumption promotion, sales route development Our Approach and post management service via online service. and others and it has structured new direct transaction Distribution eﬃciency through expansion of direct transmodel in restaurant food material and others. Principle actions and local distribution scale-up Electronic procurement project for food supply to Realizing optimal agricultural product distribution sysaT developed local distribution organization, reduced disschools Expected Eﬀect tem tribution steps and expenses through Cyber Exchange Schools may use the food material procurement system The cyber transaction of agro-fisheries product has asDistribution of agricultural products is a national circulating and direct market projects and supported fair transaction of the Cyber Exchange for all processes ranging from serted diverse economic expected effect following nonsystem which distributes food around the country. Prodof agro-fisheries food. In addition, the consigned manageucts of producers are delivered to consumers through this ment for local wholesale market that has been undertaken selecting supplier, contract consummation, and settleface-to-face transaction and shortening of distribution ment to reduce the waste of unnecessary administraphases and it supports the transparent transaction and Society flow of distribution. aT is committed to improve the framefor remarkable improvement of wholesale distribution is work of agricultural product distribution as it straightens planned to continue and expand into nationwide wholetive expenses for higher efficiency, and it has prepared safe payment of sales proceeds through the ‘clearing water way and fix dams for the happiness of both producsale market. And aT undertook various education programs the transaction system to trust by strengthening the house’ for making the payment in cyber transactions. ers and consumers. and diverse distribution information survey project. cooperation with pertinent institutions to secure transThe Cyber Exchange contributes the income increase parency in transaction and safety in food materials as it by bringing up the sales proceeds to seller and reducing Classification Detailed categories Units 2009 2010 2011 has emerged as social issues in recent days. the purchase costs to purchaser, not only for the purPlace of production/consumption site Transaction amount of pose to generate profit as a public institution. 100 million won 52 1,755 6,255 with direct trading Cyber Exchange Appendix Scale of production site APC establishment support Places 297 318 321 Promotion and operation of direct transaction support center for agro-fisheries product distribution (cumulative) “Direct and fair transaction support center for agro-fisheries product” aims to expand direct sales from local producers Consigned management of Facilitation of public wholesale market Units 1 1 1 to large consumers and promote fair trade amongst consumers by having a fair price competition. The center has wholesale market functions Auction record for flower sales Million won 83,839 98,211 100,766 been operating since 2008. 20 ECONOMY_2 21 Innovation of Distribution Structure GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 2. 2 Strengthening competitiveness in distribution organization of the sumption promotion. In particular, in 2011, to celebrate the 20th anniversary of its opening, it had flower work exhibiAbout aT producing area tion, horticulture experiment show and bouquet show. Also, its auction record surpassed 100 billion won for the first time in history. Strengthening the support system for local distribution facilities The local distribution plan is the system newly established from 2011 for unifying the marketing window and enPresenting eﬃcient management model through expansion of consignment managehances the efficiency of facility operation of local distribution facilities. In 2011, 52 cities and counties applied for local ment in public wholesale market distribution plan and 24 cities and counties selected and 22 APCs were supported. Chuncheon wholesale market began its consignment management by aT since 2008 to have the result of increase in transaction scale, improvement of operation surplus, Sustainability Developing the distribution organizations of the producing area enhancement of transaction transparency and others, Transaction amount of Chuncheon Wholesale Market (Unit: 100 million won) aT has responded to the changes in the distribution environment of agro-fisheries product as in DDA, FTA and other and other wholesale markets are visiting to make the 285 market opening, change in preference for customers, growth of large distribution companies. In 2011, sales average benchmarking for the outstanding case. 255 204 of subject organization in local distribution facilitation project was 16,186 million won. aT has contributed to the local In July 2011, its successful operation was recognized 149 distribution facilitation of the support with the local distribution organization development and support policies. to enter into re-contract for the consignment management with Chuncheon City and it plans to expand gradPromoting brand ually with other lackadaisical wholesale markets. 2008 2009 2010 2011 aT enhances brand power with cost reduction, quality facilities and brand nurturing subsidy specializing in flower Economy and farm product producing areas. Also, aT hosts agricultural product power brand fair every year as a part of brand promotion project and it has intensely developed 40 outstanding companies with the goal of having 70 companies by 2015 2. 4 Collection of distribution information Price survey of agro-fisheries product Environment 2. 3 Strengthening the function as a wholesale market and facilitating aT surveys retail price everyday for wholesale price on 5 major cities and large distribution companies and traditional markets in 17 cities. The collected data helps on decision making for shipment and transaction of information users of operation and becomes the foundation to establish price policy of the agro-fisheries product. aT has undertaken the role in strengthening and facilitating the functions with the instruction for the wholesale marSurvey of distribution status kets and tries to introduce a model for an effective management system based on Chunchon Wholesale Market. aT has surveyed distribution route, status and expenses on 36 products and 48 types of agricultural products. aT plans to make policy and supports project for decrease in distribution expenses by expanding survey items. Enticing facilitation of the wholesale market through instruction aT makes annual evaluation on public wholesale market and entices the operation improvement thereof. DependProvision of distribution information ing on the evaluation result, outstanding companies are provided with the incentives such as preferential treatment aT provides diverse information for price and distribution status data of agro-fisheries product, weekly shopping inforSociety for policy fund support, PR support, overseas wholesale mation, holiday and peak season information and others through the agro-fisheries product distribution information Sales performance of public flower market (Unit: million won) market training at and the companies with insufficient www.kamis.co.kr, for consumers to make wise decisions for their purchase. result were given the consulting for implementation. 17% 3% Operation of aT Flower Market 53,337 52,237 In 1991, the aT flower market was established as the 46,343 Appendix 29,562 31,788 largest flower wholesale market in Korea for develop23,087 14,409 15,312 16,750 ment and facilitation of flower distribution. In addition, efforts have been made for enticing the fair transaction, 2009 2010 2011 Shrub Orchid Flower carrying out role for post export base and flower con22 ECONOMY_3 23 Expansion of Food Industry Infra GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 3 Generation of Economic Value Expansion of 3. 1 Development of the food industry Food Industry Infra Consulting service and training support for food and restaurant companies About aT aT has provided consultation for trouble shooting, on-site examination and consulting of food and restaurant compaDomestic consumers nies to support to growth through reasonable and systematic management. ●Promotion of agro-fisheries food consumption • Korea Food Expo • Sales promotion and PR for Korean traditional alcohol Operation of Agro-fisheries and expanded the cooperative institutions to 30 in 2011 to • Grand exhibition of power brands in agro-ﬁsheries food product Food Company Support Center support in-depth consulting for 118 companies in 12 Sustainability • Support of dispersion for green food life Food In 2011, Agro-fisheries and Food Company Support fields including sales strategy, consumer taste strategy exporters Center was newly established to prepare one-stop supproductivity improvement, family eating out and others. port system to resolve trouble shooting, consulting, funding, training and marketing for food and restaurant Supporting the development of expert human reProducer distribution Overseas market companies. sources in food industry network aT has advanced expert human resources through siteFood Restaurant processing companies Consulting support for the food and oriented training program for food production, restaucompanies restaurant companies rant and export companies. Through aT Agricultural Economy ●Support of development food industry aT implements on-site oriented expert instruction by orMarketing Training Institute, it operates the indepen• Consulting food companies and restaurants ganizing the expert pool to improve technologies and dent training program to advance core human resourc• Development of specialized human resource on food industry ●Promoting globalization of Korean cuisine • Agro-ﬁsheries product corporate support center, www.foodinkorea.co.kr • Structuring of globalization infra for Korean cuisines management facilitation for food and restaurant comes and also implements special training through con• Organic processing food certiﬁcation • Eﬀort to develop specialized human resource for Korea cuisines panies. aT structured cooperative system with expert signed training institution to contribute to the efficient • Survey and analysis on food restaurant information • Strengthening of competitiveness for overseas Korean restaurants • Development of fermented food industry institutions and members to provide diverse and profesdevelopment of talented professionals in food field. In • Support of modernization of public kitchen facilities sional consulting for food and restaurant companies. It 2011, 29 programs were operated to train 1,470 people. • Development of producer equity participating company Our Approach Environment • Food and restaurant industry information analysis Development of the food industry and globalization of Korean cuisine Fund support for the development of food and restaurant industry Principle aT has performed diverse food industry support project to aT has supported policy fund for facility modernization of food production companies, fresh agro-fisheries product Leading the advancement of the food industry grow the food industry from the regulation-centered indusproducers, traditional food companies and for the development of food and restaurant industry. The scale of support Agricultural food industry is a new growth engine leading try to future added-value industry with the global competiin 2011 was 38.9 billion won. the income increase of agro-fisheries through generattiveness. In 2011, with the launching of Agro-Fisheries and ing the high added value. Especially, Korean cuisine and Food Corporate Support Center, it has undertaken diverse traditional food are getting more attention from overseas agro-food consumption promotion projects to develop Providing and analyzing information for food and restaurant industry By structuring the FIS web-site (http://fis.foodinkorea.co.kr), it provides continuously for statistics and information on Society markets and captivate the taste of people around the world industrial infra through consulting and training service for with the recognition of its value. The food industry which food and restaurant companies and expanding food indusfood industry statistics information (203 statistics), international raw material price information, detailed contents and has the unlimited potential from producing, processing, try promotion basis while promoting globalization of Koinformation on food and restaurant companies, price trend information for the week for main processed food, trend storage to restaurant business is a new power source for rean cuisine. aT also has published and advertised through information for major food in global market and others. Korean agro-fisheries industry to compete with the world. TV and books to educate consumption of local food. Classification Detailed categories Units 2010 2011 Food/restaurant business consulting places 306 332 3. 2 Agro-fisheries food consumption promotion business Appendix Training the food industry numbers 1,267 1,470 Nurturing the food industry Providing statistics on the food industry Provided by Structuring and operation Providing statistics on food industry (213 tables) KOREA FOOD EXPO 2011 aT currently hosts KOREA FOOD EXPO, the largest food exhibition exposition, to reemphasize the value of food inNurturing professional workforce Globalization of Korean cuisine in Korean cuisine Places 3 4 dustry and introduce the global trend of current food industry. KFE that converted the recognition on agro-fisheries 24 ECONOMY_3 ECONOMY_4 25 Expansion of Food Industry Infra Expansion of Demand and Supply Management Capability GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 4 Generation of Economic Value product successfully by holding it for the first time in 2008 aims to strengthen its business function to exhibit Korean Expansion of Demand and About aT cuisine to the global market in 2011. Supply Management Capability Advertisement and sales of traditional drinks aT continue with our efforts in leading the boom in the local Korean brewed rice industry. aT hosted ‘2011 Korean Brewed Rice Wine with Freshly Harvested Rice” (Oct. 27, 2011 ~ Oct. 30) in Sangam-dong World Cup Park (Park of Peace) jointly with “2011 New Rice Makgeolli National Release Event (Oct. 27, 2011 ~ Dec. 31). These festival events ●TRQ Operation • Stabilizing Prices designated the “Day of Makgeolli (last Thursday of October of each year) to entice the national interest and response TRQ Sustainability • Adoption and Sales of MMA on Makgeolli. Domestic Overseas market Reserve MMA consumption 3. 3 Promoting globalization of Korean cuisine market Efforts for building up infrastructure of Korean cuisine Through the Korean restaurant council in 9 major cities around the world, aT has undertaken the project to upgrade Economy Obtain international the Korean restaurants facilitation. During the KFE period, workshops were held for officers and employees of council distribution network members to explain the government policies and gather the opinion of overseas companies. And aT made effort to take place for local private infra for the Korean cuisine globalization for those Korean restaurants. ●Promotion of agro-fisheries food consumption ●Survey on agro-fisheries product distribution information • Government reserve project • Calculation of agro-ﬁsheries product logistics expenses • Purchase and import reserves • Survey on agro-ﬁsheries product distribution status • Sales management • Survey on wholesale and retail price for agro-ﬁsheries product, www.kamis. co.kr Eﬀort to develop professionals Improving competitiveness of overseas • Overseas import information survey analysis and dispersion in Korean cuisine Korean restaurants Environment ●Demand and supply stabilization project • Performing for vegetable demand and supply stabilization project aT has created a star chef training program and traIn order to improve ditional food professional program as a short term the competitivefocused education course since last year. It also has ness of overseas started to support cooking schools specialized in Korean restaurants, Our Approach Supply management responding Korean cuisine as one of midto long-term training. aT has created a Principle to the international market In addition, aT has opened lectures to teach people business manageaT is in charge of food for Korean people aT controls food supply to stabilize supply of staple food around the world at famous cooking schools in overment consulting Due to global financial crisis and climate change, ag-flation and prices by storing purchased and/or imported products seas such as Drexel University of USA, Hatori Universystem to aid their Society is taking place worldwide and international grain prices are for stably securing base food for national food supplies. aT sity of Japan, Yangju University of China(’12). Furtherbusiness. aT also supports consulting service for a going up at fast pace. It is becoming all the more important controls the amount of TRQ to supply stored agricultural more, through cooperation of China Head Office total of 60 companies, an increase of 285% from 21 to secure stable food supplies and stabilize prices of basic products, secured a grain procurement network to effiof Marriott Hotel, it companies in the previous year. In addition, the cyber food materials. In such difficult times, aT is responsible for ciently provide overseas food resources and established an plans to implement consulting pilot project is implemented through the protecting the domestic food market by moderating iminternational grain company to lead the national food seKorean cuisine trainaT food in Korea site (foodinkorea.co.kr) to support pacts from fast-changing overseas agricultural markets. curity. ing for some 100 lothose Korean restaurants in overseas to strengthen cal chefs. their competitiveness. Appendix Classification Detailed categories Units 2009 2010 2011 Introduction of national trade TFQ Ton 309,092 336,268 399,657 Operation of MMA rice introduction Ton 286,617 306,964 327,311 market access volume 310,566 314,508 369,332 Performance of national trade sales Ton (100 million won) (4,941) (5,729) (6,526) 26 ECONOMY_4 27 Expansion of Demand and Supply Management Capability GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report Economic eﬀect of reserve and import management project Import control of TRQ under FTA About aT The FTAs strives for the profit increase of party countries by entering into the detailed and comprehensive trade agreeThe profit made from sales of stored products is 150 Billion KRW for each season. It is used to stabilize the cost of ment in consideration of economic and political gain for countries and regions. aT is in charge of import management agricultural products, promote distribution of agricultural goods and nurture agricultural companies. Also, through on TRQs under Korea-Chile, Korea-ASEAN, Korea-EFTA agreements Korea-US FTA. the agro-fisheries product import management and overseas market survey, it has protected the domestic farming foundation from indiscrete import of overseas agro-fisheries product and lowers the price changes by stabilizing the Sales of reserved agricultural products price of domestic agricultural goods. aT is selling agricultural products purchased domestically, imported, or purchased from North Korea. Condiment ingredients, such as, pepper, garlic, onion, etc., are produced abundantly that the stored products are released in the Sustainability market when in periods with short supply and high prices. However, sesames, beans, red beans, etc. which have low 4. 1 Stable supply/demand management of staple food domestic supply rates and absolutely insufficient are supplied to the market all year long. For appropriate and timely introduction of MMA, 20 items were imported and managed in 3 methods of nationallyrun trade, public sale of import right, and allocation for end-user with different import recommendation institutions and management method depending on the characteristics facilitation item. 4. 2 Undertaking national grain procurement system Import control through Tariﬀ Rate Quota (TRQ) With the global climate changes, the grain production variability has grown and with the economic growth of China Economy aT has made significant improvement in introduction standard and management of imported agricultural good and expansion of bio-energy demand, the instability in the grain market has accelerated that the food security of in 2011. Korea has emerged as more important as ever. aT established “aT Grain Company(AGC)” in Chicago, US, for stable supply of overseas grain resources (April 28) and Introduction of clean and safe beans Introduction of special condiment products focused introduced 10,000 tons of Non-GM beans as a pilot project. AGC has worked to build a global grain procurement The production of Non-GM beans (beans without oron customer needs system. ganic manipulation) is decreasing very rapidly. HowaT satisfies the right of customers to select raw ingreEnvironment ever, aT is continuing its efforts in obtaining clean and dient through the introduction of high quality, dimenGrain Procurement System of AGC safe beans by working with producers and purchasing sion diversification facilitation user, and improvement of early in the market. sales method. For high quality sesame oil, the dimenSecuring of grain in overseas site In addition, for improving the quality of processed sion has strengthened for foreign substance in the oil. Grain securing beans used for tofu, bean paste, bean block and othaT introduced various kind of pepper from China for Priority purchase Contracted Purchase of goods ers, it has structured bean sorting out system to have diverse requirements, and Indian hot pepper was introin overseas cultivation for local by local broker development farm production farm the dimension improvement duced for the first time to replace Cheongyang Pepper (less than 4.3mm -> 4.0~5.0 or more) to introduce high of Korea. OEM production of dried onions was used for National grain procurement system quality beans. end-user companies (ramen companies). Grain Society introduction Purchase (storage) Current in land transportation Export shipment Introduction and sales management of minimum market approach (MMA) rice facilities facilities facilities aT has introduced and managed the MMA rice for processing and cooking by 2014 in accordance with the re-negoDomestic tiation of rice under the WTO. consumption Place of production Railway (Terminal) EL Railway (Terminal) EL Export EL (Country) EL Rice for processing Rice for cooking The rice for processing is introduced as brown rice and deIntroduction and sales of rice for cooking is exclusively Appendix livered to the local governments at the arriving port (cities managed by aT to minimize the domestic impact. The and counties) to keep in the government grain warehouse. sales profit has been fully paid into the ‘Rice income Then, it is processed for rice in government processing conservation for change in direct-payment fund’ as fiplant to supply for food processing companies. nancial resource to support for rice producing farms. 28 ECONOMY_4 ENVIRONEMENT 29 Expansion of Demand and Supply Management Capability Generation of Environmental Value GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 5 Disclosure on Management Approach Environment 4. 3 Survey on overseas import information Generation of aT has monitored the key international grain and nationally-run trade item with its production, distribution and othEnvironmental Value About aT ers in overseas markets for improving efficiency in national trade projects and provision of information required for demand and supply policies for national food supply. Also, it has undertaken overseas information survey activities to stop illegal import of imported agro-fisheries product. Environment management on value chain of aT Analysis of international grain information Green Green Product Green Consumer Sustainability aT is issuing monthly reports with information on international grains such as rice, soybean, corn, and wheat, their production, consumption and trade by collecting and analyzing relevant data. In 2011, at has created monitoring system to predict international grains supply market trend. In addition, aT has published ‘Daily Grain Report’ as the Distribution daily newsletter for international grain trend with the analysis of price changing factors as its effort to undertake the facilitation of Practicing Dispersion of role of specialized institution for international grain information. Furthermore, aT established “agro-fisheries product eco-friendly aT green growth green food life agricultural and food demand and supply information center” in 2013 to be the best domestic international grain information products institution. Economy Research on import information of overseas agro-fisheries products ●Energy saving ●Increase in eco-friendliness in distribution of ●Dispersion of green food life Monitoring on overseas market trend • Energy saving programs for green agricultural products • Development of green dietary life aT conducted overseas monitoring to research and report the local price, production and distribution trends, export management system • Support GAP certiﬁcation guideline • Building system of Green management • Operate online shopping mall for green agricultural products • Green diet life essay contest trends and possible prices of 12 subject to state trading, including pepper, garlic, onion, ginger and others to publish index • Support facilitation of distribution and training of green • Green diet life symposium • Implementation of green management agricultural products monthly reports. Environment Verification of import information and tax review for standard pricing Our Approach aT has been investigating costs for private sector to respond illegal and illegitimate import of major agro-fisheries Principle Distribution of eco-friendly products and green food life product from 2006 to control indiscrete import as well as enabling to tax for appropriate tariffs through Customs aT supports eco-friendly agricultural products, and puraT strives for green corporate management Office. In addition, aT holds ‘verification meetings’ constituted by private and government experts to enhance the More and more people are interested in organic food, and sues green management that minimizes environmental accuracy of investigation outcome and external reliability and operates full-time monitoring and emergency notice are focusing on ways to secure health and food safety. Agdamage. We are also raising environmental sustainability system from 2011. ricultural products have direct impact on consumers not through active responses against climate change. We have only through production and distribution but through introduced many measures to enhance eco-friendliness consumption. Thus, aT tries to minimize environmental in distribution and are sparing no efforts to enable green al food consumption in every meal. Furthermore, we work to orm s damage in production, distribution, and consumption of Abn ptom Society strengthen green management and to reduce energy consym agricultural products, and places high priority on delivering safe products to consumers. sumption in operation of the aT center. Detection Survey Verification Notice and report Major outcome Classification Detailed categories Units 2009 2010 2011 DIVERSE REPORT NOTIFY TO CUSTOMS CHANNELS UNDERTAKING THE EMERGENCY REVIEW OFFICE Distribution facilitation of ecoNumber of farms with GAP certification Units 920 1,170 18 •TEL: 82-2-6300-1832 SURVEY IMMEDIATELY IMPLEMENTATION FOR REFLECT IN PRICE friendly agro-fisheries product Appendix •Mail: atrice@at.or.kr AND TREND ANALYSIS VERIFYING APPROPRIFOR THE TAX REVIEW •SNS QQ 1795606715 ATENESS CRITERIA Eﬀorts to save energy gas emissions TCO 2eq 10,961 10,992 2 Practicing aT green growth Overseas monitor, Overseas Information Verifying member Process on the day Purchase ratio of green Green management % 83.2 91.1 33 overseas branch and Team products others * There were errors in calculation for greenhouse gas emissions and energy use of 2008 and 2009 recorded in the 2010 report and they are corrected. 30 ENVIRONEMENT 31 Generation of Environmental Value GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 1. Supporting Eco-friendly Agro-fisheries Industry practices Korean-type diet life with outstanding nutrition (health), and practices consideration and appreciation to About aT nature and others on the basis of diverse diet living experiment (consideration). 1. 1 Facilitating distribution of eco-friendly agricultural products Green food experience and training program operation Supporting certification of GAP | Meaning of GAP symbol marks | aT has structured infra with the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries through designing the diet livThrough GAP (Good Agricultural Practices), aT plans to supply GAP as ing training institution and experience space. In addition, Shape : Taegeuk to imply nation and Green food life campaign slogan/characters the international standard for safety management system for agriculthrough the green diet life experience training, it enables ‘seal’ to symbolize trust and astural products. Thus, GAP’s core goal contributes to the sustainable agsurance in square frame people to have sound diet habits and, by producing and Sustainability ricultural environment conservation through systematic management Name : Expressed in simple and clear dispersing the ‘home diet handbook’ to attract the pracways to have easy understand“Do You Have Right Food?” from production stage to final consumption stage for safety. tice at home. ing by customers Poster Environment-friendly agricultural products shopping Expansion of healthy diet for entire country malls Through PR on green diet for campaign, slogan, and character development, educaaT is marketing for eco-friendly, local specialty brands, traditional wine and tion program, TV program, radio advertisement, online PR(SNS), rice and Korean cuiothers on B2C shopping mall that was opened in July 2009, and for the sine animation production and TV broadcasting, posters (30,000 copies) and leaflets eco-friendly agro-fisheries product. In particular, it has transacted those (15,000 copies), aT has contributed to enhance the national interest on the issues. Economy eco-friendly agro-fisheries products certified by National Agriculture Product Quality Control Board to contribute to stable provision of sales routes. Support of national movement by private organizations aT has cooperated with “Diet Education National Network”, a private organization, to seek ways for facilitation of naStrengthening of safety for eco-friendly agricultural New establishment of low-carbon green growth local tional movement for green diet education. product food center In July 2011, aT is working on plan to strengthen the By introducing the local food concept of consumption Environment safety for tenant companies in addition to its existing system to reduce the distance from production to conproduct supply network of eco-friendly agricultural sumption as much as possible, it meet the demands of 2. Green Management of aT product. low-carbon and green growth paradigm. Energy savings Operation of major education courses for eco-friendly agro-fisheries product aT has made effort to expand the energy savings in offices by minimizing the environment damage on the work process at office, including the aT Center Exhibition. aT Center is operated as the energy savings building and implements Operation of major education courses for eco-friendly Operation of training courses for the development of the effort to improve heating and cooling efficiency. In addition, it makes effort to reduce the energy use and green agro-fisheries product low energy injection-type agriculture industry house gas discharge in its nationwide branch offices/storage facilities. aT has implemented the GAP certification and career By enticing the direct-transaction facilitation, it minitracing management system training for desired farms mizes the logistics expenses generated from the comUse of water and discharged water management Society and organic processing food certification training for plicated distribution channels to seek win-win strategy Clean water is essential for the eco-friendly agricultural product production. aT recognizes that water volume and food processing companies in a way of enticing the of consumers and producers while saving the fossil fuel quality may have important consequences to the surrounding ecology. Water with low contamination is recycled for facilitation of certification system for eco-friendly agrouse to contribute domestic environment protection. other uses to protect environment as well as to save operation expenses for economic gain. aT complies with laws and fisheries product. regulations related to environment. There has been no violation against environment related laws and regulations in 3 recent years. Appendix Purchase of eco-friendly products 1. 2 Spreading green food life aT is required to purchase if there is any eco-friendly product available. In 2011, aT has purchased 490 million won on eco-friendly products, 80% of its total purchase amount. In addition, it has purchased and used the eco-friendly Green food life is a new concept that promotes eco-friendly traditional meals, made by saving energy (environment), papers in the offices accordingly. 32 ENVIRONEMENT 33 Generation of Social Value GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 6 Disclosure on Management Approach Society Generation of 1. Customer satisfaction Social Value Our stakeholders are positioned at every part of manufacturing and distribution chain. aT is committed to listen to the About aT voice of customers (VOC) and acts upon the feedback based on customer’s needs. Our Approach and Principle CS vision CS leading global public institutions that generate customer value CS slogan Any time, Always aT! aT seeks opportunities to raise sustainability of public instiIn addition, to enhance the value of diverse stakeholders, aT S (Sense) M (Moment) A (Advance) R (Respect) T (Trust) CS strategy has sustainable exchange activities with the stakeholders sensitive management strengthening contact point service innovation Customer respect Enhancement of trust tutions through communication with various stakeholders. Sustainability We recognize co-development with the society as one of and, it places high priority on improving customer satisfacour responsibilities, and work to grow together with our tion, extending employment benefits, and contributing to Customer satisfaction strategy major stakeholders–our staff, customers, and local comthe local community. All employees of aT are committed for customer satisfaction and structure and operate the CS management system. munity. Customer satisfaction activitiesI CS management workshop Acquisition of certification for “Outstanding Service By breaking away from simple CS training, aT has impleQuality Institution”(SQ) Performing mented CS management workshop with employees In 2011, aT acquired the outstanding institution cerEconomy social who work directly with customers for two days. In adtification for service quality (SQ). The SQ certification responsibility dition, for the on-site training on employees encounis conferred by evaluation committee members who tering customer directly, “Asiana First Class Training’ was are professionals through personal on-site inspection, provided. It was a great opportunity to enhance CS customer evaluation. aT has great evaluation for CEM competency. system, WOW aT movement, customer-oriented facility improvement and other service improvement efforts Customer satisfaction Welfare of employees Contribution Accompanied growth Environment WOW aT Oﬃce and then win the SQ certification. In order to maximize the aT recognizes that to local community aT operates diverse customer satisfaction, aT human resources are aT makes efforts to born programs with improvWOW (Wonderful Our Workplace) aT Office has been operates the unique CS the driving force for again as the partner ing unfair system to programs such as on-site sustainable development strengthen the viability operated to improve the organizational culture and enDiscovery and introduction of best practices (B/P) in CS of the local commuoriented service practice, and makes supports for nity through its win-win, of SME and establish fair hance customer satisfaction since 2009. aT evaluates the aT held the ‘Best Practice (BP) Conference’ to share and WOW aT TFT operation reasonable treatment, participation and sharing and transparent transacdevelopment and joyful management. tion order. proposals of employees received through the ‘aT proposal’ disperse best practices cases that illustrated innovaworkplace. on KMS and allocates the selected proposal for improvetive improvements in 2011. It plans to make continument to make practical management improvement. ous efforts to provide high quality service to customers through outstanding cases. Society Survey on customer satisfaction Special Performance Under the PCSI(Public Customer Satisfaction Index) imManagement of VOC Major outcome plemented by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, aT aT is focused on improving the service starting with the Classification Detailed categories Units 2009 2010 2011 received 97.6 points, 0.9points higher than the previous customer contact point. aT has used online channel, Level of satisfaction for employees Points 63.8 64.7 66.7 Welfare of employees year, and got selected as outstanding institution for the such as electronic suggestions, customer center, custraining costs per person 1,000 won 813 843 954 5 consecutive years. It is assessed to have unique CS protomer proposal and praise aT, and off-line channels to Customer satisfaction Level of customer satisfaction (PCSI) Points 94.7 96.7 97.6 Participating in social contribution activities people 787 397 2,632 grams including sitepay attention for every little thing of customers. Public Customer Satisfaction Index Contribution to local community oriented customer Appendix Love sharing fund Million won 46 293 452 97.6 service, management 96.7 Eﬀort for customer information protection 94.7 * There were errors in calculation for investment expenses for training and love sharing fund recorded in the 2010 report and they are corrected. innovation BP conferBy introducing I-PIN system, aT has created a safe online ence, CS training for environment for our customers when subscribing for 2009 2010 2011 customer inspiration. the membership. 34 ENVIRONEMENT 35 Generation of Social Value GREEN DREAM aT 2011 Sustainability Report 2. Welfare for employees Support for multi-culture families around rural areas About aT Classification 2009 2010 2011 No. of male oﬃcers and employees (ratio) 453 (80.9%) 441 (81.4%) 441 (78.9%) Creating jobs for multi-culture families No. of female oﬃcers and employees (ratio) 107 (19.1%) 101 (18.6%) 118 (21.1%) Since 2009, aT has started hiring “Multi-Culture Love Share” employ*(No. of the disabled (ratio)) 17 (3.0%) 17 (3.1%) 17 (3.0%) ees who works in Multi-Culture Family Support Center around agrofisheries towns. aT has supported 7,616 multi-culture photo books Status of employment employees. It has introduced EAP program to promote and produced audio books through talent donation program of All workplaces of aT satisfy the legal minimal wage stress-free work place and to improve work concentraemployees to solve difficulties of multi-culture parents in reading Sustainability standard and comply with the Standard Labor Act and tion for workers. books for children. aT also annually holds “Kimchi making event” employment regulations. In addition, it has operated diwith the multi-culture families to support for their warm winter. verse support policies in health examination and others Education to prevent any accident aT has three-step of education(Pre -> Introduction -> Post) for new employees to become core human “Green environment practice campaign Local community services Preventing discrimination resources of aT and it subsidizes 70% of academic ex” for low-carbon green-growth aT practices its social responsibility in the rural areas aT clarifies in its employment regulations that it does penses for employees who are in graduate course. It aT has participated in green environment practice where the head office and branch offices are located. not discriminate employees on the basis of gender, provides online lecture to bring effective learning and campaign for all officers and employees in enterprise In 2011, aT carried out integrate support including Economy age, religion, education, physical disability or region and budget savings. effort. In 2011, it has newly established ‘company rescholarships to those youth family heads, disaster recomplies with the Labor Standard Act and the Internacycle center” to collect waste materials in farming sites lief effort facilitation, delivery of love in lunch bag and tional Labor Organization. In particular, aT increases the Fair personnel management in nationwide sisterhood villages. opening of facilities to local communities. number of female employees and have also established aT grants works appropriate to meet the aptitude and a midto long-term employment plan for female excapability through the personnel management. In addiCSR Achievement of aT perts. In addition, aT provides personnel service to listen tion, it has the multi-evaluation system, MBO and under 1 “2011 Forbes Social Contribution Award” Getting a credit for efforts of social contribution Environment to the hardship cases and reflects them in its policies BSC. As a result, the satisfaction level of employees was activities through Cyber Ombudsman Counseling Center. shown to 66.7 points, 2 points increase from previous 2 “Entering into UCC Agreement” Building up the basis for CSR for both labor and year. management (KT and Bundang Hospital of Seoul 1 2 Welfare promotion National University) aT makes best effort to keep the balance between Labor management relations work and home for competitiveness of the organizaThe labor and management of aT recognize the importion. Through the child care center and guarantee of tance of a stable relationship in order to achieve aT’s maternity leave, women employees have reinstated vision and business objectives. As a result, aT is setting 4. Accompanied growth Society for 90% or more after the leave. It also has the funeral a good example with an ideal labor-management relaservice, optional welfare system, retirement pension, life tionship which enabled no labor protests for 23 years As a responsible public institution, aT has operated leading accompanied growth program to settle and spread the support system, regular health examination and group since the establishment of its labor union. Various comwin-win culture in the agro-fisheries product industry. insurance to seek for improvement of productivity for munication ways help to build win-win relation. Expansion of opportunity to participate for SMEs aT undertakes the policy about expanding the opportunity for SME product and service suppliers and purchases goods first from social enterprises, women business companies. It was awarded for Presidential Commendation at ‘2011 Public 3. Contribution to local community Purchase Promotion Conference’ due to purchase of SME products and prevent unfair subcontract system. Appendix aT undertakes “the sharing love project” for 3 fields with 22 programs for win-win growth with neighborhood. Especially in 2011, aT makes efforts to realize the social responsibility with its involvement in social contribution for Strengthening of viability of SMEs employees. aT has established Agro-fishery Food Company Support Center in July 2011 to provide trouble shooting consulting, training, consulting, PR, funding, export support and others for SME food and restaurant companies. 36 APPENDIX Summarized Financial Statements Summarized balance sheet (Unit: million KRW) Classification 2009 2010 2011 Assets 1,000,647 1,055,032 1,168,803 Current assets 729,101 732,608 771,711 Non-current assets 271,546 322,424 397,092 Liabilities 865,928 911,074 994,317 Current liabilities 638,108 653,245 675,192 Noncurrent liabilities 227,820 257,829 319,125 Capital 134,719 143,958 174,486 CI of aT Capital equity 66,200 66,200 86,200 aT is formed with the combination of small letter Capital surplus 168 168 168 “a” and capital letter “T”. The small letter “a” contains Other loss (loss from overseas business) -142 -322 36 the progressive and productive image of aT that Profit surplus 68,493 77,912 88,082 grows small to larger size as it starts with the new bud sprouting up. And the spoon image in “a” shown along symbolizes the role of aT that is responsible for things to eat in Korea. The capital letter “T” symSummarized income statements (Unit: million KRW) bolizes the tower image of the trade center and it Classification 2009 2010 2011 expresses global public company that provides the Sales 190,037 217,701 220,780 optimal service. Cost of sales 170,792 197,019 198,406 Gross of profit on sales 19,245 20,682 22,374 Selling and administrative expenses 11,593 12,150 13,397 SNS of aT Operating income 7,652 8,532 8,977 www.tritter.com/atcotweet Non-operating income 4,327 5,663 6,925 www.youtube.com/atwebtv Non-operating expenses 695 802 905 blog.naver.com/gr22nade Net profit before corporate tax expenses 11,284 13,393 14,997 www.facebook.com/atcobook Income tax expenses 2,885 3,134 3,802 www.methical managementday.net/atgogogo Current net income 8,399 10,259 11,195 Major management index (Unit: %) Classification 2009 2010 2011 Current ratio 114.26 112.15 114.3 Stability Debt ratio (policy fund not included) 33.97 40.36 34.35 Ratio of owner's equity 13.46 13.64 14.93 Ratio of operating profit to the net sales 4.03 3.92 4.07 Ratio of net profit to net sales 4.42 4.71 5.07 Profitability Gross capital net yield 0.84 0.97 0.96 Equity capital net yield 6.23 7.13 6.42 Gross asset increase rate 10.01 5.43 10.78 Growth Sales increase rate 19.63 14.56 1.41 Net income increase rate △2.29 22.15 9.12 This report is printed with soy-based ink on environment-friendly papaer. 27 Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul●Tel.02-6300-1043●Fax.02-6300-1602●www.aT.or.kr
