Statement of Continued Support We are happy to share our COP for the year 2010-11 as part of our commitment towards the UN Principles on Global Compact, pertaining to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption, into our organizational policies, programmes, operations and culture. With this communication, we express our intent to advance these principles within our sphere of influence. We express our commitment towards making global compact principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. We will be continuing to integrate the best practices of responsible and ethical business by being responsive towards environment, society and the needs of its various stakeholders including employees. We value the power and potential of our greatest assets employees who are central to the success of our business. Their skills and dedication help us to deliver business results and address economic, environmental and social changes. Our teams are dedicated to work on newer ways in which we can genuinely contribute to the development of the society in which we operate. We continue to work on issues such as women empowerment, health, education, livelihood and digital literacy etc. in the areas surrounding our plants for the sustainable development of these communities More information and data on how we are integrating the UN Global Compact Principles and other sustainability issues are available in our Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report and on our website. Deepak Puri Chairman Date: 30.03.2012 Communication on progress 2010-11 Pages in Corporate Responsibili S. No Global compact Summary of action taken & Impact ty report principles achieved 2010-11 http://www. moserbaer. com/overvie w_csr_susta inabilityreport.asp 1. Businesses should As responsible corporate, ensuring protection Pages 17-26 support and and respect of human rights of its workforce respect the is an integral part of Moser Baer’s protection of functioning. Policies and programmes related internationally to sensitisation on human rights and the proclaimed human rights effective implementation of human rights policies further reinforce our commitment to control any human rights violation at our workplace. 2. and make sure As an SA 8000 certified company, Moser Baer has Pages 17-26 that they put in place stringent policies to ensure that are not complicit there is zero tolerance in of any human rights violation human rights abuses 3. Businesses should We believe in a tradition of Participative Page 24 uphold the Management. The Company practices ‘Open freedom of Door Policy’ for all associates, wherein each association and employee has access to the Highest Level of the Management to register their concerns. effective recognition of the right to collective Hence, the provisions like communications bargaining meeting, Transport committee meeting, Cafeteria committee meeting, Plant safety committee meetings, address by plant head and so on are in place to facilitate communication between the employees and the management for effective functioning. The provision is made available across vertical and meetings are held separately at respective locations. These forums/committees of interactions are organized regularly with the purpose that 100% associates can share their views and put forward their issues before Management. All employees are involved in decisionmaking process through these Committees / forums and Cross Functional Teams. Additionally there are also forums where employees can approach the highest authority to get their issues/concerns raised. 4. the elimination of We do not practice Forced Labour in any Page 25 all form. Holding back the original document forms of forced and any other personal property of the and persons hired is prohibited, and clearly compulsory labour defined in the HR policy manual of the Moser Baer. Our philosophy behind the HR Policies and Labour Practices are to avoid any kind of harassment of workforce. Not a single case of Child Labour, forced labour and discrimination has been reported till now. The same has also been endorsed by various external auditing agencies during Statutory & Regulatory Compliance audit. This shows the effectiveness of implementation of these policies. 5. the effective Moser Baer is a SA 8000 certified company and Pages 24-25 abolition of various audits and reviews are carried by the child labour internal auditors as well as the external agencies to verify that the systems are free of unfairness and prejudice. The Company has neither encountered nor encouraged Child Labour. Regular audits are conducted as part of SA8000 and documented. Remediation Plan for Child Labour is in place. Effective monitoring and systems have ensured that we have been successful in keeping the workplace free of child labour so far. 6. and the We believe in providing equal employment Pages 17-20 elimination of opportunity to all, irrespective of race, discrimination in colour, creed, religion, national origin, sex respect and sexual orientation, disability, age, and of employment marital status as our policy mandate. We and follow various transparent systems that occupation encourage employees to take part in decision making and ensure fairness and affirmative action. Regional diversity in hiring the employees also depicts non discrimination in the recruitment. 7. Businesses should For Moser Baer, addressing environmental Pages 27support a concerns and stakeholders needs 28, 31-32 precautionary simultaneously is the key towards sustainable approach to development. Environment, health and environmental safety (EHS) are an integral part of Moser challenges Baer and focus on building a robust culture of EHS by involving employees at all verticals. EHS also encompasses other environmental issues like improving energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emission and use of renewable energy. Our EHS department is responsible for implementing EHS policy across plant locations. We have environment management systems, certified by international bodies, conforming to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. 8. undertake Management programme related to Pages 31-32 initiatives to improving energy efficiency, water promote greater conversation and Bio gas from kitchen forms environmental integral part of EHS department. Moser responsibility Baer’s Integrated Management system (Comprising of ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001;2007 & ISO 14001:2004) ,certified by leading and well reputed certification bodies show the commitment towards EHS in line with other important function i.e. Quality. A robust EHS audit, both internal and external, is carried out at all our locations periodically to ensure continual improvement in our environment, health and safety standards. 9. and encourage  Converted / modified HFO operated DG Page 28 the (Power Plant) to CNG based which helps development and us to reduce CO2 emission in huge diffusion quantity. of environmentally  Celebration of World Environment day friendly and Tree Plantation technologies 10. Businesses should We believe, conducting ethnical business Pages 17-18 work against all requires adequate consideration to a number of forms of issues outside the traditional scope of making corruption, money, of which building an ethical & values including based culture is most certainly one. Therefore, extortion and a lot of emphasis is laid on conducting bribery ethical business with the stakeholders to develop mutual trust and long term relationships. To achieve the same, there are stringent systems in place to check the unethical practices and behaviours and ensure corruption free environment. To consistently reinforce our core values related to anticorruption, every associate of our organization carries a ‘Values booklet’, which clearly articulates ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Not Acceptable’ behaviours to ensure clear understanding of what they mean in the organizational context.
