2011 Sustainability Report For the year ended December 31, 2011 1.1 Message from the Chief Executive Officer Effective October 26, 2011 AuRico Gold Inc. (the “Company”, “AuRico Gold” or “AuRico”) acquired Northgate Minerals Corporation. The properties acquired in this transaction will not be included in this Report. In 2012, the acquired properties will be reporting under GRI initiatives and will be included in the Company’s 2012 Sustainability Report 2011 Environmental, Health, Safety & Social Performance The Company is pleased to issue its fourth Sustainability Report based on the Global Reporting Initiatives (“GRI”) G3 guidelines. We have reported on all GRI principles and will continue to do so in future Sustainability Reports. The Report outlines the efforts of our Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) program in 2011, highlighting our objectives, achievements and successes for the year. We place particular importance on the welfare of our employees, the support we provide for the communities in which we operate and our environmental responsibilities. At AuRico, we are committed to sustainable development and the goal of zero harm to people, the environment and our host communities. Wherever we operate, we will develop, implement and maintain management systems that are conducive to sustainable development that drives continuous improvement. Our CSR program was initiated in 2008, and since that time we have improved upon and expanded our Program to increase our transparency, further engage local communities and improve communications with stakeholders. In April 2011, we acquired Capital Gold Corporation and the El Chanate mine, which has been included in our 2011 CSR program and GRI reporting. AuRico considers local communities to be partners in the success of our business. By establishing relationships with local community members and local entrepreneurs, we aim to identify and implement programs, projects and new businesses which ensures that we continue to operate responsibly and create a lasting and positive impact on the communities surrounding our operations. In 2012, we will continue to direct resources to improve and expand our CSR programs in the surrounding communities of all of our operations. We continue to report improvements on our safety performance and our overall safety record. Across all of our operations, the health and safety of our employees and contractors is fundamental to our business. The Company’s safety performance improved in 2011, with our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (“LTIFR”) decreasing by 6%, while increasing our workforce by over 1500 when compared to 2010. During 2011, we provided more than 112,000 hours of fire and safety training to continue to foster an environment that targets zero injuries. Our hard work Page | 1 has paid off, as in November 2011, the El Chanate mine reached one million man hours without a lost time injury. El Chanate is believed to be one of the first mines in Mexico to achieve this exemplary milestone. In 2011, we continued to be recognized for our CSR efforts. All of our Mexican operations received the Socially Responsible Company distinction award from CEMEFI, and Gender Equity Certification, received from a Federal program run by the Inmujeres program. In addition, we also received the GEI1 Award for Transparency and Leadership in Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting. I’m proud to say that I am both a member of the Company’s Management CSR Committee and the Board Sustainability Committee. I ensure that we will continue to implement and maintain high ethical standards and business practices in everything we do. We will also continue to make sound business decisions that always consider the interests of our employees, local communities, our shareholders and the environment. René Marion President & CEO, AuRico Gold Inc. Page | 2 This Report covers data only from the Company’s Mexican operations. Data from the El Chanate mine is as of April 8 to December 31, 2011. Data from all of the Company’s assets will be included in the 2012 Sustainability Report. 1.2 Description of Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities The 2011 Sustainability Report (“the Sustainability Report” or “Report”) summarizes the Company’s environmental, health, safety, social programs, practices and performance at its operations. Development of this Report and the information available on the Company’s website was guided by the principles of transparency, inclusiveness, clarity and timeliness as outlined in the GRI principles. The majority of the financial information that appears in the Sustainability Report was taken from the Company’s audited 2011 Consolidated Financial Statements. All amounts are in U.S. Dollars unless otherwise indicated. The Company’s compliance with GRI Principles is provided in the GRI Indicator Table on page 63. The Company maintains a Corporate Social Responsibility framework, which is reviewed on an annual basis. Understanding the Company’s Impact: Environment, Social and Economic As a mining company, the Company’s business operations can impact the local environment adjacent to its operations. In accordance with government legislation and international best practice, the Company strives to carefully monitor its environmental performance and identify ways to reduce its impact on the environment. In September 2008, AuRico instituted an Environmental Policy that provides management and operations staff with a framework for continuously minimizing the environmental impact. The Policy is reviewed on an annual basis. The Company can have a significant social impact on the communities adjacent to its operations. AuRico strives to be a good neighbour by both actively contributing to local community life and by ensuring that local stakeholders have an opportunity for input and dialogue. The Company achieves this through the presence of Community Relations personnel who are responsible for engaging with local stakeholders, identifying areas of concern and relaying those concerns to management. As a publicly traded company with over 4,200 1 employees and contractors, the Company and its subsidiaries play an important role in the economic life of its stakeholders. Wages, taxes and royalties have a positive impact on the lives of the Company’s employees and in the communities where the Company operates. AuRico sources goods and services used in operations from the local, regional and national business communities in Mexico, which provides a significant economic benefit to the region. 1 Inclusive of all operations as at December 31, 2011. Page | 3 AuRico Gold Sustainability Goals In 2012, the Company set a number of performance goals, including: Sustainability Goals The Company has developed a comprehensive set of sustainability goals for 2012 that build on the continued progress achieved since 2008. These goals and objectives have been developed in consultation with the Board of Directors and key stakeholders, reflecting international best practice. The 2012 sustainability goals provide benchmarks for performance in the economic, environmental and social spheres. The Company will report progress against these goals in next year’s report. This provides stakeholders with a clear and transparent means for tracking the Company’s progress towards sustainability in subsequent sustainability reports. The sustainability goals will also provide AuRico’s CSR Committees with defined benchmarks for their performance. Goals: Community & Stakeholder Engagement The Company will continue to strengthen community engagement efforts at all of its operations, with a focus on promoting greater stakeholder participation on social issues to help guide community investments in an effective and transparent manner. As an example, at the El Cubo and El Chanate mines, community programs are in place that are primarily based on engagement plans of programmed tours of the surrounding communities, generally organized by town delegates or local government who express the needs and issues of the towns to the mines. The Company continues to implement effective and transparent engagement, communication and independently verified reporting arrangements with all of its stakeholders. In 2012, this program will be expanding to include the Young-Davidson mine and the Kemess Underground project. Local Supplier Development The Company strives to continue to improve its economic impact by continuing to support and enhance the local supplier strategy, so that the Company can source more goods and services from local businesses. The Company will also continue to support the promotion of its micro business program which has assisted local entrepreneurs in establishing six businesses. For example, a small business run by local Ocampo community members provides over 400 meals per day to the underground workforce. Safety & Environmental Performance The Company continually strives to improve its safety performance with the ultimate goal of reducing the number of incidents and lost person days, and will also publish a detailed set of safety performance metrics so that stakeholders can monitor performance. Page | 4 During 2011, the Company’s goal was to retain the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) below 1.78. This goal was achieved with the Company recording an overall LTIFR of 1.40. The El Chanate mine achieved a major safety milestone in November 2011, when the mine reached one year and one million man hours without a lost time injury. This milestone is believed to be one of the first at a Mexican mine. In 2012, the Company is targeting an overall LTIFR of 1.36 or better. Human Rights Framework In 2012, the Company will continue to work toward creating a human rights policy framework that draws upon not only the Global Compact, but also other charters, such as the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights that are more directly relevant to the mining industry. 2. Organizational Profile AuRico Gold Inc. is a leading Canadian gold and silver producer based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 100% interest in five operating mines, one mine under construction and numerous exploration properties in Mexico and Canada. 2.1 Name of Reporting Organization & 2.2 Primary Products and Services AuRico is a Canadian gold and silver producer with operations, development projects and exploration properties in Canada, Mexico and Australia 2. As of December 31, 2011, AuRico’s assets were the Ocampo mine, a gold and silver mine located in the State of Chihuahua, Mexico; El Chanate, a gold mine located in Sonora State, Mexico; El Cubo, a gold and silver mine located in Guanajuato State, Mexico; Fosterville, a gold mine in the state of Victoria, Australia; Stawell, a gold mine in the state of Victoria, Australia; and the Young-Davidson project, a mine under construction in Matachewan, Ontario, Canada. At the end of 2011, the Company also had numerous exploration and development properties located in Mexico and Canada. 2.3 Operational Structure The Company’s operational structure changed significantly in 2011 and in early 2012. The acquisition of Capital Gold Corporation was completed on April 8, 2011. As a result of this transaction, the Company acquired the El Chanate mine, the Orion advanced development project and the Saric exploration property. 2 As of December 31, 2011 Page | 5 The acquisition of Northgate Minerals Corporation was completed on October 26, 2011. As a result of this transaction, the Company acquired the Young-Davidson project, the Fosterville and Stawell mines and the Kemess Underground project. On May 4th, 2012, the Company completed the divestment of the Fosterville and Stawell mines located in Australia to Crocodile Gold Corporation. On July 13, 2012, the Company completed the divestment of the El Cubo mine and the Guadalupe y Calvo advanced development project to Endeavour Silver Corporation. Page | 6 The table below provides details with respect to the Company’s direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, as at December 31, 2011. Percentage of Jurisdiction of Nature of (1) Voting Securities Incorporation or Name of Subsidiary Business Owned Organization AuRico Gold Holdings Inc. 100% (direct) Canada Holding company AuRicoGold Chihuahua, S.A Administrative 100% (indirect) Mexico de C.V., SOFOM E.N.R. services AuRicoGold de Mexico, S.A. Gold and silver 100% (indirect) Mexico de C.V. mining Administrative AuRico Gold (USA), Inc. 100% (direct) United States services 2 Mexgold Resources Inc. 100% (direct) Canada Holding company Compañía Minera del Cubo, Gold and silver 2 100% (indirect) Mexico S.A. de C.V. mining Metales Interamericanos, Administrative 2 100% (indirect) Mexico S.A. de C.V. services AuRicoGold GYC, S.A de Gold and silver 2 100% (indirect) Mexico C.V. exploration Nayarit Gold Inc. 100% (indirect) Canada Holding company Nayarit Gold de Mexico, S.A. Gold and silver 100% (indirect) Mexico de C.V exploration Capital Gold Corporation 100% (direct) United States Holding company AuRico Gold Luxembourg Administrative 100% (direct) Luxembourg S.à.r.l services Leadville Mining & Milling 100% (indirect) United States Holding company Holding Corporation Minera Santa Rita S. de R.L. Gold and silver 100% (indirect) Mexico de C.V. mining Administrative Oro de Altar, S.A. de C.V. 100% (indirect) Mexico services Northgate Australian Administrative Ventures Corporation Pty 100% (direct) Australia 3 services Ltd. Down Under Finance Administrative 3 100% (indirect) Australia Corporation Pty Ltd. services Perseverance Mining Pty 3 100% (indirect) Australia Holding company Ltd. Leviathan Resources Pty 3 100% (indirect) Australia Holding company Ltd. Fosterville Gold Mine Pty 3 100% (indirect) Australia Gold mining Ltd. 3 Stawell Gold Mines Pty Ltd. 100% (indirect) Australia Gold mining Page | 7 (1) AuRico Gold and all of its subsidiaries are sometimes referred to collectively in this document as the “Company”. (2) On April 15, 2012, AuRico Gold and Endeavour Silver Corp. announced they had entered into a definitive agreement whereby Endeavour will acquire 100% interests in the El Cubo mine in Guanajuato State, Mexico and the Guadalupe y Calvo exploration project in Chihuahua State, Mexico. The acquisition was completed on July 13, 2012. (3) On March 27th, 2012, AuRico Gold and Crocodile Gold Corp. announced they had entered into a definitive agreement whereby Crocodile Gold will acquire the Fosterville and Stawell mines in Victoria, Australia. The acquisition was completed on May 4, 2012. 2.4 Location of Headquarters The executive office is located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada and the corporate finance office is located in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. As of August 26, 2011 the Company’s registered office was located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Executive Office 110 Yonge Street, Suite 1601 Toronto, ON Canada M5C 1T4 Finance Office 1701 Hollis Street Suite 400, Founders Square, PO Box 2067 Halifax, NS Canada B3J 2Z1 2.5 Countries of Operation AuRico Gold is a Canadian gold and silver producer with a diversified portfolio of high quality mines and projects in Canada and Mexico and Australia 3. AuRico’s core assets are YoungDavidson, a gold mine in Matachewan, Ontario, Canada; Ocampo, a gold and silver mine located in the State of Chihuahua, Mexico and El Chanate, a gold mine located in Sonora State, Mexico. 2.6 Nature of Ownership AuRico Gold is a publicly traded company that trades on the Toronto Stock Exchange (Ticker: AUQ) and the New York Stock Exchange (Ticker: AUQ). At December 31, 2011 the Company had 281,605,752 common shares held by approximately 55,000 shareholders. 2.7 Markets Served The Company’s principal products are gold and silver. Gold and silver can be sold through numerous commodity markets worldwide, so the Company is not dependent on any one market or buyer. 3 As of December 31, 2011. Page | 8 2.8 Scale of Reporting Organization On January 1, 2011, the Company adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS” or “GAAP”), using a transition date of January 1, 2010 to accommodate comparative periods. As a result, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, including International Financial Reporting Standard 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. An overview of the Company’s financial performance is shown in the following table. (in thousands, except ounces, average realized prices and total cash costs) (1) 2011 2010 Gold ounces produced 187,423 114,064 Silver ounces produced 4,728,151 4,953,870 Revenue from mining operations $450,115 $238,266 Earnings (loss) before other items $213,275 ($161,398) Net earnings / (loss) $176,859 ($134,668) Cash flows from operations $181,824 $97,583 (3) Net free cash flow ($65,562) ($9,633) Total cash $179,444 $113,142 Total assets $3,174,016 $810,037 Total long-term financial liabilities $246,401 $30,481 Total cash costs per gold equivalent ounce (2),(3),(4) $501 $474 (realized) (3) Total cash costs per gold ounce ($92) ($82) Average realized gold price per ounce $1,599 $1,229 Average realized silver price per ounce $34.97 $20.30 Number of Employees & Contractors 4,251 2,164 (1) Operational data and financial information include the results of both continuing and discontinued operations. (2) Gold equivalent ounces include silver ounces produced / sold converted to a gold equivalent, based on the ratio of the realized sales prices of the commodities. (3) See the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 48 of the Company’s 2011 Annual Report. (4) Cash costs for the Ocampo mine, the El Cubo mine and on a consolidated basis are calculated on a per gold equivalent ounce basis. Cash costs for the El Chanate, Fosterville, and Stawell mines are calculated on a per gold ounce basis, using by-product revenues as a cost credit. 2.9 Significant Changes during the Reporting Period Significant changes in the state of affairs of the Company that have occurred during 2011 can be found in the 2011 Management’s Discussion and Analysis contained in the Company’s 2011 Annual Report that can be accessed from the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. Effective June 14, 2011, the Company changed its corporate name to AuRico Gold Inc. 2.10 Awards During 2011, the Company’s Mexican operations received the following awards: Page | 9 • The Ocampo mine received the CSR Distinction Award from the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy (CEMEFI), in recognition of our Best Practices of Corporate Social Responsibility. • The Ocampo, El Chanate and El Cubo mines were each awarded: o Socially Responsible Company distinction award from CEMEFI o GEI1 Award for Transparency and Leadership in Greenhouse Gas Emission Reporting o Gender Equity Certification from a federal program run by the Inmujeres program. 3. Report Parameters Note: The scope of this Report only includes the Company’s Mexican operations. Additionally, data from the El Chanate mine is from April 8 to December 31, 2011. The Company will report on the Young-Davidson mine and the Kemess Underground Project in the 2012 report. 3.1 Reporting Period Information in this report covers the year ended December 31, 2011 unless otherwise stated. 3.2 Most Recent Report This is the fourth Sustainability Report issued by the Company. Sustainability Reports for the years 2008 to 2011 inclusive are posted on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. 3.3 Reporting Cycle The Company will report on its sustainability performance on an annual basis. 3.4 Contact Point Further information on this Report can be obtained by contacting the Company through the following methods. In writing to: Chair of the Sustainability Committee AuRico Gold Inc. 110 Yonge Street, Suite 1601 Toronto, Ontario Canada M5C 1T4 By telephone: (647) 260-8880 By email: directors@auricogold.com Page | 10 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for Defining Report Content The Company prepared this Report using the GRI Reporting Framework that provides the Reporting Principles and Reporting Guidance to help define the Report content, ensure the quality of reported information and set the report boundary. Industry The nature of the mining industry, and in the Company’s case the precious metals mining industry, means that some elements of the GRI Guidelines are more significant than others. In defining the scope of this Report, the Company has deviated from the GRI Reporting Framework by applying more or less emphasis to key sections as governed by two key criteria: the Company’s industry and audience. However, the Company has endeavored to report on essentially all GRI Reporting Framework criteria. More emphasis has been given to the following indicators: Community The Company’s relationship with local communities is a vital component of its operations, and additional coverage has been given on this topic. Safety The Company is committed to improving safety practices throughout its operations in order to achieve a safe and healthy workplace and an incident-free environment. The safety of the Company’s workforce is one of its chief concerns and additional coverage has been given to this topic. Less emphasis has been given to the following indicators: Economic Performance As a public company, the Company’s financial results are audited annually and reported on a regular basis. This report is made available to all shareholders via the corporate website (www.auricogold.com) and via SEDAR (www.sedar.com). These financial statements cover the same time period as this Sustainability Report. Those readers who wish to have access to a detailed review of the Company’s financial performance are encouraged to review these documents. Therefore less emphasis has been placed on the Company’s economic performance in this Report. Product Responsibility The Company produces gold and silver, and does not sell its products directly to the public, but rather the Company’s products are sold directly to financial institutions. Therefore, Product Responsibility indicators are less relevant to the business and have not been addressed in the same depth as some other indicators in this Report. Page | 11 Audience The Company has identified its stakeholders in Section 4.14 – Stakeholder Groups. Certain members of these groups, such as capital market participants and non-governmental organizations are the most likely to read through the entire Report. Other stakeholder groups such as shareholders, host communities, employees and contractors, customers, suppliers and various regulators, are likely to be more selective in reviewing certain sections of the Report. The structure of the Report is designed to make access easy for all stakeholders. 3.6 Boundary of the Report This Report contains information on the Company’s operations for the year ended December 31, 2011. This Sustainability Report includes within its boundaries all entities that generate significant sustainability impacts and influences financial and operating policies. This Report covers the Company’s managed operations and projects in Mexico and includes the operation (El Chanate) and project (Orion) acquired through the acquisition of Capital Gold Corporation effective April 8, 2011. The Report does not include the operations and projects that were acquired through the acquisition of Northgate Minerals Corporation on October 26, 2011. All data from El Chanate covers the period from April 8 to December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the Company had five operating mines, one mine under construction and numerous exploration properties, located in Mexico, Canada and Australia. 3.7 Limitations Beginning in 2008, a more formalized approach was initiated in the Company’s corporate social responsibility activities that has created a solid foundation; that allows the Company to continue to identify, develop and implement programs to ensure that it operates responsibly with a focus on positively impacting the communities where it operates, by promoting regional development, and providing social and economic benefits for all stakeholders. The Company reports on all GRI Indicators. In 2012, the Company will continue to make efforts to further enhance the quality and scope of this Report. In the 2012 Sustainability Report, the Company expects to report on activities on properties acquired subsequent to the reporting period. 3.8 Joint Ventures The Company had no joint ventures in 2011. 3.9 Data Measurement All data included in the Report is collected from different databases and reports. The reported data is presented in metric units used internationally and calculated according to standard conversion factors. An abbreviated list of sources and indicators follows below: Page | 12 Key Performance Indicator Database The Company collects details on the following: production numbers, manpower and incidents. Information from each site is consolidated every month and authorized by the Chief Operating Officer. Information obtained from these databases includes: • Safety statistics: number of injuries*200,000/Total man hours worked • Gold/silver production (measured by ounces produced) • Material moved: ore milled and stacked and rock waste produced (volume surveyed and weighed, measured in tonnes) • Manpower: total number of employees and contractors • On-Site Assay Lab determines gold/silver contents in ore and doré; external lab assures contents in doré • Gold/silver ratio is estimated according to market price of gold and silver when the product is sold Accounting System Database Materials used and money spent (measured by item, and in Mexican pesos) • List of suppliers and payments Employee Database Lists employee’s number, name, place of origin and gender • Payroll supervisor collects and reports monthly man worked hours (calculated by the payroll sheet and clocks) • Place of residence and; • Compensation Metres • Water use • Rain Water Balance • Evaporation estimation (formula considers rain, surface, evaporation rate for the area, ore moisture, pad volume, etc.) • Water trapped in tailings estimation (percentage of tonnes discharged) • Discharge estimated according to flow, pipe size and time • Dust suppression estimated according to water trucks used for this purpose Calculation Tools CO2 emissions calculated using the method provided by the Greenhouse Emission protocol in Mexico Page | 13 Surveying • Land owned, occupied, and rehabilitated • Ore and waste extracted Safety Database • Place, date, hour, name of person injured, supervisor, incident brief description, type of injury, medication, and category of incident Environmental Database • Incidents: place, date, area, brief description, remediation action, and category Compliance and Government Relations Database • Provides a description of inspections, audits, verifications and visits by government agencies and consultants and includes location, date, purpose, results, causes, measures and responsible parties. Also captures internal audits, inspections and verifications. 3.10 Re-Statements of Information No material information provided in the 2010 sustainability report has been restated in this report. 3.11 Significant Reporting Changes There are no significant reporting changes and the Company currently reports on all indicators. 3.12 GRI Reporting & Content Index This Report has been prepared based on the GRI Framework and the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, with the reporting areas relating to the Framework are clearly identified. A full list of disclosures can be found in a GRI Reporting Initiative Index, provided in Appendix A of this report. All documents are publicly available through the GRI web site www.globalreporting.org. 3.13 Independent Assurance The Company has not sought formal external assurance for this report. This is the Company’s fourth GRI-based report. The focus in 2011 has been on improving the reporting quality of each GRI reporting element, and improving data collection and analysis. Declaring an Application Level The GRI Reporting Framework requires that companies self-declare an ‘application level’. The application level is derived from the Application Level Grid, which can be found on the GRI web site www.globalreporting.org. By self-declaration, this report meets the criteria for application Level B. Page | 14 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Management and the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) recognize the importance of good corporate governance for the effective management of the Company, in order to ensure that the Company properly considers and protects the interests of all stakeholders including its employees and shareholders. The Company and the Board continuously assess their governance practices and modifies these practices as required. Approval by the Board is required for all material corporate items. Governance Guidelines The Board has developed a set of corporate governance guidelines to promote the effective functioning of the Board. Management and the Board have developed a Corporate Social Strategy (the “Strategy”) that outlines the Company’s approach to social responsibility. The Strategy includes four key elements: • Ethics; • Employees; • Community; and • Environmental, Health and Safety. AuRico’s corporate governance guidelines are summarized in the Company’s Board and Committee mandates (see http://www.auricogold.com/index.php?option=com_docman&Itemid=37 ), and are further implemented through management’s policies and practices. 4.1 Governance Structure of the Organization The duties of the Board are to guide the direction of the business and affairs of the Company with the view of always acting in the best interest of its shareholders. In discharging its responsibilities to shareholders, the Board is required to review and approve such items as: • The strategic planning process of the Company; • Succession planning, particularly for senior management; • Risk identification and ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are in place; • Ensuring the integrity of internal controls and management systems; and • Material disclosures issued by the Company. The management team is responsible for the Company’s operations, for executing its strategic business model and presenting budgets and business plans to the Board for approval. Board Committees The Board has the mandate to assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and the contribution of each individual director. The Board discharges its responsibilities through the following committees. Page | 15 Audit Committee The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its financial reporting and internal control responsibilities. The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. Compensation Committee The primary function of the Compensation Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to human resources and compensation issues. The Committee also strives to ensure that a succession plan for senior executives is in place and that the Company’s compensation plan is adequate in attracting and retaining senior management and key employees. The Compensation Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee The primary function of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is to assist the Board in providing a focus on corporate governance that will enhance the Company’s performance. Additionally, the Committee assesses and makes recommendations regarding the Board’s effectiveness and develops processes to identify and recruit qualified directors that will enhance the Board’s effectiveness. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors. Sustainability Committee The primary function of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to review and monitor the sustainability, environmental, health and safety policies and activities of the Company. The mandates for the Board and its Committees are available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. 4.2 Chairman of the Board The primary role of the Chairman is to chair all meetings of the Board and shareholders and to manage the affairs of the Board to ensure the Board functions effectively and discharges its responsibilities. Mr. Colin K. Benner is the current Chairman and is an independent and non-executive director. 4.3 Board Independence The Board has determined that in the calendar year of 2011, seven of the Company’s nine directors are “independent” within the meaning of NI 58-101 and two are not independent. The Board considers that René Marion and Luis Chavez are not independent directors because of their respective positions as President and CEO and Director of Mexican Operations. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for determining whether or not each director is an independent director. In discharging this responsibility, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee analyzes all the relationships of the directors with the Company and its subsidiaries. “Independence” means that a director is independent of Page | 16 Management, does not have a material relationship with the Company and, except for director fees and share ownership, does not financially benefit from it. A material relationship is any relationship that could interfere with a director’s ability to exercise independent judgment or inhibit their ability to make difficult decisions about Management and the business. For example, employees of a company, its service providers and relatives or close friends of a senior executive all have a material relationship with the Company. The Board also recognizes that, as much as possible, directors should also be independent of each other. To this end the Board has adopted a policy pursuant to which no director shall accept an invitation to join an outside board on which a director of AuRico already sits without previously obtaining the approval of the Chairman or the President and CEO. In addition, no more than two of the Company’s directors should generally serve on the same outside board or outside board committee. Any such board and/or committee interlocks shall be reported by the Board to Shareholders. During 2011, no members of the AuRico Gold Board serve together on the boards (or board committees) of other public companies. 4.4 Stakeholder and Employee Communication with the Board Shareholders, employees and other interested parties are able to communicate directly with the Board through the following methods: In writing to: Chair of the Audit Committee AuRico Gold Inc. 110 Yonge Street, Suite 1601 Toronto, Ontario Canada M5C 1T4 By telephone: (647) 260-8880 By email: directors@auricogold.com The Company also holds Annual General and Special Meetings of shareholders at which time shareholders may direct questions to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. 4.5 Executive Compensation The objective of the Company’s executive compensation strategy is to attract, retain and motivate high performing executives to create sustainable Shareholder value over the long term. To achieve this objective, the executive compensation program is designed based on the following principles: • Align with the Company’s business strategy link executive compensation with the achievement of specific strategic business objectives and the Company’s performance as a whole; Page | 17 • Align to Shareholder interests align the interests of executives with those of Shareholders through the use of equity awards which reward increases in Shareholder value, and decrease in value when the share price falls; • Corporate governance strive to comply with governance issues and continually review and, as appropriate for the Company, adopt executive compensation practices that align with those of peers; • Pay for performance align with the Company’s desire to create a performance and development culture, and create clear relationships between pay and performance; • Pay competitively set overall target compensation to ensure it remains relevant to the markets in which the Company competes; and • A flexible, simple program provide a flexible, simple program that is easy to understand and assess. The Compensation Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its mandate relating to human resources and compensation issues and in establishing a succession plan for executive officers and senior management. The Compensation Committee assists the Board in establishing compensation packages that attract, maintain and motivate senior management performance. Additional details on compensation for directors and senior executives can be found in the Company’s Management Information Circular, which is available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com and via SEDAR at www.sedar.com. 4.6 Conflicts of Interest The Board and management promote and encourage an overall culture of ethical business conduct throughout its operations that is set out in the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code of Conduct”), which includes the Whistleblower Policy. The Code of Conduct outlines obligations to prevent conflicts of interest, to maintain confidentiality, to protect company assets and to deal fairly with suppliers and competitors. A copy of the Company’s Code of Conduct is available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. Associated policies to the Code of Conduct include: • Disclosure Policy; and • Insider Trading Policy. An annual certification process requires all Company personnel to review and confirm their compliance with the Code of Conduct. The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standards of business conduct and ethics, as well as full compliance with all applicable government laws, rules and regulations, corporate reporting and disclosure, accounting practices, accounting controls, auditing practices Page | 18 and other matters and has established a confidential Ethics & Compliance Hotline where employees can report violations, or raise concerns and ask questions regarding ethical issues. 4.7 Board Qualifications The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee is comprised entirely of independent directors and is responsible for identifying and attracting new candidates for nomination to the Board that takes into consideration a number of factors including: • The independence of each director; • The competencies and skills of the Board and the ability to work as a team; • The competencies and skills of each director; and • The strategic business plan of the Company. 4.8 Vision and Mission Vision To be a leading low cost gold producer focused on growth in North America. Mission Statement Our mission is to deliver superior shareholder value by building a culture of excellence in every aspect that we do, through organic growth, accretive industry consolidation, and commitment to socially responsible practices within the communities in which we work. Sustainability Vision The Company’s sustainability vision is to achieve a balance of economic prosperity, environmental stewardship and social responsibility at all our operations that extends beyond the economic life of our operations. Code of Conduct The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct for its directors, officers and employees that outlines the principles of conduct and ethics followed by the Company. (See Section 4.6 for a more detailed description of the Code of Conduct.) Policies Currently, individual mine sites have developed policies for managing sustainability. In 2012 the Company will develop corporate sustainability policies, which will provide sustainability guidelines for each of the Company’s mine sites. 4.9 Board Overview and Sustainability The purpose of the Sustainability Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for sustainability, environmental, health and safety matters and the proper implementation of applicable policies and practices. The Sustainability Committee’s responsibilities include reviewing and making recommendations, as appropriate, in regards to the Company’s occupational health and safety program, including: Page | 19 The Committee shall be responsible for reviewing sustainability, environmental, and health and safety policies and programs of the Company and overseeing the Company’s performance in such areas. The Committee’s responsibilities shall include: • Reviewing and monitoring the environmental, sustainability and health and safety policies, systems and activities of the Company on behalf of the Board to ensure that the Company is in compliance with applicable laws; • Reviewing quarterly environmental, health and safety reports; • Reviewing, overseeing and approving the annual Sustainability Report; • Periodically reviewing environmental and health and safety response compliance issues and incidents to determine, on behalf of the Board, whether the Company is taking all necessary action in respect of those matters and whether the Company has been duly diligent in carrying out its responsibilities and activities in that regard; • Reviewing results of operational environment, health and safety audits and management’s activities to maintain appropriate internal and external environmental and safety audits; • Undertaking a process to review all non-financial risks within the Company’s areas of focus and ensuring appropriate risk management measures are in place. This will involve enquiry of management regarding how such risks are managed as well as opinions from management and others regarding the degree of integrity of such risk mitigation strategies; • Ensuring that principal areas of environmental, sustainability and health and safety risk and potential impacts are identified and assessed and that sufficient resources are allocated to manage such risks; • Reviewing community development and micro business initiatives; • Reviewing aboriginal, First Nations and other local stakeholder relations including reviewing the competence and organizational structure established by management for, and key resources committed to, developing a positive relationship with aboriginal, First Nations and other communities impacted by the Company’s operations, and how these activities drive economic development and community well-being; • Ensuring that the Company’s directors are kept abreast of their duties and responsibilities related to the areas of focus of the Committee; • Making visits, as a Committee or individually if necessary, to mine sites in order to become familiar with the nature of the operations, and to review relevant objectives, procedures and performance with respect to sustainability, environment and health and safety; • if any management or third party report in the areas of focus of the Committee contain issues that may be considered by Management as major concerns, material noncompliance or which may pose a material risk to the operations, Management will provide such reports to the Committee for review and the Committee shall assess the adequacy of the Company’s response to such situations, make recommendations to the Board where appropriate and receive follow-up reports from management which demonstrate that such issues have been properly addressed or resolved; Page | 20 • Satisfying itself that management of the Company monitors trends and reviews current and emerging issues in the areas of focus of the Committee; • Reviewing the scope of potential liabilities in the areas of focus of the Committee and the adequacy of the systems that are in place to manage those liabilities; • Encourage, assist and counsel management in developing short and long term policies and standards to ensure that the principles set out in the health, safety, environment and CSR policies of the Company are being adhered to and achieved; • The Committee Chair shall make periodic reports to the Board, as requested, on environmental, health, safety and community development matters relative to the Company; and • Reporting the Committee’s discussions to the Board by maintaining minutes of its meetings and providing an oral report at the next Board meeting. In 2011, the Company completed internal reviews of the health, safety and environmental practices at its operations. The sustainability committee completed a tour of the El Chanate mine in Sonora State, Mexico. In addition, various aspects of the Company’s operations are audited by third parties as required by financing, license, or permit conditions. 4.10 Performance Review The Board is committed to assessing the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and each individual director on an annual basis. The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee annually reviews assessments submitted by each individual director and makes recommendations to the Board. 4.11 Precautionary Principle The Company adopts a risk-based approach to operations and business development. Any modifications or expansions to its operations undergo an assessment of potential environmental and social impacts prior to the implementation of the modification or expansion. At such time when the Company develops a new property, provisions will be made for public consultation during the assessment period to consider the impact on the environment and the host communities. 4.12 Codes and External Instruments The Company is supportive of several global initiatives that consider a number of economic, environmental and social elements. In 2012, the Company will continue to comply with several key initiatives, principles, and charters that will assist AuRico as it strives to achieve a balance of economic prosperity, environmental stewardship and social responsibility at all of its operations. The Company will continue to apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainable Reporting Guidelines to all its practices. AuRico has registered with the Mexico Greenhouse Gas Program, a public-private initiative that works towards reducing emissions and effective emission management for Mexican industry. In Page | 21 2011, the Company continued to work with the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent notfor-profit organization that holds the largest database of corporate climate change information in the world (see Section 6 Environment for more information). In August 2011, the Company joined the UN Global Compact, and will continue to formalize its sustainable practices through adherence to charters such as the UN Global Compact Principles and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles), a forum for engagement among governments, non-governmental organizations (NGO), and extractive companies, with the goal of respecting human rights while maintaining the safety and security of company operations. 4.13 Memberships in Associations The Company strives to work with mining and industry organizations to promote responsible business practices. Currently, the Company’s operations are members of the following mining and industry associations: • Mexican Chamber of Mines (CAMIMEX) • Chamber of the Americas • The Canadian Chamber of Mines • Association of Mining Engineers, Metallurgists and Geologists of Mexico (AIMMGM) • United Nations Global Compact • BSRBusiness for Social Responsibility 4.14 Stakeholder Groups Responsibility requires open and on-going communications with the Company’s stakeholders. Communications are varied and tailored to meet the needs of its diverse stakeholder groups, and include meetings, press releases, web-based reporting and public reporting such as this sustainability report. AuRico’s major stakeholders include: • Host Communities and Individuals Located Near Operations The Company understands the importance of supporting and contributing to the communities where it operates. The Company will continue to work with local communities to improve infrastructure, services and educational and employment opportunities. • Employees and Their Families The Company’s employees are among its most valuable assets. The Company remains committed to fostering a safe working environment and opportunities for ongoing education and training. • Capital Markets Capital market participants impact our business and include the following participants: • Banks and lending institutions; • Equity analysts; Page | 22 • Investment groups; and • Mutual and pension funds. • Suppliers Mutually beneficial relationships with the Company’s suppliers are of fundamental importance to the Company’s operations. Through these relationships, AuRico can ensure it receives critical products and services that are of optimal quality and price. • Governments – Local, Regional, State, National Governments provide the legal framework in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Working closely with all levels of government is of primary importance in operating its business. The Company always deals fairly and openly with all levels of government. • Shareholders Shareholders are integral to the financial health of the Company. As such, shareholders benefit from and concern themselves with the responsible operations of the Company and its vision of balancing profitability with the needs of all stakeholders. 4.15 Stakeholder Identification The Company identifies its stakeholders through consultations with individuals, and small groups at each location, as would be appropriate. Local Stakeholder Identification The Company’s employees who work at its operations are the individuals best suited to develop relationships and interact with local stakeholders. The individuals and groups continually identify stakeholder groups and meet with local communities, governments and suppliers. Corporate Stakeholder Identification At a corporate level, the Company is focused on fostering positive relationships with its shareholders, capital market participants, national and state levels of government. 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement The Company is committed to fostering positive relationships with all stakeholders and meets with stakeholder groups as often as is required to discuss the Company’s obligations and commitment to open and fair business practices. During 2011, a number of meetings were held with local stakeholders including local employees, suppliers, members of local communities, local and regional governments and nongovernment organizations. These meetings continue to help AuRico’s operations personnel better understand local issues in order to develop an appropriate course of action. The Company recognizes the importance of keeping all stakeholders informed of the Company’s activities and regularly communicates with shareholders and other capital market Page | 23 participants as well as all stakeholders though the issuance of press releases, individual meetings and conference calls and through the Company’s corporate website at www.auricogold.com. The Company has a formal Disclosure Policy, which is available upon request. 4.17 Stakeholder Topics of Concerns During 2011, the Company’s local stakeholder groups raised a number of topics of concern that included: • Employment and training opportunities • Educational scholarships • Improvements to local infrastructure • Impact from mining activities • Livestock affected by operations • Requests for support on health, infrastructure and education initiatives • Emergency response procedures • Agreements with local landowners A formal reporting process is in place with local communities that allows local stakeholders to put forth concerns with the mine’s activities, request information or otherwise communicate with company officials. 5. DMA-EC Disclosure on Management Approach Economic Performance This report does not include all the information and financial data that would normally be included within the Company’s annual audited financial statements and therefore should not be relied upon to provide the reader with a full understanding of the financial performance of the Company. This report should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Annual Consolidated Financial Statements and related Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the year ended December 31, 2011. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, and are reported in United States dollars, unless otherwise indicated. These documents are available on the Company’s website at www.auricogold.com. The Audit Committee ensures compliance with all accounting and financial reporting obligations and reviews internal financial controls and the role of the internal and external auditors, including the independence of the external auditors and the Company’s risk management activities. 2011 financial highlights include: • Total production of 187,423 gold ounces and 4,728,151 silver ounces, or 293,760 gold equivalent ounces at an annual cash cost per gold equivalent ounce of $501 using the gold equivalency ratio realized during the year Page | 24 • Revenues from mining operations of $450.1 million, reflecting an average annual gold selling price of $1,599 per ounce and silver selling price of $34.97 per ounce • Cash flow from operations of $181.8 million • Net earnings of $0.96 per share Year Ended Year Ended December 31, December 31, 2011(1) 2010 187,423 114,064 Gold ounces produced 4,728,151 4,953,870 Silver ounces produced Gold equivalent ounces produced 293,760 195,566 (realized)(2) Gold equivalency ratio (realized)(3) 46 61 Revenue from mining operations $450,115 $238,266 Earnings / (loss) from operations $213,275 ($161,398) Net earnings / (loss) $176,859 ($134,668) Net earnings / (loss) per share, basic $0.96 ($0.97) Net earnings / (loss) per share, diluted(5) $0.82 ($0.97) Cash flows from operations $181,824 $97,583 Net free cash flow(4) ($65,562) ($9,633) Total cash $179,444 $113,142 Total assets $3,174,016 $810,037 Total cash costs per gold equivalent $501 $474 ounce (realized)(2)(4) Total cash costs per gold ounce(4) ($92) ($82) Average realized gold price per ounce $1,599 $1,229 Average realized silver price per ounce $34.97 $20.30 (1) Operational data and financial information include the results of both continuing and discontinued operations. (2) Gold equivalent ounces include silver ounces produced and sold converted to a gold equivalent based on the ratio of the actual realized sales prices of the commodities. (3) Silver ounce equal to one gold ounce. (4) See the Non-GAAP Measures section on page 48 of the Company’s 2011 Annual Report. (5) Net loss per share on a diluted basis is the same as net loss on an undiluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2010 as all factors were anti-dilutive. Indirect Economic Impact AuRico Gold has created employment opportunities in all of the regions where it operates. AuRico is a substantial economic contributor both directly and indirectly through employment, which results in direct and indirect employment opportunities. In 2011, the Company’s local procurement significantly increased, representing 9% of the total goods and services expenditures, as compared to 2% in 2010. Page | 25 The Company’s operations contribute to the direct and indirect economic benefit of the local communities in a number of ways including: • Salaries and wages paid to employees and contractors; • Training provided to the local workforce that provides jobs in the Company’s mining operations and teaches skills that are transferable to other jobs; • Job creation through the commissioning and expansion of existing projects; • Taxes paid to all levels of government; • Indirect job creation and small business development; • Payment to suppliers and local contractors; • Upgrading of infrastructure in local communities; and • Financial support for community development. EC1 – Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. Data below includes the results of both continuing and discontinued operations. Total USD (thousands) Direct economic value generated a) Revenues $450,155 Economic value distributed b) Operating Costs $385,143 c) Employee Wages and Benefits $50,681 d) Payments to providers of capital $2,346 e) Payments to government by country – gross taxes $41,578 f) Community Investments – voluntary contributions and community $516 investments Economic value retained h) Economic value retained ($30,109) EC2 – Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change The Company acknowledges that climate change is an important global concern. The Company is committed to reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions (“GHG”) and will make every effort to promote more efficient energy strategies that meet or exceed governmentlegislated regulations related to the climate change. Page | 26 From the Company’s risk analysis, lack of water is the only significant climate change-related risk that could materially impact mining operations. To reduce the risks of any unexpected climate behaviour, the Company has performed the following initiatives: • Installed zero discharge processes at Ocampo and Chanate • Built a water reservoir at Ocampo to hold water for up to 400 days of operation (1.5 million m3) • Installed equipment at Ocampo to filter all mill tailings to recover 82-84% of the water The Company sees no material financial implications from climate change at its operating mine sites in Mexico. The Company will continue to monitor energy usage and seek out energy efficiency opportunities with the objective of reducing both GHG and costs. Climate change impacts have also been considered in its emergency response plans. AuRico expects to continue to meet or exceed regulatory requirements, and where appropriate, contribute to the development of new regulations. EC – 3 Pension Plans During 2011, the Company had a benefit pension plan for certain employees at El Cubo. EC – 4 Government and Financial Assistance In 2011, El Chanate received a compensation payment of $55,916 from CONAFOR (Forestry National Chamber) for restoration of an area near the mine. Market Presence EC5 – Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation (all amounts are represented in U.S. dollars) El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Average EC5 (A) What was the starting entry level wage (per day) $12.38 $18.03 $14.76 $15.05 at this mine in 2011 EC5 (B) What was the local minimum wage in the $4.36 $4.47 $4.36 $4.39 jurisdiction in which the mine is located? The ratio of the mine’s entry level wage to the local 2.84 4.03 3.39 3.42 minimum wage Page | 27 EC6 –Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation El El Ocampo Total Cubo Chanate Proportion of mine spending (%) on supplies that goes to local suppliers – where local is defined as the geographic or economic 30% 26% 3% 9% region in which the mine is located Proportion of mine spending (%) on supplies that goes to regional suppliers – where regional is defined as the State in which the 35% 48% 47% 46% mine is located, excluding local spending Proportion of mine spending (%) on supplies that goes to national suppliers – where national is defined as the country in which the 12% 13% 47% 39% mine is located, excluding state and local Proportion of mine spending (%) on supplies that goes to international suppliers – where international is defined as outside 23% 13% 4% 7% the country in which the mine is located The Company has adopted a practice of procuring local goods and services wherever possible assuming that the costs of procurement meet cost and quality requirements. Additionally, the Company works closely with local communities and suppliers to educate them with regards to its purchasing requirements. In a number of circumstances, products used in mining cannot always be sourced locally and will impact the percentages provided in the table above. Such items include heavy equipment, trucks, shovels and processing equipment among others. The remote location of the Ocampo operation severely limits the type and scale of items that can be locally procured. Going forward, the Company will continue to further develop strategies to maximize local supplier sourcing and support supplier development through its micro business program. EC7 – Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operations El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Average Proportion of the mine workforce (%) that is hired from the local region in which the mine is located, such as 95% 95% 71% 87% Sonora for El Chanate, Guanajuato for El Cubo and Chihuahua for Ocampo. Proportion of the mine management team (%) that is hired from the local region in which the mine is located, 88% 100% 43% 77% such as Sonora for El Chanate, Guanajuato for El Cubo and Chihuahua for Ocampo. The Company’s policy is to hire locally whenever possible. In circumstances where the required skill sets and experience cannot be sourced from the local, state or national workforce, Page | 28 expatriate employees are then hired. However, the Company’s policy is to hire expatriate employees or contractors with the understanding that they will train and develop local individuals for those roles. Additionally, training is provided to local unskilled recruits in a variety of mine related activities to support the Company’s operations and the improve employment opportunities for the local worker. As of December 31, 2011, 87% of the overall workforce was drawn locally and regionally, with less than 1% of the workforce represented by expatriate employees. Of the 25 senior mine managers at the Company’s operations, 84% are resident nationals and the balance are expatriate employees. This is consistent with 2010 representation. The Company believes that the local and regional workforce should be provided the opportunity to be developed as the leaders of tomorrow. This is expected to be achieved through the provision of training programs, work experience and mentoring. The Company has instituted a local workforce development program with the goal of maximizing employment of the local population at Ocampo, El Chanate and El Cubo. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 – Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement A total of $172,536 was spent on infrastructure investments in 2011 as compared to $234,148 in 2010. In 2011, the Company contributed over $92,000 to its good neighbour activities at its Mexican operations. Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit at Ocampo include: • Support for the Quality Schools program; this program helps to improve the services and infrastructure of local community schools. • Continuous maintenance of a 25 km gravel road that connects Ocampo to the state paved road. • Medical facilities, which are open to the local community for consultations, medicine and x-ray diagnosis. • Partnerships with local authorities to build new water facilities in the town surrounding Ocampo, benefitting 19 families that previously did not have access to potable water. • Provided investments for cell phone communication antennas and a connection to the national power grid, which were made available to the surrounding communities. Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit at El Cubo include: • Continuous maintenance and improvement of roads in all communities near El Cubo. • Water facilities, used daily to take water to the local communities. • Medical facilities, which are open to general public. Page | 29 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit at El Chanate include: • A new community health center was built in accordance with the State Health Department standards, which operates the Centre. • Water installations, serving the local community to control dust. • Installation of air conditioning systems in local schools. • In partnership with a supplier, provided the school district with a school bus. • Supported local schools with classroom and sport facilities improvements. EC9 – Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts The Company has not attempted to estimate the indirect impact that its operations have on local and regional communities; however it expects that the potential impact is significant, principally through the creation of employment opportunities where very few other industries have been established. Other indirect economic impacts include: • Job training provided to the local workforce • Special training programs for locals (truck operators and young apprenticeships) • Business training courses to local entrepreneurs • Taxes paid to all levels of government • Small business development 6. Environment DMA – EN Disclosure on Management Approach The Company is committed to operating in a responsible and sustainable manner and is committed to environmental protection and stewardship at all of its properties. AuRico seeks to achieve economic prosperity without compromising the environment. The Company instituted an Environmental Policy in 2008 that highlights five core elements: • Implementation of efficient and realistic environmental administration systems with the goal of continuous improvement in environmental performance; • Compliance with all local environmental laws and regulations and adherence to international standards practices; • Prevention and mitigation of and compensation for all negative environmental impacts of its operations and control for associated risks; • Prevention and reduction of all contaminant emissions, integration of environmentally oriented technologies and materials, and the establishment of operating procedures that guarantees the efficient use of raw materials and energy; and Page | 30 • Open communication of environmental plans and programs, cooperation with the government, community, clients and providers towards proper management of raw materials, products and waste related to the production process. As a mining company, AuRico’s main emissions correspond to the use of fuels from mining equipment and the electricity consumption of our processing plants. In 2007, the Company started measuring emissions to track its usage and detect areas of improvement, finding that the main area of improvement being the reduction in the use of fuels. Several initiatives have been taken to reduce emissions, including: • Converting from the use of diesel fuel to generate electricity at Ocampo to the national electric grid. Ocampo did not have access to the national electric grid, but after negotiations with the national electric company (CFE) in 2008, electricity was brought to the mine. • Reducing the use of diesel haulage trucks, which also reduces haulage distance and maintains road quality. • The initiation of an electricity savings program, which includes the installation of energy saving lighting controls and replacing old light bulbs with energy efficient bulbs. Since 2009, the Company has been registered with the Mexico Greenhouse Gas Program, a public-private initiative that brings together government agencies, non-governmental organizations, and private sector companies with the goal of reducing emissions and identifying opportunities for effective emission management. More information can be found at the program’s web site: www.geimexico.org/english.html. Page | 31 Materials EN – 1 Materials used by weight and volume The Company mines ore from both open pits and underground mines. The ore is then processed through a mill facility or placed on a heap leach to extract the minerals. Associated materials include fuel and consumables such as reagents. The Company utilizes a significant amount of reagents and other consumables in the extraction of gold and silver. Associated materials used at Ocampo, El Chanate and El Cubo are provided below: El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Ore milled (t) 256,150 NA 1,145,640 1,401,790 Ore placed (t) 6,005,562 1,783,291 7,788,853 Waste rock mined (t) 289,355 12,101,855 38,216,090 50,607,300 Cyanide (t) 166 2,600 1,856 4,622 Lime (t) 178 15,000 6,387 21,565 Ammonium Nitrate (t) 27 2,601 3,139 5,767 Mexamon (t) 484 35 2,339 2,858 Mill balls (t) 261 793 1,054 Mill bars (t) 242 242 Grease (kg) 1,250 1,965 44,707 47,922 Oil (l) 4,700 13,319 597,376 615,395 Zinc (t) 41 354 395 Lead Nitrate (t) 180 17 197 Cement (t) 16,338 16,338 EN – 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials In 2011 water was re-circulated in the Company’s processing facilities. Waste oil was utilized as a heating source at the underground change house facility at the Ocampo operations. Energy EN3 – Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Direct energy is defined as energy consumed by the Company’s operations within the mine sites. Responsible energy use benefits the Company’s bottom line, the environment and the communities where it operates; and involves a consistent focus on the efficiency of operations. Page | 32 The Company uses both diesel fuel and electricity at its operations and is committed to energy efficiency initiatives to reduce costs and reduce GHG. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total a) How much diesel fuel was used to 76,132 76,132 generate power at this mine site (l)? b) How much diesel fuel was used by mining equipment (heavy equipment & 318,660 9,282,487 21,088,867 30,690,014 lighter vehicles) at this mine site (l)? c) Was diesel fuel used for any other purposes – Anfo If yes – what was this fuel used for? no no Preparation d) If yes – how much diesel fuel was used 322,101 322,101 for this purpose (l)? e) Was mine air heated at this mine site – no no no yes or no? f) If yes – what fuel was used to heat mine no no no air? g) If yes – how much of this fuel was used to heat mine air – natural gas m3 or diesel no no no (l)? h) How much gasoline was used at this 158,500 295,280 760,400 1,214,180 mine site (l)? i) How much aviation fuel was used at this mine site (l)? j) How much propane (other than for mine air heating) was used at this mine site 148,450 569,811 707,410 1,425,671 (litres)? k) Was there any other fuel used by the no no no 0 division and how much (l)? l) If yes, what type of fuel? m) Total quantity of diesel used at the mine 318,660 9,282,487 21,487,100 31,088,247 (l) AuRico will continually seek to improve efficiencies regarding energy use at all of its operations. The Company went through an expansionary phase in 2011, which resulted in an overall increase in energy use. Many energy savings measures have been taken, such as reducing the haulage travel times and distances of vehicles, which will result in energy (fuel) savings as well as a reduction in GHG. Page | 33 EN4 – Indirect consumption by primary source Indirect energy is energy that is produced outside the operation’s boundaries but is consumed on-site. This refers to electricity provided through national grids provided in Mexico. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Purchased Electricity (kWh) 14,229,420 15,203,518 92,741,200 122,174,138 EN4a – Electricity generation on site Electricity generated on site (kWh) 228,730 228,730 EN5 – Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements – Initiatives implemented in 2011 There were no material energy improvement initiatives in 2011. However as previously mentioned, crushing times are reviewed to ensure it is being undertaken during non-peak hours when possible. Haulage routes are also continuously reviewed by the operations, to ensure that the most efficient route is being used. EN – 6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives The Company will seek opportunities in the coming periods to promote and implement renewable energy initiatives. EN7 – Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved No specific indirect energy conservation improvements have been identified at the Company’s Mexican operations. AuRico will continue to look at methods of reducing direct energy consumption, whilst improving efficiencies with the aim of significant energy savings. Water EN8 – Total water withdrawal by source (m3) Water is used in the processing of ore and for dust suppression. The Company is committed to the sustainable use of water resources, and water conservation is practiced at all operations. During 2011, the Company used 1,988,392 cubic metres (m3) as compared to 647,500 m3 in 2010. The increase is primarily due to the acquisition of El Chanate in April of 2011 and an increase in production at Ocampo. Page | 34 El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total 3 3 3 3 (m ) (m ) (m ) (m ) a) Total amount of freshwater pumped by 162,324 599,340 761,664 AG from surface source (lake, river, etc) b) Total amount of groundwater 243,842 982,886 1,226,728 c) Total amount of rain water collected directly, stored and used d) Total amount of municipal water used Total water used 406,166 982,886 599,340 1,988,392 While the Company recycles as much water as possible. Water is trapped in tailings, evaporates from tailing dams and other processing ponds, and is used for dust suppression. The Company monitors any water released from the sites every three months to ensure that it complies with the Mexican water regulations regarding water discharge quality. EN9 – Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water In 2011, there was no significant detrimental impact on any water source or related downstream habitat due to the extraction of water. EN10 – Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Recycled water is retained within a process circuit and utilized multiple times. Reused water is water that has been used in one process and is reused for another purpose. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Total volume of water recycled & reused at this mine site 3 362,281 1,460 360,224 723,965 (m ) Percent recycled/reused 89% 0% 60% 36% Biodiversity EN11 – Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity values outside protected areas Land that is owned or leased by the Company is not located in, or adjacent to, protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside of protected areas. EN12 – Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Mining activities at Ocampo and El Chanate have a direct impact on vegetation (deforestation) that affects some species of plants that are listed as protected status. However, these Page | 35 operations have conservation management plans for these plant species, which have been approved by the government. AuRico continues to ensure that the impact on biodiversity is as minimal as possible. MM1 – Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated At the end of 2011, the Company managed approximately 6,092 hectares (“ha”) of land in Mexico, of which very little had been reclaimed due to the nature, status and complexity of the mining operations and exploration programs. Total Total land area in hectares owned or leased that makes up the operations 6,092 Total of this land area that is physically disturbed by mine activity (Ha) 925.7 Total of this land area that has been reclaimed (Ha) 21.5 The land held by the Company is divided into four (4) broad categories: • Impermeable Surfaces: Land such as surfaced roads and land under buildings that cannot be reclaimed • Disturbed Land: Land that is currently disturbed and includes tailings dams and waste dumps • Reclaimed Land : Disturbed land that has been reclaimed • Undisturbed Land: Land that has not been disturbed by operations The chart below divides the land held by the Company into the four categories. The vast majority of land is undisturbed, while relatively little land is classified as impermeable. While disturbed land may increase going forward, the Company expects to offset the increase in disturbed land with an increase in reclaimed land. Page | 36 EN13 – Habitats protected or restored A protected area is defined as an area that is designated, regulated or managed to achieve specific conservation objectives. The Company does not own, lease or manage any land in protected areas. Reconciling economic and social development opportunities with the need for biodiversity conservation and environmental protection requires innovative approaches to land management. The El Chanate mine has a restoration plan and budget approved by CONAFOR to restore an impacted site near the mine, which was affected by activities other than mining. The Company will make every effort to partner with stakeholder groups and organizations to implement programs that promote and protect the environment including the development of native species nurseries to reclaim areas that have been disturbed by our operations. EN14 – Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity The operations at Ocampo and El Chanate have the most surface impact, and during the project planning phase, detailed biodiversity baseline studies of the project influence area were completed. These biodiversity baseline studies were integrated into the environmental impact assessment and land use change technical studies. These studies measured the possible impacts on biodiversity and selected the correct protection, mitigation actions or measures to be implemented during the construction, operation and closure stages. Current actions taken to manage impacts on biodiversity include: collection of seeds, construction of plant nurseries, relocation of species, reforestation campaigns, abandoned sites reclamation, fencing and soil recovery. These actions are documented and presented to the government on an annual basis. All of the Company’s operations have closure cost estimations completed and updated until December 2011. The estimations consider the mitigation or elimination of any risks that could affect biodiversity, including reclamation, recontouring and reforestation of all the possible areas. MM2 – The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place There is no area on the company’s operations where a biodiversity management plan is required. Page | 37 EN15 – Number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk The Company is not aware of any instances where its operations have had a significant impact on any sensitive listed species. Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 – Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (tonnes) The Company’s primary greenhouse gas emissions “GHG” in 2011 were sourced primarily from on-site transportation and explosives. El El Cubo Ocampo Total Chanate Total Direct GHG Emissions 1,452 26,432 59,512 87,396 Total Indirect GHG Emissions 7,702 8,229 50,199 66,130 Total GHG Emissions 9,154 34,662 109,711 153,527 GHG Indicator (CO2e tonnes/ore processed) 0.075 0.005 0.038 0.015 EN17 – Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight The Company considers purchased electricity as an indirect source of GHG as provided in EN16. EN18 – Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved The Company has registered with the Mexico Greenhouse Gas Program, a public-private initiative that aims to reduce emissions and identify opportunities for effective emission management. In 2011, the Company continued to work with the GHG Program to enhance its emissions tracking and reduction of greenhouse gases. More information on the program can be found here: www.geimexico.org/english.html. EN19 – Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight No ozone depleting emissions were reported in 2011. EN20 – NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight These items were not measured during the reporting period. Page | 38 EN21 – Total water discharge by quality and destination El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total a) Volume of final effluent discharged to the 3 receiving environment at the operations (m ) a. What type of effluent N/A N/A N/A b) Volume of sewage (black & grey water) discharged by the mine into a municipal sewage treatment system (m3) c) Volume of sewage (black & grey water) and then held treated at the mine and discharged (m3) to the 1,460 78,840 80,300 receiving environment d) What type of sewage treatment system is used at Septic Activated Activated the operations? tanks sludge Sludge The Company monitors the discharge every three months at all sites to ensure that it complies with the Mexican water regulations regarding water discharge quality. EN22 – Total weight of waste by type and disposal method There are a number of non-process materials generated at our operations considered to be waste. This would include items such as tires, scrap steel and batteries. These items are recycled wherever possible. A formalized program for recycling non-process waste was implemented in 2009 and continues to be monitored. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Paper and cardboard (tonnes) Plastics (tonnes) 63 45 6,780 6,888 Metals (tonnes) 282 20 779 1,081 Wood (tonnes) Used oil sent off site for treatment/disposal or used on site 17,100 2,000 318,500 337,600 as fuel (litres) Waste stored or disposed of on site Contaminated soil stored on site in 2011 Contaminated soil treated on site at a land farm in 2011 Domestic garbage sent to an on-site landfill facility (tonnes) Domestic garbage sent to an on-site incinerator (tonnes) Waste stored or disposed of off site Domestic garbage sent to off-site municipal landfill 260 135 1,460 1,855 (tonnes) Contaminated soil shipped off site for disposal at a 2 8 83 93 licensed facility (tonnes) Total domestic waste generated in 2011 260 135 1,460 1,855 Hazardous wastes shipped by the mine to a licensed off2 8 83 93 site disposal/recycle facility (tonnes) % of total waste recycled at each site 57% 33% 84% 81% Page | 39 Hazardous waste is removed from our properties by licensed waste handlers and either recycled or disposed of in accordance with local regulations. MM3 – Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings and sludges and their associated risks El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Tonnes of ore loaded onto heap leach pad 6,005,562 1,783,291 7,788,853 Waste rock (total) 289,355 12,101,855 38,216,090 50,607,300 Returned UG as backfill 289,355 783,067 1,072,422 Used in tailings dam construction Used in construction 182,500 182,500 Placed on surface waste rock piles 14,960,877 37,250,523 52,211,400 Mill tailings (total) 248,095 1,073,544 1,321,639 Returned UG as backfill % of tailings returned UG as backfill Placed in surface tailings containment 248,095 1,073,544 1,321,639 The Company’s operations create three different forms of waste material, which are overburden, waste rock and tailings. The material being mined at our operations is non-acid generating. Therefore the potential of hazards such as Acid Rock Drainage (ARD) are insignificant. During operations, the majority of waste rock produced from the underground mines is returned to the underground as rock fill. Rock fill refills the voids where ore has been previously extracted. The waste from open pit mines is delivered to a specifically designated waste dump. When the mine ceases to operate, these waste dumps will be re-contoured and re-vegetated to provide stable containment of the material. Tailings are the by-product of processing extracted ore. It is the residual material remaining after the mineral portion has been extracted. Tailings dams are of specific design and have operational requirements regarding the location, water management, maintenance and control and monitoring of these requirements is strictly enforced. Tailings dams are reclaimed at the end of the mine life. Page | 40 EN23 – Total number and volume of significant spills Environmental protection design and operational controls are in place at all the Company’s operations. There were no significant environmental incidents reported in 2011, however a total of 19 small spills were recorded at the Mexican operations. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total All spills 4 3 12 19 Number of spills inside the minesite boundary 2 3 9 14 Total volume of spills inside the minesite boundary (litres) 60 45 1,280 1,385 Average volume of spills inside the minesite boundary 30 15 142 187 (litres) Number of spills outside the minesite boundary 2 0 3 5 Total volume of spills outside the minesite boundary (litres) 6,300 0 12,300 18,600 Average volume of spills outside the minesite boundary 3,150 0 4,100 7,250 (litres) Ongoing monitoring and inspection practices are in place that allows the Company to evaluate and ensure the effectiveness of environmental management systems and controls to maintain compliance and standards. These practices continued in 2011. In 2011, there were no instances where the Company’s monitoring systems identified non-compliance to air, surface water, or groundwater emission standards. In 2011, the Company provided over 5,300 hours (5,339 hours in 2010) of general environmental training to employees and contractors at its operations. This training provides workers with the knowledge required to recognize and respond to environmental issues/incidents at their site. EN24 – Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and IV, and transported waste internationally AuRico does not transport, import or export any treated waste. EN25 – Identify size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff The Company’s operations are zero discharge, using all of the water collected on the site in their internal operations. In circumstances where the Company would need to discharge water, that process would be carried out in a controlled manner and would meet regulatory standards. In 2011, no bodies of water or related aquatic habitats were significantly affected by discharge from operations. Page | 41 Products and Services EN26 – Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation The Company has not reported data against this Performance Indicator as in its view, this indicator is not relevant to AuRico’s specific business case because it does not sell the final product. EN27 – Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category AuRico Gold product, doré and concentrate, is not packaged therefore this indicator is not applicable in its business. Compliance EN28 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Was this mine charged in 2011 for any non-compliance events with environmental laws and regulations – yes or no no no no? What was the total amount of fines or penalties levied against the mine in 2011 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (US$)? Was there any actions taken against this mine in 2011 for non-compliance events with environmental laws and none none none regulations? Transport EN29 – Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce The Company uses a fleet of heavy equipment in its operations to transport ore throughout the mine site. Additionally, the Company transports equipment and materials via public roads to and from the mine sites. AuRico also has a fleet of light trucks and buses for employee transportation on site. Direct impacts from transportation primarily relates to the emission of greenhouse gases. The Company makes every effort to promote more efficient use of light vehicles in order to reduce costs and GHG emissions. Page | 42 Overall EN30 – Total Environmental Protection Expenditures and investments by type (excluding capital) (US$) El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Environment expenses in 2011 $25,050 $277,692 $251,548 $554,290 How much did this mine spend on waste disposal, water $14,231 $37,692 $123,364 $175,287 treatment and remediation in 2011 7. Labour Practices and Decent Work DMA – LA Disclosure on Management Approach The Company strives to attract and retain exceptional employees and works with these employees to help them fulfill their potential. AuRico does this by providing opportunities for personal advancement and skills development, competitive salaries, bonuses, stock options, benefits and promoting a healthy work-life balance. At AuRico Gold, the health and safety of its employees and contractors are integral to the success of the business. By promoting safe practices and safe work environments, the Company is creating a belief among employees and contractors that zero incidents are possible. The Company will continue to improve and enhance its safety practices to achieve a further reduction in key safety performance indicators. Professional health and safety staff lead employee committees at all of AuRico’s operations. These committees perform safety inspections and oversee site health and safety programs. At AuRico, health and safety training is a continuous process. In 2011, over 112,000 hours of fire and safety training was completed by Company employees. Employment LA1 – Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region As of December 31, 2011 the Company had over 4,200 (1,940 in 2010) employees and contractors. The large increase in employees over 2010 is due to the acquisition of Capital Gold Corporation and Northgate Minerals Corporation. Page | 43 The workforce breakdown is as follows: (as at Dec. 31 2011) El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Total number of employees (AuRico, contractors, full time & 1,107 487 1,862 3,456 temporary) working at this mine site in 2011 Total number of employees working at this mine in 2011 888 253 1,650 2,791 Full time employees 857 183 1,558 2,598 Part time employees 31 70 92 193 Total number of contractor employees working at this mine 219 234 212 665 in 2011 LA2 – Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region A diverse workforce encourages creativity and innovation and the Company is committed to the localization/nationalization of its workforce. Expatriates who are hired are required to identify one or two local employees to be trained for further advancement. Mining has traditionally been a male dominated industry. In 2008, the Company introduced additional training programs to increase the presence of women at the operations level. AuRico’s ongoing training programs target women for non-traditional mining roles such as operating heavy mobile equipment. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Total number of employees leaving employment at this 111 19 249 379 mine in all of 2011 Breakdown of this number by gender (employees leaving employment) Female 11 1 8 20 Male 100 18 241 359 Breakdown of this number by age group (employees leaving) < 30 years old 35 8 69 77 30 to 50 years old 73 10 179 189 > 50 years old 3 1 1 2 Breakdown of this number by region (employees leaving employment) Number who are local employees (economic region in 103 17 12 132 which the mine is located) LA3 – Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations AuRico’s workforce consists of skilled employees whose wages, salaries and benefits are competitive with those in other companies and industries. Salary and wage structures are developed regionally and are very competitive in order to attract and retain the best people. Page | 44 The Company provides a core group of benefits for employees pertaining to health care. Additional benefits are regional and are determined by local competitive practices. These may include annual bonuses and other types of incentive programs. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Are the following benefits offered to full time employees – yes or no? Life insurance no no no Health care (additional to Governmentprovided health yes yes yes care) Disability/Invalidity coverage yes yes yes Maternity/Paternity leave yes yes yes Retirement provision yes yes yes Stock ownership yes yes yes Are the following benefits offered to temporary employees – yes or no? Life insurance no no no Health care (additional to governmentprovided health no no no care) Disability/Invalidity coverage no no no Maternity/Paternity leave no no no Retirement provision no no no Stock ownership no no no Are the following benefits offered to part time employees – yes or no? Life insurance no no no Health care no no no Disability/Invalidity coverage no no no Maternity/Paternity leave no no no Retirement provision no no no Stock ownership no no no Labour/Management Relations LA4 – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements The Company is committed to equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination for all of its employees and contractors. The Company is also committed to the fundamental rights of its employees and to freedom of association, and works closely with employees to develop effective labor relations programs. Page | 45 El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Average What percentage of employees are covered by a 47% 25% 0% 17% collective bargaining agreement at this mine site? Number of employees covered 419 62 0 481 LA5 – Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements The Company does not have an agreed minimum period for giving notice regarding operational changes. In circumstances where the provision of this information is deemed necessary, it will provide this information to employees as expediently as possible. MM4 – Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration, by country During 2010, the union workers at the El Cubo mine, as described in LA-4, launched an illegal work stoppage that resulted in operations being suspended for an 8-month period starting on June 17, 2010 and ending on February 23, 2011. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 – Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs The Company has established Health and Safety committees throughout its operations that are comprised of both management and workers representatives. These committees were created to establish and maintain a safe working environment for all workers. These committees represent 100% of the Companies’ employees. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Does this mine have a formal Health & Safety Committee with labour yes yes yes and management representation? What proportion of the workforce is represented on this 100% 100% 100% committee? LA7 – Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region The Company’s commitment to realizing zero incidents remains as a key objective and we will continue to enhance and improve safety in the workplace at all operations. The Company’s safety performance statistics reflect the Company’s sustained emphasis on monitoring our safety performance. In October 2011, El Chanate reached a milestone of over 1 million man hours with no lost time injuries recorded. The Company will continue to measure Page | 46 its safety performance through a variety of performance indicators. The Company works closely with safety regulators to ensure continuous safe operations. In 2011, the Company reported a 6% reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate over 2010. The following table provides key safety statistics for the Company’s operations in 2011: El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Number of fatalities in 2011 0 0 0 0 Number of lost time accidents in 2011 20 0 37 57 Number of restricted duty and medical aid accidents in 13 6 91 110 2011 Person days lost in 2011 due to accident 474 0 1,592 2,066 Person days lost in 2011 due to occupational illness 0 0 0 0 Lost-time accident frequency rate (per 200,000 person 2.5 0 1.4 1.4 hours) Absenteeism rate 3.5 0.5 4.2 3.6% LA8 – Education, training, counseling, prevention and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Personal development opportunities are an important employee benefit. Skill development programs are being introduced throughout our operations. Training is provided through internally delivered training and skills development programs. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo In 2011 did the mine provide training to assist workforce yes yes yes members prevent/ manage serious disease – yes or no? Was this training given to: Employees yes yes yes Employees’ families no no no Other members of the community yes yes yes The Company also supports the educational development of its employee’s children, by providing scholarships and by supporting primary and secondary schools. LA9 – Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions The Company continually strives to comply with legislative requirements on occupational health and safety at its operations. In 2011, there was a formal agreement with unions or other employee representation groups relating to health and safety at El Cubo, there were no formal agreements at Ocampo or El Chanate. Page | 47 Training and Education LA10 – Average hours of training per year per employee During 2011, the Company significantly invested in the training of employees, including both internally delivered programs and externally delivered professional development programs for some employees. The majority of the workforce has received induction and core safety training as well as on-thejob training relating to all areas of our operations. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Total person hours devoted to training personnel at 60,746 8,447 37,262 106,455 the mine in 2011 Average hours of training = Total hours devoted to 68.4 17.3 22.6 35.2 training/Total number of employees (in hrs.) LA11 – Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings The Company provides opportunities for employees to continue learning throughout their careers to ensure they have the skills and knowledge needed to perform their work safely and effectively. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Total Did the mine offer internal skills training programs at yes yes yes the mine in 2011? Did the mine have any apprentices training programs no yes yes in place in 2011? If yes – how many apprenticeships were in place in 2 3 5 2011? Did the mine offer any programs to help employees no no no prepare for retirement in 2011yes or no? LA12 – Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews During 2011 employees in Mexico received regular performance and career development reviews. The Company will continually review and enhance this program as appropriate. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo What percent of all employees at this mine received regular 21% 14% 40% performance and career development reviews in 2011? Page | 48 Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 – Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender and other indicators of diversity As an equal opportunity employer, AuRico is committed to employing as many local residents as possible at its operations. AuRico consider employees to be local residents if they live in a community that is directly influenced by operations. As per employment policies, the Company hires the most qualified individuals for each position, regardless of age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, nationality, race, religion, and colour. The Company’s heavy equipment training program targets the employment of local women. This program has contributed to an average of approximately 6% of female employees. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo % of workforce at this mine who are male 95% 92% 94% % of workforce at this mine who are female 5% 8% 6% % of workforce at this mine in each of the following age groups (total should be 100%) < 30 years old 18% 29% 36% 30 to 50 years old 59% 67% 57% > 50 years old 23% 4% 7% Equal Remuneration for Women and Men LA14 – Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category The average salary of women employed by the Company is lower than when compared to the average salary for men. This discrepancy is primarily due to the job functions that women hold as compared to men, and the low representation of women in the senior positions of the Company. However, the Company ensures that all employees are compensated equally regardless of their gender. For example, female heavy truck drivers at the Ocampo mine earn the same level of compensation as their male counterparts. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo Average wages paid to all male employees at this site (per $4,204,859 $5,559,689 $30,119,309 year) Average wages paid to all female employees at this site $221,893 $307,183 $1,248.091 (per year) Ratio: Men avg salary/Women avg salary 1.08 1.64 1.52 References: AuRico Gold Inc. Code of Business Conduct & Ethics is available through the Company’s web site at: http://www.auricogold.com/corporate-policies/view-category.html. Page | 49 8. Human Rights DMA-HR Disclosure on Management Approach The Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy affirms its commitment to observe the fundamental tenets of human rights. These obligations are core to the Company’s culture and operations and are aligned with the principles outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Company is currently is a member of the United Nations Global Compact and is in the process of reviewing and updating some of its policies to include more explicit commitments on human rights and discrimination. The Company ensures compliance with its current antidiscrimination policy in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (“Code of Conduct”) throughout its operations with the whistleblower hotline. Each quarter, a report is submitted to the Audit Committee outlining the number of complaints received since the previous report. AuRico’s Code of Conduct states that: “The Company is committed to fair employment practices in which all individuals are treated with dignity and respect. The Company will not tolerate any type of illegal discrimination or harassment. The Company expects that all relationships among persons in the workplace will be professional and free of bias and harassment. The Company strives to ensure that its operations are in full compliance with local and international laws and that the Company upholds human rights in the workplace and, more broadly, within the communities in which it operates. Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 – Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening The Company does not conduct business in places where there are high cases of human rights abuses. As such, has not the need to apply any human rights clauses or screening to significant investments agreements. In Mexico the instances of human rights abuse is low. The Company does not have plans to implement a human rights screening process. However, it will take such measures if needed. HR2 – Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken The Company does not have a formal process in place that screens suppliers and contractors on human rights. The Company expects all contractors and suppliers to adhere to the same set of values that the Company holds itself to and included in its Code of Business Conduct. In the induction process, Page | 50 all contractors must understand and agree to the terms established in the Code of Conduct and an informal process is in place to ensure contractors and suppliers comply with the Company’s performance standards at all times. HR3 – Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained The Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for all its employees, which addresses, among other things, human rights. Acknowledgement of the Company’s Code of Conduct is required from all employees when they join the Company, and copies of the Code are displayed in prominent locations for easy reference. Key management and supervisory personnel at all sites and corporate offices are trained annually on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and a confirmation acknowledging their understanding and adherence is obtained on an annual basis. Employees are requested to self-disclose any observed deviations from the policy and are provided with details of the Anonymous Feedback Tool that allows them to disclose any potential issues without fear of reprisal. Non-Discrimination HR4 – Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken The Company is committed to ensuring that all employees work in an environment that is free from discrimination of any kind. There were no incidents of discrimination reported in 2011. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 – Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights No incidents of violations of freedom of association or collective bargaining were reported during 2011. AuRico does not operate in any jurisdictions where our employees right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining is at significant risk. Employees have a right to belong to a union of their choice. Child Labour HR6 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour No incidents of child labour were reported during the year. The Company currently operates in countries where child labour is prohibited under its labour laws. Should the Company operate in Page | 51 a country where labour laws do not prohibit child labour, the Company would not condone, nor tolerate any form of child labour. Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labour HR7 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced labour or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour No incidents of forced or compulsory labour were reported in 2011. The Company will not engage in, or condone, any form of forces or compulsory labour. Security Practices HR8 – Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Seventy percent (70%) of security personnel at the Company’s Mexican operations received training in aspects concerning human rights. In addition, all employees are made aware of the Company’s Code of Conduct. El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo At this mine what % of the mine’s security personnel have received 85% 70% 54% training in human rights policies? Indigenous Rights MM5 – Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities The Company’s operations do not impinge upon any indigenous communities. HR9 – Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken The Company’s operations do not impinge upon any indigenous communities and therefore, there were no incidents of violations of indigenous rights in 2011. Page | 52 10. Society Disclosure on Management Approach Community The Company is committed to making a positive difference in the communities in which it operates. AuRico recognizes that responsible mining creates opportunities to generate greater value for shareholders, while at the same time fostering sustainable development in the communities and countries where it operates. The Company’s management approach focuses strongly on involving local communities in mine operations wherever and whenever possible. This focus translates into increasing economic opportunities through employment, training, and education, as well as providing the skills and opportunity for communities to address social concerns and problems. The Company continues to support a micro business program for members of the local communities in which we operate. An example includes the members of the Ocampo community who provide over 400 lunches a day for the underground workforce at Ocampo. Several other micro business initiatives are in progress and we look forward to being able to present them in our 2012 Sustainability Report. The Company sees this investment as a crucial contribution towards sustainable development and leaving a positive and lasting impact on surrounding communities. Community engagement is of significant importance to the Company and is viewed as a continuous process. The Company believes that effective community engagement facilitates cooperative relations with local stakeholders, provides a mechanism for monitoring public perception and enables the adaptation of project plans in response to community concerns. Partnerships The Company has drawn on the skills and expertise of other organizations to assist in establishing community development programs. The Company also works in partnership with local governmental and regulatory authorities at all levels. This type of multi-faceted collaboration helps to ensure that the Company’s support and programs are well targeted and complementary to existing initiatives. Local Economic Development The Company provides socio-economic benefits to the communities where it operates in a variety of ways, depending on the context and local priorities. AuRico’s goal is to employ local people at its operations whenever possible, and to encourage local and regional procurement. Salaries, wages, capital expenditures, purchases of goods and services, and payment of taxes and royalties all provide economic value to the regions in which AuRico operates. Page | 53 Community Infrastructure Development Mine development often occurs in remote areas where basic infrastructural development is required. In 2011, $516,256 was spent on maintaining and improving community infrastructure in the communities surrounding Ocampo, El Cubo and El Chanate. Community Initiatives and Charitable Support In addition to its infrastructure investments, the Company has supported community development initiatives intended to help develop the communities’ ability to identify and address key issues and concerns. The Company’s investments in community development are built around a core philosophy of contributing towards community self-sufficiency and helping communities help themselves. With this overarching goal in mind, the Company continued to support the many projects in 2011, including: • Material for various infrastructures in the surrounding communities • Reforestation campaigns • Health & safety week for locals and miners • Year-round maintenance of roads • Business training for local small scale projects • Temporary employment for ejido members • Emergency attendance for local incidents & ambulance maintenance • Scholarship programs for local area students • Support for continued town beautification projects • Garbage and sewerage collection initiatives • Support for family events, sports programs reading promotion, cooking classes, school meal programs, sports and graduation events, and town cultural events. In 2011 the Company will evaluate projects that help foster the local businesses and support the local and regional economies. Page | 54 Closure Planning The Company is currently establishing guidelines for mine closure that identify the importance of addressing the potential post-closure impacts on a community from a very early stage in the life of a mine. The Company’s economic and social development programs support sustainability by promoting local ownership. The Company supports skills development and works in close collaboration with local authorities on economic diversification programs. This interaction will be dependent upon the nature of the local economy, the opportunities for diversification and local capacity. Although mine closures are many years away for Ocampo, El Chanate and El Cubo, the Company will support programs to develop alternative economic drivers for these small communities. The Company will provide funds for skills upgrading and partner with local communities in small business development activities. Corruption The Company addresses and defines corruption through its corporate governance standards as well as through an adherence to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), with which the Company complies. The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, 15 USC. §§ 78dd-1, et seq., defines corrupt intent as follows: “The person making or authorizing the payment must have a corrupt intent, and the payment must be intended to induce the recipient to misuse his official position to direct business wrongfully to the payer or to any other person. You should note that the FCPA does not require that a corrupt act succeed in its purpose. The offer or promise of a corrupt payment can constitute a violation of the statute. The FCPA prohibits any corrupt payment intended to influence any act or decision of a foreign official in his or her official capacity, to induce the official to do or omit to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, to obtain any improper advantage, or to induce a foreign official to use his or her influence improperly to affect or influence any act or decision.” The Company believes that good corporate governance is an essential element in a wellmanaged company. The corporate governance practices of the Company meet the standards for corporate governance practices recommended by Canadian Securities Administrators’ Multilateral Instrument 52-109, Canadian Securities Administrators’ Multilateral Instrument 52110 and the corporate governance standards and disclosure requirements in Canadian Securities Administrators’ National Policy 58-201 and National Instrument 58-101. The Company’s corporate governance practices also comply with applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, including and US Securities and Exchange Commission rules under SOX, as well as issuer standards of the Toronto Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Rules. Public Policy AuRico Gold participates in influencing public policy through its membership in the Mining Association of Mexico and the Canadian Chamber of Mines in Mexico. Also AuRico Gold is participant of the UN Global Compact and GHG Program in Mexico. Page | 55 SO1 – Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting The Company sees engagement as a key factor for good community relations. The program is based on a social-economic baseline study that was performed in 2005 and is updated every five years (first update in 2010). The engagement process is through a formalized and established interdisciplinary group, who meets on a monthly basis. This interdisciplinary group is comprised of AuRico employees, a local NGO, local community members, school and business representatives and local government. The main functions of the group are: 1. To report local issues and find a solution through group discussions 2. To review potential micro business opportunities and search for resources (government, community, company) 3. To determine the infrastructure needs of the community, rank each need’s level of importance and search for resources (government, community, company). During 2011, three micro businesses were approved, and construction began on a restaurant association, greenhouse and a chicken farm. Infrastructure projects approved and performed during 2011 included access to potable water for 19 families, improvements in school infrastructure and town services. The El Cubo community program is based on an engagement plan of programmed tours of the five surrounding communities, organized mainly through town delegates who express the town issues or needs to the mine. In cases where an individual has a concern or the mine operations have had an impact on a small group, these are treated personally by CSR professionals or experts as needed. The El Chanate community program has a similar engagement plan that address all issues arising from the presence of the mine and related local community issues. This ongoing dialogue occurs through the local government and local sector committees in which the Company participates as an active member or by invitation. MM – 6 Significant Disputes Relating to Land Use or Customary Rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples There were no significant disputes relating to land use or the infringement of customary rights of the local communities in 2011. Page | 56 MM – 7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes During 2009, the Company launched a formalized grievance process that documents any grievances relating to land use on customary rights of local communities. Any grievance that is received by the Company is reviewed and an appropriate course of action is developed. The process continued to be a valuable mechanism in 2011. MM – 8 Number (and percentage) of company operating sites where artisanal and smallscale mining takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks There is no artisanal mining or small-scale illegal mining on, or adjacent to, any of the Company’s properties. Security programs are in place at all of the Mexican operations that significantly reduces the likelihood of illegal artisanal mining taking place. MM – 9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process The Company has adopted a policy of promoting voluntary resettlement wherever possible. The timing and location of the resettlement is negotiated with the families that are affected. In 2011, one household was required to be resettled near Ocampo, inside the property of the company. Consultation processes was not required. In 2011, there were no significant disputes related to resettlement. MM – 10 Mine Closure The Company is committed to operating and closing mines in a sustainable manner throughout the life of the mine. A key focus of the Company will be to re-establish a healthy ecosystem and productive land use after reclamation is complete. Present Estimated Mine Life Ocampo: 10 years from 2012 El Chanate: 9 years from 2012 El Cubo: 10 years from 2012 The Company has established closure plans for all three of its Mexican operations that are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure plans reflect any operational changes that may have occurred during the previous 12 months. Page | 57 SO2 – Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption The Company’s Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Compliance Program Policy (“ACP”) establishes the standards and expectations for directors, officers and employees of the Company relating to conflict of interest, dealing with suppliers and dealing with public officials. All employees, agents of the Company, joint-venture partners, or anyone else doing business in the Company’s name, are required to comply strictly with the FCPA, all other applicable antibribery and anti-corruption treaties, and all national laws, as set forth in the ACP. The ACP Policy states that: • “No employee shall make or promise to make, directly or indirectly, any payment of money or provide anything of value to any foreign official of a government or a political party, or a candidate for political office, which is for the purpose of inducing or influencing such person to act in any way to assist AuRico Gold in obtaining, facilitating, or retaining business, or securing any improper business advantage”. In 2011 all operations were analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 – Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 4 El Cubo El Chanate Ocampo 70% 100% 86% Corporate employees, officers and directors operating within and outside of Canada have a special responsibility to know and obey the laws and regulations of countries where they act on behalf of the Company. Customs vary throughout the world, but all employees, officers and directors must diligently uphold the integrity of the Company in other nations. SO4 – Actions in Response to Corruption During 2011, no actions were taken in response to Corruption in all the operations. The Company fully expects that all employees will conduct themselves in such a manner as to comply with the Company’s Code of Conduct and ACP at all times. Any violations are grounds for disciplinary action. All employees are required to certify their compliance with the Code of Conduct and ACP on an annual basis or when revisions are made to the document. 4 Employees who are at the superintendent level and above Page | 58 SO5 – Public policy decisions and participation in public policy development and lobbying AuRico Gold participates in influencing public policy through its membership in the Mining Association of Mexico and the Canadian Chamber of Mines in Mexico. Also AuRico Gold is participant of the UN Global Compact and GHG Program in Mexico SO6 – Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions by country The Company does not donate to political parties or related entities. However should the Company make any contributions to local political campaigns, the Company will make matching donations to all major political parties. The Company’s directors, officers and employees are precluded from using the Company’s funds, facilities or any other asset to support directly or indirectly any political candidate or political party. SO7 – Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes The Company does not allow any director, officer or employee to enter into any arrangement that would result in unfair business practices. There were no legal actions for anti-competitive behavior reported in 2011. SO8 – Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations There were no fines or sanctions of any kind imposed in 2011 that were related to social or community issues. References: The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, 15 USC. §§ 78dd-1, et seq. can be found on the US Department of Justice web site at the following address: http://www.justice.gov/criminal/fraud/fcpa/. 11. Products and Markets DMA – PR Disclosure on Management Approach The Company’s main product is gold, with silver as a secondary product. The Company mines gold and silver bearing ore and processes the ore so that doré bars are produced. The doré bars are then shipped to a refinery for further processing. Page | 59 Gold and silver can be readily sold on numerous commodity markets throughout the world and it is not difficult to ascertain its market price at any particular time. Since there are a large number of available customers, the Company is not dependent upon the sale of gold or silver to any one customer or group of customers. MM11 – Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship Materials stewardship includes a range of activities required to ensure the optimal and appropriate use of minerals and metals in society. Minerals stewardship includes both process related activities as well as product related activities throughout the life cycle of the metal, including recycling. Recycling of process-related materials has been addressed elsewhere in this report and the section below focuses on product-related recycling. Both gold and silver are extensively recycled. Mining accounts for about two thirds of the global supply of gold. The other one third comes from existing supplies, mainly gold from recycled ‘scrap’ and gold from central banks. PR1 – Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Gold Product fabrication and bullion investment are two principal uses of gold. The introduction of more readily accessible and more liquid gold investment vehicles (such as gold exchange traded funds) may further facilitate investment in gold. Within the fabrication category, there are a wide variety of end uses, the largest of which is the manufacture of jewelry. Other fabrication purposes include official coins, electronics, miscellaneous industrial and decorative uses, dentistry, medals and medallions. Silver Silver is produced as a secondary product at all the Company’s operations. Silver has a number of unique properties including its strength, malleability and ductility, its electrical and thermal conductivity and the ability to endure extreme temperature ranges. These properties make it a valuable element in our modern lives. Demand for silver comes from industrial uses, photography, jewelry and silverware. Together, these categories represent more than 95 percent of global annual silver consumption. Industrial and photographic silver are the most important sources of silver recycling. AuRico Gold is a primary producer of gold and silver, and does not sell its product directly to the public; the gold and silver produced is sold to a third party (financial institutions). Consequently, the Company does not generate a final consumer product, so cannot assess the health and safety impacts of the product life cycle stages. Page | 60 PR2 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes There were no instances of non-compliance with regulations concerning the health and safety effects of the Company’s products. PR3 – Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements The Company does not sell gold or silver directly to the public and therefore, there is no typical commercial labeling. The doré bars are labeled for identification purposes. PR4 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes There were no incidents of non-compliance labeling reported in 2011. PR5 – Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction The Company’s principal customers are the financial institutions to which doré bars are sold. Any issues that may arise are addressed according to the terms of the Company’s mutual contractual obligations. AuRico is not aware of any outstanding issues with customers. PR6 – Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship There is a worldwide market where the Company sells its gold and silver, and therefore, has no particular purchaser with regards to these sales. The Company does not sell directly to the public but sells its products directly to financial institutions, and therefore, marketing is not an important aspect in the sales process. PR7 – Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes There were no instances of breaches of advertising and marketing regulations during the year. PR8 – Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data The Company is committed to ensuring the appropriate and lawful collection, use, disclosure, correction and storage of personal information. This commitment to privacy extends to all Page | 61 employees, prospective employees, contractors, customers and suppliers. The Company strictly adheres to all legal requirements regarding privacy. During 2011, there were no incidents of breaches of personal information. PR9 – Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services In 2011, there were no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the use of the Company’s products. Page | 62 Annex A: Global Reporting Initiative Index Sec# Disclosure Page Introduction 1.1 Statement from the Chief Executive Officer 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 3 Sec# Disclosure Page Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the Reporting Organization 5 2.3 Operational Structure of the Operation 5 2.4 Location of the Company’s Headquarters 8 2.5 Number of Countries where the Company Operates 8 2.6 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form 8 2.7 Markets Served 8 2.8 Scale of the Reporting Organization 9 2.9 Significant Change During the Reporting Period 9 2.10 Awards Received in the Reporting Period 9 Sec# Disclosure Page Report Parameters 3.1 Report Profile See Report Parameters 10 3.2 Date of Previous Report 10 3.3 Reporting Cycle See Report Parameters 10 3.4 Contact for Questions Regarding the Report 10 3.5 Process for defining Report Content 11 3.6 Boundary of the Report 12 3.7 Specific Limitations on the Scope of the Report 12 3.8 Joint Ventures 12 3.9 Data Measurement 12 3.10 Explanation of any Restatement of Previous Reports 14 3.11 Significant Changes from Previous Reporting Periods 14 3.12 GRI Reporting & Content Index 14 3.13 Assurances 14 Sec# Disclosure Page Corporate Governance 4.1 Governance Structure of the Organization 15 4.2 Indication of whether Chairman of the Board is also an 16 executive officer 4.3 Number of Independent Directors 16 4.4 Shareowner or associate mechanism to provide 17 Page | 63 recommendations or direction to the Board 4.5 Executive Compensation 17 4.6 Conflicts of Interest 18 4.7 Board Qualifications 19 4.8 Vision and Mission 19 4.9 Board Overview and Sustainability 19 4.10 Performance Review 21 4.11 Precautionary Principle 21 4.12 Codes and External Instruments 21 4.13 Industry Memberships 22 4.14 List of Stakeholder Groups Engaged by the Organization 22 4.15 Basis for Identification and Selection of Stakeholders 23 4.16 Stakeholder Engagement 23 4.17 Stakeholder Topics of Concern 24 Sec# Disclosure Page Economy DMA-EC Disclosures on Management Approach 24 EC1 Economic Performance 26 EC2 Impact of Climate Change 26 EC3 Corporate Benefit Plans 27 EC4 Financial Assistance Received From Government 27 EC5 Wages 27 EC6 Purchase of Local Goods and Services 28 EC7 Local Employment 28 EC8 Infrastructure Investment 29 EC9 Indirect Economic Impacts 30 Sec# Disclosure Page Environment DMA-EN Disclosures on Management Approach 30 EN1 Materials Used 32 EN2 Percentage of Recycled Materials Used 32 EN3 Direct Energy Consumption 32 EN4 Indirect Energy Consumption 34 EN5 Energy Efficiency 34 EN6 Renewable Resources 34 EN7 Indirect Energy Reduction Initiatives 34 EN8 Water Use 34 EN9 Water Sources Affected by Water Withdrawal 35 EN10 Water Recycling and Reuse 35 EN11 Land Management 35 EN12 Impact on Protected Areas 35 Page | 64 EN13 Habitats Protected or Restored 37 EN14 Managing Impacts on Biodiversity 37 EN15 Species Conservation 38 EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 38 EN17 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 38 EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Initiatives 38 EN19 Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances 38 EN20 Significant Air Emissions 38 EN21 Water Discharge 39 EN22 Non-Process Waste Disposal 39 EN23 Significant Environmental Incidents 41 EN24 Hazardous Waste 41 EN25 Water Discharge and Runoff 41 EN26 Environmental Impact of Products 42 EN27 Product Recycling 42 EN28 Non-Compliance Fines 42 EN29 Impact of Transport 42 EN30 Environmental Expenditures 43 Sec# Disclosure Page Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA-LA Disclosures on Management Approach 43 LA1 Total Workforce (partial response) 44 LA2 Employee Diversity See Labour Practices and Decent Work 44 (partial response) LA3 Benefits See Labour Practices and Decent Work 44 LA4 Trade Union Representation 45 LA5 Notice Periods 46 LA6 Joint Manager-Worker Committee 46 LA7 Workplace Safety Statistics 46 LA8 Education and Training 47 LA9 Trade Union Health and Safety Agreements 47 LA10 Average Training Hours 48 LA11 Lifelong Learning 48 LA12 Performance Reviews 48 LA13 Governance Bodies 49 LA14 Gender Based Compensation 49 Page | 65 Sec# Disclosure Page Human Rights DMA-HR Disclosures on Management Approach 50 HR1 Human Rights Clauses 50 HR2 Screening for Human Rights 50 HR3 Human Rights Training 51 HR4 Discrimination Incident Reports 51 HR5 Freedom of Association 51 HR6 Child Labour Risks 51 HR7 Forced or Compulsory Labour 52 HR8 Security Personnel Training 52 HR9 Indigenous Rights 52 Sec# Disclosure Page Society DMA-SO Disclosures on Management Approach 53 SO1 Community Development 56 SO2 Corruption Analysis 58 SO3 Corruption Prevention 58 SO4 Actions in Response to Corruption 58 SO5 Public Policy Development 59 SO6 Contributions to Political Parties 59 SO7 Anti-Competitive Behavior 59 SO8 Fines for Non-Compliance 59 Sec# Disclosure Page Products and Markets DMA-PR Disclosures on Management Approach 59 PR1 Product Life Cycle Analysis 60 PR2 Non-Compliance Incidents 61 PR3 Labeling 61 PR4 Non-Compliance Incidents Labeling 61 PR5 Customer Satisfaction 61 PR6 Marketing 61 PR7 Non-Compliance Incidents – Marketing 61 PR8 Privacy Complaints 61 PR9 Fines for Non-Compliance 62 Page | 66 Sec# Disclosure Page GRI Metals & Mining Sector MM1 Amount of Land Owned or Leased 36 MM2 Biodiversity Management Plans 37 MM3 Total Amounts of Overburden, Rock, Tailings and Sludge 40 MM4 Number of Strikes and Lockouts 46 MM5 Operations Adjacent to Indigenous Peoples 52 MM6 Significant Disputes Relating to Land Use or Customary 56 Rights MM7 Grievance Mechanisms Relating to Land Use or Customary 57 Rights Disputes MM8 Artisanal Mining 57 MM9 Resettlement 57 MM10 Mine Closure 57 MM11 Materials Stewardship 60 Annex B: Glossary All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) AIFR includes all work-related injuries. AIFR is the number of incidents for each 200,000 hours worked. Cyanide The chemical reagent used in the liberation of precious metals (gold and silver) from mined rock. Direct and Indirect energy Use / GHG Emissions Direct energy use/emissions are from sources owned or operated on our properties. Indirect energy use/emissions are from sources not owned or operated by us, but occur as a result of our activities (e.g. purchased electricity). Excursion or Exceedence A short-term breach of one or more permitted water discharge or air emission limits. Hazardous Waste Waste material that is defined as hazardous by the host country. Government regulations usually define disposal options for hazardous waste. Human Rights Includes civil and political freedoms and liberties, and also those economic, social and cultural rights necessary for survival, human development and dignity. These latter include the rights to Page | 67 adequate food, housing, health and education, and the rights and freedoms associated with participating in cultural and religious life. Infrastructure The basic facilities and systems serving a country, city, or area, including transportation, communication, sanitation, medical and school systems. Injury Severity Rate A number representing injuries resulting in restricted duty and lost time. Injury severity rate is the number of lost-time days plus the number of restricted duty days for each 200,000 hours worked. Intensity The rate of consumption of some material (water, energy, etc.) per each ounce of gold produced. Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) LTIFR includes any work-related injury that results in workdays away from work. LTIFR is calculated as the number of lost time injuries times 200,000 divided by actual hours worked. Medical Aid and Restricted Duty Rate Work-related injuries that require treatment but no time away from work. The rate is calculated using the same method as the LTIFR. Megajoule 1,000,000 joules. A unit of energy having the following equivalents: 1 kilowatt hour 3.60 megajoules 1 British thermal unit (Btu) 0.001055 megajoules Reclamation The process of converting lands disturbed by mining activities to other productive land uses. This process typically involves reshaping areas to a stable configuration, establishment of drainage systems, placement of topsoil or plant growth media and re-vegetation through planting or seeding. Secondary Products Other metal or metal-bearing materials (e.g. copper) recovered as a result of the production of the primary target metals (e.g. gold and silver). Sensitive Habitats In some jurisdictions the term sensitive habitat has a legal definition. However, used in general terms, a sensitive habitat is any area in which plant or animal life or their habitats are either rare or especially valuable. Sensitive habitat areas include, but are not limited to, riparian corridors, Page | 68 wetlands, marine habitats, sand dunes, sea cliffs, and other habitats supporting rare and unique species. Spill Containment Structures The curbing, tanks, collection areas and berming designed to collect and contain solution spills. The Company’s operations are typically designed with redundant spill containment to ensure that spillage does not escape the site. Stakeholders Peoples or groups of people that have an interest in the activities of the Company, including shareholders, employees and their families, contractors, the communities near mining operations, legislative representatives, regulatory personnel and interested non-government organizations. Sustainable Development Development that meets the needs of today’s generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs (Bruntland Commission, 1987). Unrelated Director Has the meaning attributed to that term in the Toronto Stock Exchange Company Manual, being a director who is independent of management and is free from any interest and any business or other relationship which could reasonably be perceived to materially interfere with the director’s ability to act with a view to the best interests of the Company, other than interests and relationships arising solely from shareholdings. In assessing the status of each director, the independent criteria set out in the NYSE Standards and all relevant facts and circumstances have also been applied and considered, meaning each “unrelated director” would be considered independent under the NYSE Standards. Unit Conversion Table Metric measures are used in this report. To convert to non-metric units, the following factors apply: Metric Imperial 1 tonne 1.1025 tons (short) 1 liter 0.2642 gallons (US) 1 hectare 2.4691 acres 1 kilometer 0.6215 miles 1 kilogram 2.2046 pounds Page | 69
