CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 INTRODUCTION 2 Contents of the report 4 Kesko in brief 6 Review by the President and CEO 8 Events in 2011 THEMES 12 Impact on society 18 Wellbeing at work 24 Climate change work 30 Responsible purchasing and sales 36 Healthiness responsibility management 44 Impacts of Kesko's operations 46 Materiality assessment of Kesko's corporate responsibility 47 Key performance indicators for 2011 48 Opportunities and risks 50 Responsibility in day-to-day activities 58 Kesko's responsibility programme INDIcators 60 GRI index 65 Economic responsibility 71 Environmental responsibility 79 Social responsibility 91 Definition of terms and the boundaries 92 Independent assurance report 94 Contacts Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 1 CONTENTS OF THE REPORT CONTENTS OF THE REPORT Since 2000, Kesko has On the basis of the feedback received from ing sector. After describing responsibility annually reported on its the previous year's report, Kesko has now divided the Corporate Responsibility Report management, the key results of Kesko's 2008–2012 responsibility programme in corporate responsibility in into four sections: introduction, themes, 2011 are presented. The materiality assessaccordance with the Global management and GRI indicators. Their contents are described in the report structure ment of Kesko's corporate responsibility is presented on page 46 and the summary of Reporting Initiative (GRI) below. the key indicators is on page 47. guidelines for reporting on A comparison of the report contents with the GRI recommendation is provided In accordance with the GRI guidelines, the progress and results of responsible operasustainable development. on pages 60–64. As required by the GRI, the tions are presented in more detail in the GRI This report covers, in line comparison includes Kesko's self-declaration statement on the level of compliance indicator section of the report (pages 65–90). When presenting the results, the most matewith the GRI G3 guidelines, with the GRI guidelines. The application rial indicators from the viewpoint of stakekey areas of economic, level has also been checked by the assurance provider and the parties are in agreement holders and Kesko have been used. social and environmental that Kesko has followed the A+ application FURTHER INFORMATION ON responsibility. level in the GRI guidelines. KESKO'S WEB PAGES The attachments to the report are published REPORT STRUCTURE at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. The introduction first provides basic inforInformation on Kesko as a listed company mation on Kesko, followed by the review by includes basic ownership data and Kesko's the President and CEO, and a summary of the ratings in the most important sustainabilevents and achievements in 2011. ity indexes. More financial information is Next, there are five themes material to available at www.kesko.fi/investors. Kesko's Kesko, which have been selected on the Corporate Governance and risk management basis of the responsibility programme and principles are discussed in more detail in the materiality assessment. Pages 10–41 Kesko's Annual Report and at www.kesko.fi. contain information on Kesko's impact on Kesko's responsibility programme for society, wellbeing at work, work towards 2008–2012, the company's corporate responmitigating climate change, responsible pursibility vision and principles as well as the chasing and sales, and healthiness. stakeholder analysis are available in full at The case examples illustrate the diversity www.kesko.fi/responsibility. and extent of Kesko's operations. Following the themes, the report disREPORT SCOPE cusses the impacts, opportunities and risks The Kesko Group (hereinafter Kesko) follows of Kesko's responsible operations, concenthe principles for reporting boundary and trating on issues most material to the retaildisclosure levels defined in the GRI Bound2 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 CONTENTS OF THE REPORT Kesko's twelfth Corporate Responsibility Report provides information on our responsibility work and its CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 results. ary Protocol. The report covers all of Kesko's report presents information on K-stores in fulfilling the principles of human rights, operations: (e.g. energy monitoring) when it is integrally labour standards, the environment and anti■■ Most economic responsibility indicators related to Kesko’s reporting and complecorruption. have been derived from the consoliments the overall picture of the relations of dated financial statements, the preparaKesko and K-retailers with society and other ASSURANCE OF THE REPORT tion and representation of which are stakeholder groups. In such cases, the report This report has been published in print in governed by the IFRS standards. refers to them as 'the K-Group'. Finnish and English, and the electronic ■■ The environmental indicators cover the versions can be read at www.kesko.fi/ parent company Kesko Corporation's REPORT'S STAKEHOLDERS responsibility. The report contents are not and its subsidiaries' most significant Kesko's reporting is comprehensive, and updated after the assurance. environmental impacts in all the counmany investors and institutions making An independent third party has provided tries in which they operate. sustainability assessments use the report assurance on the Finnish language report ■■ The HR indicators cover the parent comas their source of information when assessand reviewed the correspondence of the pany Kesko Corporation's and its subing Kesko's performance in various areas of English language version. The assurance for sidiaries' personnel in all the countries responsibility. the 2011 report was carried out by Kesko's in which they operate. Around three The most important target groups of the auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, whose quarters of the Kesko Group's employees report include shareholders, investors, anaassurance report is available on pages 92–93. work in retail stores. The report does lysts, Kesko personnel and the media. An independent assurance report has not cover the personnel employed by When drawing up the report, we have been provided for Kesko's report since 2002. retailer entrepreneurs, unless separately also wanted to take into account Kesko's This report covers the progress and results stated in the text. other important stakeholders: customers, of responsibility actions in 2011 with some suppliers of goods and services, as well information for January–March 2012. The Any deviations and limitations in the as non-governmental and environmental 2010 report was published in May 2011 and boundary are reported in connection with organisations. With the help of the theme the 2012 report will be published in spring the indicators in question. If changes have section and its case examples, we give our 2013. taken place in the indicators, their scope, customers and cooperation partners practiboundary or measurement methods as cal information about Kesko's responsible reported previously, related information operations. is given in connection with the indicators. Indicator reporting does not cover conGLOBAL COMPACT REPORTING tractors or suppliers of goods and services, The report describes Kesko's progress on unless stated otherwise. the 10 principles of the Global Compact initiative. Global Compact accepts the use INFORMATION ON K-RETAILERS of the indicators in the GRI G3 Guidelines Kesko's division parent companies and as appropriated for this purpose. The GRI chains act in close cooperation with retailer index on pages 60–64 shows which indicaentrepreneurs and other partners. The tors have been used to evaluate performance Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 3 KESKO IN BRIEF KESKO IN BRIEF Kesko is a provider of Kesko's business operations its customer companies and municipalitrading sector services and In 2011, the Kesko Group's net sales were €9,460 million, showing an increase of 7.8% ties in Finland. Kespro provides delivery and cash&carry services to its customers. a listed company domiciled compared to the previous year. The food Kespro has a Menu product range of its own. in Helsinki, where the main trade accounted for 43% and international operations for 17.1% (16.7% in 2010) of the Home and speciality goods trade office is also located. Kesko net sales. Kesko's home and speciality goods trade prooperates in the food, home There were 1,643 retail stores in the K-Group in Finland and 230 in other counvides customers with products and services related to clothing, home, sports, leisure, and speciality goods, buildtries. In 2011, the K-Group’s (i.e. Kesko’s and home technology, entertainment, as well ing and home improveK-retailers') retail and B2B sales (VAT 0%) totalled €11,767 million, of which internaas interior decoration and furniture. The home and speciality goods trade comprises ment, and car and machintional operations accounted for €1,976 milAnttila and Kodin Ykkönen, K-citymarket’s ery trades. Kesko manages lion. The increase was 7.2% compared to the previous year. home and speciality goods, Intersport and Budget Sport, Asko and Sotka, Musta Pörssi retail chains and provides At the end of 2011, Kesko had 1,102 indeand Konebox, and Kookenkä and Andiamo. services for the chains' purpendent K-retailers and about 130 other retailer entrepreneurs in the Asko, Sotka, All chains offer well-known domestic and foreign product brands to their customers chasing logistics, network Byggmakker and Senukai chains as partners. and also serve customers online. development and informaFood trade Anttila's online store (NetAnttila) also operates in Estonia and the Asko and Sotka tion management. Kesko's Kesko Food operates in the Finnish grochains have stores in Estonia. Intersport chain operations comprise cery trade. K-retailers, with whom Kesko Food applies the chain business model, also operates in Russia after the Intersport licence and business operations in Russia some 2,000 stores in eight are responsible for the nearly 1,000 K-food were transferred to a Kesko subsidiary in countries: Finland, Sweden, stores. Kesko Food's chains are K-city­market, K-supermarket, K-market and K-extra. The August 2011. Norway, Estonia, Latvia, most important brand is Pirkka; the Pirkka Building and home Lithuania, Russia and product range includes over 2,000 products. improvement trade Kesko Food's main functions include the Rautakesko is the leading retailer of buildBelarus. centralised purchasing of products, selecing, renovation and home improvement tion management, logistics, and the develproducts and services, operating in Finland, opment of chain concepts and the store site Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, network. Russia and Belarus. Rautakesko develops the Cooperation between Kesko Food and K-rauta, Rautia, K-maatalous, Byggmakker, K-food retailers is based on the chain operaSenukai and OMA retail chains and B2B sales tions defined in the chain agreement, which in its operating area, with an emphasis on ensure the customer-orientation of operacustomer orientation. Rautakesko's own tions, efficiency and the achievement of brands – Cello, Prof and FXA – are developed competitive advantages. on a long-term basis. Kesko Food's subsidiary Kespro is a wholeRautakesko's core functions supporting saler in the hotel, restaurant and catering sales to consumer and professional custom(HoReCa) business and acts as a partner for ers include the centralised development of 4 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 KESKO IN BRIEF Kesko operates in eight countries ■■ Finland: all divisions Number of stores: 1,643 ■■ Sweden and Norway: building and home improvement trade Number of stores: 131 ■■ Baltic countries: building and home improvement trade, machinery trade, furniture trade Sweden Finland and distance sales Number of stores: 43 Norway St. Petersburg area ■■ Russia, St. Petersburg and Estonia Moscow areas: building and home improvement trade, sports Latvia trade, machinery trade Lithuania Moscow area Number of stores: 50 ■■ Belarus: building and home Belarus improvement trade Number of stores: 6 chain selections and services, purchasing The company cannot vote with own shares the division parent companies are sought and logistics, and the development of chain held by it (700,000 B shares). and made use of in shopping centre projects. concepts and the store network. The market capitalisation of A shares was Kesko's real estate operations are based €788 million and that of B shares €1,719 milon the life-cycle affordability and eco-effiCar and machinery trade lion, while their combined market capitaliciency of store sites. At the end of 2011, the The car and machinery trade consists of VVsation of the company was €2,506 million. combined area of real estate and premises Auto and Konekesko with their subsidiaries. At the end of 2011, the number of shareowned or leased by the Kesko Group was VV-Auto imports and markets Volks­ holders was 41,215, which is 2,957 more than 4,032,000 m2. At the end of the year, the wagen, Audi and Seat passenger cars, and at the end of 2010. At the end of 2011, foreign area of owned properties in Finland was Volkswagen commercial vehicles in Finland. ownership of all shares was 20%. At the end 693,000 m2 and in the other operating counIt also imports and markets Seat passenger of 2011, foreign ownership of B shares was tries 306,000 m2. The area of leased propcars in Estonia and Latvia. VV-Auto also 29%, compared to 38% the year before. erties in Finland was 2,338,000 m2 and in retails cars and provides after-sales services other countries 695,000 m2. A large part of at its own outlets in the Greater Helsinki Personnel the premises owned and leased in Finland area and Turku. During the year, the average number of are leased to K-retailers. Konekesko is a service company specialisemployees in the Kesko Group was 18,960 ing in the import and sale of construction, (18,215) converted into full-time employProduct and service suppliers materials handling, environmental and agriees. At the end of 2011, the total number In 2011, Kesko purchased products and sercultural machinery, trucks and buses, and of employees was 23,375 (22,124), of whom vices valued at some €8.0 billion, of which recreational machinery. Konekesko oper13,124 (12,720) worked in Finland and 10,251 some 68% was from Finnish suppliers. In ates in Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania (9,404) outside Finland. Compared to the 2011, Kesko had some 23,100 active product and Russia. Product brands represented by end of 2010, there was an increase of 404 and service suppliers, of which 11,900 were Konekesko include Yamaha, Linder, Massey people in Finland and an increase of 847 outcompanies operating in Finland. The Group Ferguson, New Holland, Kubota and MAN. side Finland. Approximately three quarters had 7,700 suppliers in the other operating Konekesko's own boat brands are Yamarin, of all employees worked in retailing. countries and 3,500 in the rest of the world. Yamarin Cross and Suvi. Yamarin and Suvi Kesko and the K-retailers form the The main countries from which goods were boats are manufactured in Finland and K-Group, which employs a total of some imported for operations in Finland were the exported to several European countries and 45,000 people. Netherlands, Germany, Sweden and Belgium Russia. and, outside the EU, China. Store site operations Kesko's owners The store site network is a strategic competiCustomer groups Kesko Corporation is a listed company tive factor for Kesko. It provides opportuKesko's sales to retailer entrepreneurs whose shares are quoted on the NASDAQ nities for developing business operations accounted for 52% of the sales in 2011. OMX Helsinki Ltd Helsinki Stock Exchange. and increasing sales and customer satisGrocery retailers made some 93% of their At the end of 2011, the company's share faction. Kesko's division parent companies purchases, speciality goods retailers some capital was €197,282,584, divided in A and are responsible for their own store sites 95% and building and home improvement B share series. throughout their life cycles. The compaand agricultural retailers some 74% of their A shares accounted for 32.2% of all shares nies plan their own store site networks purchases via Kesko. K-retailers' product and 82.6% of all votes. The corresponding and, on the basis of their network and busipurchases from local provincial suppliers percentages for B shares were 67.8% and ness plans, make the capital expenditure in valued at some €563 million. 17.4%. The company’s ten largest shareaccordance with the Group's real estate stratKesko's own retailing accounted for 26% holders, calculated by number of votes, held egy. Opportunities for cooperation between of sales. Kesko's sales to professional cus35.4% of all votes and 20.3% of all shares. tomers contributed 22% to sales. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 5 Review by the President and CEO Review by the President and CEO The growth of Kesko's busiThe store network is Food Ltd and K-citymarket Oy plan to launch ness operations strengthgrowing a common online store for food and home Kesko's chain operations include around and speciality goods in 2012. ened in 2011. Sales in the 2,000 stores in eight countries. In 2011, In 2011, Kesko, the K-Group chains and food trade and the building Kesko's capital expenditure, mainly in store sites, totalled €425 million. stores became active in social media. In particular, Facebook has proved to be imporand home improvement Store openings in Finland in 2011 included tant as a channel for customer service and trade developed well, and six new K-citymarkets, 17 K-supermarkets, one Kodin Ykkönen department store and dialogue between the store and customers. Social media channels have also been growth was particularly four K-rautas. Our target is to open 23 new introduced to provide information on job strong in the car and maK-supermarkets and seven new K-city­ markets in 2012. The Karisma shopping opportunities. chinery trade. Profitability centre was opened in Lahti in November The trading sector employs improved in the food trade 2011, and the Veturi shopping centre will be young people opened in Kouvola in late 2012. The trading sector is the biggest employer in and in the car and machinthe Finnish economy, employing more than ery trade. We are continuOperations in Russia are one third of all working people aged under expanding 25. Many young people start their careers ing with our responsibility In 2011, a decision was made to expand in a K-store in short-term orientation for work and want the results Kesko's business operations in the Russian building and home improvement, food working life, organised for secondary school students, in a summer job or when earnto be increasingly visible to and sports trade. The plan is to open 10 ing some extra income during studies. It is our customers. new K-rauta stores in Russia in 2012–2015 in addition to the current 15 K-rauta stores. important that in their very first jobs future employees gain a positive image of the tradAt the end of 2011, there were 36 Intersport ing sector as a responsible employer. stores in Russia, and the target there is to double the network by 2015. The K-Retailers' Association The first four grocery stores will be celebrates its 100th opened in St. Petersburg and Moscow in anniversary 2012–2013. We plan to acquire sites in both The K-Retailers' Association, which looks of the cities for at least 10 new large grocery after the interests and promotes the coopstores. The objective in Russia is to achieve eration of K-retailers, has around 1,230 net sales of €500 million and a positive operK-retailers as members. The association is ating result by 2015. celebrating its 100th anniversary in 2012. The Russian market offers significant To celebrate its first 100 years, the potential for growth, but the fast expansion K-Retailers' Association has started a coopof business is setting growing demands on eration project with the Finnish Association Kesko. New stores mean that thousands on Intellectual and Developmental Disabiliof new employees must be hired. Special ties (FAIDD), called 'Many kinds of performattention must be paid to the recruitment ers'. The funds donated during the centenary and induction of employees and to the year will be used to hire a work supervisor implementation of responsible operating for the FAIDD and take measures to help practices and the principles of responsible people with intellectual or developmental purchasing in all operations. disabilities find employment in K-stores. More online services and We save energy in our e-commerce operations Online transactions and interactive chanKesko participates in curbing the progress nels are important competitive factors. The of climate change by saving energy and development of online transactions and increasing waste recycling and reuse. e-commerce are strategic focal points in all The refrigeration equipment of K-food divisions. stores already uses lids and doors, totalling In December 2011, the pilot testing of close to seven kilometres in length. Conthe online food store was introduced in densation heat from store cooling units is K-market Ruoholahti in Helsinki. Kesko recovered in nearly all K-food stores. Many 6 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Review by the President and CEO Competition in sustainable development is getting tougher year by year and being ranked among the most sustainable companies in the world cannot be taken for granted. K-food stores use carbon dioxide recovered In supplier assessment, Kesko uses interas the Dow Jones indexes DJSI World and from industrial processes as coolant in their national auditing systems, BSCI auditing DJSI Europe. Kesko is also included in 'The cooling equipment. and SA8000 certification. The aim is to do Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in The Veturi shopping centre introduced business in high-risk countries with supplithe World' list and 'The World's Most Ethical ground heat as a source of heating from the ers who have successfully passed the audit. Companies' list. construction phase. The waste recovery rate Improving working conditions in suppliers' In February 2012, World Finance Magazine in Anttila's new logistics centre is nearly factories is a long-term operation. recognised Kesko for the best corporate gov100%. A two-tier trailer was introduced for In the summer 2011, we published a Prodernance in Finland in terms of development test use in transportation to K-food stores, uct's path map on our web pages, providing and reporting, as in the previous year. In which helps us cut transportation-related information on the origins of our products November 2011, the 'Responsibility Reportcarbon dioxide emissions by one third. and their path from the farm or factory to ing' contest awarded Kesko as the best in the store. You can, for example, click on the Finland in responsibility reporting. We help our customers in map to follow the growth and path of coffee Kesko participates in the UN Global Comtheir choices for the beans for UTZ certified Pirkka coffees from pact initiative and is committed to observe environment Brazil to Finland. ten generally accepted principles related to The Energy Expert service at K-rauta and human rights, labour standards, the enviRautia stores makes it easy for customers Responsibility programme ronment and anti-corruption in all the to improve energy efficiency in their homes. guides our operations countries where it operates. The aim of K-food stores is to increase Kesko's responsibility programme sets Competition in sustainable development the selection of Pirkka organic products objectives for combating climate change, for and responsibility is getting tougher year from the current around 70 to around 100 energy efficiency, the wellbeing of employby year and being ranked among the most by the end of 2012. Kesko Food has more ees as well as responsible purchasing and sustainable companies in the world cannot than 200 Fairtrade products in its selections, sales. be taken for granted. We will continue our of which Pirkka Fairtrade products account Updating of the responsibility proresponsibility work and pay special attenfor nearly 40. gramme will continue in 2012. When defintion to making our work and its results Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen department ing the content of and objectives for the proincreasingly visible to our customers in stores and NetAnttila sell around 70 prodgramme, we take into account the views and stores. ucts made from Fairtrade cotton. expectations of our employees and other I wish to extend my warmest thanks to stakeholders concerning our future responall of Kesko employees, retailers and their Information on coffee sibility work. The updated programme will staff, and our business partners for the work origins and farmers be published at the end of 2012. they do every day to achieve our shared The importance of social responsibility is objectives. increasing throughout the supply chain. Recognition for Customers are interested in where and in responsibility work and what kinds of conditions the products they reporting buy are manufactured. In 2011, Kesko was again included in the Matti Halmesmäki most important sustainability indexes, such President and CEO Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 7 EVENTS IN 2011 JANUARY–JUNE 24 January 8 May Kesko organised In Kaivopuisto Park in Helsinki, THE DAY OF Kesko arranged a MOTHER'S COMMERCE, DAY EVENT, the theme of which was 'Finland's future lies in competent and inat which 10,000 Pirkka Fairtrade dustrious people'. roses were given to mothers and grandmothers. 1 February Kesko was included for the 16 May seventh time in From the funds granted by the THE GLOBAL Annual General Meeting to the Board of Directors for donation 100 MOST 16 March 26 March purposes, Kesko distributed a total of €30,000 as SUSTAINAIn its assessment, World Finance Kesko participated in the worldSUSTAINABLE CORPOTHE BEST Magazine recognised Kesko for wide WWF'S BLE DEVELRATIONS IN CORPORATE EARTH OPMENT THE WORLD GOVERNHOUR AWARDS. list. 1 March ANCE IN CAMPAIGN Scholarships of €1,000 each were also awarded to 42 young In the SAM (Sustainable Asset Management) assessment, FINLAND by turning off office and store lights for one hour. athletes and art students from the funds. in terms of development and Kesko's responsibility work reporting. 19 April 27 May to 1 June qualified in Kesko was the main partner in the 22 March Helena Rossi, Kesko's OccuTHE SILVER pational Health Physician-in'YOUR CLASS IN PRO LUOMU Charge, was granted MOVE' THE FOOD & ASSOCIATHE 2011 OCCUPAEVENT DRUG TION RETAILERS to promote the organic sector TIONAL in Helsinki. The Sports Event of 2011 attracted more than SECTOR was established; Kesko Food is one of the founding members. HEALTH 42,000 participants aged 13–19 from across Finland. in the Sustainability Yearbook AWARD 2011. for her distinguished work in the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health's training project for the treatment of depression. 8 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 JULY–DECEMBER 5 August 9 September 12 October Agricultural producers, the food For the ninth time, Kesko was Kesko was selected in the DOW JONES STOXX industry and the trading sector included in the gathered together to discuss Finnish food in the GLOBAL ESG PROMOTING sustainability indexes DJSI World and DJSI Europe. LEADERS FINNISH 21 September indexes. FOOD AND A new 21 October WELLBEING TWO-TIER Kesko was awarded the highest 10 November seminar organised by Kesko, Atria and Valio in Lapua. TRAILER score in the Consumer Staples sector in the assessment by the Kesko's 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report was chosen as 24 August was introduced for test use in transportation to K-food stores. NORDIC FINLAND'S Kesko's acquisition of The new kind of trailer helps Kesko cut transportation-related CARBON BEST INTERSPORT carbon dioxide emissions by one DISCLOSURE CORPORATE OPERATIONS third. LEADERSHIP RESPONSIIN RUSSIA climate index. BILITY was concluded. At the end of 2011, Kesko had 36 Intersport 21 October Anttila's new logistics centre REPORT stores in Russia. and students' favourite in received the responsibility reporting 31 August ISO 14001 competition. ANTTILA'S environmental certification. 3 November 31 December NEW LOGISKesko Food developed K-food stores' TICS CENTRE THE WASTE in Kerava was inaugurated. The 22 September KARISMA MANAGEnew logistics centre handles deliveries to all Anttila and Kodin Kesko was included for the third SHOPPING MENT Ykkönen department stores and to NetAnttila customers. time in the CENTRE MODELS FTSE4 was opened in Lahti. The shopin the Greater Helsinki area and GOOD ping centre comprises nearly 80 stores, of which K-citymarket, Uusimaa region during the year. At the end of the year, the waste INDEX Intersport and Kookenkä represent the K-Group chains. The recovery rates of the K-food stores included in the new model focusing on responsible investshopping centre is one of Kesko's were nearly 90%. ment. The score given to Kesko's largest retail projects of all time. work for curbing climate change was 5 on a scale of 0–5. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 9 10 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 THEMES KESKO'S MOST MATERIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY THEMES IMPACT ON SOCIETY12 Kesko operates in the food, home and speciality goods, building and home improvement, and car and machinery trades. Kesko's chain operations comprise around 2,000 stores in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Belarus. WELLBEING AT WORK18 Our programme on wellbeing at work supports employees' wellbeing and the implementation of our business and HR objectives. Wellbeing at work involves the opportunity to do meaningful work, in line with one's abilities, in a supportive working environment. CLIMATE CHANGE WORK24 We contribute to mitigating the progress of climate change by saving energy and increasing waste recycling and recovery. We promote environmentally friendly building, save energy in stores and offer our customers environmentally sustainable products. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND SALES30 Our purchasing principles and policy statements guide our responsible purchasing. We provide regular training for our buyers responsible for sourcing and purchasing as well as our sales assistants serving customers in stores. HEALTHINESS 36 We encourage our customers and employees to adopt healthy lifestyles, eat healthily and be physically active in order to maintain good health and fitness. We offer our customers products and services that help promote health. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 11 Impact on society Kesko operates in eight countries Kesko develops and proThe operations of Kesko and K-retailers genwhich independent K-retailers run retail vides trading sector servicerate economic benefits for shareholders, finance providers, personnel, suppliers of stores in chains managed by Kesko. In Finland, all food and building and home es, employs directly and goods and services and their employees, as improvement stores in the K-Group are run indirectly, arranges the well as municipalities and states. Kesko and K-retailers employ a total of by K-retailers. At the end of 2011, Kesko had 1,102 manufacture of and sells about 45,000 people in eight countries. In K-retailers and about 130 other retailer entreproducts. Kesko operates 2011, Kesko paid a total of €473 million in salaries and other employee benefits in all preneurs as in the Asko, Sotka, Byggmakker and Senukai chains as partners. Kesko's in the food, home and speoperating countries. Kesko's income taxes sales to the retailer entrepreneurs accounted ciality goods, building and totalled €85 million, and the total sum paid in pensions and social security expenses for 52% of Kesko's total sales in 2011. Competitive edge is gained by combinhome improvement, and amounted to €91 million. ing systematic chain operations and the car and machinery trades. Read more about the number of stores on page 5 and in Kesko's Annual Report, on K-retailer operations based on entrepreneurship. Kesko is responsible for the conKesko's chain operations pages 14–29. stant development of the business model comprise around 2,000 K-retailers are responsible and the store concepts, for chain operations management and for sourcing and purchasstores in Finland, Sweden, for customer satisfaction in ing of the products included in the chain Norway, Estonia, Latvia, their stores selections. The K-retailer is responsible for In Finland, K-food stores welcome about his or her store's customer satisfaction, perLithuania, Russia and 900,000 customers every day. The K-food sonnel and profitability of business. Belarus. store network is the most comprehensive in Finland: 964 K-food stores in 301 municiK-retailers listen to the wishes of their clientele and adapt their selections accordpalities in 2011. Around half of the Finnish ingly. Kesko Food's Responsibility Survey population live within one kilometre from for 2011 showed that the following factors a K-food store. are the most important for consumers: The principal business model in the Finnproducts sold by the store are of high qualish market is the chain business model, in ity and durable, health-promoting foods are 12 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Impact on society reasonably-priced, the origins of product ingredients are given, and store employees are treated equally. Data security test Retailer training produces for the safety of payments K-retailers Future K-retailers are trained in the New, uniform chip & pin terminals were installed in all K-stores in 2010–2011. K-retailer training programmes. The trainThe reform also involved the demand that each store employee handling card ing consists of online studies, on-the-job payments has to pass a proficiency test entitling them to a data security certraining under a mentor retailer as well as tificate every year. All temporary employees also have to pass the test if they regional and nationwide classroom instrucwork at the checkout. By March 2012, more than 17,000 K-Group employees tion periods. More than 100 people complete had already completed the test via online training organised by K-instituutti. the programme every year. The retailer entrepreneur path (KYP), a systematic training route for would-be K-retailers, has been developed by Kesko “Retailer training guides well towards “During one hundred years, the work of Food and polytechnics. It has been adapted independent thinking and work. I found K-retailers and their operating environment to constitute an optional module of polyparticularly useful the tools provided for have changed considerably. Nowadays, spetechnic studies. A related cooperation agreeHR management and development and cial focuses in the K-retailer's work are cusment has been signed with 17 polytechnics the comprehensive planning of store tomers' individual needs and expectations, and the model is being further expanded. operations.” increasingly electronic operations, tight “In recent years, more subjects related to “In stores, responsibility is implemented competition in the sector and corporate wellbeing at work, responsibility and social in all operations: by taking care of employee responsibility,” says Matti Mettälä, Managmedia have been added to the retailer trainwellbeing, investing in energy efficient ing Director of the K-Retailers' Association. ing. Students familiarise themselves with refrigeration equipment and recycling waste Around 80% of K-stores are family busione K-environmental store and consider systematically. Responsibility is reflected in nesses. The K-Retailers' Association has the benefits of recycling, for example, from cooperation with local suppliers and selecbeen a member of the Finnish Family Firms the viewpoint of the store and the customer. tions of products with environmental labelAssociation since 2010. They have an exam on responsibility issues, ling and Fairtrade products to customers. In There are several retailer families in the the questions of which are based on differthe best case, the responsible actions of the K-Group, who have experienced the changes ent sections of Kesko's Corporate Responstore encourage customers to start making during the past decades. The Perälä and sibility Report,” says Marketing Manager more responsible choices themselves,” says Rahkonen families have had retailers for Matti Vornanen, who is responsible for Teppo Hirvoila. four generations. Kesko Food's retailer reserve activities. “Juho and Albertiina Perälä founded the In 2011, 78 new K-retailers started their Most K-stores are family Perälä grocery store in Toivakka in 1875. Now careers. Of these, 55 are male (70%) and 23 businesses the store is run by the fourth generation, female (30%). The number of new K-food The K-Retailers' Association, which looks me and my wife Minna,” says Jussi Perälä, retailers is 66, compared with nine building after the interests and promotes the coopretailer of K-rauta Palokka in Jyväskylä. and home improvement retailers, two sports eration of K-retailers, has around 1,230 “The history of our family firm has proretailers and one shoe retailer. The K-market K-retailers as members. The K-Retailers' gressed from a shoemaker's shop to a sports chain had the most new entrepreneurs (42). Association's duties include enhancing store. We have sold everything except for Teppo Hirvoila, Master of Science in Ecoand strengthening K-retailer entrepreneurcars. And we already have the fifth generanomics, passed Kesko Food's retailer trainship as a competitive asset of the K-Group tion growing – our daughter Julia has been ing in April-December 2011 and started as and promoting K-retailers' joint interests working in the store at weekends and our the retailer at K-market Kaarina Center in in the trading sector. The K-Retailers' Assoson Jimi is a willing tester of our bikes,” March 2012. ciation is celebrating its 100th anniversary explains Jarkko Rahkonen, retailer of Interin 2012. sport Imatra. One million NOK from Byggmakker for children's future Byggmakker, Rautakesko's Norwegian subsidiary, is a cooperation partner of Save the Children (Redd Barna). In the past four years, Byggmakker has donated funds reserved for Christmas presents to the organisation. In recent years, Byggmakker has participated in the building costs of three primary schools in Cambodia. In 2012, Byggmakker is selling Save the Children shopping bags and will donate the proceeds in full to the organisation. In 2011, Byggmakker's and retailers' joint support for Save the Children totalled NOK 1,000,000 (€137,000). Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 13 Impact on society We encourage purchasing locally Most of the economic benefit generated by Slow-track checkout won popularity Kesko 85% of Kesko's net sales – goes to suppliers of goods. The slow-track checkout (dubbed “Elä hättäile” in Finnish), which was piloted in In 2011, Kesko's purchases from Finnish K-citymarket Iso Omena in Espoo in late 2011, is aimed at customers who want suppliers totalled €5,436 million and from their grocery shopping to be a more relaxed process. The idea of a slow-track other countries €2,613 million. checkout was developed to meet the everyday needs of customers with mental Kesko is actively increasing the amount disabilities. The checkout also gained great popularity among the elderly and of local purchases and encouraging K-food families with children and enjoyed wide publicity. K-citymarket is now surveyretailers to complement their selections ing the stores in which it can implement the idea. with local products. Retailers' direct purchases from Finnish regions totalled €563 million in 2011. Kesko Food participates in the micro firm 2012. For communication purposes, more K-Plussa points awarded more initiative of the Finnish Grocery Trade Assouse was made of social media channels, than a million times a day ciation (FTGA). The aim of the initiative is to Kesko's Facebook site and the K-trainee vidK-Plussa, the K-Group's customer loyalty provide small grocery sector producers with eos. There were more than 500 applicants to programme, gained over 150,000 new cusinformation on how products are included the programme and the selections will be tomers in 2011. Approximately 2.2 million in K-food stores' selections and what factors made during spring 2012. households – about 84% of all Finnish affect how the product will do in the store. The K-Group provides various training and households – enjoy K-Plussa customer loysummer jobs whenever possible. Most of the alty benefits. The trading sector employs jobs are available in K-stores, but every year K-Plussa benefits are available from young people Kesko also employs thousands of summer more than 3,000 outlets and over 40 busiThe trading sector is the biggest employer employees, job trainees, and young people ness partners. Customers make use of the in the Finnish economy, employing more for short-term orientation to working life customer loyalty programme more than a than one third of all working people aged and for short-term summer jobs called 'Learn million times a day. under 25. Source: The Federation of Finnish and earn'. Kesko participated in the 'ResponAt the end of 2011, a new Traveller's Commerce. sible summer job' 2011 and 2012 campaigns. K-Plussa card was launched for travellers In Finland, 28% of Kesko employees were In 2012, Kesko and the K-Retailers' Associavisiting Finland, so that they can benefit under 26 years in 2011. tion are supporting K-stores' participation from K-Plussa offers when shopping at The trading sector companies and the in the Finnish Family Firms Association's K-Group stores. A contactless K-Plussa cash food manufacturing industry showed a 'Summer job for 10th graders' project. card, which makes shopping easier, was strong increase in the Universum Young Many young store employees are fullintroduced in February 2012. Professionals survey of 2011. Kesko's ranktime students and work during evenings Since October 2011, Helsingin Energia and ing among business economy students and weekends. Retailer Ville Kestilä, who K-Plussa have offered Plussa electricity for increased to 15th from 27th. runs K-supermarket Joutjärvi and K-supertheir customers. It is produced by hydroKesko people regularly visit various market Ahtiala in Lahti, has good experience power and generates K-Plussa points for recruitment fairs as well as business uniof employing young people. those K-Plussa customers who buy it. versities and polytechnics to give informa“All our current 10 part-time employees tion on the K-Group's career and summer job worked for us during their 'orientation to Value discussions continued opportunities, K-trainee programmes and working life' period and continued after in Finland retailer training. that. Young people have a very high work In late 2011, Kesko's legal affairs, risk manThe application period for the fourth ethic. Even the youngest take responsibility agement and internal audit functions K-trainee programme started in February for what they do.” organised a series of value discussions in Kesko Corporation and its division parent companies. At the discussions, the themes included opposing bribery as an important New 'Our Responsible Working part of Kesko's responsible working principles and the management of the business Principles' guide environment in Russia. In the previous year, similar discussions were organised in Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Kesko prepared the first ethical operating instructions for its employees in Russia and Belarus. 1999 to help them with everyday work. In 2007, the instructions were published as a guide titled 'Our Responsible Working Principles'. The guide was Kesko people are active in translated into English and the languages of Kesko's operating countries and organisations it became part of employee induction. Kesko representatives are active in several All Kesko employees are expected to commit themselves to following the national and international organisations, principles in the guide in their own work. Employee familiarisation with the especially in the trading sector. guide is monitored, for example, through an annual employee survey. In May 2011, Kesko hosted the General The guide is being revised in 2012: the contents are being defined, practiAssembly of UGAL, the Union of Groups of Independent Retailers of Europe, in cal examples and instructions are being added to the guide and the visual look Helsinki. The topics of the meeting included will comply with Kesko's new visual image. The new guide will be published in e-commerce and EU regulations. Kesko’s spring 2012. General Counsel Anne Leppälä-Nilsson is a Board member of UGAL. 14 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Impact on society President and CEO Matti Halmesmäki Hospital, and women's clothing and toys Among the building and home improveis a Board member of the Confederation of for the mother and child home in Helsinki. ment trade's chains K-rauta, Rautia and Finnish Industries EK and acted as the Board Byggmakker maintain dialogue with cusDeputy Chair in 2005–2011. At the beginning More online services tomers about building and renovation as of 2012, he was elected the Board Chair of the AND e-COMMERCE well as related products and selections. Federation of Finnish Commerce. An increasingly high number of customers In the home and speciality goods trade, The list of Kesko employees' activiare searching for and comparing products K-city­market and Anttila chains' Facebook ties in major organisations is available at and services and sharing information on the sites became some of the most visited sites www.kesko.fi/responsibility. web. Customers can find detailed informain Finland in a short time. tion about the products online, including, “The K-Group chains' sites and the approxSponsorship for children, for example, a description of an individual imately 200 Facebook sites of K-stores are the young and sustainable product's path from a factory or farm to important channels for customer service development the store. The trading sector must be able and dialogue between store people and In 2011, Kesko and its subsidiaries gave to anticipate customers' future needs and customers. Customers can, for example, financial support amounting to approxiprovide the services they expect. give feedback to stores and present ideas on mately €1.1 million to various organisations Electronic shopping and online retailing selections or easily get replies to their quesand institutions. have become key competitive factors and tions concerning, say, product manufacture, Kesko was the main partner in Your Move, in all the business divisions the strategic origins or use,” says Kesko's Social Business the Sports Event of 2011, organised by the emphasis is on their development. The Director Anne Laakso. Young Finland Association in Helsinki. The objective is to be strongly present throughKesko also publishes news and has six-day event was targeted at young people out customers' purchase transactions, so dialogue with its stakeholders via Twitaged 13–19 and attracted more than 42,000 that customers will be able, if they wish, to ter, LinkedIn and Kesko's Facebook site. participants. The young participants made use web services, from planning their purThe social media channels have also been birdhouses in Kesko's event tent, some of chases to using the products. increasingly introduced for providing inforwhich were donated to parks in Helsinki. Kesko has gained a strong position in mation on vacancies. The theme of Kesko's awards for susonline sales of home and speciality goods “Our own employees should not be forgottainable development presented in 2011 through the netanttila.com, kodin1.com, ten in social media,” Anne Laakso points was materials efficiency. The prizes were konebox.fi, cmstore.fi and budgetsport.fi out and continues: “In addition to Kesko's directed at projects which promote sustainonline stores. Electronic services and e-comintranet, the social media tool Yammer is able production and consumption. Volunmerce are also actively developed in the provided for Kesko employees as an intertary work and the work done with limited building and home improvement trade and nal channel for exchanging news on current resources were also considered valuable. the food trade. issues, finding the best information and The prizes went to Dodo's urban growIn December 2011, K-market Ruoholahti receiving comments from fellow employers, Netcycler Ltd swapping service, the started to test online sales of food through ees. While going social in business changes 'Yritetään yhdessä' (Let's make a joint effort) k-ruokakauppa.fi. Kesko Food is also planthe way customers and companies comassociation, and the Small Green Workshop ning to establish a joint online store with municate with each other, it also changes NY. The total amount awarded was €30,000. the home and speciality goods trade. companies' internal operating models, job Rautakesko and Dodo's urban growers are descriptions, interaction and the speed of cooperating in developing a 'Grow It YourInteraction with customers information flow.” self' service. Read more on page 34. in social media K-citymarket and Anttila donated reflecIn 2011, Kesko, K-Group chains and stores tors to schoolchildren for use during the became active in social media. dark days of autumn, toys to the Children's KESKO IS EXPANDING VIGOROUSLY IN RUSSIA Kesko has had building and home imleast 10 large grocery stores in St. Peters“Kesko Food's country director for Rusprovement operations in Russia since burg and Moscow. sia is a Finn who knows well Kesko and its 2005. At the end of 2011, there were 14 During the planning stage of Kesko operating principles, but nearly all other K-rauta stores in Russia, and the plan is Food's Russian operations, the emphasis management board members are exto open 11 new K-rauta stores in 2012– is on the acquisition of store sites, staff perienced Russian retailing profession2015. recruitment and the preparation of busials. General Director Oleg Buyalski has In August 2011, Kesko acquired Interness processes. The selection and training long experience of management duties sport's Russian business operations and, of the right staff is extremely important, at Auchan and Lenta in Russia. By recruitat the end of the year, there were 36 Interas Kesko Food will employ thousands of ing Russian employees, we want to ensure sport stores in Russia. The aim is to double Russians in the very first years. During a good understanding of local customer the Intersport store network by 2015. the recruitment and induction process, needs, cooperation partners and the opIn 2012–2013, four big grocery stores it must be ensured that all new employerating environment,” says Kesko Food's will be opened in Russia: two in the ees also commit themselves to working in President Terho Kalliokoski. St. Petersburg area and two in the Mosline with Kesko's values and responsibility cow area. The aim is to acquire sites for at guidelines. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 15 Impact on society LOCALLY BAKED PIRKKA BREAD At the turn of the year, the Pirkka product Pirkka products. People are familiar with range was complemented with an up-toproducts made locally. We try to meet the date new arrival: local Pirkka bread. The local taste as well as possible and a local growing demand for local foods is met by bakery is our excellent partner in this,” testing a new business model in K-food says Koppinen-Lindström. stores in the Pirkanmaa region. Pirkka rye Local Pirkka breads arrive at stores in breads, barley breads and buns are baked normal deliveries from the bakery six days by Leivon Leipomo, the local bakery. a week. Purchasing Manager Sirpa KoppinenPirkanmaa and Kanta-Häme were seLindström, who is responsible for Kesko culture that different types of bread are lected as test regions in order to find out Food's bakery and pastry products, says traditionally eaten in different parts of the how customers would receive the new that the impulse to launch local Pirkka country.” Pirkka product concept. breads came from customers. Local Pirkka rye breads, barley breads Pirkka products are manufactured by “Our customers have always loved local, and buns developed in cooperation with more than 130 companies across Finland, genuine flavours. As the leading in-house and baked by Leivon Leipomo meet the which has a positive impact on regional brand in the Finnish retail sector, Pirkka local demand. Customers now find prodemployment. The production of Pirkka follows trends and meets the growing deucts made by a familiar bakery from bread products provides many regional compamand for local foods. Bread was selected departments under the Pirkka brand. nies with an opportunity to increase their to be the product category for our first lo“We want to combine the taste of fasales or gain nationwide distribution for cal food project, because it's in our bread miliar local bread with the high quality of their products. RETAILERS JOIN FORCES TO SEARCH FOR NEW LOCAL FOOD CONTACTS The retailers of seven big K-supermarkets The retailers were particularly interestcoincide,” says Heimo Välinen, retailer of in the Greater Helsinki area – Kontumared in finding new contacts and suppliers. K-supermarket Seilori. ket, Seilori, Mankkaa, Kamppi, Yliveto, “Our customers want to know about The seven K-supermarkets in the area Mustapekka and Hertta – have joined the origins of food and the production sell meat produced nearby and fish forces in the search for new producers and purchasing channels. We want to add caught in nearby waters, for example. In of local and organic foods. The selected more locally produced foods to our selecthe summer and autumn, there are plenvenue was the Elma Food and Countryside tions, because there is a clear demand for ty of vegetables and root crops produced Show in Helsinki in November 2011. that and we want to respond to the comnearby in the stores' selections. petition. It's essential to make the markets KONEKESKO'S SKIPPERS TOOK BOYS AND THEIR ADULT MALE FRIENDS ON A BOAT TRIP For the second time, Konekesko Marine The male friend activities of the Single girls, too. The experiences gained have participated in the voluntary male mate Parents' Association is voluntary work, in been splendid; single parent families have activities by providing a boat trip in sumwhich grown-up men act as friends and had invaluable support and hundreds of mer 2011. Konekesko's skippers Harri role models for children with no contact children have found a safe male role modKosunen and Lasse Niskanen took four with their own fathers or other men. el. The support provided by companies children and their male friends on a one“The Single Parents' Association has and private persons has been essential for day boat trip to the island of Kaunissaari. In been developing adult male friend acour operations,” says Juha Turtiainen, addition to boating, the programme includtivities since 1992 in the Greater Helsinki Executive Director of the Single Parents' ed grilling sausages on an open fire, playing area as an operating model that prevents Association. petanque and an adventure in the woods. the marginalisation of young boys – and 16 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Impact on society KARISMA AND VETURI WERE PLANNED ACCORDING TO CUSTOMER NEEDS Karisma, the first shopping centre that Kesko has planned and had built, was opened in Lahti in November 2011. Kesko's next shopping centre, Veturi, will be opened in Kouvola in autumn 2012. Kesko is participating in around 20 shopping centre projects that are currently underway or being prepared. Customer needs provided the basis for planning both Karisma and Veturi. “A location at the centre of purchasing power, easy access, easy-to-outline space allocation, a profile that suits the area and the use of natural light,” says Mika Ohenoja, Director of Kesko Food's shopping centre operations, listing the factors that provide the keys to a shopping centre's success. “Customers also value easy shopping, recycling points and baby care facilities.” In the future, the population will intaking the big picture into account as part “BREEAM certification, which defines creasingly settle in towns and cities. of the more comprehensive development the impact of construction on the enviOhenoja believes that shopping centres of society. Kesko wants to be an active part ronment, is applied at the centre during will become so-called hybrid centres, of society and at the forefront when shopthe construction phase. The timetables complemented with connected residenping centre operations are developed.” for public transport will be communicated tial or office premises and public services. In the construction of the Veturi shopto customers automatically on info boards “The Land Use and Building Act is beping centre, currently being built in and there will be recharge points for eleccoming stricter as far as the building of Kouvola, the perspective of sustainable tric cars. From the construction phase on, large units is concerned. Constructors development has been taken into account the heating of the shopping centre is prohave to assume more responsibility for from the very beginning. vided with ground heat,” says Ohenoja. K-PLUSSA AND K-RETAILERS PROMOTE REGIONAL YOUTH ACTIVITIES The main emphasis in K-stores' support important main cooperation partner of and offices of Kesko and K-retailers in and activities is to provide support to children Juniori KuPS. around the town. Support given to Juniori and the young. K-Plussa, the K-stores' cus“K-Plussa's sponsorship service enKuPS is a natural part of K-stores' regional tomer loyalty programme, also has long courages and supports retailers in local responsibility work. traditions in providing support for youth cooperation models. It's great that such “The work done by Juniori KuPS is good work. Juniori KuPS, the supporters' assoan extensive programme has been built in for society. Football teaches children sociation of the Kuopion Palloseura football Kuopio to support important youth work,” cial skills and encourages them to take club, and the K-retailers in Kuopio signed says Heli Törrönen, Customer Relationpart in physical activities. We want to an extensive three-year cooperation ship Director of K-Plus Oy. support the sports activities of children agreement in December 2011, which will There are about one thousand memand the young, and not only competitive ensure that the youth work of KuPS will bers playing in Juniori KuPS teams. The sports,” explains Kari Niskanen, Kesko's continue into the future. club's A and B juniors play in the national District Director for Eastern Finland. K-retailers see the support given to football league of Finland, whereas Juniori In addition to Juniori KuPS, K-Plussa and Juniori KuPS as something that ensures KuPS is responsible for running 14 junior K-retailers provided support to around the continuity of youth work that is imteams and 14 district teams. 100 other junior teams in Finland in 2011. portant locally. Thanks to the agreement, K-stores play a significant role in the K-Plussa and K-retailers together are an area of Kuopio: there are about 30 stores Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 17 Wellbeing at work A SENSE OF WELLBEING THROUGHOUT ONE'S CAREER The pillars on which wellbeA sense of wellbeing at work is something The aim of Kesko's programme on wellbeing at work is built in Kesko each of us experiences in our own way. For one person, wellbeing at work means a ing at work is to support employees' wellbeing and the implementation of Kesko's are the programme on good job, motivation, joy and enthusiasm business and HR objectives. wellbeing at work and the about work, while for someone else it means health, working capacity, safety or produc“Maintaining and improving wellbeing at work increases employees' job satisfaction management model. These tivity. and motivation, decreases sickness, lengthare divided into work and Janna Pirhonen, Kesko's Manager for Wellbeing at Work, defines wellbeing at ens careers and improves the employer image, also increasing personnel productivcompetence, management work like this: ity. It's nice to come to a healthy workplace and leadership, life man“Wellbeing at work involves, for example, the opportunity to do meaningful work, in and working community in the morning,” says Janna Pirhonen. agement and the working line with one's abilities, in a safe, pleasant community. and supportive working environment. In a Work and competence healthy and profitable community, memWellbeing at work and competence go hand bers support each other's work performance in hand. Wellbeing at work is based on the and take care of their own mental and physifact that employees feel that they know how cal wellbeing. The employer creates the right to do their jobs. In the constantly changing conditions for success and is, for its part, operating environment, maintaining and responsible for the wellbeing of the working improving competence is in the interests of community.” both the employee and the employer. Joint responsibility for Wide range of training wellbeing Employees can improve their competence Wellbeing at work and a good working comin many ways: by learning from their felmunity do not come about by themselves. low employees and work units, participating The supervisor and all members of the workin various development projects, attending ing community all have to do their bit. 18 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Wellbeing at work courses and trainings, reading trade literature or studying online. K-instituutti, which is a Kesko subsidiary, Productivity organises training for Kesko employees and Job satisfaction store personnel. The courses available cover a wide range and many targets groups, such as sales assistants working behind cheese counters, new supervisors, managers learning Russian or communications officers maintaining different companies' Facebook pages. In 2011, around 23,800 K-Group employees studied at K-instituutti. Life management Work and competence In 2011, nearly 200 Kesko employees studied English in the EF online language school provided by K-instituutti. “My interest in new methods of learning speeded up the start of my studies. I can study at any time most suitable for me using my own computer and, best of all, the Working community Management and group may consist of students from all over leadership the world. Group discussions take place in the EF learning environment, in which everyone takes their turn just like in a real classroom, by indicating so. It's really worth coming along to learn new things,” says an enthusiastic Tarja Toivanen, Kesko Food's HR Manager. Aptitude assessment helps in recruitment From the perspective of wellbeing at work, it's important that the employee's duties Responsibility are suitably demanding. When work is sufficiently challenging without being overwhelming, people enjoy their work and are motivated. “Job requirements and employee An aptitude assessment provides the When searching for a new employee for resources have to match. An experienced, supervisor with important information Kesko or a new retailer for a store, an aptiskilled employee gets frustrated if the about the future employee's character, tude assessment is often done for appliduties are not challenging enough. But if objectives and motivation. Every employee cants. In the assessment, a psychologist the duties are too demanding, the employee who has been assessed is given a copy of examines how the applicant's abilities meet gets stressed and, in the worst case, suffers the psychologist's report. This enables the requirements of the vacancy. Annually, burnout,” says Tommi Lehtinen, Partner employees to develop their self-knowledge Kesko orders approximately 500 aptitude Consultant (PsM) and Kesko's Customer and obtain an assessment of their individual assessments or resource surveys from Relationship Manager at Psycon Corporaabilities. Psycon Corporation, its cooperation partner. tion. Management and leadership In management and leadership, communicating the company's and the unit's strategies and objectives clearly is essential. Support for wellbeing of veteran Each and every employee has to know the objectives of their work and get feedback on employees in Oulu implementing them. With their leadership, supervisors create a basis for a good working atmosphere, which Kesko's District Centre of Northern Finland has nearly 20 employees aged over all employees can strengthen through their 55, with long careers in various divisions. The mission is to keep these key vetown behaviour. eran employees working and fit as long as possible. The six-month training for wellbeing at work, organised for 15 employees Management model for wellbeing at of the district office, started in November 2011. The purpose is to provide the work launched employees with the means for taking care of their own wellbeing, health and Kesko's joint management model for wellability to work. The training includes a health check-up, a heart rate variation being at work was completed at the beginanalysis that measures stress and recovery, and a fitness test. An individual wellning of 2011. During the year, the model was discussed in the management boards being programme is prepared for each participant, with the aim of providing of the companies and it is now used in all support for wellbeing and advice for future working years. companies and operating countries. During the year, Groupand company-level action Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 19 Wellbeing at work plans for developing wellbeing at work were also prepared. PHYSICAL EXERCISE AND Training for supervisors on wellbeing THE RIGHT POSTURE PREVENT at work MANY PROBLEMS Kesko has around 1,200 supervisors in Finland, of whom about 500 participated in trainings on wellbeing at work in 2011. Most employees of Byggmakker Norge AS the possibility of registering the exercise Training provides supervisors with informawork in the office, where the main risk facand collecting points. The employee with tion on leadership, uniform practices and tors include ergonomic stress and the unthe most points during the week was givinitiatives concerning wellbeing at work. even distribution of work-load. Byggmaken a gift voucher for the local sports store. This helps them better support and develop ker has realised that it is best to focus on Byggmakker's health care provider the motivation and working capacity of the prevention of any possible problems. conducted collective group trainings in employees in their own units. In 2011, every employee's workstation the gym, demonstrating movements one Training events on wellbeing at work and posture were analysed and adjusted could perform to strengthen vulnerable include discussions on what kinds of signs for proper ergonomic benefit. During areas and prevent ergonomic strain. In in daily situations should raise an alarm the ergonomic week in autumn 2011, all accordance with Kesko’s well-being prowith supervisors so that an issue related employees were given a rubber band, a gramme, the responsibility for one's own to work performance, time management, harassment, bullying at work or physical hand-squeezer and a five-minute exerhealth was communicated throughout and mental working capacity has to be dealt cise programme. They were encouraged the week. with. Participants also discuss the actions a to perform the exercises once a day, with supervisor could take to promote wellbeing in the working community. Supervisors complete practical exercises on raising difficult subjects. For example, what to do if an employee is continually absent on sick leave or if the results of the VV-Autotalot Oy, who was one of the partheir own wellbeing and what to take into unit's personnel survey are poor. The idea is ticipants at the training. account in their own lifestyle. that joint discussions promote employees' A summary report was also compiled of all wellbeing at work, improve working condiLife management the replies that are used for planning various tions and the efficiency of the working comThe balance between work and leisure activities. According to the survey, the state munity, alleviate work-load and enhance plays an important role in our wellbeing. of wellbeing at Kesko is at a good average competence. The employer is responsible for creating level when compared with other Finnish refSupervisors in the car and machinery the conditions for success and wellbeing at erence material. 69% of respondents were trade participated in the 'Let's Talk about work. However, the ultimate responsibility satisfied with their own work. The lifestyle Work' training in the Hämeenkylä mansion for wellbeing lies with every individual. and health results of employees were above in Vantaa in November 2011. the average and 80% of respondents felt that “The programme for the day was very State of wellbeing surveyed at Kesko their ability to work was good. practical and the exercises gave us many More than 2,200 Kesko employees replied to “About half of the respondents suffered ideas for solving challenging situations. the wellbeing survey via Keskonet, Kesko's from problems with the neck and shoulIt was also very useful to receive feedintranet, in spring 2011. Each respondent der area and there also remains room for back on your own way of performing and was given individual feedback on the results improvement in issues related to working acting”, says Martti Muona, Director of of the survey and tips on how to improve capacity. The survey also revealed a clear Fit Kesko employees The K-fitness course is intended for Kesko employees and the programme has been planned by the K-instituutti training centre and Kesko's Occupational Health Service with the aim of supporting employees' physical and mental wellbeing. Participants attend a one-week K-fitness course, followed by a weekend refresher after six months. During the follow-up weekend, changes in wellbeing are discussed and new targets are sought together in a group. In 2011, eight K-fitness courses were organised, with 138 Kesko employees participating. There were 84 participants in the course for the over-40-yearolds, 14 participants in the course for over-60-year-olds, 20 in the course for 25–39-year-olds and 20 participants in the course with a focus on working capacity, which will also be the main theme of the courses in 2012. 20 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Wellbeing at work connection between supervisors' managethe wellbeing of the brain and the imporing capacity of employees and work-load. ment of wellbeing issues and employees' tance of communications and interaction The index is calculated on the basis of the motivation and productivity. This also calls in the working community. Information on following statements: for development from us in some respects,” the events and lectures was also available ■■ I feel that I can cope well with my work. says Janna Pirhonen, Manager for Wellbeing on Keskonet. ■■ I feel that my work and leisure are at Work. In spring 2012, the wellbeing event will be mainly in balance. organised in Oulu and for the second time ■■ I'm enthusiastic about my work. Guide provides tips for better in Tampere. ■■ I can influence my work and its content. wellbeing at work In autumn 2011, the Occupational Health Working community In 2011, the wellbeing at work index at the Service and Human Resources units pubIn a good working community, it's a pleasGroup level was 3.75, the same as the year lished a guide on wellbeing at work, which ure to work with other people. An effective before. was translated into the languages of all working community achieves the targets set Among Kesko employees aged under 26, operating countries. Supervisors were given for it and copes with many kinds of situatotal satisfaction was very high (3.95 for instructions to distribute the guide to all tions. Every member of the working comthose aged 20–25 and 4.01 for those under employees in their units. munity contributes to, and is responsible 20). The most critical age category was The guide covers various factors of wellfor, the atmosphere. Every employee's atti26–35-year-olds, who expressed a wish for being at work and provides tips and ideas tude and enthusiasm affect the atmosphere investment in training and development on how to start the change towards better of the whole working community. opportunities, in particular. wellbeing at work. “Kesko is revising the model of the comThe guide contains information about The personnel survey supports the petence survey, which will also improve our working community skills and leadership development of the working opportunities for more systematic personand gives practical advice on diet and physicommunity nel development,” says Janna Pirhonen. cal exercise. The advice given in the guide The wellbeing of the working community The results are used to develop or mainis based on general recommendations in and the quality of management are meastain the good operations of the unit. Over the these areas. ured at Kesko and its chain stores with an years, Training Manager Pirjo Kostiainen annual personnel survey. from K-instituutti has been giving support Measurement and information on the In the 2011 survey, the Kesko Group's to many of Kesko's units going through the wellbeing event results improved on the previous year's. results. A wellbeing event for the office employees The total satisfaction was 3.90 (scale 1–5) “Group work methods help in keeping the in Tampere and Katajanokka, Helsinki, was and increased by 0.06 on the previous year. discussion balanced and solution-oriented. organised in May 2011. Marks given for the performance of superBreaking routines is worth a try, a new way Employees had a chance to take wellbevisors and the development of the working of discussing job satisfaction in a group ing-related tests and measurements, such community improved the most. The total may reveal new features in your fellow as blood pressure, blood sugar, waistline, average given for the performance of superemployees and create fresh understanding body composition, pressing power, balance visors was 3.90 (+0.07), while the developand appreciation. It's good to proceed with and endurance of upper limbs. ment of the working community was rated small steps and follow the progress, say, on a Information was provided on self-care, at 3.91 (+0.07). quarterly basis,” says Kostiainen, describing the risk of adult diabetes, nutrition and For two years now, the development of her experience. other issues related to health and wellbeing. wellbeing at work has been monitored with Lectures were given with information about the help of an index that measures the workWe assemble in the passage Take a break and do some exercises, rolling and stretching our bodies, stiff Office workers often sit for most of from work. At the same time, the day. It is, however, a good idea we have a chance to talk about to take an occasional break, as too this and that. Depending on the much sitting can cause problems day, there are around 10 of us, with muscles and joints. Kesko Food's which is roughly one third of all product research people know this employees in the unit. After a and get together for some exercisshort break, it's nice to get back es every day – something they have to work again,” say Research Asbeen doing for 10 years. sistant Suvi Cuny and Home Economics Teacher Sanna Huovilainen. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 21 Wellbeing at work 6 3 4 1 2 5 Flexibility in work There are times in people's working careers when the balance between work and private life has to be reconciled. Maternity and paternity leaves, child-care leaves, study leaves and job alternation leaves become familiar to many employees. Some Kesko employees describe how Anu was responsible for the home For Jarkko, who works as a real they reconcile work and leisure: 2 textiles department at K-citymarket 3 estate manager, taking paternity Jumbo until the summer 2011. In the auleave following the birth of his first child Taija has been translating Kesko's tumn, when her firstborn started school, went without saying. Jarkko was pleased 1 documents into and from English for Anu took her job alternation leave. The to notice that his boss was most encour36 years, and since August 2010 as a partlittle schoolgirl had support for her days aging. time pensioner. during the autumn, while her five-year“I work for three days a week and have old sister could enjoy her mother's com“I took paternity leave of 11 days right two days off. My work as a translapany. Anu herself had time for physical after our daughter was born and will tor is busy when financial statements exercise, handicrafts and meeting her take the remaining seven days later and annual publications, for example, friends. in the spring. My paternity leave was come out. Being a part-time pensioner “I started my study leave at the end of very significant for my family as you provides me with some flexibility: I can 2011, right after my job alternation can never get back the first moments occasionally work more and postpone leave. The plan is that after two years I of a newborn child's life. I will have my some days off. Now, I've got more time will have completed my studies and I'll paternity month possibly when my for my leisure interests, such as physibe a qualified interior decorator. Both daughter is about one year. And, of cal exercise and studying Italian. And it of the periods of leaves have been very course, I will take my turn and care for also gives me energy for the last years important for me. Such an investment her if she is sick, if needed, later when at work!” in my family, developing myself and she goes to nursery.” my wellbeing cannot be measured by money alone.” study leave, job alternation leave part-time pension Anu Roehr paternity leave Taija Mäentaka Sales Assistant Jarkko Hanninen Translator, Kesko Corporation K-citymarket Jumbo, Vantaa Real Estate Manager, Kesko Food Ltd 22 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Wellbeing at work Satu, who works as a communicaLotta has been working in various Toni, who works as a product man4 tions officer in Kesko's District Of5 jobs at K-citymarket Länsikeskus in 6 ager for VV-Auto Group Oy, has been fice of Southeastern Finland, has two Turku since 2000. In January 2012, after doing part of his job as distance work sons: Oliver, who is 11 years and Emil, her maternity leave and child-care leave, since 2011. Toni and his wife Mari wantwho is two and a half. Satu took care of she returned to work and is now on parted to have 'a safety network' to help with her youngest child at home for two years time child-care leave. She works in the the everyday life of the family and chiluntil August 2011, first on maternity leave home textiles department for five days a dren and decided to move to Punkalaiand then on child-care leave. month. dun, closer to their relatives. Usually, Toni “I took child-care leave because the “I'm really pleased with this opportuworks in the VV-Auto offices in Vantaa idea of taking a baby of less than a year nity to have 'a soft landing'. Two small for two days a week and in his office in old to a day nursery seemed strange. children take up much of a parent's Punkalaidun for three days a week. I wanted my child to enjoy unhurried strength: you sleep fewer hours and “Thanks to distance work, I have more days during his first couple of years. the kids are often sick. Now I can stay time for my family and, when working My return to work has gone well, and at home with my youngest one withat home, I manage to make better proit certainly helps a lot that I can agree out fretting over how much work is left gress with projects that demand conwith my supervisor to work at home undone. My boss has been very posicentration. My main customers, car when my child is sick. With the help of tive about this leave and I can go back salespeople, have not even noticed my laptop and mobile, I can perform to full-time work so long as I give her any change – things are dealt with usmany of my duties well at home.” enough notice.” ing the telephone and e-mail messages in the same way as before.” child care leave part-time child care leave Satu Harden Lotta Tammi part-time distance work District Communications Officer Department Assistant Toni Nieminen Kesko/Southeastern Finland K-citymarket Länsikeskus, Turku Product Manager, VV-Auto Group Oy THE RIGHT PERSON FOR THE RIGHT JOB K-citymarkets have a great demand for act as the chairpersons. The topic under and supervisors, who also have K-citycompetent employees. New stores are discussion may be associated with a cusmarket's recruitment specialists at their being opened and old ones are being tomer encounter at a store, for example. disposal. Recruited employees have been refurbished. “This calls for competent Group interviews reveal the role which motivated and enthusiastic, which has people and an effective and efficient reis the most natural for the applicant in sithad a direct impact on the performance cruitment system, which ensures that the uations of interaction. After the interview, of new stores. applicants' abilities meet with our expeceveryone has an opportunity to show his “I was recruited as a sales assistant for tations. Employment relationships have or her practical skills with customers in a the home department of K-citymarket to succeed from the very beginning,” store, while also getting an idea of real reTammisto through the new model in Januexplains Sauli Ylöstalo, K-citymarket's tail store duties. Applicants' performances ary 2011. I think the model is really effecDevelopment Director, who has develare assessed and monitored in the store tive and practical. In store situation tasks, oped the recruitment process. exercise section with the help of various applicants can demonstrate how efficient The revised training recruitment procase tasks. Attention is paid to stress toland competent they are. You can always cess begins with setting objectives. Differeration, customer-orientation and the say that you are customer service orientent competencies are required from hyability to take fast action. On the basis of ed but the reality may be something else. permarket directors and sales assistants. the assessment, some of the applicants Now, I'm a manager trainee alongside my Based on the objectives, applications are are accepted for individual interviews, regular work and my aim is to work as a screened and those who are selected are and the best of these are recruited to K-citymarket department manager in the invited to a recruitment event held in the K-citymarkets. future,” says Pia Malmberg, who is satishypermarket. Recruitment starts with a Hypermarket directors have praised the fied with her work at K-citymarket Tamgroup interview, in which applicants disnew recruitment model, which makes the misto in Vantaa. cuss the topics given and take turns to entire process less arduous for directors Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 23 CLIMATE CHANGE WORK CHOICES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ENVIRONMENT In its operations, Kesko Kesko has signed the trading sector energy environmental categories for properties. contributes to mitigating efficiency agreement and committed to saving 65 GWh of energy by the end of 2016 Kesko uses internationally well-known systems for environmental categorisation, the the progress of climate by improving the efficiency of its energy British BREEAM or the American LEED syschange by saving energy consumption through various energy saving actions. The amount corresponds to the tems best suited for retail store properties. “We pilot the BREEAM system in categoand increasing waste recyannual energy consumption of over 3,200 rising the environmental impacts of the cling and recovery. We also one-family houses. Kesko actively participates in energy disVeturi shopping centre opening in Kouvola in late 2012, for example,” says Kesko Food's want to help our customers cussions and the development of energy Maintenance Manager Jari Suuronen. and business partners to legislation in Finland. Kesko is one of the owners of Suomen ElFi Oy, through which it In 2011, special attention in building contracting was paid to the heat insulation contribute to the same makes statements and takes stands on matcapacity of the outer shell of the building effect. ters which are considered to have an impact on the electricity market and the position of and to improving its tightness, which are highly important for energy efficiency. electricity users. Kesko Food's Maintenance The results of tightness measurement in Manager Jari Suuronen is a member of the K-supermarket Jääli, opened in March 2012, Board of Suomen ElFi Oy. were excellent. “The K-supermarket Jääli building was We promote environmentally designed to have a tight structure and good friendly building ventilation management in order to save The design of a new store site or shopping energy. Oulu University of Applied Sciences centre relies on sustainable development, conducted the tightness measurements, environmental friendliness and energy effiwhich gave the building an excellent result ciency. When building new stores and renoof 0.2 1/h. The tighter the building, the lower vating existing ones, we use solutions that the value,” says Jari Suuronen. reduce the consumption of materials and Rautakesko is building new, increasingly energy during the lifecycles of properties. energy efficient stores in both Finland and Kesko contributes to the development other operating countries. Thanks to tightof green building and is a member Green ness and efficient heat recovery in particuBuilding Council Finland (FIGBC). FIGBC's lar, good results have been achieved in the main tasks include encouraging the use of energy consumption of stores modelled on 24 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 CLIMATE CHANGE WORK the new energy efficient concepts developed by Rautakesko and its partners. “K-rauta Lahti's air tightness value was climate change 0.4 1/h and K-rauta Uppsala's was 0.2 1/h. These are very good results, because values The ongoing climate change, which is the result of human activity, is primarbetween 0–1 on the scale for one-family ily caused by the increasing amount of greenhouse gases, especially carbon houses, for example, mean 'very tight', those dioxide (CO2), in the atmosphere. If emissions continue to grow at the current between 2–5 are 'normal' and over 10 means rate, the accelerating greenhouse effect will raise the global average tempera'very leaky',” says Rautakesko's Building ture by approximately 2–6 degrees by the end of the century. About one third Manager Petri Mörk. of emissions are produced by housing, one third by transport and the rest by food and other consumer products. Store refrigeration equipment makes use of Source: The Finnish Meteorological Institute, the Finnish Environment Insticarbon dioxide The cooling of chest freezers and other tute (SYKE). refrigeration equipment generates condensation heat which can be used for heating. The condensation heat from cooling units is “Residents of one-family houses are very Stores enhance their energy recovered in nearly all K-food stores. These familiar with ground heat by now. It was consumption in many ways stores only need additional heat energy in in record demand in 2011. Hybrid heating Energy management and energy efficiency very low sub-zero temperatures. solutions and solar energy in particular are are emphasised in K-stores by means of Nowadays, increasingly many K-food expected to become increasingly popular,” maintenance operations and continuous stores save energy also by using carbon says Sales Manager Vesa Saarenheimo of monitoring conducted jointly by retaildioxide recovered from industry processes Rautakesko. ers. The store site maintenance organisaas refrigerant. A ground heating system was adopted tion has been trained for effective energy “Recovered carbon dioxide is a safe refrigat the Veturi shopping centre in Kouvola management. erant and it does not deplete the ozone layer already at the construction stage. Half of the The biggest energy savings in stores are like freons, which were used earlier but are cooling and heating power of the shopping achieved by providing chest freezers with forbidden today. The stores using carbon centre is derived from the ground. Veturi lids, by ensuring correct use of technical dioxide as refrigerant consume 30% less also uses a carbon dioxide system for the systems and by using LED illuminated signs. heat energy than stores using other refrigstore refrigeration units. The refrigeration equipment of all new erants,” says Maintenance Manager Jari “In the summer, Veturi is cooled with K-food stores has lids and doors. The total Pihlajamaa of Kesko Food. ground cooling and, in the winter, the same length of lids and doors on K-food stores’ holes convey ground heat. The shopping refrigeration equipment is nearly seven Ground heat as a source of centre only needs district heat in very low kilometres. heat in one-family houses sub-zero temperatures. Veturi is situated on In 2011, K-food stores added doors to and shopping centres a rocky, 14-hectare site with yard areas suffitheir juice and dairy cabinets. K-citymarket In recent years, ground heat pumps have cient for accommodating about 130 cooling/ Hämeensaari, opened in early September, become increasingly popular as heating heating wells. This gave us an opportunity was one of the first stores to have doors on systems. In 2011, ground heat was chosen to adapt new technologies to our store site dairy cabinets. for some 45% of new buildings. Ground construction. Not only does the shopping “We are very satisfied with our dairy cabiheat pumps utilise the solar energy stored centre benefit from them, but it also gives us nets with doors. Protecting the environment just beneath the ground surface or water useful information for our future projects, also saves money. The annual saving in elecsystems. says Building Contractor Manager Seppo tricity achieved by this is about 30% comK-rauta displayed ground heating and Kemppainen of Kesko Food. pared to not having doors on the cabinets. other housing solutions which save energy Read more about Veturi on page 17. An even temperature enabled by doors also at its stand at the Housing Fair in Kokkola in summer 2011. Eco Point Pilot also accepts plastic packaging a recovery network and an operating model The waste legislation to be enforced at the beginning of May for discarded consumer 2012 will change producers' liability for packaging and set packaging which would be efficient in respect of the new requirements on the organisation of packaging recovenvironment and costs and fulfil the requirements of the new ery by consumers. Kesko Food is participating in the Eco waste legislation. Point Pilot research project on household waste run by the Eco Point Pilot encourages customers to return their packaging producer communities, the trading sector and sorted household waste to the eco points at stores during municipal waste treatment plants from January 2012 until shopping trips. In addition, the pilot point also accepts conAugust-September 2012. sumers' plastic packaging. The eco points will continue to Five K-food stores in the Tampere and Kuopio areas are collect other sorts of waste, such as cardboard, glass and involved in the project. The project is aimed at establishing metal, as before. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 25 CLIMATE CHANGE WORK improves the quality and shelf life of products. Customers fully understand why we have added doors to the cabinets. There is no sense in letting the cold escape; we don't leave the fridge door open at home either,” says retailer Juha Ketola of K-citymarket Hämeensaari. The right lighting in the right place Let's eat according to the season! Energy saving in stores and homes is posHow might stores tell consumers according to the season: Finnish tosible by planning the lighting and choosing about climate friendly product altermatoes, cucumbers, peas and strawthe right kind of lighting. natives? This was the issue discussed berries in the summer and vegetable Energy saving LED lights are used in the by the CANEMU project food team marrows, outdoor cucumbers, apnew illuminated signs of all K-Group stores. consisting of District Sales Manager ples and mushrooms in the autumn. The resulting savings, compared to traditional neon and fluorescent tube solutions, Hanna Lähde of Kesko Food, reIdeal shopping items in the winter are are 60–70%. The Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen tailer Taina Jansén of K-supermarroot vegetables, frozen berries and department stores have saved approximately ket Hannunniittu, Turku and Discitrus fruits. In the spring, aspara35% of their electricity consumption by trict Communications Officer Teija gus and rhubarb could be added to using adjustable and directional lighting Hakula of Kesko's District of Souththe shopping basket. In late 2010, systems. western Finland. Kesko joined the supporters of the As a result of the law enacted by the EU The group reminds us that it would CANEMU project for carbon neutral for more efficient energy use, incandescent be better for the environment to eat municipalities. bulbs will disappear completely from stores in Finland in September 2012, and C-class halogen bulbs by 2016. Depending on the ery of biological waste, for example, and ment is a result of using recyclable pallets, purpose, different types of bulbs, ranging in the centralisation of stores' waste manamong other things. The logistics centre was from energy saving bulbs, or compact fluoagement reporting. At the end of 2011, the granted the ISO 14001 environmental certifirescent lamps, to LED lamps and halogens, recovery rates of K-food stores complying cate in autumn 2011. can be used for household lighting. with the new operating system were nearly 90%,” says Environmental Manager Timo New warehouse for the Waste recovery Jäske of Kesko Food. products of the building and Kesko Food's objective is to direct all generAnttila's new logistics centre in Kerava home improvement trade ated waste to recycling and energy recovhandles deliveries to all Anttila and Kodin Rautakesko's logistics services are provided ery. The recycling rate of waste from Kesko Ykkönen department stores and NetAnttila by Itella Logistics, which is building a new Food's warehouse and terminal operations customers. The heating energy consumplogistics centre in Orimattila and is set for improved to nearly 95% in 2011. tion of the logistics centre is approximately completion in summer 2013. The logistics Kesko Food developed operating systems one fourth and its electric energy consumpcentre will use sonar control for goods for K-food stores' waste management in tion approximately one third of the old picking and the premises will be heated by Kesko's Greater Helsinki Area and Uusimaa warehouse located in Hämeenkylä, Vantaa. a hybrid system using ground heat and gas. districts in 2011. The recovery rate of the new logistics centre Rautakesko's cooperation with Itella “The development project included the stands at 99% compared to the 97% rate of Logistics covers warehousing, terminal adoption of new technologies in the recovthe Hämeenkylä warehouse. The improveoperations and transportation of building Kodin Ykkönen's and Anttila's energy saving lighting solutions The illumination of Kodin Ykkönen Tamcal,” says Anne Jaakkola, Store Design The Anttila Hyvinkää store has underpere Lielahti has been designed with speManager of Anttila Oy. gone an extensive renovation, including cial attention to atmosphere and good The lighting system was implemented the replacement of its lighting system. The product displays. The aim has been to successfully, which was recognised when department store has an unusual lightmake a visit to the store a pleasant and Kodin Ykkönen Tampere Lielahti received ing control system, even by international impressive total experience. an honorary mention in the Lighting Solustandards. The departments feature mo“Non-directional lighting was reduced, tion of the Year 2011 competition. In the tion sensors that increase and decrease enabling products to be highlighted with competition, participants were evaluated lighting according to customer flows. The lower power directional light fittings. As in terms of lighting technology requirepower of basic lighting devices has been a result, electricity consumption has fallments, economic and ecological elereduced and the number of spotlights inen by about 35% compared to previous ments, creative use of modern technolcreased for a better display of products. lighting solutions. Good lighting is soft, ogy and contribution to the purpose of As a result, electricity consumption has elegant and effective, but also economiuse, the architectural total solution and fallen substantially compared to the old ambient comfort. lighting system. 26 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 CLIMATE CHANGE WORK and home improvement and agricultural a slice of rye bread or a single slice of ham trade products. In addition to Finland, Itella ending up as waste is enough to cause a partners with Rautakesko in Sweden, Norhigher environmental impact than the proway, Estonia, Latvia and Russia. duction of the packaging and waste management. Source: MTT Agrifood Research Food waste has the highest Finland. environmental impact Kesko Food participates in the ECOPAF Consumers can have an impact on the carresearch project run by Tekes – the Finnish bon dioxide emissions of their food when Funding Agency for Technology and Innovamaking choices in the store or actions tion and MTT Agrifood Research Finland, to at home by weighing up options such find out whether the properties of foodstuffs Ivana Helsinki's design called as: “Should I buy beef, Baltic herrings or packaging, such as size and usability, have 'Auringonkehrä', gave the Pirkka oranges?” or “Should I fry or cook in the any significance in the generation of food reusable bag a new look. oven? ”. wastage. Stores help customers choose by adding “It is important that we are involved in environmental or carbon footprint labels research projects that provide information on environmentally friendly products, for example. In autumn 2011, Pirkka potatoes to support our solutions. For one thing, foodstuffs are not overpackaged nowadays. Shopping bag were the first Pirkka product to carry a carbon footprint label. Read more on page 34. A more problematic issue is that foodstuffs packaging does not survive the distribudoes make Finns discard around 23 kg/person of edition chain of logistics. Moreover, packaging a difference ble food per year. Many of us do not think sizes should be suited to different sizes of that food ending in waste has the highest families,” says Packaging Specialist Marju Most customers continue to environmental impact. No more than half Erävaara of Kesko Food. pack their shopping into an ordinary plastic bag. There are, however, reusable bags, biodegradable plastic bags and recycled plastic bags available at store Passive commercial building checkouts. in Raisio uses solar energy The Pirkka recycled plastic bag, which received the 2010 Recovery Award of the Year, is The Kodin Ykkönen department store, Lylykangas Architects, also participating made of 90% recycled plastic. which is scheduled to open in Kuninkoja, in the project, aim to set target levels for Nearly all plastic waste from Raisio, in spring 2013, will be the first pasthe energy consumption of passive comKesko Food's largest grocery sive commercial building in the Nordic mercial buildings. warehouse is directed to the countries. The building highlights mini“Some 70% of the energy consumption manufacture of bags. mised energy use and the utilisation of reof residential buildings is used for heatnewable energy. The aim is to gain annual ing the premises and household water, electricity savings corresponding to the and 30% is attributable to real estate and The Question of the Day on consumption of as many as 56 one-family household electricity. In a typical comKesko­net, the Kesko intranet, houses heated with electricity. mercial building, the proportions are the revealed many friends of the re“We want to find a building system for other way round, in other words, heating cyclable bag: commercial buildings that is as responsiaccounts for some 25% of the total energy ble as possible. It involves several subconconsumption and electricity for 75%,” says Question tractors who get the opportunity to try Riikka Holopainen, Senior Research Scicompletely new types of environmentally entist of VTT Technical Research Centre of the Day friendly solutions in commercial building. of Finland. What kind of bag do you use Responsibility will also be highlighted in Energy efficiency in Kodin Ykkönen most often for your shopping? the services and products offered by the Raisio will be achieved by the recovery of Reusable bag Kodin Ykkönen store in Raisio. Consumers heat from ventilation, air tight structures 54% are interested in products that help reduce and lighting solutions, taking customer Recycled plastic bag the consumption of electricity, for exammovement into account. These functions 7% ple,” says Matti Pohjola, Sales Director of are controlled by highly sophisticated real Biodegradable plastic bag Kodin Ykkönen. estate automation systems. Eco-efficient operations will enable the heating energy 1% New ideas for energy consumption of the department store to Paper bag efficiency be reduced by some 60% and electricity 2% The building project is part of the Sustainconsumption by some 50% compared to Ordinary plastic bag able Community Technology programme a traditional department store. In addition, 36% of Tekes – the Finnish Funding Agency for the department store will have a photovolTotal responses: 648 Technology and Innovation. VTT Technitaic solar energy system. There are only a cal Research Centre of Finland and Kimmo few similar commercial buildings in Europe. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 27 CLIMATE CHANGE WORK More energy efficient building and home improvement stores in all operating countries Latvia in 2009. Our objective was to gain results by adjusting their ventilation, heating and lighting systems. The results have been good: in 2011, the annual electric energy saving was approximately 28% compared to 2008. During the same period, the consumption of heat energy decreased by 59%,” says Andrianovs. “We adopted the same property management system in Estonia in 2011 and expect the results to be similar with those in Latvia. In 2012, we are planning to do the same in Norway and to conduct a survey of the K-rauta stores in Sweden.” Antons Andrianovs works at Rautakesko in different countries. Nordic companies An energy audit of K-rauta Ulmana, Latas an international real estate manager have long benefited from buying elecvia, was carried out in winter 2010–2011 and controls the maintenance operatricity from a power exchange, for exto verify that the operations had been tions of Rautakesko's building and home ample, whereas the liberalisation of the successful. The audit results showed that improvement stores in Latvia, Sweden, Baltic electricity market has only started. the K-rauta corresponds to a low-energy Norway and Estonia. In addition, he acts The management of electricity purchase building. as a consultant for Rautakesko's real esprices is one way of reducing costs,” says “Work in property maintenance for entate properties in Russia. He travels on Andrianovs. ergy efficiency is interesting, varied and business a lot. On two or three working Andrianovs and his unit not only take challenging. By building energy efficient days a week, he tours building and home care of Kesko's real estate but also improperties Kesko demonstrates a willingimprovement stores in different countries prove their energy efficiency in order to ness to improve its energy consumption and meets service producers and other generate savings and increase property and support sustainable property develRautakesko people. values. opment,” says Andrianovs. “It's very important to exchange expe“We started the improvement of energy riences and information with colleagues efficiency in our real estate properties in ENERGY EXPERT IS THE CUSTOMER'S PARTNER IN HOUSING TECHNOLOGY Rising energy prices and the discussion According to Tomi Mäkilä, the Energy tected unless the property is carefully surin the media about climate impacts have Expert at K-rauta Kuninkoja, most quesveyed, for example, with a thermo camera. made customers consider the energy tions from customers concern repairs to In most cases, customers are not willing to consumption of housing. Heating is the old properties and the first steps towards conduct a total overhaul of their homes. Inbiggest cost and an important environenergy efficiency. Should old radiators be stead, they prefer a step by step approach. mental factor in a one-family home. replaced by modern floor heating and an “In addition, homes are very individuK-rauta's Energy Expert concept has oil fired boiler by ground heat in one go? al in terms of energy consumption and been developed to make it easier for cusOr would it be advisable to upgrade the structures, which is why there is no single tomers to choose between different heatexisting boiler with solar panels, for excorrect solution,” says Mäkilä. ing and structural solutions. It helps both ample, or to add insulation to walls and Energy Experts help customers conbuilders of new homes and renovators of the flat roof? front the multitude of alternatives, reold ones. “The final decisions are usually made gardless of whether the case concerns Solutions for higher energy efficiency after visiting the customer's property and heating system replacement, adding inare displayed at one in-store location conducting a thorough energy survey,” sulation, window replacement, ventilawhere an Energy Expert sales assistant, says Mäkilä. tion improvement or reducing the energy familiar with house technology, serves Ground heat may reduce the energy bill consumption of lighting. For customers, customers by offering installation or masubstantially compared to oil heating. But this means that all they need for an enterial delivery solutions that best suit their if the house has poor insulation, heat will ergy system renovation can be purchased homes. continue to escape. Pitfalls cannot be deeasily and reliably from one place, K-rauta. 28 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 CLIMATE CHANGE WORK REDUCING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT FROM TRANSPORTATION A new type of trailer truck has been tested for the purpose of reducing the carbon footprint from K-food stores' transporKNOW MORE, tation. A two-tier trailer – the first of its kind in Finnish retail distribution – was inCONSUME LESS – THINK BLUE troduced for testing in September 2011. The new trailer will help us cut the carbon dioxide emissions from transportation by The Think Blue principle is an important Use electrical devices one third. element in Volkswagen's environmental sparingly “In the new trailer, products can be responsibility. It encompasses car models Electrical car accessories provide comloaded on two decks, which means that featuring economical BlueMotion Techfort but increase consumption, if used one trailer carries more than double a nologies, more energy efficient car manuunnecessarily. In sub-zero temperatures, normal load. It also means that less transfacturing methods, reducing the environfor example, it is advisable to switch off portation is required and the carbon dioxmental impact of car factories, promoting seat heating as soon as the seat feels comide footprint is reduced by one third, says the use of renewable energy sources, and fortable. Mika Salmijärvi, Managing Director of not forgetting driving comfort and reKeslog Ltd, the company responsible for sponsibility. Volkswagen also challenges Avoid making repeated K-food stores' logistics services. its customers to work for the benefit of short trips The new trailer is being tested on the the environment. You can start with small The fuel consumption of a car engine is long-distance route between Vantaa, steps and try tips on, for example, an ecoat its highest after cold start. If short trips in the south, and Oulu, in the north of nomical driving style. only are made, fuel consumption can be Finland. The experiences so far have been as high as 30 l/100 km. It is advisable to good. Use the highest gear possible try and combine as many errands as posKeslog's environmental system had its The most economical gear is always the sible on the same journey, giving the en10th anniversary in 2011; the ISO 14001 highest possible, because it helps reduce gine time to warm up and consume less certificates granted to K-food stores' lofuel consumption significantly. Volks­ fuel. gistics operations in 2001 were the first of wagen's smart DSG transmission autotheir kind in Finland. In addition to develmatically selects the right gear. oping transportation, key elements in the environmental work in logistics include the continuous improvement of energy use and recycling efficiency. Long-established environmental work at all stages of the product and service chain has also produced results. INDOOR GROUP PEOPLE SET UP “Our current waste recovery rate is approximately 94%, whereas in the late A BUS POOL FOR COMMUTING 1990s, it was 70%. The waste generated is directed as extensively as possible to recycling and fuel production,” says Toni The offices of Indoor Group, which had happily sharing the one-hour bus journey Pelin, Keslog's Environmental and Safety been located in Lahti for years, were in the mornings and evenings. CommitManager. joined with the other Kesko functions in ment to a regular schedule gives much The trading sector can offer customHakkila, Vantaa in November 2009. The more than it takes. We have often talked ers environmentally friendly choices only idea of bus pooling was born as most emabout how economical and environmenby taking account of the environmental ployees continued to be resident in the tally friendly our bus pooling is,” says impact of its entire supply chain. This enLahti district. Indoor Group's Communications Officer courages Keslog Ltd and K-food stores to Now, after more than two years, there Päivi Hurri. continue improving the environmental efare still about 20 regular pool members ficiency of their goods deliveries. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 29 Responsible purchasing and sales Researched and safe products There are many steps beCustomers must be able to rely on the “Currently, the palm oil used in 10 Menu tween the manufacturer fact that their responsible choices start as soon as they enter a K-store. And K-stores' products and 14 Pirkka products – Pirkka pop corn and potato crisps, for example – and the end-user. An indifunction is to help customers make better is CSPO. Our aim is to go on replacing the vidual purchase can only be choices. current palm oil with CSPO in the products where palm oil is used,” says Matti Kalervo, successful if the right prodPrinciples and statements Kesko Food's Product Research Manager. uct has originally been acsupport responsible Kesko Food is a member of the RSPO, purchasing the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil quired for the selection and Kesko's purchasing principles guide Kesko's (www.rspo.org), which promotes the susthe sales assistant knows responsible purchasing. Above all, the principles are applied to purchases from countainable production of palm oil. In the WWF Palm Oil Scorecard published the product and can tell tries where the risks of human rights and in autumn 2011, the score given to Kesko for about it to the customer. employee violations are the highest. Various policy statements have been prethe responsibility of its sourcing chain of palm oil was 4.5 (max. 9), which exceeded Kesko provides regular pared to support purchasing. The new statethe European average. training for its buyers who ments drawn up in 2011 were Kesko Food's palm oil policy and Kesko's stand on the The sand used in the sandblasting process for jeans contains the mineral silica, are responsible for sourcsandblasting of jeans. which may cause incurable silicosis in the ing and purchasing and for Palm oil is an important source of income to the national economies of those counlungs of the workers who inhale the dust. In autumn 2011, Kesko stated that it does not sales assistants who serve tries which produce it, but the expansion allow sandblasting on its private label jeans. customers in stores. of palm oil production to new areas in the tropics is causing growing concern for the The stand is observed in the chains that sell jeans: K-citymarket, Anttila and Intersport. environment. Kesko Food recommends the The fish and shellfish statement is use of Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO) applied in Kesko Food's, Kespro's and K-food for manufacturers of Pirkka and Menu stores' purchasing of fish and shellfish and products. the products in which fish is the main ingredient. 30 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsible purchasing and sales The selections of Kesko Food, Kespro and “The event was useful for the whole prodAll Finnish Pirkka products have had the K-food stores do not contain species given uct line. There was a wide-ranging discusname and location of the manufacturer a red rating in the traffic light type format sion on how we could better promote and indicated on packaging for over 25 years. in WWF Finland's (www.wwf.fi) fish guide, monitor BSCI audits of suppliers in high-risk Foreign Pirkka products bear the name of such as eel, Atlantic Halibut and fresh tuna. countries. Responsible operating practices the manufacturing country. Finnish Pirkka Kesko Food, Kespro and K-food stores prohave a comprehensive impact on the whole products always carry the Swan label to mote the species with a green rating, such purchasing process. At the very beginning, indicate domestic origin if the criteria set as perch, pike, vendace, in their selections. when searching for new possible suppliers, for this are fulfilled. The current number When making decisions on selections, suswe observe the candidates and take up posof Pirkka products with the Swan label is tainable fish stocks and MSC certified supsible drawbacks. The aim is to find suppliers nearly 270. pliers are preferred. Kesko Food supports who share the same responsible principles Since summer 2011, the country of origin retailers' opportunities to sell fish caught as Kesko Food,” says Product Group Manager of meat has been indicated on the list of in local waters using sustainable methods. Tuuli Luoma. ingredients in those Pirkka products which At the end of 2011, there were six MSC cerTuuli Luoma became a member of the have meat as one of the main ingredients. tified products in the Pirkka range. BSCI's Food Working Group at the beginLegislation requires that the area where ning of 2012. fish has been caught must be indicated, Guidance for sustainable “From the group meetings, I'm expecting but Kesko has expanded such information purchasing plenty of open dialogue with participants to concern also fish products in the Pirkka For supplier audits, Kesko uses internafrom different countries and a joint view range, such as fish fingers and canned tuna. tional assessment systems – BSCI auditing on how to improve the processes. I believe There are now around 260 products for and SA8000 certification. The objective is that group work will increase the knowlwhich the origin of the main ingredient is to do business in high-risk countries only edge of the various sectors of responsible indicated. The objective is to have the inforwith those suppliers who have passed the purchasing across the entire product line,” mation on origin added to most meat and audit. Kesko's suppliers in high-risk counsays Tuuli Luoma. fish products by the end of 2012. tries have around 247 BSCI audited factories. The country of origin is indicated on most Kesko has a Steering Group for ResponsiTop priority to domestic private label products of K-citymarket and ble Purchasing, which promotes the sharproducts Anttila. This information will be added to ing of best practices within the Group. The When products are selected to the Pirkka the remaining products during 2012. steering group, which meets approximately range, top priority is always given to the four times a year, consists of the purchasing domestic alternative, provided that it meets The Product Research representatives of various divisions. the quality and price criteria. laboratory has ISO 17025 In China, Kesko supports its suppliers of The domestic content of Pirkka products accreditation home and speciality goods by monitoring in fresh foods, such as meat and processed Kesko Food has a Product Research Laboraactivities. The local monitor guides, trains meat, liquid dairy products, such as milks tory of its own, which monitors the quality and oversees the terms of employment and and creams, is very high, even 100%. of groceries and home and speciality goods working conditions of Kesko's Chinese supA significant part of products purchased sold by K-food stores, K-citymarkets and pliers, and the observance of environmental from abroad are those which are not availAnttila and Kodin Ykkönen department and chemical regulations. A total of 64 facable in Finland, like fruits and canned foods. stores. It is the only research laboratory for tory visits were conducted in China in 2011. The domestic content also depends on the trading sector private labels in Finland to Rautakesko monitors and improves seasons of the year: domestic products are have ISO 17025 accreditation, which is interthe working conditions of its suppliers in not always sufficiently available around the national certification. Based on the Food the Far East through Eurogroup cooperayear. Act, this accreditation also enables acting tion. BSCI audits cover the evaluation of as a self-control laboratory approved by the occupational health and safety practices, Labelling provides support Finnish Food Safety Authority Evira. compliance with legislation concerning for customers Obtaining and maintaining ISO 17025 working time and compensation as well In the package labelling of its own brands accreditation necessitates a high level and as management practice in the factories of and imports, Kesko complies with Finnish continuous development from the laboraRautakesko's suppliers. law and with EU legislation. Package labeltory. The accreditation requires that a qualKesko's buyers are provided regular trainling of Kesko's own food brands always comity system in compliance with the standard ing in responsible purchasing practices. prises – package size and space permitting has been prepared for the laboratory and the Kesko Food's buyers of processed foods – nutritional values, even if not required measuring instruments used are traceably received more information on BSCI and by law. calibrated and analysis methods validated, responsible purchasing in December 2011. Some 680 K-environmental stores In the food trade, the building and home improvement trade and the agricultural trade, environmental management is based on the K-environmental store model. A K-environmental store works for the good of the environment, helping its customers to make sustainable choices. When a store becomes a K-environmental store, all its employees receive training in environmental issues. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 31 Responsible purchasing and sales meaning that their functioning has been is performed for around 4.5% of the textiles Changes were made to the international checked before implementation. and tableware analysed. rules of Fairtrade in 2011. Eight of the research methods used by “In particular, we analyse textiles that “The international Fairtrade organisathe Product Research Laboratory have been come into contact with the skin, such as tion began a historic reform process, when accredited: for example, microbiological salchildren's clothing and bed linen, the fina decision was made to give half of the monella and listeria definitions and chemiishing agent of which may contain formalvoting rights in Fairtrade International, cal definitions of salt and formaldehyde. The dehyde. Formaldehyde has been found to the umbrella organisation, to farmers in FINAS service of the Centre for Metrology be harmful; it irritates the eyes, respiratory developing countries. Rules that apply to and Accreditation examines annually the tracts and mucous membranes. Finnish Fairtrade combination foods, such as ice operations and the accredited research legislation and the chemicals list used at cream, yoghurt, soft drinks and bakery methods of the Product Research Laboratory. Kesko set very strict limit values on formalproducts, also changed and now they allow “Inspectors come to our lab for a day, dehyde,” says Research Engineer Satu Nissifor a higher use of domestic ingredients in monitor the practical work of laboratorians Rantakömi of Product Research. Fairtrade products,” says Janne Sivonen, and compare it with working instructions. According to Nissi-Rantakömi, the Executive Director of Fairtrade Finland. They read through our research documents amount of formaldehyde found in textiles In 2011, Kesko Food had 158 Fairtrade and other documentation. We receive an is very seldom so high that it leads to a rejecsuppliers in 35 countries. Kesko Food had inspection report, which lists possible devition. Suppliers know that Kesko demands 222 Fairtrade products in its selections, of ations that should be corrected during the high quality from the products it sells. If an which 38 were Pirkka Fairtrade products. time limit set. Our objective is to improve analysis reveals that a garment contains a The most popular Pirkka Fairtrade products continuously the operations of the laboralot of formaldehyde, another product will are flowers, bananas, coffee, juices, cocoa tory,” says Laboratory Chemist Timo Kivi. be chosen for selections. and chocolate. “New sheets, towels and clothes of small The products sold by Kesko Food generProducts analysed before children should always be washed before ated a total of over €280,000 as Fairtrade prepurchase decisions use, to dissolve possible formaldehyde mium for social development projects. Out In 2011, the Product Research Laboratory anaresidues in washing water,” says Nissiof this, Kesko Food's flower sales accounted lysed 10,369 product samples. The number of Rantakömi. for €178,000 as Fairtrade premium. research analyses carried out on home and Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen department speciality goods has increased: in 2009, the Fairtrade flowers and sheets stores and the NetAnttila online store sell laboratory carried out about 6,700 analyses, Two of Kesko's divisions – the food trade around 70 products – towels, sheets and while in 2011 the number exceeded 21,000. and the home and speciality goods trade – clothing – made from Fairtrade cotton. One of the research methods is the detercooperate with Fairtrade Finland and offer mination of formaldehyde content, which Fairtrade products to customers. THE PRODUCT'S PATH OPENS UP THE PRODUCT'S ROUTE Customers are interested in product oriFinland and the other half from other an international certification programme gins and the working conditions across countries. On the Product's Path map, we that ensures sustainable production and the entire production chain. In spring describe the manufacture of these prodsourcing of coffee. UTZ certified coffee 2011, we made a decision to tell our cusucts and their journeys from farms or fachas been produced according to the certomers in an illustrative way what happens tories using texts, pictures and videos. tification programme's corporate responbefore a product reaches the shelves of The Product's Path map was published at sibility and environmental requirements. stores. We selected 18 key products repkesko.fi and pirkka.fi in summer 2011. At the end of 2011, Kesko Food had 18 resenting various product lines, half from UTZ Certified (www.utzcertified.org) is UTZ certified products among its selections, six of which were Pirkka coffees. All Kespro's Menu coffees are UTZ certified. In the Product's Path, we talk about the growth of coffee beans used in UTZ certified Pirkka coffees, their journey from Brazil to Finland and the quality control of coffee in our Product Research unit. The video advises customers on how to trace the origins of an individual pack of coffee on the Internet all the way back to the coffee farm. READ MORE AT: www.kesko.fi 32 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsible purchasing and sales Pirkka Fairtrade Organic Master Sales Assistant it is also easy to attach pictures, videos and bananas grown in Peru training goes online links to other online training,” says Anu K-food stores' aim is to increase the selecKesko's subsidiary K-instituutti has been Haapoja. tion of Pirkka organic products from the training retail salespeople through the Mascurrent number of around 70 to 100 during ter Sales Assistant course for over 50 years. Training in lighting for 2012. The training is implemented for each chain building and home The most recent addition to the selection of the food, building and home improveimprovement store staff of Pirkka organic products is Pirkka Fairment, agricultural, and home and specialRautakesko will arrange training in lighttrade Organic bananas, which came into ity goods trades. The content is prepared in ing and lighting design for salespeople of stores in March 2012. The bananas have cooperation with suppliers and the chains. K-rauta and Rautia stores in autumn 2012. both Fair Trade certification and GlobalGap In 2011, the Master Sales Assistant trainThe training will be implemented as an certification. ing had more than 15,900 participants in online version as collaboration of K-insti­ “We wanted to combine Fairtrade and the K-Group in 12 different product lines. tuutti and Rautakesko. The content has been organic production in the same product to The training is also provided online by prepared in cooperation with Osram, Motiva make it easier for our customers to make more than one hundred business colleges and the Illuminating Engineering Society responsible choices. Fairtrade guarantees a and polytechnics, in which more than 3,500 (IES) of Finland. steady income for farmers and good workparticipants completed the training in 2011. “In the training, we will address the recent ing conditions for employees. In organic “The Master Sales Assistant training as major trends in lighting equipment and the production, food in produced using natudistance studies provides many young peochanges and interpretations of comparison ral methods without artificial fertilisers and ple with good knowledge of the sector. In values (watts vs. lumens), for example. As pesticides,” says Purchasing Director Tarja addition to product-specific information, customer expectations for the competence Jukkara, who is responsible for fruit and students are given general information on level of our salespeople are high, the trainvegetables at Kesko Food. good customer service, consumer protecing will also cover technical issues and Pirkka Fairtrade Organic bananas come to tion and environmental issues as well as on installation regulations. We will highlight Finland from Peru. The search for the supcurrent matters in the K-Group,” says Anu the energy efficiency perspective and proplier started in spring 2010. Haapoja, Training Manager at K-instituutti. vide more information on recycling and “We conducted a survey of possible counThe training culminates in the Master the trading sector's contribution. The most tries of origin, suppliers and farmers who Sales Assistant finals for the best sales paressential aspects concerning the selection would meet our requirements concerning ticipants. At the K-Team Event organised in and placing of lamps will also be in the procertificates, availability and quality. PurNovember 2011, 36 individuals and 78 repgramme. The aim is to deepen our salespeochasing Manager Janne Vuorinen visited resentatives of teams attended the finals. ple's knowledge and skills in many lightingFairtrade organic farms in Ecuador and Peru In March 2012, the training was launched related areas. Our consumer customers are in September 2011. During the autumn, we online and participants are able to study increasingly interested in lighting and how had negotiations with the candidates who flexibly according their own schedules, to implement it,” says Marita von Hertzen, got that far and then made the final selecwhenever they find it suitable. ICM, Design and Installation Services, from tion. Package planning and other practical “Online training helps us reach higher Rautakesko. work also took some time. Pirkka Fairtrade numbers of students. Updating the mateOrganic bananas reached K-food stores' fruit rial throughout the year will be fast and and vegetable departments in March 2012,” providing information on new arrivals and says Tarja Jukkara. seasonal products will be easier. On the web, KESKO FOOD PARTICIPATES IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF ORGANIC PRODUCTS The popularity of organic food is growing. and the product selection meets consumstores have been clearly increasing for Kesko Food and K-food stores are strongly ers' needs, covering the key categories. some time now, particularly in 2011. The committed to developing organic prod“In autumn 2011, the objective set to proportion of organic products out of the ucts in cooperation with producers, the K-food stores was to double the selection total sales of Pirkka products is already industry and other parties working for orof Pirkka organic products from fifty to higher than their proportion of the averganic production. Kesko Food is a foundaround one hundred by the end of 2012. age sales of all products. ing member of the Pro Luomu association, This is well underway. At the end of 2011, In addition to Pirkka organic products, established in March 2011 to promote the we had 73 Pirkka organic products, and Kesko Food more than 1,000 organic target-oriented development and growth new ones are being added each month,” products in its selection. K-food stores of organic production in Finland and to says Juha Andelin, who is responsible for also have local organic products in their advance the meeting of the demand for the Pirkka product range at Kesko Food. store-specific selections, such as dairy, and supply of organic products. The vision The most popular Pirkka organic prodbakery and meat products and vegetaof the Pro Luomu initiative is that by 2015 ucts include Pirkka Organic eggs, lettuce bles. These selections are also being conorganic products are a part of consumers' and carrots. tinuously developed and expanded on the and food chain operators' everyday lives Sales of organic products in K-food basis of customers' needs and wishes. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 33 Responsible purchasing and sales clean food. A cooperator in finding means GROW IT for promoting the idea has been Dodo, YOURSELF an environmental organisation which has been promoting and acting as a pioneer in urban growing. Dodo's urban growers The trend of food growing, popular received the Environmental Award of the throughout the world, is now on the rise City of Helsinki and Kesko's award for susin Finland, too. At the moment, there are tainable development in 2011. not yet many complete solutions availRautakesko is developing the concept in able for customers who want to try urban cooperation with suppliers. The aim is to ment for preliminary plant treatment and growing or other small-scale cultivation make small-scale food cultivation easy and kitchen herbs are sold, but the spring seaof their own food. fun for customers. Food can be grown on a son will shift the focus outdoors as soon as The purpose of the 'Grow It Yourself' balcony or in a small yard, but one can also plants and seedlings arrive. As the season concept created by Rautakesko for K-rauta manage without a yard and green fingers. progresses, larger seedlings gain more and Rautia chain stores is to make concrete Special modules will be built for 'Grow ground. The concept will be experimentthe responsible concept and develop soIt Yourself' products in K-rauta and Rautia ed with in a number of K-rauta stores in lutions for home gardeners for the smallstores. During the winter season, the emspring 2012. scale cultivation of high-quality, natural and phasis is on the store where seeds, equipOIVA SMILES WHEN EVERYTHING IS OKAY The Oiva experiment is a new way of moncommunity. Oiva inspections are always “Though results in various areas covitoring foodstuffs and an example of an conducted by the municipal inspector, ered by the report were all good or excelopen operating method, easily visible to who checks temperatures, the handling lent, the score for hand hygiene was passcustomers. The information obtained by and manufacture of foodstuffs, sanitation able. In the Oiva system, the total score food supervision is published in the form and hygiene competence certificates, for is determined on the basis of the lowest of an Oiva report. A smiling face on the example. partial score, and so our total score was door of a store or a restaurant shows that After an inspection, the store or restaupassable, that is, a 'sour Oiva face'. We everything is okay. Corresponding operarant receives an inspection report and the soon found out that the reason was a tions in other countries have served as a Oiva label on the door to indicate the reproblem that was easy to fix. One of the model. sult of the inspection. A smile means that employees at the service counter had forThe Oiva practice was experimented operations are at an exemplary or good gotten to wear gloves and she also had a with in various parts of Finland from April level, while a more serious face indicates ring on her finger. A renewed inspection to December 2011. The experiment inthat the operations require attention, eigave very good results: the level of store cluded food stores and restaurants in ther as a matter of urgency or for a certain operations was exemplary,” says Lintumäki Helsinki, Heinola, Kerava, Jalasjärvi, Ilmaperiod of time. with a smile. joki, Kurikka and Lappeenranta. Retailer Jesse Lintumäki of K-market On the basis of the experiment, the plan Food supervision in Finland is coordiAhjontori in Kerava was taken by surprise is to introduce the Oiva system across the nated by the Finnish Food Safety Authorwhen he received the first Oiva report for country during 2013. ity Evira, but inspections are made by each his store. POTATO HAS A SMALL CARBON FOOTPRINT Pirkka was the first trading sector own The carbon footprint is a measure of is grams. The carbon footprint of Pirkka brand to include a carbon footprint label the impact caused by a product, activity potatoes is 16 g per 100 g. on packaging. The label was introduced or service on the environment. It shows The carbon footprint of Pirkka potatoes on Pirkka potato bags in October 2011. how much greenhouse gases are genershows the producer's proportion of car“With the help of carbon labelling, we ated during the life cycle of a product or bon dioxide emissions, but the size of the are able to tell our customers what kind activity. carbon footprint can also be measured of impact the product has on the enviThe carbon footprint labels on Pirkka during the entire life cycle of the prodronment and so increase their awareness products are easy to read. The triangle uct. The Pirkka.fi site provides information of the issue,” says Matti Kalervo, Kesko and dark frame of the section describe on carbon dioxide emissions of potatoes Food's Product Research Manager. the product's carbon footprint on the toduring their life cycle, from cultivation to tal scale. The unit used in Pirkka products the dinner table. 34 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Responsible purchasing and sales bought in K-food stores. In practice, water was donated as 'Lifestraw' filter straws and family filters to be used for cleaning water. The amount of clean water donated to Mozambique for the Bonaqua bottles sold by K-food stores totalled over 10 million litres. Support for the protection of the Baltic Sea K-food stores and Ben & Jerry’s carried out a collection campaign in K-food stores. For each half a litre can of Ben & Jerry’s ice cream sold during the campaign, €0.10 was donated to the WWF's Operation Mermaid. The campaign raised more than €14,000 for the WWF. Good Christmas Spirit Kesko participated in the Good Christmas Spirit collection, which was arranged for the 15th time in November-December. Kesko's Board of Directors donated €35,000 to the Good Christmas Spirit CHARITY CAMPAIGNS collection, which generated more than IN 2011 €1 million for low-income Finnish families. Tetanus vaccines to Bracelet campaign helped Pink Ribbon campaigns developing countries Kenyan mothers and children provide support for breast K-food stores participated for the fourth In May, Kesko Food implemented a bracecancer research time in the international vaccine camlet campaign for the second time. KenPirkka Fairtrade Pink Ribbon roses were paign of UNICEF and Pampers in Novemyan women made 300,000 bracelets, sold in K-food stores in October. For every ber-December. The campaign included which were included within the covers bunch of roses sold, €0.10 was donated to Pampers, Ariel and Fairy products. For of Pirkka Fairtrade flower bunches. Part the Pink Ribbon breast cancer campaign each product sold, K-food stores donated of the money coming from bracelet sales of the Cancer Society of Finland. The toan additional vaccine. In all, K-food stores is used for the public good in Inkoriento, tal number of bunches of roses sold was collected and donated more than 1.2 milthe home village of the women. The funds around 100,000 and the sum donated exlion vaccines for UNICEF. raised by the previous campaign of Kesko ceeded €10,000. Food were used to buy a water tank, which The Facebook sites of Anttila and Pots and pans recycled provides clean water for 10,000 Kenyans. NetAnttila were launched in October and In February, Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen they organised a charity campaign, the department stores and K-citymarket hyFairtrade roses to mothers aim of which was to donate, with the help permarkets participated in Hackman's reon Mother's Day of 'likes' on the sites, €10,000 to the Pink cycling campaign, during which consumKesko celebrated Mother's Day at the Ribbon campaign of the Cancer Society ers brought used pots, pans and cutlery to 'Expectation' sculpture in Kaivopuisto of Finland. Each fan increased the sum to stores. More than 8,400 kilos of products Park in Helsinki on 8 May. At the event, be donated by €0.10. The sum obtained were returned for recycling and nearly mothers and grandmothers were given was over €5,300. Anttila and NetAnttila 100% of their raw materials – steel and 10,000 Pirkka Fairtrade roses. The Fairdonated the rest and the total donation aluminium – can be reused. trade premium generated to Kenya from to the Society was €10,000. K-food stores' sales of flowers totalled In the spring, K-rauta stores sold Pink around €158,000 in 2011. Ribbon herb pots and watering cans, donating 10% for every product sold to the Two driving assistants Cancer Society of Finland. The sum doIn the 'summer job beyond compare' nated totalled €8,200. campaign organised by Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, Antero the Assistant Clean water to Africa took small waste electronic equipment In May-December, K-food stores and for recycling and Annukka the Assistant Bonaqua donated three litres – and in was in charge of food service transportaSeptember six litres – of clean water to tion to old people. Mozambique for each bottle of water Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 35 Healthiness The right food and exercise increase health Kesko and K-stores Customers expect the trading sector to make ing that they are able to work in a healthy encourage their customers an effort to develop and provide healthy selections. The Responsibility Survey for and safe environment. and employees to adopt 2011 ordered by Kesko Food from TNS Gallup K-Food Specialists are experts healthy lifestyles, eat revealed that customers are very interested in healthy and balanced in product safety and a healthy diet. food healthily and be physically Customers expect stores to provide a good K-Food Specialists, experts in nutrition active in order to maintain and reasonably priced selection of health promoting products. Customers consider it and special diets, have been trained for K-food stores since 2010. There are already good health and fitness. important that healthier products are devel560 employees with this qualification in Kesko's responsibility oped by reducing or removing additives as well as fat, salt and sugar. Many customK-food stores. The training, organised by K-instituutti, consists of independent studprogramme includes ers wish that stores take special diets into ies – both online and in-store learning from several objectives related account and that staff are able to advise them on how to make healthy choices. day-to-day service situations. Soile Hannonen, who works as a sales to healthy lifestyles and assistant in K-citymarket Keljo in Jyväskylä, responsible product We help our customers and is the 500th K-Food Specialist. employees in health “Customers appreciate balanced and selections. promotion healthy food and follow various diets. TourPromoting healthy lifestyles, eating habits ism has increased their interest in differand physical activity is essential, especially ent food cultures and foreign recipes. The in our food and sports trade. K-Food Specialist training provided me The duties of Kesko's Occupational Health with a lot of new information about packService include promoting and monitoring age labelling, Pirkka products, special diets, employees' health and wellbeing and ensurvarious religions and cultures and in-store 36 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Healthiness communications, for example,” says Soile the staff of the department take part in its Customers inquire about Hannonen. planning, well in advance. Customers carry healthy eating Soile has been pleased to find out that the home bags full of fruit. Favourable prices Kesko Food's Consumer Service unit answers knowledge provided by the training helps also inspire them to try more exotic fruits,” customers' questions and feedback every her offer new alternatives to customers and says Veli-Pekka Hussi, retailer of K-superday. In 2011, the unit had 20,215 customer solutions to their problems. market Manhattan in Turku. contacts. “Just a little while ago, a customer asked “Different fats, additives, organic, Fairfor gluten-free bread when a coeliac friend Berries are domestic trade and domestic products as well as the of hers was coming for a visit. I showed her super food countries of origin of products are issues the store's wide selection of gluten-free According to nutritional recommendations, that generated discussion and raised quesbread, ranging from toast to loaves and we should, in addition to fruit and vegetations over the year. Customers want to have rolls – fresh, frozen or available on a special bles, eat different wild berries, which conmore information about the salt content, shelf,” says Soile. tain lots of vitamins, trace elements and flaomega-3 fatty acids and the use of addivonoids. The most commonly used domestives in products. Occasionally, assistance Monosodium glutamate tic berries include blueberry, lingonberry, is needed in the interpretation of nutrient removed from Pirkka cloudberry, sea buckthorn and crowberry. labelling: the GDA label – the Guideline Daily products In the Pirkka range, you can find domestic Amount – is still causing some confusion During the past four years, Kesko Food's frozen strawberries, blueberries and lingonamong consumers,” says Heta Rautpalo. product research has been reducing sugar, berries. During the harvest season, K-food Many consumers contact the unit to fat and salt from Pirkka products that constores also sell fresh domestic strawberries thank us for stocking those products that tain much of them. By the end of 2011, nearly and highbush blueberries under the Pirkka are suitable for their diets. 90 Pirkka products had been reformulated. label. In the summer and autumn, K-food “Many customers are pleased that monoMonosodium glutamate (E621) has been retailers also buy berries from local berry sodium glutamate has been removed from removed from nearly 50 Pirkka products. pickers and farmers. cold cuts. Some prefer artificially sweetened Kesko Food has made a decision to reduce “We should eat fresh berries as much as light products, while others go for full-fat monosodium glutamate, even if legislation possible during the harvest season. Berries products sweetened with sugar. We condoes not require so. are light domestic super food and excellent stantly receive thanks for organic products, “Several studies have proved that monosoin baking. Berries are also an ingredient in but also questions about their origins, the dium glutamate is a safe additive in reasontasty smoothies and other refreshing bevsupervision of organic production and the able quantities. For some people, however, erages. Fresh berries bought or self-picked use of additives,” says Heta Rautpalo. glutamates cause headaches, palpitations in the summer can be preserved for winter, and nausea. Some think that monosodium either frozen, as jam or juice,” says Heta Sport for all glutamate creates a sensation of the fifth Rautpalo, Kesko Food's Consumer Service Intersport, Kesko's sports store chain, basic taste, the pleasant umami taste, while Manager. encourages people to be physically active. others think that it gives an industrial taste In 2011, Kesko's Board of Directors donated Intersport offers a diverse range of sports to foodstuffs. We have removed monoso€10,000 to the Arctic Flavours Association, equipment and encourages customers to dium glutamate from Pirkka cold cuts and which promotes the use of berries and other participate in sports. There are 56 Intersport Pirkka kebab hamburgers, for example,” natural products. stores in Finland and 36 in Russia. says Matti Kalervo, Kesko Food's Product Research Manager. Fruit and vegetables at one euro from K-supermarkets A large and well-managed fruit and vegetable department is one of the most important departments of the K-food store. K-superOccupational Health award to markets have, on average, 70 varieties of Occupational Health Physician fruit and 150 vegetables and root crops in their selections. In addition, retailers comHelena Rossi plement their selections with products from local producers. The Finnish Association of Occupational Health Physicians granted this year's During the 2011 autumn event, all of the Occupational Health award to Helena Rossi, Kesko's Occupational Health more than 200 K-supermarkets in Finland Physician-in-Charge for her distinguished work in the training project for the organised a Fruit&Veg campaign, in which treatment of depression, run by the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health. different fruit and vegetables were offered Helena Rossi participated, in cooperation with specialists, in coordinating and at one euro per kilo, package, box or bag. conducting a nationwide depression training tour of the Finnish Institute of Retailers participate actively in the annual fruit and vegetable campaign. During the Occupational Health in 2008–2011. According to the jury, Helena Rossi and campaign, sales of fruit and vegetables mulKatinka Tuisku, Specialist in Psychiatry and the project trainer for the Finnish tiply. Customers have thanked us for the Institute of Occupational Health, have successfully adopted good practices campaign and asked about the date of the in the treatment of depression and also written a guidebook on depression next campaign. treatment tools for use by Occupational Health Service units. “The Fruit&Veg campaign is the absolute culmination of the event in our store. All Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 37 Healthiness According to Intersport's Sport to the People concept, sport has something for everyone, regardless of age and level of interest. Partial daily allowance helps the In 2011, business operations in line with the 'Sport to the People' concept progressed to return to work cover all the stores in the chain in Finland. Every Intersport store in Finland organAfter a long sick leave, when the ability to work has not yet fully returned, a ises a physical activity event for its custompartial return to work may be an appropriate solution. The partial daily allowers at least twice a year. The aim is to proance granted by Kela, the Social Insurance Institution of Finland, supports a mote a healthy way of life and encourage disabled employee's ability to continue in working life and return to his or people to be physically active. At the events, her full-time work. With a permission by an occupational health physician, the stores offer customers body composition and Footbalance analyses and demonthe employee returns to work on a part-time basis, doing 40–60% of the strate various forms of physical activity and hours, performing duties agreed by the employee and the supervisor at the related aids, such as special footwear and occupational health negotiations. A partial return to work is planned in cosocks. Customers also have a chance to conoperation by the employee, the Occupational Health Service and the supersult a personal trainer, nutritional therapist visor. In 2011, Kesko's Sickness Fund granted partial daily allowance to 230 and product demonstrators. employees, which is 158% more than in 2010. Intersport's online pages (www.intersport.fi) provide tips on training and equipment for running, cycling and ball games, for example. Intersport Rintamäki in Oulu demonwelcomed all beginners interested in the Is kettlebell for me? strated kettlebell training for the first time sport as well as more experienced fans. We One form of exercise that has gained popuat the store's customer event in November provided kettlebells of different weights larity in recent years is kettlebell training. A 2011. to enable everyone to try it out, say, with a kettlebell is a metal ball with a handle, and “In connection with the Sport to the 12-kilo kettlebell. Tinja Repo from Hauki­ the training suits all, regardless of fitness People event, we organised a kettlebell putaan Heitto, a local sports club, demonlevel or gender. demonstration in the store's backyard. We strated safe but efficient forms of kettlebell GUIDANCE FOR SENIOR CITIZENS Intersport megastore Lielahti in Tampere was full of talkative 60–70-year-olds on a Thursday morning in October. Many of them said that this was the first time in their lives that they had entered a sports store, a place they had previously considered as somewhere for competing athletes only. Retailers Timo and Sanna Tiitinen succeeded in convincing senior citizens who had been avoiding sports stores to come and see for themselves. “We had been thinking about how to encourage senior citizens to take up physical activity and visit the store. According cal activity in its prevention. As older peojoin in with guided Nordic walking tours. to our Sport to the People concept, sport ple have more problems with their feet, “The participants were smiling and has something for everyone, regardless of we also invited a company that imports pleased. One of the ladies thanked us, age and fitness level, and this formed the various gel protectors and supports and a saying that for once something had been basis for idea generation. Janne Haarala physiotherapist from a local health clinic,” arranged for people of her age. The day from the Pulmonary Association sugexplains Sanna Tiitinen. was also one of the finest ever at work for gested that we cooperate in organising The participants were very interested us employees. We decided to repeat the an event, which would support the assoin the exercise tips and various aids that event. It's important that sports stores ciation's nationwide outdoor activity day help in physical activities. Many Footbaltake the ageing population into account. for elderly people. The local Diabetes Soance analyses were made during the event Retired people have the time to take care ciety also joined in by providing informaand insoles correcting foot position were of their fitness and we have to provide tion on the increasing prevalence of type added to shoes. Intersport also provided tips, equipment and clothing for them,” 2 diabetes, and the importance of physithe participants with an opportunity to says Sanna Tiitinen. 38 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Healthiness training. Participants were very enthusiastic says Pirjo Anttila, Chief Physician of Kesko's “Musculo-skeletal disorders are very and raised a lot of good questions for Tinja,” Occupational Health Service, and continues: common in the trading sector, even among says Anne Holla from Intersport Rintamäki. “Our aim is that all employees in the Kesko young people. We wanted to include a new Group have available to them occupational age group in our tests, so that those who Health is worth maintaining health care services to the same extent and have been neglecting their health would The aim of Kesko's Occupational Health content throughout Finland, without the wake up in time to do some exercise and Service is healthy employees, an efficient previous diversity of outsourced services.” take care of themselves with future in working community, and a healthy and safe mind,” says Pirjo Anttila. working environment. The unit cooperates Health check-ups provide closely with various Kesko offices. Monitorinformation Advice and weight control ing employees' health and working ability is Before the start of employment, all new The Occupational Health Service provides a continuous joint effort between the unit employees have a medical check-up. The individual guidance for employees in many and each office. content of the check-up varies according kinds of situations – in personal crises, case Kesko's Occupational Health Service has to whether the employee will work in the of burnout or if something is threatening signed a service provider agreement with office, warehouse or store. their physical health. If needed, gym classes Kela, the Social Insurance Institution of Regular medical check-ups are conducted and tailored exercise and health advice Finland, valid from the beginning of 2012. for the following age groups: 35-, 40-, 45-, groups will be set up. Kesko's Occupational Health Service pro50-, 55-, 58-, 61and 64-year-olds. They conMany employees who want to lose weight duces related services for Kesko employees sist of laboratory tests, filling in different have received support from their occupain the Greater Helsinki area. In other parts questionnaires, an examination done by a tional health nurse. of Finland, such services are acquired for nurse and, if required, by a doctor. “First, we discuss issues related to diet companies covered by the agreement on a In all medical check-ups, the employee's and life-style and think about which faccentralised basis. In other countries, occuhealth and working ability is assessed in tors would best help the employees with pational health care is arranged according relation to job requirements, after which a weight control and feel good for them. This to the local social legislation. health plan is drawn up together. way we can best motivate them and guide “Employees across the whole country benIn connection with the check-ups, fitness towards the right kind of weight control. The efit from the adoption of the centralised protests are carried out for those aged 35 and 40. kilos alone don't tell the whole story. Good vision of occupational health care services In 2011, fitness tests of 30-year-olds were results are often obtained when changes in and target-oriented management practices,” also included in the programme. the body composition index, the ratio of fat OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE PARTICIPATED IN PLANNING THE WORKING CONDITIONS AT THE LOGISTICS CENTRE Kesko's Occupational Health Service unit has participated in the planning of Anttila's new logistics centre since the autumn 2009. The aim of the cooperation with the representatives of the logistics centre was to make the new premises as ergonomic and safe as possible for employees. “We participated in Anttila's planning working group when equipment and tools were selected for the logistics centre. We carried out a work safety analysis in the areas of high-bay storage, case and pallet picking and robot case picking. We thought over the intensity of lighting and the location of equipment and displays. The assessment of work hazards was made in cooperation with the occupational safety unit. We recommended that electrically adjustable packaging clinic and a new gym in the premises,” occupational health care will continue. tables should be acquired for the small explains Occupational Physiotherapist “During spring 2012, we will arrange goods packaging unit to enable people Kristian Turklin from Kesko's Occupawork safety training for all the employees of different height to work in an optimum tional Health Service. of the logistics centre, prepare a work site position. It's also important for employThe new logistics centre was officially survey and repeat the assessment of work ees that there is an occupational health opened in August 2011. Work with the hazards,” says Kristian Turklin. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 39 Healthiness and muscle, are monitored on a monthly of Finland. The ASLAK vocationally oriAnttila's Purchasing Specialist, attended the basis. Many people have succeeded in losented medical rehabilitation for those with ASLAK course organised at the premises of ing a lot of weight simply by starting to eat early symptoms and the TYK rehabilitation Kuntoutus Orton Oy in Helsinki in 2011. properly and regularly,” says Pirkko Laine, courses aimed at maintaining the ability to During the four weeks, Sirkka and Anneli Occupational Health Nurse at the Katajawork are courses that are annually applied had an opportunity to focus on themselves nokka clinic. for groups of employees operating in various and learn how to control stress. They tried duties. Five ASLAK courses were granted in many new sports – from qigong and FlexiRehabilitation promotes 2011 and 49 employees started rehabilitaBar to various types of aquabics. wellbeing tion on them. Rehabilitation is organised in cooperation AD Sirkka Paldanius from Anttila departwith Kela, the Social Insurance Institution ment store marketing and Anneli Teräspää, PIRKKA OMEGA-3 PRODUCT PROMOTES HEALTH Kesko Food and K-food stores are activeThe Pirkka vegetable fat spread 38% one percent of our daily intake of enerly increasing their selections of healthy omega-3 improves the fatty acid compogy. Good sources of omega-3 are fish oil and balanced foods, and more functionsition of a diet. Fish oil has been added to and vegetable oils. According to Finnish al products are also being added to the the spread, which makes it rich with omenutritional recommendations, the daily Pirkka range. K-food stores want to help ga-3 fatty acids. Furthermore, the spread diet should contain around 2–3 grams of their customers make healthy choicis salt-free and fortified with vitamins A, omega-3 fatty acids. es when shopping for daily groceries. B, D and E. One basis of a healthy diet is a sufficient Omega-3 fatty acids are polyunsatuamount of omega-3 fatty acids. rated fatty acids, which should make up Joint effort to quit smoking Rautakesko and Indoor Group started a In September, Kesko organised two Hakkila, which met once a month. Partici'Quitting smoking' campaign in Septemevents in Hakkila, Vantaa, where employpants of the peer group considered the ber 2011. The aim of the campaign was to ees were given advice, lung capacity tests support given there as important. encourage Kesko employees to test their and carbon monoxide measurements. Rautakesko and Indoor Group contriblung capacity and stop smoking. The events attracted 88 people, of whom ute to successful quitting of smoking by The good results achieved in the 24 were smokers, 26 ex-smokers and 38 paying for the expenses of withdrawal and non-smoking campaigns of other divinon-smokers. medical treatment. sions were made use of in the campaign. All those who had low values at blow VV-Auto implemented a campaign called tests or had symptoms were advised to 'Put it out!' in 2010 and Kespro organised contact the Occupational Health Service a 'Towards less-smoking Kespro' camfor evaluating the need for and performpaign in 2010–2011. K-supermarket Peling more detailed inspections. tola in Järvenpää has had the principle of Ten people started the 'Quitting smoknon-smoking staff since the store opened ing' campaign and three of them stopped in 2009. smoking. There was also a peer group in 40 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Healthiness Pirkka.fi RECIPE SERVICE REVISED The Pirkka.fi site was revised in 2011. The revised pages, particularly the recipe search, now meet better the needs of modern web users and home cooks. Special diets have become increasingly common and more and more Finns are interested in a healthy lifestyle and eating habits. The revised Pirkka recipe search is available for Finnish customers in the Recipes and Cooking section of the Pirkka.fi site. It allows them to search for meal ideas according to the ingredients available at home or by directly using the name of the recipe. “The specified search enables consumers to search for recipes according to special diets and, for example, search for gluten-free, egg-free, milk-free, sugar-free or vegetable dish recipes. In addition, nutrient contents have been calculated for all of the 4,700 plus recipes, which makes healthy cooking choices easier,” says Home Economist Leena Korkalainen from the Pirkka test kitchen. The recipe service has also been developed in a more interactive direction. Users are free to comment on, recommend or criticise recipes. The 'Own kitchen' service available on the Pirkka.fi site provides an electronic recipe leaflet, where you can save your own favourite recipes from the Pirkka recipe search or your own leaflets. In the service, you can also share recipes and food photos with other users, design menus, and create and send shopping lists by text message and e-mail. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 41 42 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT IMPACTS OF KESKO'S OPERATIONS44 The impacts of Kesko's operations can be divided into economic, social and environmental impacts. We develop and offer trading sector services, we employ directly and indirectly and we have products manufactured and we sell them. MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT OF KESKO'S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY46 In our responsibility work, we concentrate on the material: matters which concern our stakeholders and have a present or a potential future impact on Kesko's business operations. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR 2011 47 In terms of materiality, we have determined the most significant key performance indicators discussed in the report. OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS 48 Responsible operations provide opportunities for improved competitiveness and growth, but also requires risk identification. RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS50 Kesko's responsibility work is based on Kesko's values and vision. It is guided by the management system, stakeholder analysis, operating principles and the guide 'Our Responsible Working Principles'. We identify management approaches to material aspects. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 43 Impacts of Kesko's operations What are the impacts of Kesko's operations? illustration: Mikael Eriksson Production ■■ the economic impact of Kesko’s and retailers’ purchases on suppliers of goods and services, e.g. increase in jobs ■■ the impact of local purchases on regional Logistics business activities ■■ economic benefits from efficient logistics ■■ working conditions, terms and human rights in factories and farms ■■ environmental impacts of emissions from transportation and packaging waste ■■ environmental impacts of the factory generated in warehouses, e.g. impact on and production, e.g. impact on climate climate change change, consumption of water ■■ the impact of material wastage on cli■■ the origin of products and responsibility mate change and the environmental load criteria, e.g. sustainable fishing caused by production 44 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Impacts of Kesko's operations The impacts of Kesko's corporate responsibility can be divided into economic, social and environmental impacts. Kesko is a service sector company which, in addition to its own direct impacts, has indirect impacts related to the production, use and recyclability of goods, which play a significant role in the overall picture. The impacts of Kesko's operations on society are illustrated in this diagram, which also includes examples of such indirect impacts. Use of products and services ■■ the traceability of products ■■ product safety ■■ responsible marketing ■■ high-quality and competitively priced products ■■ promoting a healthy way of life ■■ reducing packaging waste and shrinkage with appropriate packaging STORE ■■ reducing the environmental load of consumption by offering proenvi■■ the impact of salaries, taxes and social ■■ environmental impacts of store site conronmental products and services, e.g. security contributions paid by Kesko and struction, e.g. the environmental criteria those improving the energy efficiency retailers on regional economic wellbeing in construction, land use, and the climate of housing impact of store logistics and shopping ■■ the impact of Kesko’s and retailers’ traffic ■■ reducing the environmental load of capital expenditure on regional economic traffic, leisure activities and agriwellbeing and the accessibility of ■■ environmental impacts of producing cultural production by offering lowproducts and services energy for stores, e.g. impact on climate emission and energy-efficient car and change and acidification of soil and water machinery products ■■ the impact of retailers’ economic support, e.g. on local organisational activities ■■ environmental impacts of materials ■■ promoting sustainable cultivation usage and waste on the environment, e.g. methods in agriculture with the help ■■ the impact of stable employments and a impact on climate change of a cultivation programme good working community that provides opportunities for career progress on ■■ possible environmental accidents, e.g. ■■ promoting waste recovery by offering employee wellbeing and job satisfaction emissions caused by fire to soil or water recycling points for customers and managing the products and pack■■ shopping safety and security aging to be sent for reuse, such as household batteries, bottles and cans Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 45 Materiality assessment of Kesko's corporate responsibility We concentrate on the material The materiality assessment of Kesko's responsibility, which was updated at 1 15 10 the end of 2010, guides Kesko's cor5 level of stakeholder porate responsibility work as well as concern work with stakeholders and defines measures in response to stakeholders' 14 9 4 2 expectations. major Kesko has also defined the indicators presented in this report in terms 18 13 8 of materiality to the company itself. Moreover, the materiality assessment is an important tool in updating Kesko's 16 7 responsibility programme, which continues in 2012. 6 average 17 The definitions of stakeholder 3 analysis and materiality assessment of the Kesko Group's responsibility work can be read in more detail at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Kesko's 20 12 stakeholder process is also described in this report, on pages 53–54. 11 minor 22 Responsibility trends 19 ■■ Climate change 21 ■■ Ageing population ■■ Emergence of social media current or potential ■■ Increasing health awareness among impact on Kesko consumers minor average major Kesko's material corporate responHUMAN RESOURCES RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND SALES sibility areas are presented in the Development of personnel Product safety adjoining matrix. The vertical axis competencies and diverse duties Responsible marketing and selling and shows the level of concern for the Occupational health and safety responsibility communications stakeholder groups and the horizonGood working community (fair, Promotion of healthy lifestyles tal axis the current or potential improvides equal opportunities and Shopping safety pact on Kesko. The level of concern promotes employee wellbeing) Origin of products, purchasing policy for stakeholders has been assessed Steady employment relationships definitions, working conditions and as a whole, which is why the weighthuman rights in the purchasing chain ings of areas by separate stakeholder Product selection (local suppliers, groups are not shown in the matrix. environmental products and services, The areas can be divided into four organic, Fairtrade) categories: economic responsibility, environmental responsibility, human ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY resources responsibility, and responEconomic profitability of operations Energy efficiency in store operations, sible purchasing and sales. The trends Good corporate governance and risk products and services impacting responsibility are listed to management Efficient logistics the left of the matrix. Comprehensiveness and accessibility of Optimisation of packaging store network, and electronic services Environmental work of stores and Impact on regional business activity advice to customers Support to non-profit operations Environmental impacts from production in the purchasing chain Water consumption in real estate properties Promotion of sustainable agriculture 46 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Key perfomance indicators for 2011 KEY RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change from 2011 previous year 2010 2009 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Net sales (€ million) 9,460 8,777 8,447 Profit before tax (€ million) 282.1 312.4 216.6 Return on capital employed (%) 13.2 16.0 11.0 Dividends (€ million) 118 128 89 Salaries, fees and social security costs paid (€ million) 571 521 535 Goods, materials and services purchased (€ million) 9,188 8,526 8,257 Capital expenditure (€ million) 425 325 198 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Electric energy consumption of properties (GWh), all operating countries 839 844 827 Heat energy consumption of properties (GWh), all operating countries 361 406 363 Water consumption of properties (1,000 m3), all operating countries 952 892 772 Specific electric energy consumption of properties (kWh/gross m2), Finland 211 214 209 Specific heat energy consumption of properties (kWh/gross m2), Finland 88 108 92 CO2 emissions, tons ■■ Energy, all operating countries 141,083 148,991 143,766 ■■ Transportation, Finland 46,350 47,543 46,213 ■■ Air miles, Finland 2,101 1,935 1,971 ■■ Company cars, Finland 2,949 2,505 2,600 Waste recovery rate (%) ■■ Finland 92 84 85 ■■ Other operating countries 67 71 68 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Number of personnel, average, Finland 10,056 9,914 10,284 Number of personnel, average, other operating countries 1) 8,904 8,300 8,916 Number of personnel, percentage of women, Finland (%) 59.8 60.7 60.9 Number of personnel, percentage of women, other operating countries (%) 43.5 46.2 50.1 Gender equality 2) 4.11 4.02 4.03 Age equality 2) 4.07 4.00 4.00 Ethnic equality 2) 4.19 4.12 4.12 Performance and development discussions, (%), Finland 2) 76 76 77 Performance and development discussions, (%), other operating countries 2) 65 63 58 Pirkka Product Research ■■ suppliers audited 32 43 41 ■■ product samples tested 10,369 8,826 8,177 ■■ feedback to Consumer Service 20,215 19,106 20,999 ■■ product recalls, 87 80 61 of which recalls of own branded products 28 24 21 Social quality control in high-risk countries ■■ direct purchases from high-risk countries, Finnish companies (as % of all purchases) 1.8 1.5 1.6 ■■ SA8000 certified suppliers 10 24 30 ■■ suppliers included in BSCI auditing process 247 188 119 Number of Fairtrade products in Kesko Food's selections 222 213 150 Fairtrade premium contibuted by Kesko Food, € 280,000 240,000 210,000 1) The figure for 2011 includes OOO Johaston, Russia 2) Personnel survey, scale 1–5 + Kesko's responsibility programme on pages 58–59. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 47 OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS The material aspects of KESKO PROMOTES SUSTAINABLE detailed information on product origin and DEVELOPMENT JOINTLY WITH ITS manufacturing methods must be provided Kesko’s corporate responCUSTOMERS to customers. The aim in products offered sibility are presented in the As a multi-division company operating in to customers is to take account of their eight countries, Kesko offers responsible impacts on consumption during their entire materiality assessment on product alternatives and service solutions life cycles. page 46. Impacts from to a great number of consumers in nearly Maintaining a comprehensive store netany sector of consumption. work is one of Kesko’s objectives. MaintainKesko operations related to Kesko’s product and service selections ing the store network and visits in shopthese aspects are illustratprovide a wide range of choices with which ping centres and stores generate some of the Kesko and its customers together can reduce environmental impacts which Kesko aims ed on pages 44–45. The the adverse effects of consumption and to help reduce jointly with its stakeholder issues closely connected to promote sustainable development. Kesko groups. responsible day-to-day operations create The emissions from the production of the strategies of Kesko and possibilities to improve competitiveness electrical and heat energy for Kesko’s own its divisions, which are estiand increase healthy, profitable business. properties represent a significant part of the K-Group’s environmental impacts. The mated to create business BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES K-Group’s environmental policy obliges opportunities and generate In all of its divisions, Kesko actively develKesko’s real estate operations, in cooperaops store selections and services to meet tion with its business partners, to develop competitive advantages are customer needs. New products are sought solutions for the building, repair, concept discussed in more detail in with a customer-driven approach. As early changes, maintenance and use of real estate as in preparing product specifications, for properties that reduce the consumption of the 2011 Annual Report on example, product characteristics, such as materials and energy during the life cycle of pages 8–11. Risk manageingredients, allergens, microbiological feathese properties. tures and nutritional values can be deterKesko also helps customers find energy ment is discussed in the mined. For home and speciality goods a efficient solutions. The products and serAnnual Report on pages list of banned chemicals, maintained by vices of the building and home improveProduct Research, has been adopted jointly ment trade which improve the energy 52–53 and at www.kesko.fi/ with a policy which defines the quality level efficiency of housing enable customers to investors. required of products and which every supfind suitable solutions for their homes and plier is expected to comply with. Packaging support sustainable development. In the is designed and their material is determined car trade, voluntary energy labelling help before purchasing regardless of division. customers choose cars which are more ecoThe importance of responsible purchasnomical and have a smaller environmental ing can be expected to increase and more impact. 48 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS The implementation of the EU’s Intein the product selections of the K-Group’s employees' wellbeing and the environgrated Energy and Climate Policy, and the sports stores and department stores, as well ment are considered in addition financial Finnish Government’s energy policy will as Kesko's various forms of cooperation in impacts. affect future energy solutions and may projects which promote the wellbeing of increase energy prices, adding to energy families and children. SOME OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT saving pressures. Kesko wants to support a Read more about the product selections RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES IN total solution towards carbon dioxide free of the food trade on pages 30–41, the Energy BUSINESS OPERATIONS production, reduce Finland’s dependency Expert concept on page 28, the energy effiA comprehensive account of Kesko's on imported energy and enhance the efficient products of the car and machinery most significant risks and uncertainciency of the electricity market. To this aim, trade on page 29, and the responsible purties and responses to them is given at a Kesko subsidiary, Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut chasing of the home and speciality goods www.kesko.fi/investors. Oy, is a participant with a 2.8% share in the trade on pages 30–33. Kesko's Board has been reported on, for Fennovoima project which aims to build a example, the following risks identified in new nuclear power plant in Finland. RISK MANAGEMENT IN KESKO risk assessments performed at Kesko in the Kesko also actively examines the use of Kesko’s risk management is proactive and following areas: renewable energy sources. The use of, for an integral part of its management and day■■ Development of the economic situation example, soil and water as sources of heat as today activities. The objective of risk manand consumer confidence well as solar energy, will be a potential alteragement is to ensure the delivery of cus■■ Expansion in Russia native as the technical solutions become tomer promises in the Kesko Group, profit ■■ Multi-channel approach increasingly sophisticated, in the same way performance, dividend payment capacity, ■■ Slow execution of changes in as the condensation heat of the refrigeration shareholder value, the implementation of business operations units in stores is already being recovered. responsible operating practices and the con■■ Store sites Read more on pages 24–29. tinuity of operations. ■■ Regulation of the trading sector Customers are increasingly aware of The risk management policy confirmed ■■ Business interruptions and information all areas of corporate responsibility. New by the Board of Directors guides risk mansystem failures online services, wireless solutions and difagement in the Kesko Group. The policy is ■■ Product safety and supply chain quality ferent terminal devices have increased the based on the COSO ERM Framework and the ■■ Personnel competence and diversity of customers' needs and purchasSFS-ISO 31000 risk management standard. working capacity ing habits. Online shopping and interactive Kesko has a uniform risk assessment ■■ Suppliers and distribution channels channels have become important competiand reporting system. Risk identification ■■ Crime and malpractice tive factors. is based on business objectives and oppor■■ Responsible operating practices Customers' purchase decisions are also tunities and the defined risk appetite. Risks affected by a concern for personal wellbeare prioritised on the basis of their signifiThe financial risks and consequences as ing. Promoting healthy ways of life and eatcance by assessing the impact and probabilwell as risks and opportunities from climate ing habits is an opportunity and a strategic ity of their realisation and the level of risk change to the organisation are described on objective for the food trade. Different forms management. When assessing the impact page 67. of physical activity play a significant part of realisation, the impacts on reputation, Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 49 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES Corporate responsibility VALUES, STRATEGY AND strategies guided by the division Boards and work at Kesko is integrated MANAGEMENT MODEL Kesko’s Board. Corporate responsibility at Kesko is a In the food trade, significant capital in day-to-day work. It is measurable activity, based on Kesko's valexpenditure is allocated to developing the based on Kesko's values ues, operating principles, objectives and strategy. The implementation of the values store network in Finland and starting business operations in Russia. The most imporand vision and guided by is monitored using a number of corporate tant project providing competitive advanthe management system, responsibility performance indicators. Some examples of the indicators used at tage in the food trade involves strengthening the selections, the service and the displays corporate responsibility Kesko are shown in the table below. of fruit, vegetable and bakery departments stakeholder analysis, operKesko is active in the food trade, the home and speciality goods trade, the buildand service counters offering fresh meat, fish and ready-to-eat meals. ating principles and the ing and home improvement trade, and the In the home and speciality goods trade, guide 'Our Responsible car and machinery trade. Growth is sought by actively developing store selections and the strategic emphasis is on increasing retail sales, strengthening the competitive Working Principles' (code services to meet customer needs, by makadvantages of K-citymarket's and Anttila's of conduct). The trading ing capital expenditure in a competitive store network and by developing online concepts and continuing the integration of purchasing and logistics operations. An sector operators are exservices and e-commerce. Online services important project providing competitive pected to take responsibiland e-commerce are important competitive factors and their development is a strategic advantage is increasing online services and e-commerce. ity for product safety and focal point in all divisions. In the building and home improvement healthiness and for the The strategic objectives are presented in the chart on page 51. Kesko’s strategy is trade, the store network will be expanded over the next few years, particularly in environmental and social largely built on division and chain specific Russia, where the focus is on the Moscow impacts of business operations. VALUES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS WE EXCEED OUR we are we create we bear our CUSTOMERS' the best in the a good working corporate EXPECTATIONS trading sector community responsibility ■■ Customer satisfaction ■■ Net sales, market share ■■ Personnel survey ■■ Customer, decision-maker surveys and profit performance ■■ Sickness absence and and media surveys development accident statistics ■■ Sustainable development ■■ Customer surveys ■■ Equality and training indexes ■■ Investor surveys statistics 50 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES region. Synergy benefits are achieved by and guidelines of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki In 2011, the Board held 10 meetings. The capital expenditure on centrally guided purLtd. The company complies with the FinnBoard members' attendance rate at the Board chasing and selections development, and ish Corporate Governance Code for Listed meetings was 94.3%. More information on in a shared enterprise resource planning Companies 2010. The code can be read in the Board's operations in 2011 is available in system and logistics network. full at www.cgfinland.fi. Kesko's Annual Report on pages 47–48 and In the car and machinery trade, the marAs provided by the Comply or Explain at www.kesko.fi/investors. ket shares of the brands represented, includprinciple of the Corporate Governance Code, The Board has an Audit Committee and a ing Volkswagen and Audi, will be increased the company departs from the Corporate Remuneration Committee, both of which are by developing the retail sales and service Governance Code's recommendation concomposed of three members. Neither Comnetwork with an increasing customercerning a Board member's term of office to mittee has independent decision-making driven approach. the effect that the term of office of a Kesko power. Instead, the Board makes decisions Kesko's strategy is presented in more Board member is three years instead of the based on the preparatory work of the Comdetail in Kesko's 2011 Annual Report on one-year term of office recommended by the mittees. In 2011, the Audit Committee held pages 9–11. Code. Read more at www.kesko.fi/investors five meetings and the Remuneration ComThe business models applied in Kesko's or in the Annual Report on page 46. mittee held three meetings. More informasales to consumer-customers are retailing The highest decision-making power in tion on the Committees' work is available on through retailer entrepreneurs and Kesko's Kesko is exercised by the company's shareKesko's 2011 Annual Report on pages 48–49 own retailing. Kesko is also engaged in holders at the company's General Meetand at www.kesko.fi/investors. B2B sales. More detailed information on ing. The company's shareholders elect the The Board has not appointed any of its the business models and responsible and company's Board and auditor at the Annual members to concentrate especially on corefficient operating practices is available in General Meeting. The company uses a soporate responsibility matters, nor does Kesko's 2011 Annual Report on pages 10–11. called one-tier governance model. Read Kesko have a separate process for evaluating Kesko’s financial reporting and planning more about the General Meeting, the matters the Board members’ competence in corpoare based on the Kesko Group’s management falling within the competence of the General rate responsibility. In its decision-making, system. The plans and actions relevant to Meeting, convening the General Meeting, the Board relies on the expertise of the Corcorporate responsibility are integrated in right to participate in the General Meeting, porate Responsibility Advisory Board, as the different sections of Kesko’s manageits minutes, and the presence of governing necessary. ment system (see page 52). Management bodies at www.kesko.fi/investors, or in the The Board members’ fees are not tied systems based on international standards Annual Report on pages 46–47. to the company’s corporate responsibilhave also been adopted. Kesko's Board is composed of seven memity performance. The Board's remuneraThe progress and results of Kesko's corbers, one of whom is a woman. All Board tion plans and fees are presented in the porate responsibility work are discussed in members are non-executive directors. Annual Report on pages 49–50 and at Kesko's responsibility programme 2008– Based on the latest independence evaluwww.kesko.fi/investors. 2012 on pages 58–59 and in the GRI section ation carried out on 4 April 2011, the Board The Board discusses the Corporate on pages 60–90. considers that all of its members are indeResponsibility Report as soon as it has pendent of the company's significant sharebeen completed, and as necessary, also Corporate governance holders, and that the majority of the memother related issues brought out either by Kesko's decision-making and corporate govbers are also independent of the company. the Corporate Management Board or the ernance are guided by Kesko's values and Three Board members (K-retailers) control Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board. responsible operating practices. Decision companies each of which has a chain agreeThe Board's principal duties are listed making and corporate governance comply ment with a Kesko Group company. The in the Annual Report, on page 47 and at with the Finnish Limited Liability CompaKesko Board does not include representawww.kesko.fi/investors. nies Act, regulations concerning publicly tives of the personnel. The Kesko Group has a Corporate Managequoted companies, Kesko's Articles of AssoThe Board regularly assesses its operament Board, the Chair of which is Kesko's ciation, the charters of Kesko's Board of tions and working practices and carries President and CEO. The Corporate ManDirectors and its Committees and the rules out a related self-assessment once a year. agement Board has no authority based on STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES PROFITABLE GROWTH SALES AND SERVICES FOR responsible and efficient CONSUMER-CUSTOMERS operating practices ■■ Our objective is to grow faster than ■■ We increase the value of our brands ■■ Our operating practices are responsible market ■■ Our customer satisfaction exceeds that ■■ We efficiently combine retailer ■■ We seek growth in nearby areas, of our competitors entrepreneurship and chain operations particularly in Russia ■■ Our competitive asset is the K-retailers ■■ We leverage our economies of scale ■■ We invest in the development of our who know the local customers and their and competence for the benefit of store network needs customers ■■ We develop online services and ■■ We use loyal customer information ■■ We automate our processes e-commerce efficiently to serve our customers ■■ We increase our shareholder value Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 51 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES legislation or the Articles of Association. The Corporate Management Board's duties are to discuss Group-wide development projects and Group-level policies and pracRolling tices. In addition, the Corporate Manageplanning ment Board discusses the Group's and the and risk assessment division parent companies' business plans, Q4 financial profit performances and matters handled by statements EMBER JANUA Kesko's Board, in the preparation of which DEC RY report R FE it also participates. BE BR EM The Corporate Management Board is comRY posed of the presidents of the major division NO ON UA Annual report TI ort Q3 parent companies and the senior vice presiER V Vision Rolling planning interim ing CH M AR OCTOB Values Monthly rep dents responsible for corporate finance and report and risk TEGIC PR STRA IMPLEME Strategic assessment IC accounting, human resources, as well as corEG Monthly NT focus AT O porate communications and responsibility. ER TEMB Rolling A Operating rep TR In 2011, the Corporate Management Board APRIL planning principles or Q1 ti composition changed to the effect that from S EP CE and risk S SS Interim the beginning of December 2011, four of the assessment report n T g eight members are women. The Corporate US M Management Board takes a stand on matters AU AY G brought out by the Corporate Responsibility JULY JUNE Advisory Board. The Corporate Management Corporate Board meets 8–10 times a year. responsibility report Risk management Q2 Rolling interim planning Kesko’s risk management is proactive and and risk report an integral part of its management and dayassessment to-day activities. The objective of risk management is to ensure the delivery of customer promises in the Kesko Group, profit performance, dividend payment capacity, The Kesko Group’s management system Responsibility organisation and, as necessary, supporting their ■■ setting the common objectives for the in Kesko implementation. HR function and guiding and coordinatCorporate responsibility is integrated in ing the achievement of the objectives of Kesko's day-to-day work. The management The Environmental Steering Group is HR operations and practical implemenof each business division is responsible for responsible for: tations the practical implementation, while Kes■■ developing the Group’s environmental ■■ guiding the development of HR proko's Board and the Corporate Management management based on the objectives set cesses and services and monitoring the Board handle reporting and the key prinby the Corporate Responsibility Adviquality and efficiency of HR processes ciples. Kesko’s Corporate Communications sory Board and services and Responsibility Unit, assisted by steering ■■ promoting the sharing of best practices groups, is responsible for the development, within the Group The Wellbeing at Work Steering Group is coordination and reporting. ■■ keeping up with changes in environresponsible for: mental and chemical legislation. ■■ preparing the Group's employee wellbeThe Group-level Risk Management ing management model and common Steering Group is responsible for: The Steering Group for Responsible operating principles ■■ discussing the operating principles and Purchasing is responsible for: ■■ setting common objectives for employee key policy definitions concerning risk ■■ developing the Group’s purchasing and wellbeing work and monitoring their management, safety and security sourcing based on the objectives set by achievement ■■ assessing and monitoring the Group’s the Corporate Responsibility Advisory ■■ coordinating practical implementations risks and the safety and security situBoard and promoting the sharing of best pracation, and the implementation of risk ■■ promoting the sharing of best purchastices within the Group. management responses. ing practices within the Group ■■ keeping up with changes in enviThe division-specific responsibility steering The Corporate Responsibility Advisory ronmental and chemical legislation groups are, based on the objectives set and Board is responsible for: pertaining to product purchasing and information distributed by the Group-level ■■ developing the principles that guide the sourcing. steering groups, responsible for: Group’s corporate responsibility ■■ determining their own responsibility ■■ steering and coordinating their practical The HR Steering Group is responsible objectives implementation for: ■■ implementing them in accordance with ■■ setting the objectives for corporate ■■ preparing the Group's HR strategy and the specific characteristics and strategy responsibility work and monitoring common HR policy definitions of the division. 52 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES shareholder value, the implementation of the Group's President and CEO and comand environmental organisations and trade responsible operating practices and the conposed of the management representatives of unions. tinuity of operations. Efficient risk managethe various divisions and Group functions. A stakeholder analysis is included in ment is a competitive advantage for Kesko. The Group's risk management function conKesko’s management system and operating The risk management policy confirmed trols and coordinates the development of plans. Operations in the areas of economic, by the Board guides risk management in joint risk management and security procesocial and environmental responsibility are the Kesko Group. The policy is based on dures, the adoption of best practices in the developed in accordance with the expectathe COSO ERM Framework and the SFS-ISO Group, and is responsible for risk reporting tions of the key stakeholder groups. 31000 Risk Management Standard. The polto the Group's management. Based on the Kesko's corporate responsibility vision icy defines the goals, principles, practices, divisions' and Group functions' risk analyhas been defined in respect of its stakeholdorganisation and responsibilities of risk ses, the Group's risk management function ers. The vision can be read at www.kesko.fi/ management. prepares the Group's risk map, presenting responsibility. Kesko divides risks into strategic, operathe most significant risks and their manIn 2011, Kesko engaged in active dialogue tional and financial risks. In Kesko, a risk is agement. with its various stakeholders. defined as an event or circumstance that can The Group's risk map, the most significant In spring 2011, Kesko and the other Finnhinder or prevent the attainment of Kesko's risks and uncertainties, as well as changes ish BSCI members arranged a seminar in objectives, or that can lead to a failure to in and responses to them are reported to the which one of the issues discussed with exploit business opportunities. Kesko Board's Audit Committee in connecimporters was social responsibility requireThe Kesko Group applies a businesstion with handling the interim reports and ments set by the trading sector on the supply oriented and comprehensive approach to the financial statements. The Audit Comchain. risk assessment and management as part mittee's Chair reports on risk management Customer needs and meeting them form of business operations at the Group, divito the Board as part of the Audit Committee the basis of the development of profession, company and unit level in all operating report. Kesko's Board discusses the most sional competencies in Kesko and its chains' countries. significant risks and their management stores. Responsibility is one of the criteria The business division and Group funcresponses, and assesses the efficiency of risk by which consumers choose the store. The tion managements are responsible for risk management. The most significant risks and results of Kesko Food's responsibility survey management implementation. Each diviuncertainties are reported to the market by 2011 (TNS Gallup) show that K-stores' cussion has appointed a management board the Board in the financial statements, and tomers are more interested in responsibility member, usually the finance director, to be changes in them in interim reports. issues than those of other trading groups, responsible for coordinating risk manageMore information on Kesko's risk manand they also include a higher than average ment and security and providing guidelines agement is available at www.kesko.fi/ number of future shapers, i.e. representain each respective division and reporting on investors and in this report on page 49. tives of a new segment of consumers thinkrisk management responses. In addition, ing responsibly. divisions have risk managers and secuSTAKEHOLDERS In 2011, Kesko, K-Group chains and stores rity managers, who are responsible for the The assessment of corporate responsibilbecome active in social media. In particular, development and control of risk manageity performance takes account of Kesko’s Facebook has proved to be important as a ment and security in the divisions, in coopkey stakeholders, namely Kesko's owners, channel for customer dialogue. eration with the business management and personnel, retailers and their staff, consumAs part of updating the responsibility prosupport functions. ers, suppliers of goods and services, the gramme, Kesko arranged two stakeholder Kesko has a Group-level Risk Managemedia, the authorities, non-governmental discussions to which it invited the divisions' ment Steering Group, which is chaired by KESKO'S STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION Planning Data collection Actions and feedback ■■ Stakeholder identification ■■ Viewpoint and importance to ■■ Reporting performance against ■■ Nature of stakeholder the company targets relationship ■■ Viewpoint indicators ■■ Reporting against criteria ■■ Stakeholder expectations ■■ Process scope, target and (GRI, AA1000) ■■ Key values and operating schedule ■■ Assurance principles relevant to different ■■ Type of data collection ■■ Stakeholder feedback stakeholders ■■ Data auditing and analysis, comparison with objectives and indicators Policies, guidelines, methods Documentation Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 53 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES stakeholders ranging from non-governmenKesko’s corporate responsibility princineurs are responsible for wastage managetal organisations to suppliers of goods. A ples can be read at www.kesko.fi/responment in K-stores. total of about 60 people participated in the sibility. Kesko’s general corporate responThe K-Group’s environmental policy, discussions, bringing up suggestions of sibility principles are complemented by updated in 2011, covers the operations of the issues to be included in the future responmore detailed policies, principles, stands Kesko Group and the K-Group stores both in sibility programme: customer inclusion, and statements. They are listed in the guide Finland and the other operating countries. carbon footprint labels on products, train'Our Responsible Working Principles' and at The K-Group’s key business partners are also ing of sales assistants and increasing the www.kesko.fi/responsibility. expected to observe corresponding environresponsibility information made available Kesko reports on economic, environmenmental management principles. to customers in stores. tal and social responsibility in compliance In late 2011, Kesko's Legal Affairs, Risk with the GRI guidelines version 3.0. Social responsibility Management and Internal Audit organised Kesko’s HR management is based on Kesko's a series of value discussions on Kesko's RESPONSIBILITY STEERING values and responsible operating practices. responsible working principles for the diviThe guide ‘Our Responsible Working Princisions' managements and other key people in Economic responsibility ples’ can be read at www.kesko.fi. Finland. The special theme was combating At Kesko, economic responsibility refers The HR policy defines the permanent bribery. In the previous year, value discusto the good management of finances, the operating principles to be followed in dealsions were arranged in Sweden, Norway, efficient use of resources, as well as genering with personnel issues. These principles Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Belaating stable, long-term economic benefits are guided by Kesko's values and the prinrus. Read more on page 14. to different stakeholders. Financial results ciples defined in the guide ‘Our ResponsiKesko is active in many national and must be achieved in responsible ways – supble Working Principles’. The HR policy is international organisations and seeks to ported by good corporate governance, open complemented by the guidelines for the impact the developments in its business communications and effective stakeholder HR operations. sector. The most significant channels of interaction, while taking environmental and The HR strategy defines HR management influence can be read at www.kesko.fi/ social responsibility into account. objectives and key development initiaresponsibility. General management of economic tives. The Corporate HR Unit is responsible Kesko has prepared a process description responsibility is complemented by corpofor defining the HR strategy as part of the of stakeholder cooperation (see page 53) to rate governance principles, risk manageannual Kesko Group strategy process. The facilitate the analysis and planning of the ment and internal audit principles, Kesko’s HR Steering Group monitors and promotes cooperation. Stakeholders’ expectations of ethical purchasing principles, as well as the implementation of the HR principles Kesko, Kesko’s actions to meet these expecother practices and guidelines for product and HR strategy. Division parent companies tations, and indicators measuring the perand service purchases. and subsidiaries can also establish compleformance are described in the stakeholder mentary guidelines to support the achievegroup analysis of the Group’s responsiEnvironmental responsibility ment of their business objectives. bility work available at www.kesko.fi/ Environmental management is part of Occupational safety management has responsibility. The divisions also use their the K-Group’s management system. The been defined in Kesko Corporation’s labour specific stakeholder analyses. K-Group’s environmental management is protection programme. Labour protection is based on the ICC Business Charter for Suspart of the line organisation’s normal manGeneral operating principles tainable Development, environmental management and leadership work, and each guiding responsibility agement standards, as well as requirements superior is responsible for labour protecKesko’s Corporate Management Board has set by legislation and the authorities. Kesko tion in his/her area. approved the Group’s general corporate is also committed to observe the UN Global Kesko’s occupational health care action responsibility principles. These principles Compact principles. plan defines the overall contents and objecdefine the basic economic, social and enviThe Kesko Group’s Corporate Responsibiltives of occupational health care. The Chief ronmental responsibility promises, and ity Advisory Board defines the main policies Physician is in charge of the occupational related communication principles. Kesko’s for environmental work and the target levels health services. commitments to international declarafor the Group companies, taking account tions and conventions are also included of the environmental impacts of operaCommunities in the principles. The most important of tions and their significance throughout the In Kesko's operations, impacts on communithem are the UN Universal Declaration of whole life cycle and chain of functions. The ties are assessed as part of the development Human Rights and the UN Convention of division parent companies and subsidiarof the store network. Establishing a new the Rights of the Child, the ILO convention ies specify the main policies of their envistore, or expanding or changing an existing on the Fundamental Rights and Principles ronmental work into environmental action one involves various statutory reports and at Work, the OECD Guidelines for Multiprogrammes which support their business hearings of local inhabitants and operators national Corporations, the ICC Business operations. The action programmes are both at the town plan and construction perCharter for Sustainable Development and monitored and updated annually as part of mit phases, depending on the extent of the principles against corruption and bribery, strategy work. project. Reports take a stand on the project's the UN Global Compact initiative, and the Mitigating climate change resulting from impacts on the community structure, traffic purchasing principles of the Business Social energy consumption is one of the key prinand employment. Compliance Initiative (BSCI). Kesko has used ciples in Kesko’s environmental work. Prethe ISO 26000 standard as a source docuventing the generation of waste, increasing Public policy ment that offers orientation to corporate the recovery rate and recycling of materials Kesko plays an active role in trade and responsibility. The Board of the K-Retailers’ are the means by which Kesko reduces the industry organisations in Finland and in Association has recommended that Kesko’s amount of waste at landfills. According to the European Union, contributing its experprinciples be also followed by K-stores. Kesko's business system, retailer entrepretise to social development and legislative 54 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES work. The chart describing Kesko's chanEnvironmental responsibility annual repeat audits based on sampling. Key nels of influence and representation in At the end of 2011, environmental systems environmental issues are also included in organisations is presented at www.kesko.fi/ covered 63% of the Kesko companies net the food store chains’ concept measureresponsibility. sales in Finland and 53% of the whole ments. The Environmental School of FinGroup’s net sales. The coverage has been land (SYKLI) is responsible for the audits of Monitoring and control calculated in proportion to retail sales. The the building and home improvement stores systems environmental systems used at Kesko are and for repeat audits conducted every third presented on page 72. year. Economic responsibility VV-Auto Group Oy and its subsidiaries fulThe criteria content of the K-environMost of the economic responsibility indifil the requirements of the ISO 14001 envimental store model is being revised and cators in this report on pages 65–70 are ronmental system and the ISO 9001 quality its structure was reviewed in Kesko Food presented based on stakeholder group and system. The operations of Keslog and Anttila during 2011. Rautakesko started the concept derived from the consolidated financial are ISO 14001 certified. In the food trade, the reform in autumn 2011 and the reformed statements (www.kesko.fi/investors), whose building and home improvement trade and concept will be introduced during the first preparation and presentation are governed agricultural trade, environmental managehalf of 2012. by the IFRSs (International Financial Reportment is based on the K-environmental store Kesko's partners in the management ing Standards). model – the K-environmental store diploma and maintenance of premises are YIT In addition, Kesko’s report also presents (www.kesko.fi/responsibility). The model Kiinteistötekniikka Oy, ISS Palvelut Oy and results material for the divisions, such as is part of the K-citymarket, K-supermarket, Ovenia Oy. YIT Kiinteistötekniikka’s envithe development of the store site network, K-market, K-rauta, Rautia and K-maatalous ronmental system has ISO 14001 certificageographical scope of operations and breakchain concepts. tion. down of purchases. Food stores applying for the diploma are Kesko’s main office in Katajanokka, Helaudited by Bureau Veritas, who also perform sinki, and Kesko Food’s central warehouse in CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STEERING AT KESKO Food trade Home and Building Car and and speciality and home machinery goods trade improvement trade trade Kesko's Board of Directors Corporate Management Board Risk Management Steering Group President and CEO (Ch.), division representatives Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board SVP for Corporate Communications and Responsibility (Ch.), division representatives HR Steering Group SVP for Corporate HR (Ch.), division representatives Wellbeing at Work Steering Group SVP for Corporate HR (Ch.), division and expert representatives Environmental Steering Group Corporate Responsibility Team (Ch.), division specialists Steering Group for Responsible Purchasing Corporate Responsibility Team (Ch.), division specialists Division-specific responsibility steering groups Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 55 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES Hakkila, Vantaa, have themselves developed ing, as well as K-food retailers’ sourcing to text. The implementation of performance and adopted an environmental programme safeguard responsible fishing and the culand development reviews is monitored with for office work. tivation of fish. the annual personnel survey. So far, certified environmental systems Palm oil must be produced in a responKesko's programme on wellbeing at work have not been adopted by the Group compasible manner, taking account of economic, aims to support employee wellbeing and the nies outside Finland. The K-Group’s environsocial and environmental aspects. Kesko implementation of Kesko's objectives. Sevmental policy can be read at www.kesko.fi/ Food is a member of the RSPO (Roundtaeral projects on promoting the wellbeing at responsibility. ble on Sustainable Palm Oil) and recomwork are underway at Kesko, with the aim of mends that the producers of Pirkka an Menu improving the working capacity and motivaEnergy consumption monitoring products use certified sustainable palm oil tion of employees and reducing morbidity Kesko's maintenance partners monitor the (CSPO). and increasing the retirement age. energy consumption of properties with the The areas of wellbeing at work include help of the EnerKey.com system supplied Waste management control of personal life, work and compeby Energiakolmio Oy. Energiakolmio reads Kesko develops recycling systems in cooptence, the working community, as well as remotely energy consumption measureeration with other operators and promotes management and leadership. Read more on ment terminals located in properties and waste recycling also by developing packagpages 18–23. registers the data in the data file by the ing methods and the use of materials. The hour. The system responds to even minor generation of waste is prevented by using Anti-competitive behaviour location-specific changes in consumption recyclable transport units and by minimisFor Kesko, compliance with competition and sends an alarm to the person in charge. ing the wastage of products on sale. Accordlegislation is of primary importance. Kesko Multi-energy monitoring covers 72% of ing to Kesko’s business model, retailer has a competition legislation guide and a Kesko's real estate, which means that they entrepreneurs are responsible for wastage control system, which includes self-assessare monitored in respect of electricity, heatmanagement in K-stores. ments and employee training events. Key ing energy and water consumption. Manuprinciples and guidelines of competition ally collected readings are also registered in Social responsibility legislation have also been presented in the the EnerKey system. Kesko’s HR goals are to be the most attractive internal web training on matters concerning Kesko has signed the trading sector workplace, to have the most competent and competition legislation. energy-efficiency agreement. In terms of motivated personnel and the best personspecific energy consumption, the types nel productivity in the trading sector. The Occupational safety of real estate with the highest energy conattainment of the goals is monitored with Occupational safety management is defined sumption are K-citymarkets, K-super­ the help of the HR scorecard. in Kesko Corporation’s labour protection markets, Anttila department stores and large The wellbeing of the working community programme. The goal of labour protection is wholesale and warehouse buildings. Every and individual employees and the quality of to secure and maintain employees’ working property is important, but the consumption leadership is measured with an annual percapacity and to prevent and avoid occupamonitoring of these properties has the highsonnel survey. Continuous improvement is tional accidents, occupational diseases and est significance for the reduction of energy ensured by development plans and actions other physical and mental health disorders consumption. drawn up for each unit whose implemencaused by the work environment. Labour In the last two years, Rautakesko's proptation is monitored by the HR functions. protection is part of the line organisation’s erties in the other operating countries have Superiors are coached and supported in normal leadership and managerial work, been increasingly included in operating using the results of the personnel survey and each superior is responsible for labour control and energy monitoring systems. and the management of employee wellbeprotection in his or her own area. Water consumption monitoring is also ing. The results of the personnel survey are part of real estate consumption monitoring included in every superior's scorecard and Occupational health care in Finland and the other operating counperformance bonus indicators. Kesko’s occupational health care action plan tries. As a result of monitoring, responses to The external employer image is monidefines the general contents and objectives changes can be fast, when necessary. tored with various surveys. Kesko came of occupational health care. The objective in 15th place (27th) in the 2011 Universum of occupational health care is maintaining Biodiversity Young Professionals survey among business and promoting employees’ health, working Kesko concentrates on reducing the impacts economy students and in 20th place (18th) in capacity and ability to function, preventing of climate change in order to preserve biothe Universum Student survey among busioccupational illnesses and accidents, ensurdiversity. Kesko only builds store sites on ness economy students. ing health and safety in the work environareas zoned for business properties and it The most important tools for improving ment and supporting the functionality of does not have significant direct impacts on productivity include enhancing personnel work communities. The Chief Physician is biodiversity. In consequence, Kesko’s mancompetence and management, and increasin charge of Kesko’s Occupational Health agement actions are limited to individual ing the efficiency of operating practices. Service. measures and policy definitions. Supervisors are responsible for familiarisIn line with Kesko’s sourcing recommening each employee with Kesko's values and Purchasing chain control dation, the garden furniture made of tropiresponsible working principles and ensurIn its operations, Kesko pays attention to cal wood and sold by the K-Group stores is ing that employees know their duties and the human rights issues and working condieither FSC certified or made of such wood objectives. Competence development is systions in its purchasing chain and, in monispecies whose cultivation is possible in tematic and based on business units' annual toring these, primarily focuses on suppliers accordance with the principles of sustainplanning and strategic focuses. Personal in the high-risk countries. In accordance able development. performance and development reviews are with the BSCI (Business Social Compliance Kesko’s fish statement is intended to conducted at least once a year and personal Initiative), these are countries and areas direct Kesko Food’s and Kespro’s own sourcdevelopment plans are drawn up in that conwhere there is a risk of human rights and 56 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 RESPONSIBILITY IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES workers' rights violations. The classification control, keeps abreast of food legislation, Act, every data controller must have a file is based, for example, on the UN Index of and is responsible for recipe and consumer description. K-Plus Oy's file description is Human Development and the Transparency services. available in Finnish at www.plussa.com. International Corruption Perceptions Index. In addition to food products, Product Kesko has a steering group for responResearch also controls the safety and quality Prevention of malpractice sible purchasing, which steers and coordiof non-foods and home and specialty goods. Kesko's attitude to bribery and other malnates social quality control of suppliers. The In the development of own brands, Product practice is absolutely uncompromising. group consists of representatives of Kesko's Research works in close cooperation with Kesko's principles are presented in the division parent companies importing from Kesko’s buyers and product manufacturers. guide 'Our Responsible Working Principles', high-risk countries. adopted by all Kesko's units and K-stores Kesko is a member in the European BSCI Privacy protection since 2008. The guide consists of the folaudit system, and uses both BSCI auditing K-Plus Oy, a Kesko subsidiary, manages and lowing sections: and the SA8000 standard for assessing its maintains the K-Plussa customer loyalty ■■ observance of law suppliers in high-risk countries. Kesko is system, operated by K-store chains and ■■ avoiding conflicts of interest committed to the BSCI Code of Conduct, the K-Plussa partners. The system is limited ■■ anti-bribery approach content of which is practically the same as to Finnish operations. Around 2.2 million, ■■ creating a good working atmosphere Kesko's own ethical purchasing principles. or some 84% of Finnish households, enjoy ■■ safety In cooperation with BSCI, Kesko folK-Plussa's customer loyalty benefits. ■■ confidentiality of customer information lows other audit systems in the market and The customer information of K-Plussa ■■ open communications. accepts audits based on them, provided that cardholders forms a customer database that the level of requirements is the same as in is used, with the customer’s permission, for The guide has been published in Finnish, the BSCI audit. See the table on page 87 on managing customer relationships, for cusSwedish, Norwegian, English, Russian, Estosome certification and audit systems used tomer contacts and marketing purposes of nian, Lithuanian, and Latvian, as have the for different product groups in Kesko. Kesko the companies which have joined K-Plussa animated videos made on the themes of the is a member of CGF (The Consumer Goods system. Data on cardholders’ purchasing guide, available at www.kesko.fi. Forum), a discussion and cooperation forum patterns are collected at sum total and prodThe guide was updated in 2011 and an for the grocery trade and industry, currently uct group level. online training programme is being built working on the Global Social Compliance Customers can forbid the use of their to support it. The updating process also Programme (GSCP), which is aimed at buildproduct group level information. In this included some specifications on stakeing comparability between social and envicase, product group data on their purchases holder cooperation, for example, to the ronmental audit systems. are not collected or used in selection planGroup and division level instructions relatIn China, Kesko supports its suppliers ning or for direct advertising purposes. ing to the Responsible Working Principles. of home and speciality goods by monitorCustomers can also request that no inforKesko’s ethical purchasing principles, ing activities. The local monitoring officer mation at all is registered on their purchases, adopted for trade relations with suppliers guides, trains and oversees Kesko’s Chinese and only make use of the immediate benin high-risk countries, make a clear statesuppliers in issues related to employment efits they receive from using their K-Plussa ment about opposition to bribery. Kesko is and working conditions, and the observance cards. In these cases, purchasing data are a member of Transparency International, of environmental and chemical regulations. not entered into the K-Plussa system and the Finland. Rautakesko and Kesko Food monitor and customer does not gain K-Plussa points. At The Kesko Group's Internal Audit has paid develop the responsibility of the purchasing the end of 2011, some 1,200 active customers particular attention to the efficiency of conchain as part of the sourcing cooperation had requested that their purchasing data not trols that prevent malpractice and financial with other European retail chains (Eurobe collected at all. losses. Measures preventing malpractice group, ICASS and AMS). According to the K-Plussa rules, personal have included more effective communicaKesko has the SUMO (supplier monitordata from the customer database and custions, training and guidelines as well as ing) database, in which it saves all informatomer information accrued from the use of tightened controls. Information technoltion on supplier audits, certifications and the K-Plussa card can be made use of and ogy is increasingly used to trace exceptional monitoring visits in high-risk countries as assigned for direct marketing purposes to transactions, and to prevent and examine well as the risk classification based on them. the companies participating in K-Plussa malpractice. Kesko has a malpractice examiThe information on BSCI audits is also saved cooperation. Customers can forbid the use nation and reporting guideline, according to in the database maintained by the BSCI and and assignment of information for this purwhich Kesko's Risk Management examines available for all members. pose by informing K-Plus Oy. The prohibithe suspicions of malpractice. Clear suspition always applies to the K-Plussa customer cions of criminal activity are reported to the Product Research and the holder of a parallel card. police for further investigation. Kesko and the K-Group stores are responsiAs a data controller, K-Plus Oy ensures Through Kesko's intranet, employees in ble to the products' end-users for ensuring that the customer information is only used all operating countries, except for Belarus, that the products comply with all requirefor the purposes specified in the file descripcan give feedback and ask questions conments of Finnish and EU legislation, are tion. Information on individual customers cerning operations not only in their own safe for the users and meet quality and other is protected efficiently with instructions units but also directly to top management. promises. Kesko Food's Product Research is given to the personnel and by various Feedback can be given openly or anonyresponsible for the safety and quality assurtechnical means. Customer data is only mously. Through the intranet, employees ance of the products purchased, develops disclosed to outside parties if required by can also contact Kesko's Internal Audit. own brand products, coordinates selflaw. According to the Finnish Personal Data Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 57 Kesko's responsibility programme Kesko's responsibility programme 2008–2012 The whole responsibility programme is available at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Here are the key results of the responsibility programme in 2011. More extensive information on the progress in the objectives and performance of the programme can be found in the respective sections of this report. The update of the responsibility programme continues and the new programme will be published in late 2012. Objective and actions Year 2011 We actively increase the number of local suppliers and encourage K-retailers to purchase locally ■■ The aim is to increase the amount of local purchases (K-retailers' direct ■■ K-retailers’ direct purchases were €563 million. purchases totalled €534m in 2007, €569m in 2008, €525m in 2009 and €537m in 2010). We maintain a comprehensive store network in Finland ■■ Compared with Finnish competitors, Kesko Food's store network is the most ■■ At year-end, there were 964 K-food stores and the store network covered comprehensive and households' distance to the nearest food store is the 88% or 301 out of all 324 Finnish municipalities. shortest (start value in 2008: 45.5% lived within one kilometre from a K-food ■■ Around 50% of the Finnish population lived within one kilometre of the store). nearest K-food store. Combating climate change ■■ The K-Group has signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement and ■■ The combined CO2 emissions of electricity and heat used by the K-Group made a commitment to save 65 GWh by the end of 2016. in Finland were 118,011 tons, down 5.2% from 2010. ■■ Electricity purchased by Kesko to the K-Group is carbon-free. ■■ Electricity purchased by Kesko was carbon-free and produced with nuclear power. Increasing energy efficiency (Kesko Food) ■■ Actions include fitting freezers of all new stores with lids, cooling cabinets with ■■ There are nearly 7 kilometres of freezers covered with lids and doors and doors, all new stores' advertising signage with LED lighting only, optimising the the project of fitting cooling cabinets with doors continued. number of cooling cabinets, and energy classification recommendation 'A' for ■■ LED lighting is used in illuminated signs and also for general lighting. store equipment. Transportation ■■ Reducing CO2 emissions calculated per delivered kilo by 10% by the end of ■■ Comparative emissions per delivered kilo were 0.0236 (0.0242) CO2 kg, 2012; 2007 is used as baseline (0.0237 CO2 kg per delivered kilo). down 2.3% from the previous year. ■■ Compared with the 2007 level, relative emissions from transportation have decreased by 1.1%. Business travel and company cars ■■ Reporting the CO2 emissions derived from travelling with company cars and ■■ In 2011, the average CO2 emissions were 146 g (155 g in 2010). the average emission level (g CO2/km). Our recommendation is below The recommended level is below 160 g of CO2/km. The total CO2 180 g CO2/km. emissions of company cars were 2,949 tons (2,505 tons in 2010.) ■■ Continuing to increase video conference facilities. ■■ There were 4,438 hours of video conferences (4,516 hours). Own ■■ Reducing the amount of air travel and reporting the CO2 emissions derived from terminals were used for (Genesys Conference) video conferences for air travel. 1,117 hours (2,771); the reduction can be attributed to the use of Videra and Office Communicator instant messaging applications. ■■ Emissions from air travel were 2,101 (1,935) tons and air miles were 10.3 (9.5) million. 58 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Kesko's responsibility programme Objective and actions Year 2011 Recovery and material efficiency ■■ Having the recovery rate of some 90% in our warehouse activities. Increasing ■■ The development of recycling in warehouses and K-stores continued. the recovery rate of K-food stores to the same level of 90% by 2012. The recovery rate in Kesko Food's logistics was nearly 95% (84%). ■■ Decreasing the K-food stores' shrinkage by some 20% by 2012. ■■ Work to reduce shrinkage continued in warehouses and K-stores by ■■ Developing the recovery and recycling services offered by K-food stores to their developing sales management and ordering tools. Operating models for customers. store waste management were developed; K-food stores included in the new model had recovery rates of nearly 90%. ■■ There were 223 recycling points for customers in connection with K-food stores. Some 338 (278) million cans and 111 (103) million recyclable plastic bottles were returned. Environmental management at stores ■■ Including Anttila Oy's all new department stores in Anttila's ISO 14001 ■■ All Anttila department stores have been certified, and also the new certification. logistics centre. ■■ All K-citymarket and K-supermarket stores, and 50% of K-market stores are ■■ Situation with K-environmental stores: 98% of K-citymarkets, 94% of K-environmental stores. K-supermarkets and 43% of K-markets (there are K-markets in service ■■ In Finland, all K-rauta and Rautia stores are K-environmental stores by the end of stations that do not yet have the K-environmental store model in their 2009, and all K-maatalous stores by spring 2009. chain concept). ■■ Kesko Food develops the K-environmental store concept, trainings of new ■■ 98% of K-rauta stores, 93% of Rautia stores and 90% of K-maatalous stores sections by the end of 2010. are environmental stores. ■■ The update of the content of the K-environmental store concept and the revision of the set of criteria was completed in spring 2011. The e-learning training project will be launched in 2012. Responsible purchasing, stands and statements ■■ Kesko has two monitoring officers in China whose target is to make 160 factory ■■ 64 factory visits were made during the year. visits to the premises of Kesko's suppliers annually. ■■ In BSCI audits, there were 73 initial audits and 61 re-audits. ■■ The BSCI objective for 2010 is 85 initial audits and 50 re-audits. ■■ The statement is applied to Kesko Food Ltd's, Kespro Ltd's and K-food ■■ Establishing the fish and shellfish statement. stores' purchases for fish and shellfish and the products with fish as the main ingredient. When recommendations change, changes are made within the framework of purchase agreement periods. The statement is reviewed and updated when needed, however, at least once a year. Responsible product selections ■■ Promoting the sales of biodegradable Pirkka bags and reusable Pirkka bags. ■■ The promotion of biodegradable and reusable bags continued. ■■ New biodegradable packages to the Pirkka product range. Materials of GMO ■■ Development work with the packaging of the Pirkka range continued. origin are not accepted. ■■ Continuing with the reduction of salt, sugar and fat content of Pirkka products. ■■ At the end of 2011, there were 89 reformulated Pirkka products. Having all Pirkka products with high salt, sugar or fat content reformulated by the end of 2010. ■■ Expanding the use of the Nutritioncode service. ■■ Training 500 specialists in healthy eating for K-stores by the end of 2012. ■■ There are a total of 560 K-Food Specialists in K-food stores in February ■■ Kesko Food's objectives include having the largest selection and sales of 2012. Fairtrade products in Finland. ■■ There are 222 (213) Fairtrade products, of which 38 (37) are Pirkka ■■ Developing costand eco-efficient service solutions for construction and living products. in Rautakesko. ■■ Rautakesko's energy efficiency project continues; K-rauta and Rautia both ■■ The K-maatalous chain continues to focus on promoting sustainable practices in have the Energy Expert concept in use. agriculture in Finland. ■■ The development work of K-maatalous continues. Wellbeing of employees ■■ Supporting employees' recreational and leisure activities annually by some ■■ Around €1.9 million were used for employees' recreational and leisure €2 million. activities. ■■ The aim in developing employee wellbeing is promoting working capacity and ■■ The programme for wellbeing at work and the management model for maintaining the ability to work. wellbeing at work have been drawn up in Kesko. ■■ Harmonising the calculation methods of sickness absences. ■■ Sickness absences are recorded as planned. ■■ Introducing a new model of early intervention in all divisions to manage sickness ■■ The early intervention model is in use as planned. absences by 2010. Incorporating the responsibility programme into the brand and marketing strategy work ■■ Strengthening the responsibility image associated by stakeholders to Kesko, its ■■ Kesko's visual image was refreshed in 2011. division parent companies and the various product brands. ■■ Pirkka was successful in the nationwide youth survey conducted in 2011. ■■ Bringing our responsibility work to the attention of customers in the stores. ■■ More effective responsibility communications were included in action plans. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 59 GRI indeX GRI indeX 2011 Based on our own assessment, our reporting complies with the A+ A+ application level of GRI. Kesko reports on all material information application level of the GRI G3 guidelines (version 3.0). Pricewaterand indicators related to its operations. GRI indicator protocols are houseCoopers Oy has checked that our reporting complies with the not applied in detail for all the indicators. GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the President and CEO 6–7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 44–45, 48–49, 58–59 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 5 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 4–5 2.3 Operational structure 4–5 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters 4 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5, 66 2.7 Markets served 4–5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 4–5 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 4, 9 The Intersport licence and business size, structure, or ownership operations in Russia were transferred to a Kesko subsidiary in August 2011. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 8–9 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3 3.3 Reporting cycle 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 94 contents 3.5 Process for defining report content (materiality, prioritisation, 2–3, 46–47 stakeholders expected to use the report) 3.6 Boundary of the report 2–3 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3 The Intersport business operations in Russia are not yet included in the environmental responsibility figures; the possible limitation has been given at the other indicators. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 3 facilities, outsourced operations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 3 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information 3 provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3 methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI content index 60–64 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3, 92–93 assurance for the report 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 51 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, pages 46–49. 4.2 The Board Chair's function within the organisation's 51 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, management page 47. 4.3 Independence of Board members 51 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, page 47. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 51 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, recommendations or direction to the Board pages 46–49. 60 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 GRI indeX GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Board and 51, 81, 83 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, the management, and the organisation's corporate pages 49–51. responsibility performance 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest 51 Kesko complies with the Finnish Corporate are avoided Governance Code for listed companies. Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, pages 46–49. 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the Board members for 51 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, strategic management and corporate responsibility pages 47–49 and 55–57. 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct and principles, and the 50, 54 status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organisation's 51–53 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2011, management of economic, environmental and social page 47. performance, including risk management 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's own performance 51 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed 48–49, 51–53 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 54 initiatives to which the organisation endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations 14–15 www.kesko.fi/responsibility 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 53–54 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 53–54 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 53–54 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 15, 53–54, 83, engagement 89 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 54–59 x Economic performance indicators EC1* Direct economic value generated and distributed 65–66 EC2* Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 67–68 x organisation's activitiesdue to climate change EC3* Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan 69 obligations EC4* Financial assistance received from government 69 No assistance in 2011. EC5 Standard entry level wages compared to local minimum wages Finland, Sweden and Norway have collective at organisation's significant locations of operations agreements, in other countries at least statutory minimum wages. The ratio between wages not available. EC6* Spending on locally-based suppliers 14, 58, 69–70 EC7* Procedures for local hiring 15, 70 x EC8* Infrastructure investments and services provided for public 70 benefit EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 44–45, 70 impacts Environmental RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 54–59 x Environmental performance indicators EN1* Materials used 71 Packaging materials supplied to the market. x No information available from countries outside Finland. EN2* Materials used that are recycled input materials 71, 78 Recycling of packaging plastic used in transportation in reported. EN3* Direct energy consumption 71–73 x EN4* Indirect energy consumption 71–73 x EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 24–26, 73–74 Energy savings achieved not reported. x improvements EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and 24–29, 74 Energy savings achieved not reported. x services EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 24–25, 74 Energy savings achieved not reported. x reductions achieved Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 61 GRI indeX GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact EN8* Water withdrawal 74 Kesko uses water from municipal systems. x EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not material in Kesko’s operations. Kesko uses water from municipal systems. EN10 Water recycled and reused 74 EN11* Land owned, leased and managed in areas of high biodiversity 74 value or in protected areas EN12* Impacts of activities on biodiversity in protected areas and 74 Kesko's direct impacts and purchasing policy areas of high biodiversity value definitions have been reported. All impacts of the supply chain cannot be reliably assessed. EN13 Habitats protected or restored 74, 77–78 EN14 Strategies, actions and plans related to biodiversity 56, 74, 78 EN15 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species in 74–75 There are no endangered species in areas areas affected by operations affected by Kesko's direct operations. EN16* Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 75–76 x EN17* Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 75–76 x EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 29, 76 Achieved reductions in emissions are not x reported. EN19* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 76 Small quantities of ozone-depleting x substances, no quantities reported. EN20* NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type 76 x EN21* Water discharge 76 EN22* Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 76–77 x EN23* Total number and volume of significant spills 77–78 x EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Not material in Kesko’s operations. deemed hazardous EN25 Water bodies significantly affected by the reporting 78 All wastewater goes to the municipal sewage organisation's discharges of water and runoff system. EN26* Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 33, 56, 59, 78 Kesko has indirect impacts on products on x services, and extent of impact mitigation sale. Results achieved through products on sale cannot be reliably assessed. EN27* Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 78 Recycling of plastics used in transportation x that are reclaimed has been reported. EN28* Compliance with environmental laws and regulations 77–78 x EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 29, 75–76, 78 x EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Data not available. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO LABOUR ASPECTS 54–59 x Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1* Total workforce by employment type and employment 80 contract LA2* Employee turnover 80 Not reported by age group or gender. Data x not available. LA3 Benefits provided to employees 80–81 Benefits exceeding the statutory level not reported in detail. Practices vary by operating country. LA4* Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 81 x agreements LA5* Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 81 x LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal health 81 The percentage of employees not reported. x and safety committees Arrangements based on local legislation. LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism 81, 82 Reporting does not cover contractors. x and work-related fatalities The statistics of occupational injuries only available for Finnish operations. LA8* Education and counselling to assist workforce members 81–82 Kesko's activities/programmes regarding x regarding serious diseases serious diseases concern directly Kesko employees only. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with In Finland, arrangements based on trade unions legislation. 62 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 GRI indeX GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact LA10* Average hours of training per employee 82 Not reported by employee category. Data not available. LA11* Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 19, 82–83 LA12 Performance and career development reviews 83 LA13* Composition and diversity of governance bodies and 83–85 x employee categories LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women 85 The ratio not reported. It is not possible to x make a Group-level comparison. MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO HUMAN RIGHTS 54–59, 85–87 x Human rights performance indicators HR1* Human rights screening in investment decisions No problems related to retailing have been detected in human rights issues in Kesko's operating countries. The issue is included in the risk assessment procedure. HR2* Suppliers' and contractors' screening on human rights 86–87 The number of suppliers in the BSCI, SA8000 x or Fairtrade auditing processes has been reported, not the percentage. HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning 88 The training hours not reported. Data not x aspects of human rights available. HR4* Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 88 x HR5* Operations in which the right to exercise freedom of 88 The unionisation rate of employees has been x association and collective bargaining may be at risk reported for those operations for which the data is available. HR6* Operations with a risk for incidents of child labour 86–87 x HR7* Operations with a risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 86–87 x labour HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in aspects of human 88 Management of security issues is described. rights HR9 Number of incidents involving rights of indigenous people and 88 No violations. x actions taken MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SOCIETY ASPECTS 54–59 x Society performance indicators SO1* Programmes that assess and manage the impacts of Assessments are made according to local operations on communities legislation. SO2* Percentage and number of business units analysed for risks 88 Risks related to corruption are dealt with as x related to corruption part of Kesko's risk management. Key risks are identified and assessed regularly during the year. SO3* Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies 88 The number of employees trained and x and procedures percentage of management and other employees not reported. Percentage not available. SO4* Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 88 x SO5* Organisation's public policy positions and participation in 89 x public policy development and lobbying SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 89 x politicians and related institutions SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and 89 monopoly practices SO8* Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 89 laws and regulations Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 63 GRI indeX GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 54–59 x Product responsibility performance indicators PR1* Assessment of health and safety impacts of products and 89 The percentage of products covered by the x services at various life cycle stages assessment of health and safety imparcts not reported. Data not available. PR2 Non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning 89 x health and safety impacts of products PR3* Product and service information required by procedures 31, 89 The percentage of products covered by x information requirements not reported. Data not available. PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 89 x concerning product and service information and labelling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction and results of 89 The results of customer satisfaction surveys customer satisfaction surveys not reported. Group-level results not available. PR6* Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to 90 marketing communications, incl. advertising, promotion and sponsorship PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and 90 voluntary codes related to marketing communications PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses 90 The number of complaints regarding x of customer data breaches of customer privacy not reported. Statistics of complaints by topic not compiled. PR9* Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 90 concerning products and services Included Partly included Not included *Key indicator recommended in the GRI guidelines x) Reporting in compliance with Global Compact, COP = Communication on Progress 64 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Economic responsibility RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED EQUITY RATIO Target level Return on capital employed for 2011 Target level Equity ratio for 2011 14% 2009 11.0 2010 16.0 13.2 % 40–50% 2009 54.2 2010 53.5 53.9 % return oN equity capital expenditure, € MILLION Target level Return on equity for 2011 2009 2010 Capital expenditure in 2011 8.9 425 198 325 12% % 2009 2010 6.6 10.1 Management approach to economic responsibility, including operThe objective is to make capital expenditures of over €600 million ating principles and monitoring and control systems, is described in the operations of the food trade, the building and home improveon pages 54–57. ment trade and Intersport in Russia, mainly in the Moscow and St. The financial result must be achieved in responsible ways supPetersburg regions, by 2015. In the food trade, the objective is to ported by good corporate governance, open communications and open a cluster of 10 stores in both St. Petersburg and Moscow. In the effective stakeholder interaction, while taking environmental and building and home improvement trade, the objective is to open 11 social responsibility into account. new K-rauta stores by 2015. At the end of 2011, there were 14 K-rauta Kesko's key strategic objective is healthy, profitable growth. stores in Russia. Intersport had 36 stores and the aim is to double Growth is sought by actively developing store selections and serthe network by 2015. Read more on pages 4–5 of this report and on vices to meet customer needs, by making capital expenditure in a page 9 in Kesko's 2011 Annual Report. competitive store network and by developing online services and Most of the economic responsibility indicators in this report are e-commerce. presented in relation to stakeholder group and derived from the consolidated financial statements (www.kesko.fi/investors), whose Kesko's financial indicators preparation and presentation are governed by IFRSs (International 2011 2010 2009 Financial Reporting Standards). Kesko's reporting on economic Return on capital employed (%) 13.2 16.0 11.0 responsibility is in compliance with the GRI Guidelines. The report Return on equity (%) 8.9 10.1 6.6 also presents results material for the line of business, such as the Equity ratio (%) 53.9 53.5 54.2 development of the store site network, geographical scope of operaGearing (%) 1.5 -16.8 -12.5 tions and breakdown of purchases. Capital expenditure (€ million) 425 325 198 Capital expenditure as percentage of net sales (%) 4.5 3.7 2.3 Economic value generated and distributed, EC1 In Finland, growth is sought by increasing market shares and by Kesko analyses the economic benefits of its operations with regard providing more customer-driven services than those of competitors. to different stakeholder groups and market areas. Stakeholder welIn addition, growth is sought in the Russian market, in particular, fare in its market areas is important for Kesko and its international which is growing faster than the Nordic or Baltic markets. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 65 Economic responsibility trading operations also promote increased welfare outside its own the less liquid A shares by 28%, while the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki All markets, especially in developing countries. Share Index decreased by 30%. The number and value of B shares The following tables show cash flows between Kesko and its traded on the Helsinki Stock Exchange rose by about one fifth. The stakeholders, as well as the breakdown of economic value added number and value of A shares traded halved from the previous year. between stakeholder groups. The consolidated income stateThe largest foreign shareholders are from the United States, Norment, the consolidated statement of financial position and the way, Great Britain, the Netherlands and Sweden (source: BigDough). consolidated statement of cash flows are available in full in the consolidated financial statements (IFRS). Read more in Kesko’s Ten largest shareholders by number of shares (A and B series) at 31 Dec. 2011 2011 Annual Report beginning on page 80. % of shares % of votes Economic benefits from Kesko's operations flowing to stakeholders, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3.62 1.61 € million K-Retailers' Association 3.56 9.05 2011 2010 2009 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3.54 7.06 Customers* Revenues 10,165 9,476 9,157 Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 2.67 6.86 Suppliers Cost of goods, Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1.36 3.49 materials and services Kesko Pension Fund 1.31 2.22 purchased -9,188 -8,526 -8,257 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1.15 0.29 Value added Tapiola Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1.12 0.29 generated 977 949 900 Oy The English Tearoom Ab 1.02 0.26 Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail Distribution of value Trade 0.99 2.18 added: Employees Salaries, fees and social security contributions -571 -521 -535 Store network Creditors Net finance income/ Kesko has about 2,000 stores engaged in chain operations in Finland costs 2 6 -16 and other operating countries. The K-food store network, which Owners Dividend -118 -128 -89 consists of nearly 1,000 K-food stores, is the most comprehensive Public sector Income taxes -85 -97 -82 in Finland. The food trade services cover nearly all municipalities Communities Donations -1 -2 -2 in Finland (see the adjoining table) and K-food stores have some Retained in business 204 207 177 900,000 customers every day. Kesko also has a large number of B2B * Incl. net sales and other operating income. customers. Outside Finland, Kesko engages in the building and home improvement trade, the interior decoration trade and the machinery Basic information on Kesko shares and shareholders at 31 Dec. trade. The numbers of stores are presented on page 5. 2011 2010 2009 At the end of 2011, Kesko partnered with 1,102 independent Number of shares (1,000 pcs) 98,645.0 98,641.3 98,321.5 K-retailer entrepreneurs and about 130 other retailer entrepreneurs Share capital (€ million) 197 197 197 in the Asko, Sotka, Byggmakker and Senukai chains. Kesko's sales to A shares as percentage of all shares (%) 32 32 32 retailer entrepreneurs accounted for 52% of sales in 2011. B shares as percentage of all shares (%) 68 68 68 Kesko and K-retailers form the K-Group, whose retail sales totalled A shares as percentage of all votes (%) 83 83 83 €12 billion (VAT 0%) in 2011. The K-Group employs approximately B shares as percentage of all votes (%) 17 17 17 45,000 people. Market capitalisation of A shares (€ million) 788 1,101 749 Staff cost, € million Market capitalisation of B shares (€ million) 1,719 2,337 1,537 2011 2010 2009 Number of shareholders 41,215 38,258 38,888 Salaries and fees 473 451 448 Earnings per share, diluted (€) 1.84 2.06 1.27 Indirect employee costs Dividend per share (€) 1.2 1.3 0.9 pension costs 45 23 40 other indirect employee costs 46 41 39 Share-based payments 6 5 8 According to its dividend policy, Kesko Corporation distributes at least 50% of its earnings per share excluding non-recurring items In 2011, foreign operations accounted for €126 million of total salaries. as dividends, taking into account, however, the company’s financial In 2011, foreign operations accounted for €28 million of total pension costs position and operating strategy. In 2011, Kesko distributed a total of and other indirect employee costs. approximately €128 million as dividends for the 2010 profit, which represented 62.6% of earnings per share and 72.9% of earnings per Taxes, € million share excluding nonrecurring items. A decision has been made to 2011 2010 2009 distribute approximately €118 million for the 2011 profit as diviIncome taxes to Finland 78.7 92.6 76.5 Income taxes to other countries 6.5 4.2 5.9 dends, which is 64.9% of earnings per share and 65.3% of earnings Real estate taxes to Finland 2.4 3.0 3.4 per share excluding non-recurring items. Real estate taxes to other countries 1.9 1.3 1.1 At 31 December 2011, foreign ownership of all shares was 20%, and foreign ownership of B shares was 29%. In 2011, the amount of real estate taxes to Finland includes real estate tax The price trend of both shares followed the general share price refunds for prior years. trend. The price of the liquid B shares decreased by 26% and that of 66 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Economic responsibility Kesko's support for the public good, €1,000 for business operations. Estimated financial impacts on operations 2011 2010 2009 are business secrets and therefore not reported. Non-governmental and environmental Maintaining an extensive store network is one of Kesko’s objecorganisations 189 130 79 tives. Maintaining the store network and visits in shopping cenScience, research and education 96 1,033 140 Culture 94 166 122 tres and stores generate some of the environmental impacts which Sports 463 619 621 Kesko aims to help reduce in cooperation with its various stakeHealth care 15 89 63 holder groups. In respect of expansion, it is crucial to succeed in Youth work 198 207 469 the acquisition and building of good store sites, the development Veteran organisations 16 10 14 of store concepts, in purchasing and logistics and the recruitment Total 1,072 2,253 1,508 of key personnel. Good store sites are a key competitive factor and the acquisition of store sites can be delayed by zoning and permit procedures, among other things. Number of K-food stores in Finnish municipalities (as at 1 Jan. 2011) Increasing regulations restricting competitive trading conditions % of all are being imposed also by the European Union. Such a development MunicimunicipaliK-food stores palities ties would weaken the trading sector’s possibilities to serve customers 10 or more 17 5.0% and operate efficiently. 7–9 5 1.5% Possible rapid changes in legislation and the application of laws, 5–6 24 7.0% as well as sudden changes in the operating environment can delay 3–4 52 15.2% the expansion and complicate operating activities. Non-compliance 2 62 18.1% with legislation and agreements can result in fines, compensation 1 141 41.2% for damages and other financial losses, and a loss of confidence 0 41 12.0% and reputation. Municipalities, total 342 100.0% An analysis of risks and opportunities can also reveal customers' future needs. Kesko actively develops the stores' selections and services in all of its divisions to meet customer needs. At the same time, customer awareness is increasing and needs and buying behaviour Financial implications and other risks and have become diversified as new services have been made available. opportunities for the organisation's Online transactions and interactive channels will be key competitive activities due to climate change, EC2 factors in the near future. One of the key objectives in Kesko’s responsibility work is to mitiClimate change may have an impact on the sources and availabilgate the climate change progress, because climate change causes ity of products both inside and outside Europe. Accidents, natural risks and costs but also provides opportunities for Kesko’s operaphenomena and epidemics can cause damages or business intertions. Overall, climate change may impact on the company's busiruptions which cannot be prevented. The trading sector is characness operations in terms of risks involved in regulation, for examterised by increasingly complicated and long supply chains and an ple, various permit procedures, or in terms of risks resulting from increased dependency on information systems, data communicaphysical changes, such as draught or abundant rainfall. Climate tions and external service providers. Failures in information and change can affect business operations also in terms of other risks, payment systems or in other parts of the supply chain can cause such as reputation risks and changes in consumer behaviour. On significant losses of sales and weaken customer satisfaction. the other hand, the above changes resulting from climate change In addition, the importance of responsible sourcing practices can can also provide new opportunities and competitive advantages be expected to increase and it is necessary to provide customers with Analysis of economic benefits from Kesko's operations by market area, € million Pension and indirect Salaries and shareemployee costs Purchases Capital expenditure based payments and taxes Total Finland 5,436 291 354 144 6,224 Other Nordic countries 846 22 56 17 941 Baltics 201 2 44 7 255 Russia 196 109 21 7 333 Other countries 1,370 1 5 5 1,382 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 67 Economic responsibility Kesko's purchases by operating country in 2011 Suppliers of goods Suppliers of goods and services and services in operin other ating country* Purchases from suppliers of goods** countries* Purchases from suppliers of goods** pcs € million % pcs € million % Finland 11,699 5,406 80.2 2,483 1,331 19.8 Sweden 1,066 134 86.5 145 21 13.5 Norway 1,183 530 98.2 91 10 1.8 Estonia 917 38 49.7 346 38 50.3 Latvia 661 30 36.5 293 52 63.5 Lithuania 818 61 28.7 1,197 152 71.3 Russia 1,355 184 98.5 5 3 1.5 Belarus 712 40 66.1 167 21 33.9 Total 18,411 6,423 79.8 4,727 1,626 20.2 * Suppliers of goods and services ** Suppliers of goods Kesko's purchases in 2011 analysed by company's and supplier's country of domicile, € million Supplier's country of domicile Company's country of Other domicile Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus countries Total Finland 5,406 165 9 35 1 4 0 0 1,118 6,737 Sweden 9 134 1 0 0 0 0 0 11 155 Norway 1 4 530 0 0 0 0 0 6 540 Estonia 7 1 0 38 2 1 0 0 26 76 Latvia 6 1 0 5 30 2 0 0 38 81 Lithuania 6 0 0 6 15 61 2 1 120 213 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 0 184 0 3 187 Belarus 0 0 0 0 0 2 10 40 8 61 Total 5,436 305 541 84 48 69 196 41 1,329 8,049 increasingly accurate information on the origin and production Kesko’s real estate operations, in cooperation with business partners, methods of products. We must strive to take account of the impacts develop solutions for the building, repairs, concept changes, mainteon consumption of products offered to customers throughout the nance and use of real estate properties that reduce the consumption whole product lifecycle. of materials and energy during the lifecycle of these properties. The need for electrical and heat energy in Kesko’s own properKesko also helps customers find energy saving solutions. Products ties represents a significant part of the K-Group’s energy costs. and services available at building and home improvement stores for improving the energy efficiency of housing help customers find the solutions which support sustainable development and are suitRisk matrix able just for their homes. Energy labels voluntarily adopted in the car trade make it easier for customers to make buying decisions in favour of more economical vehicles with a smaller impact on the environment. Major risks/ Major risks/ Minor opportunities Major opportunities The implementation of the EU’s and the Finnish Government’s climate and energy policies will affect energy solutions and may Forms of energy and increase energy prices, adding to energy saving pressures. Kesko energy prices wants to support a total solution towards carbon dioxide free proIncrease in risk related to the aspect Store network, Legislation related selections and duction, reduce Finland’s dependency on imported energy and to selections and customers enhance the efficiency of the electricity market. trading store Reputation factors operations Energy/material A Kesko subsidiary, Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy is a 2.8% particiAgility and flexibility of Exceptional weather efficiency and pant in the Fennovoima project, which aims to build a new nuclear organisation conditions awareness of climate change power plant in Finland. Kesko also actively examines the use of Logistics renewable energy sources, such as soil and water as sources of heat as well as solar energy, which will be a potential alternative as the technical solutions become increasingly sophisticated, in the same way as the condensation heat of the refrigeration units in stores is already being recovered. Read more on pages 25 and 73. Responsibility issues related to climate change are increasingly important for customers. Possible failures in implementing responMinor risks/ Major risks/ sibility would weaken Kesko’s reputation. Minor opportunities Minor opportunities Kesko’s operations are surveyed in continuous risk assessments which also cover changes possibly necessitated by climate change. The Group's risk map, the most significant risks and uncertainties, Increase in opportunity related to the aspect 68 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Economic responsibility Economic benefits from Kesko's and K-retailers' operations flowing to Finnish regions in 2011, € million Kesko's K-retailers' direct Kesko's and purchases of purchases of K-retailers' capital Salaries paid by Salaries paid by Taxes paid by Region goods goods expenditure Kesko K-retailers K-retailers Total Southern Karelia 9.3 17.2 12.0 5.1 12.9 1.6 58.2 Southern Ostrobothnia 254.9 37.0 31.3 4.7 12.6 1.5 342.0 Southern Savo 38.6 15.4 12.1 4.7 11.4 1.5 83.8 Kainuu 1.3 10.8 0.5 1.6 5.9 0.6 20.8 Kanta-Häme 93.2 22.7 30.3 4.4 12.7 0.9 164.1 Central Ostrobothnia 51.5 15.7 0.1 2.0 3.9 0.6 73.9 Central Finland 61.9 19.6 38.7 8.9 17.9 1.9 149.0 Kymenlaakso 28.5 19.5 3.9 5.5 11.6 1.4 70.4 Lapland 18.8 22.5 5.3 5.8 16.8 1.8 70.9 Pirkanmaa 381.7 31.5 10.7 26.1 32.4 3.4 485.8 Ostrobothnia 120.7 9.6 8.0 5.1 7.7 0.9 152.0 Northern Karelia 26.3 20.2 4.2 3.7 11.1 1.9 67.4 Northern Ostrobothnia 84.8 36.2 14.7 17.5 25.5 2.7 181.3 Northern Savo 165.4 27.6 50.0 10.8 19.5 1.9 275.4 Päijät-Häme 110.2 25.2 92.9 8.9 11.4 1.0 249.5 Satakunta 101.9 25.5 2.0 4.5 15.1 1.0 149.9 Uusimaa 3,178.7 138.7 86.1 252.7 109.3 13.3 3,778.8 Varsinais-Suomi 651.9 68.3 30.2 23.3 33.6 2.9 810.3 Åland 26.2 0.6 26.7 Total 5,406.0 563.1 433.6 395.5 371.3 40.9 7,210.3 The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 85% of K-retailers' total business volume. as well as changes in and responses to them are reported to the (or related parties). Additional benefits provided by department A Kesko Board's Audit Committee in connection with handling the covered 596 people at the end of the year. interim reports and the financial statements. Read more about risk In other countries, pensions are arranged in accordance with local management on pages 51–53. legislation and significant defined benefit plans are not operated, The risk matrix on page 68 describes some of the risks and opporexcept in Norway. The number of employees covered by additional tunities related to Kesko's operations in respect of climate change. benefits in Norway is insignificant in relation to the whole Group. Read more about the product selections of the food trade on page 78, about the eco-efficient building activities of the building and Financial assistance received from home improvement trade and energy saving solutions offered to government, ec4 customers on page 28, about energy efficient products of the car No financial assistance was received from government in 2011. and machinery trade on page 29, and responsible purchasing of the home and speciality goods trade on page 32. Spending on locally-based suppliers, EC6 Read more about the risks on page 49 and in Kesko's 2011 Annual Kesko estimates the economic benefits from its operations by reportReport on pages 67–68. ing its purchases by operating country and the company's country of domicile. Kesko also reports K-retailers' direct purchases of goods Coverage of retirement benefit plans, EC3 in Finland by region. The Group operates several retirement plans. In Finland, employees’ Most of the economic benefits from Kesko’s operations – about pension cover is arranged partly with insurance companies and 85% of Kesko's net sales – flow to suppliers of goods, from which partly with the Kesko Pension Fund, whose department B provides purchases were valued at €8.0 billion in 2011. the statutory pension cover and department A provides additional In 2011, Kesko had some 23,100 suppliers of goods and services pension cover. Department A was closed on 9 May 1998. The penfrom which the purchases were valued at at least €1,000 during the sion plan arranged with the Kesko Pension Fund is classified as a year. Of these, about 11,900 operated in Finland, about 7,700 in Kesko’s defined benefit plan. At 31 December 2011, the total plan obligation other operating countries, and about 3,500 in the rest of the world. was €292.4 million (€285.8 million) and was fully covered. The surThe 10 largest suppliers accounted for 24.3% (23.1%) of the Group’s plus was €200.1 million (€185.8 million) at 31 December 2011. Calpurchases of goods, and the 100 largest suppliers for 53.4% (52.4%). culated under IFRS (the Pension Fund’s contributions are made to a Of the 10 largest suppliers, seven were Finnish food industry comdefined benefit plan), the whole Group’s contribution accounts for panies, one import company operating in Finland and two German 9.6% (5.2%) of the salary amount. Read more in Kesko’s 2011 Annual car manufacturers. Report, Consolidated financial statements, page 100, Note 20. The purchases of all of Kesko’s companies from suppliers of goods In 2011, the Kesko Pension Fund paid pensions to a total of 2,777 operating in Finland totalled €5,436 million, accounting for 67.5% people (as at 31 Dec). At the end of the year, the Pension Fund covered (69.1%) of the Group’s total purchases. 5,546 people in an employment relationship with the Kesko Group Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 69 Economic responsibility The purchases of goods by the Kesko Group’s Finnish companies In the other operating countries, over 99% of the top and middle totalled €6,737 million. Of these purchases, 80.2% were from supplimanagement positions were held by local people. ers operating in Finland and 19.8% from other countries. It should be noted that because some of the suppliers operating in Finland Infrastructure investments and services are import companies, reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the provided for public benefit, EC8 origin of goods supplied by them. During the reporting period, Kesko itself did not make any infraKesko actively increases the amount of local purchases and encourstructure investments for public benefit referred to in the GRI. ages K-retailers to include locally produced products in their selecInstead, Kesko made contributions to the public good in donations tions. In 2011, K-retailers’ direct purchases from Finnish regions and through its business partners. At the national level in all of totalled €563 million (see table on page 69). its operating countries, Kesko supports initiatives promoting, for example, science, research and education, youth work, sports, as Capital expenditure well as the operations of non-governmental and environmental In 2011, Kesko's capital expenditure totalled €425 million (€325 organisations. Kesko especially supports projects for the wellbeing million), or 4.5% of net sales (3.7% in 2010). Capital expenditure of families with children. on store sites was €361.8 (€209.2 million). Capital expenditure in The reduction in the support in 2011 is due to the donations to a foreign operations accounted for 31.7% (13.1%) of the total capital number of universities granted by the Board in spring 2010. Read expenditure. more about donations on pages 13, 15 and 37. In addition to Kesko, K-retailers annually make capital expenditures on the building or reconstruction of stores used by the Kesko's support for the public good K-Group. These included, the total capital expenditure in Finland 2011 2010 2009 was around €434 million (€351 million) in 2011. €1,000 1,072 2,253 1,508 Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial impact on the operations of building firms, building sector service companies, and suppliers of fixtures, equipment and information systems, for Significant indirect economic impacts, example. including the extent of impacts, EC9 Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as employment Procedures for local hiring, EC7 impact, increased municipal tax income, or income in the producer Kesko recruits local expertise and aims to cover a wide diversity of and supplier chain, must be evaluated case by case, in connection candidates for job openings, including management and middle with the establishment of a new store, for example. See, for example, management positions. Kesko compiles statistics on recruitment by the table for the economic benefit generated by Kesko and K-retailers country. In 2011, all of Kesko’s top and middle management positions to Finnish provinces in 2011. in Finland were held by Finnish citizens. Read more about impacts on society on pages 12–17. 70 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CO2e EMISSIONS Company cars, Air travel, Finland Finland 2,949 t 2,101 t Transportation, Energy consumption in Finland properties 46,350 t 141,083 t Management approach to environmental responsibility includthan the emissions from the production and consumption of the ing operating principles and monitoring and control systems are foodstuff itself. described on pages 50–57. Read about the objectives and progress of Kesko’s recycling and At the end of 2011, environmental systems covered 63% of the material efficiency on pages 58–59. Kesko companies' net sales in Finland and 53% of the whole Group’s net sales. The coverage has been calculated in proportion to retail Quantities of packaging imported and packaged by Kesko, tons sales. So far, environmental systems have not been adopted in the 2011 2010 2009 operations outside Finland. Anttila/K-citymarket 2,231 2,575 1,146 The K-Group's environmental policy, updated in 2011, can be read Rautakesko 2,966 3,701 2,978 at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Kesko Food 17,869 18,101 25,628 In 2009, K-citymarket was included in Kesko Food's figures. MATERIALS Excluding wood packaging and roll containers. MATERIALS USED, EN1 MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED INPUT In respect of Kesko, materials used refer to the quantities of packMATERIALS, EN2 aging materials of products imported or packaged by Kesko. Kesko In 2011, 277 tons of packaging plastic recovered from Kesko Food's reports these materials to the authorities in compliance with the EU goods transportation was recycled. Because most part of the reported packaging directive. Kesko’s logistics operations take account of the packaging materials go to consumers, the calculation of the proporpossibilities to use more environmentally friendly materials in its tion of recycled materials is not appropriate. Read more at EN27. operations and packaging systems. Kesko guides its customers in comparing the environmental propENERGY erties of products and packaging, their proper use and disposal after use. Kesko can have an impact on the packaging materials DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION, EN3, AND INDIRECT and quantities, especially when developing its own brand products. ENERGY CONSUMPTION, EN4 Among the clearly most important properties of packaging is to sufIn 2011, Kesko’s office and warehouse properties and the K-Group ficiently protect the product from spoilage before use and to enable stores in Finland consumed a total of 1,071 GWh of electric and heat the whole product quantity to be used. According to surveys (Source: energy. In the other operating countries, the total consumption of MTT Agrifood Research Finland FutupackEKO), the environmental heat and electricity was 129.1 GWh in 2011. impacts of foodstuffs packaging as a rule are significantly smaller Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 71 environmental responsibility Environmental systems at Kesko Operations Environmental management system Comment Keslog's warehousing, terminal and ISO 14001 Certificate renewed 2010 transportation operations Anttila Oy: central unit, logistics centre, mail ISO 14001 Certificate renewed 2010 in addition, Kerava logistic centre certified order sales and NetAnttila, all Anttila and Kodin as new in 2011 Ykkönen department stores Real estate management and maintenance ISO 14001; ISO 9001 Certificate held by YIT Kiinteistötekniikka Oy VV-Auto Group Oy ISO 14001; ISO 9001 Programme created by Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs Association K-food stores: 462 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement for K-citymarkets, K-super­markets and K-markets K-rauta stores: 40 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, total of 41 stores, in addition, process going on in (of which one joint store) one store Rautia stores: 99 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, total of 106 stores, in addition, process going on (of which 50 joint stores) in two stores K-maatalous stores: 79 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, total of 88 stores, in addition, process going on in (of which 49 joint stores) one store Main office in Katajanokka, Helsinki and Environmental management system for System developed by Kesko warehouses in Vantaa offices ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN FINLAND In 2011, Kesko's direct energy consumption consisted of self-proIn Finland, multi-energy monitoring covered 2,585,817 m2 and duced heat outside Finland, a total of 29.9 GWh. The consumption of electricity monitoring alone 579,983 m2 in 2011. The coverage of purchased electricity was 84.5 GWh and district heat consumption multi-energy monitoring, i.e. monitoring properties in respect of was 14.7 GWh, and a total of 129.1 GWh. electricity, heating energy and water consumption, is 72%. Including properties monitored in respect of electricity consumption only, the coverage is 88%. EnergY Consumption Based on the measurements, a specific consumption is deter2011 2010 2009 mined for each type of real estate, which enables the calculation of Finland the total consumption of all properties. In 2011, the classification Electricity (MWh) 754,751 747,652 739,276 of real estate for the comparative years was also updated, causing Heat (MWh) 316,114 373,170 327,077 minor changes in the total consumptions reported for the previous Total electricity and heat 1,070,865 1,120,822 1,066,353 years. Water, m3 834,253 795,338 658,054 In 2011, the total consumption of electricity calculated for Kesko’s properties (properties managed by Kesko and monitored by EnergiaOther operating countries kolmio Oy, see report attachments at www.kesko.fi) was 755 GWh/m2 Electricity (MWh) 84,478 96,026 87,493 Heat (MWh) 44,621 33,232 35,598 whereas the consumption in 2010 was 748 GWh. In 2011, the total Total electricity and heat 129,099 129,258 123,091 properties increased by 2.6%, but the total consumption grew by no Water, m3 117,881 96,941 114,243 more than 0.9% during the same period. In 2011, the total heat energy consumption calculated for all All operating countries properties was 316 GWh, showing a reduction of 15.3% on 2010. Electricity (MWh) 839,229 843,678 826,769 The decrease in the measured specific consumption for 2011 was Heat (MWh) 360,735 406,402 362,675 exceptionally steep owing to exceptionally heavy heat consumption Total electricity and heat 1,199,964 1,250,080 1,189,444 in 2010. Especially the mild autumn reduced the need for heating Water, m3 952,134 892,279 772,297 clearly below normal. In 2011, the total specific electricity consumption calculated for Finland: figures for 2009 and 2010 have been specified. all properties in Finland was 211 kWh/gross m2. The specific elecOther operating countries: figures for 2011 include Belarus for the first time. Figures for 2009 have been specified. tricity consumption decreased by 1.6% from 2010, when it was 214 kWh/gross m2. The corresponding specific consumption of heat energy in Finland was 88 kWh/gross m2. In 2011, the specific consumption of all of Kesko's properties decreased by 17.4%. In 2010, the specific heat specific consumptions, finland, 2009–2011 consumption was 107 kWh/gross m2. Specific consumptions of electricity and heat and developments 250 in real estate in Finland by type of real estate can be read in the 233 consumption monitoring report at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. 200 228 211 214 208 ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN THE OTHER OPERATING 150 185 COUNTRIES 100 The real estate area of subsidiaries outside Finland was 1,001,000 m2 88 107 92 in 2011. Rautakesko’s properties outside Finland have been increas50 ingly included in operating control and energy monitoring systems. Except for Sweden, some heat energy was produced in the operat0 ing countries outside Finland mainly from non-renewable energy 2011 2010 2009 sources, gas, oil and peat. Heat, kWh/gross m2 Electricity, kWh/gross m2 Water, m3/gross m2 72 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 environmental responsibility ELECTRICITY SUPPLIED BY KESKO TO THE K-GROUP total energy consumption in real estate Kesko supplied 538 GWh, or approximately 70.9% of the total elecmanaged by Kesko in finland tricity consumed by the K-Group in Finland. In 2011, electricity was supplied by Helsingin Energia. Kesko's stores are also located in GWh Net sales in Finland, € million shopping centres, in which case both electricity and heat is pur8008,000 chased from the real estate company. In addition, some K-retailers 7007,000 purchase electricity, mainly from regional electric power plants. 755 748 739 The 2011 source data and calculation principles are available in 6006,000 5005,000 the report attachments. The energy consumption figures for 2011 4004,000 and the environmental profiles for energy consumption have been produced by Energiakolmio Oy. The calculation, which includes a 3003,000 373 316 2002,000 327 comparison with the energy protocol contained in the GRI reporting guidelines, is available at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. 1001,000 00 ENERGY SAVED DUE TO CONSERVATION AND 2011 2010 2009 EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS, EN5 Heat The K-Group participates in the commerce sector energy-efficiency Electricity agreement and is committed to improving its energy consumption Net sales in Finland by 65 GWh through various energy saving measures by the end of 2016. The agreement is based on the 9% savings target set in the Directive on Energy End-Use Efficiency and Energy Services for the period 2008–2016. The agreement covers all store chains that belong to the K-Group. The energy consumption at store sites consists of consumption related to store operations, such as lighting and equipment, and profile for energy consumed in real estate consumption related to the property, such as HVAC equipment and managed by Kesko in finland outdoor lighting. In food stores, the consumption of refrigeration systems can account for more than half of the total electricity conPrimary energy, PJ Net sales in Finland, € million sumption at small store sites. 1010,000 By the end of 2011, the building automation of 99 Kesko properties had been connected to remote control. The set points of properties 88,000 1.5 1.7 1.6 and the control run-times can be changed from monitoring stations as necessary, which also enables quick response to possible distur66,000 bances. The right run-times and set points are the easiest and the 44,000 6.9 6.4 6.3 most effective practical ways in which to improve energy efficiency. The average specific heat energy consumptions of remote controlled 22,000 properties were 11% lower compared to non-remote controlled prop00 0.4 0.6 0.6 erties. The specific electric energy consumption of remote controlled properties was 2.8% lower than the consumption of non-remote 2011 2010 2009 controlled properties. In 2011, the replacement of some ventilation blowers by energy Renewable Nuclear power saving ones was tested. At the same time, the type of ventilation Non-renewable Net sales in Finland control was changed to accommodate CO2 sensitive air volume control. The operation will save as much as 100 MWh of energy per year. The same technology is available for circulation pumps, in which the new technology would save as much as 70% compared to traditional solutions. Encouraged by the results, old blowers and pumps will be replaced in more properties in the future. When mechanical profile for electricity supplied by Kesko to ventilation is controlled by carbon dioxide sensors, the ventilation the k-group in finland operates on a need basis. In the future, new buildings will mainly be equipped with CO2 controlled ventilation. Primary energy, PJ Net sales in Finland, € million The installation of lids on the chest freezers in K-food stores has continued. In 2011, the total length of added chest freezer lids and 1010,000 doors contributed 2.5 kilometres to the total length of around 6.8 88,000 kilometres of such refrigeration equipment. Lids help save 30–40% of electric energy compared to uncovered chest freezers. 5.92 0.01 6.05 0.02 0.003 5.85 0.01 66,000 The test of adding doors to juice and dairy cabinets, launched in 2010, was continued in 2011. 44,000 Currently, energy is saved in increasingly many K-food stores 22,000 also by using carbon dioxide recovered from industrial processes as a refrigerant in cooling equipment. Not only is carbon dioxide 00 0.07 0.07 an environmentally friendly coolant, but using the condensation 2011 2010 2009 energy from CO2 plants can save as much as 55% of a store's heat energy compared to traditional solutions using condensation heat Renewable Nuclear power from cooling units. Non-renewable Net sales in Finland Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 73 environmental responsibility LED technology is used in the illuminated signs of all new stores. The total quantity of water consumed in the K-Group's operaThe resulting savings compared to ordinary neon and fluorescent tions in Finland (monitored by Energiakolmio) is 834,253 m3/year tube solutions are 60–70%. LED technology is also used to light (795,338 m3/year in 2010). Water consumption monitoring is part outdoor areas, for example, at K-supermarket Jalasjärvi and the of real estate consumption monitoring also in the other operating Veturi shopping centre. countries outside Finland. When needed, changes can be responded to quickly. ENERGY EFFICIENT OR RENEWABLE ENERGY-BASED The most significant impacts from water consumption are through PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, EN6 the products we sell. With respect to the most material product Rautakesko's Energy Expert concept has been adopted by a total of 118 groups in terms of water consumption, such as fruit and vegetables, K-rauta and Rautia stores. In the concept, solutions for higher energy most producers of imports have obtained the GlobalGAP certification efficiency are displayed at one in-store location where an Energy for good agricultural production, including the use of water. The Expert sales assistant, familiar with house technology, serves cusbeverage industry products included in Kesko’s selections are mainly tomers by finding the solutions that best suit their needs. The Energy produced in Finland. The breweries and soft drink manufacturers Expert concept also includes installation service from a K-rauta or used by Kesko have their own environmental criteria concerning the Rautia store, if customers need it. use of water. The optimisation of water consumption in the textile The in-use CO2 emission of car brands imported by Kesko industry production begins from monitoring water consumption at decreased in 2011 compared to 2010. Especially low-emission (less the factory, coupled with the factory’s own measures. than 100 CO2) Seat and Volkswagen models will be launched in 2012. Property-specific statistics on water consumption in Finland are Selections of the machinery trade also include models with lower available at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. emissions, for example, in agricultural machinery. The first hybrid Water consumption in companies operating in countries outside engine machine, a forklift, has been sold. Finland is of minor significance, totalling 117,881 m3 (95,000 m3 in VV-Auto is a member of Finnish Car Recycling Ltd, through which 2010) per year. The water consumption figures for 2011 also include it promotes car recycling. Belarus for the first time. Read more on page 72. VV-Autotalot has adopted a voluntary energy labelling scheme for cars, in which the energy label indicates the car's emission category WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED, EN10 and fuel efficiency. The scheme corresponds to the energy labelKesko does not recycle or reuse water. All wastewater from Kesko's ling scheme adopted in the EU member countries for the energy operations goes to municipal sewer systems. consumption of household appliances. Read more about energy efficiency in construction activity on BIODIVERSITY page 73. LAND OWNED, LEASED AND MANAGED IN AREAS OF INITIATIVES TO REDUCE INDIRECT ENERGY HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OR IN PROTECTED AREAS, CONSUMPTION AND REDUCTIONS ACHIEVED, EN7 EN11, AND IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES ON BIODIVERSITY Kesko is building new, increasingly energy efficient stores in both IN PROTECTED AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH Finland and its other operating countries. By using energy efficient BIODIVERSITY VALUE, EN12 building materials, we have gained good results in energy consumpKesko does not own or operate in areas close to areas with protection, especially in the tightness of buildings. Read more on pages tion or high biodiversity requirements. Kesko only builds retail 24–25. stores on areas zoned for business properties. Consequently, Kesko In 2011, air miles in business travel in Kesko totalled 10.3 million does not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity and Kesko’s (9.5 million in 2010). The aim is to continue reducing emissions management operations are limited to individual actions and policy from air travel as part of the Group’s responsibility programme, for definitions. For indirect impacts, see EN15. example, by increasing options for virtual meetings. At the end of 2011, there was 23 Videra distance meeting points HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED, EN13 in use within the Group and the total duration of video meetings Kesko does not have protected or restored habitats. Surveys of arranged between two or several facilities was 4,438 hours (4,516 contaminated land are made annually in connection with construchours in 2010). The total duration of distance meetings from employtion work and real estate transactions. In 2011, an area of less than ees’ own terminals (Genesys Conference) was 1,117 hours (2,271 hours one hectare of land, located in the region of Central Finland, was in 2010). The use of Genesys has been decreased by an increasrestored. Read more about the restoration of contaminated land ing use of Videra and the Office Communicator instant messaging on page 77. application. At the end of the year, Kesko had 651 company cars in Finland, of STRATEGIES, ACTIONS AND PLANS RELATED TO which 295 were petrol and 356 diesel engined. BIODIVERSITY, EN14 Mitigating climate change resulting from energy consumption is one WATER of the key objectives in Kesko’s environmental work for preserving biodiversity. Kesko has signed the trading sector energy efficiency WATER WITHDRAWAL, EN8 agreement. Read more on page 73. Finland has abundant water resources. Due to virtual water associRead more about the principles for preserving biodiversity on page ated with the import of processed goods, more than half of the water 55 and about our product selections on page 78. footprint of Finnish consumption falls outside Finland (Source: www. waterfootprint.org). IUCN red list SPECIES IN AREAS AFFECTED BY The K-Group has recognised the importance of fresh water as a OPERATIONS, EN15 natural resource. In the K-Group's own operations, water is mainly Red List species are not affected by Kesko's direct operations. Indirect used for cleaning. The level of hygiene and cleaning methods for impacts arise through products on sale. food stores have been stipulated in the Food Act and the decree on In line with Kesko’s sourcing recommendation, the garden furfood hygiene. Major consumers of water within the K-Group are car niture made of tropical wood and sold by the K-Group stores is washes. All water used by Kesko comes from municipal supplies. either FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified or made of such 74 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 environmental responsibility wood species whose cultivation is possible in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. climate change impacts under GHG protocol Tropical wood and timber represented less than 1% of the building in finland and home improvement trade’s total sales. In 2011, certified wood – mainly with the Finnish national FFCS forest certification and the CO2e tons FSC certification – accounted for some 93.3% of sawn timber sold 200,000 by Rautakesko. The K-Group’s fish and shellfish statement directs Kesko Food Ltd’s 160,000 16,860 17,001 16,417 and Kespro Ltd's own sourcing, as well as K-food stores’ sourcing 120,000 to safeguard sustainable fishing and the cultivation of fish. Read more about Kesko’s fish and shellfish statement at www.kesko.fi/ 80,000 118,011 124,530 118,477 responsibility. 40,000 emissions and waste 34,540 34,982 34,367 0 DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, 2011 2010 2009 EN16, AND OTHER INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS Scope 1, own transportation and that controlled by Keslog EMISSIONS, EN17 Scope 2, purchased energy Kesko reports the direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from Scope 3, outsourced transportation, air travel, company cars its operations in accordance with the GHG Protocol (The Greenhouse Gas Protocol). The greenhouse gas emissions reported by Kesko under Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the GHG Protocol include the energy purchased by Kesko and retailers, own energy production abroad climate change impacts under ghg protocol, and own transportation in Finland. Scope 3 reporting includes emisScope 1 and Scope 2, all operating countries sions from outsourced transportation in Finland and emissions from business travel. In emissions included in the Corporate Value CO2e tons Net sales, all operating countries, € million Chain of the GHG Protocol, Scope 3, outsourced transportation has 200,00010,000 been identified as a material class. We will specify the materiality 143,525 of the Corporate Value Chain later on. 135,966 160,0008,000 134,814 The electricity, 538 GWh (562 GWh in 2010), supplied by Kesko represents 70.9% of the total consumption by real estate in Fin120,0006,000 land. All carbon-free electricity purchased by Kesko from Helsingin 80,0004,000 Energia is produced using nuclear power. Consequently, the carbon dioxide emissions from the electricity purchased by Kesko were 40,809 40,448 42,167 40,0002,000 0 tons in 2011. The use of primary energy decreased by 2.6% from the previous year. K-retailers’ own electricity purchases included, 00 the total carbon dioxide emissions from electricity used in proper2011* 2010 2009 ties totalled 51,646 tons. In 2011, carbon dioxide emissions from real estate heat energy Scope 1, produced energy, own transportation and that were 66,366 tons in Finland. The combined carbon dioxide emiscontrolled by Keslog Scope 2, purchased energy sions (CO2e) from electricity and heat were 118,011 tons, which is Net sales, all operating countries less than 0.2% of the total emissions in Finland (74.6 million tons CO2e according to Statistics Finland’s energy statistics for 2011). The * Figures for 2011 also include Belarus. carbon dioxide emissions from electricity and heat energy consumption in Kesko's operations in Finland decreased by 5.2% in 2011. Energiakolmio Oy has also calculated the environmental profile of the energy used by Kesko companies outside Finland. The calculaprofile and environmental impact of energy tion relies on country-specific energy and heat production profiles, purchased and consumed by the K-group, all which are based on the statistics of the International Energy Agency operating countries (IEA) of the OECD on production distributions and carbon dioxide emissions. The amount of radioactive waste generated from nuclear Primary energy, PJ Environmental impact, CO2e tons fuel used is estimated at 3.0 mgU per kWh regardless of country. The 8160,000 calculation of carbon dioxide emissions from Kesko's own energy production is based on the instructions of the IEA. Acidifying emis6120,000 7.20 sions from Kesko’s own production have not been calculated. The 6.69 6.56 combined carbon dioxide emissions from real estate in other coun480,000 tries were 23,075 tons (25,000 tons in 2010). Kesko’s own heat energy production accounted for 6,269 tons (6,300 tons in 2010) of the total 240,000 carbon dioxide emissions from real estate in the other operating 0.54 0.73 1.97 0.73 countries. The acidifying emissions (from purchased energy only) 1.75 1.83 00 were 138 tons (161 tons in 2010). The emissions from transportation are calculated using the 2011 2010 2009 LIPASTO system developed by VTT Technical Research Centre of Renewable Finland. The 2011 emissions have been calculated using the LIISA Nuclear power 2010 software unit coefficients. Non-renewable Climate change Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 75 environmental resPonsibility Transportation for Kesko Food and Anttila in Finland is handled The positive trend in the CO2 emissions from transportation in by Keslog Ltd, with a total distance of 37.9 million kilometres trav2011 is attributable to the improved logistics efficiency. Keslog has elled by vehicles in goods transport in 2011. Own vehicles and those long reduced emissions from the K-store supply chain by centraliscontrolled by Keslog accounted for 34,540 CO2e of the carbon dioxide ing distribution. Key methods for improving logistics efficiency also emissions from transportation. In 2011, the CO2 emissions from include the optimisation of transport routes and a high volumetric outsourced transportation controlled by Keslog were 9,560 tons. efficiency. A significant part is also played by efficient return logisRautakesko's transportation is handled by Itella Corporation. The tics with, for example, purchased loads or carrier trays and recycling total distance travelled in transport for Rautakesko in Finland was components, such as pallets, roll containers, cardboard, bottles or 1.6 million kilometres, of which 90% was by vehicles assigned for cans, collected on the return route. Rautakesko's logistics only. The emissions from this transportation On several years, training in economical driving styles has also were 2,250 tons. In 2011, the total transportation distance in Finland been arranged for drivers. was 39.6 million kilometres. The CO2e emissions from transportation In 2011, a two-tier trailer was tested in long distance trunk delivin Finland were 46,350 tons. ery transportation as a new solution for improving transportation The total volumes transported by Keslog decreased less than the efficiency. transport kilometres, which is why the relative emissions per transThe volumes of return logistics will increase significantly in 2012, port kilometre were 2.3% lower than in the previous year. Compared as the collection of recyclable glass bottles also from food stores to the 2007 level, the relative emissions from transportation have begins. decreased by 1.1%. In 2011, Kesko continued to support the CANEMU project of the The total volume of imports forwarded by Keslog was 318,000 Finnish Environment Institute SYKE, and joined the TAPRE project tons, showing a decrease of 0.7% on the previous year. There is no of the EcoEfficient Tampere programme, the objective of which is information on kilometres driven or any emission calculations to promote energy efficiency in the Pirkanmaa region. available for import transportation. Transportation from Europe was handled by trucks, semi-trailers and containers, and from outside EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES BY Europe only by containers. Kesko Food accounted for 74% of the WEIGHT, EN19 total volume of imports. The use of ozone-depleting substances is not material in the Transportation of subsidiaries in other countries has been divided K-Group’s operations and the phase-out of HCFC is not reported. between a larger number of companies than in Finland and part CFCs (R12 and R502) are no longer used in K-food store refrigeration of the transportation is made from manufacturers directly to endequipment (prohibited by law since 2000). HCFC chlorofluorohydrousers. Transportation statistics are incomplete and annual data is carbon refrigerants, such as R22, are still used at some old store sites not based on a consistent database and statistics are not presented and the existing equipment will be used until the end of their life in this report. Transportation statistics are developed in order to cycles. This refrigerant will be prohibited from the beginning of 2015. provide information on the other operating countries as well. The R404a HFC substance is currently the leading refrigerant in In 2011, air miles in Kesko employees’ business travel totalled 10.3 K-stores. R744 technology, using carbon dioxide recovered to 100% million (9.5 million in 2010) and their CO2 emissions were 2,101 tons from industry processes as the refrigerant, is also used in some (1,935 tons in 2010). Emissions from air travel represent only a small K-food stores. The gas temperature in the carbon dioxide process – part – roughly 1.2% – of the Group’s total emissions. In accordance higher than in the traditional refrigeration process – can be used in with Kesko's travel policy, the environmental impacts from travel refrigeration units by building an efficient heat recovery system for are considered when making decisions concerning travel. Virtual heating service water and the incoming air of the air-conditioning meetings are part of the ordinary meeting procedure. Read more system. Today, increasingly many K-food stores use carbon dioxide on page 74. recovered from industrial processes as the refrigerant. Kesko had 651 company cars in use in Finland at the end of 2011. The leading refrigerants in Keslog’s warehouses are NH3 (ammoKesko’s company car policy recommends an emission level below nia) and R404a. The refrigerant in air heat pumps sold in the building 160 g CO2/km. In 2011, the average emission level was 146 g CO2/km and home improvement stores is R410A. (155 g CO2/km in 2010) and the total emissions from company cars were 2,949 tons (2,505 tons in 2010). The calculation also includes NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS private travel by the company cars. BY TYPE AND WEIGHT, EN20 Part of Kesko’s business travel is carried out by employees in their In 2011, the sulphur dioxide emissions (SO2) from electricity and heat own cars. In 2011, allowances paid for such travel in Finland covered energy used in real estate properties in Finland (report by Energia8.0 million kilometres. Kesko does not take a stand on emissions kolmio Oy) were 189 tons, and nitrogen dioxide emissions were 211 from business travel carried out by employees’ cars and they are tons, which is 344 tons of SO2 e (381 tons in 2010). Ethene emissions not included in Kesko’s emission figures. If it is assumed that the (C2H4e) producing lower atmosphere ozone were 11.7 tons (12.9 tons average emission level of employees’ cars was 180 g CO2/km, the in 2010. Nitrogen oxide emissions from purchased energy were 211 total emissions from such business travel would have been about tons in 2011. The quantity of radioactive waste produced by using 1,440 CO2 tons. nuclear power was 1.6 tons (1.8 tons). The Kesko subsidiary Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy is a participant in Fennovoima’s nuclear power INITIATIVES TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS plant project. Read more at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. CO2 emisEMISSIONS AND REDUCTIONS ACHIEVED, EN18 sions only are reported for transportation and business travel. Read In its own operations, as well as through the services and products more at EN16 and EN17. it offers, Kesko makes effective efforts to operate in ways in which to curb greenhouse gas generation. Read more on page 54. WATER DISCHARGE, EN21 By improving energy efficiency and adopting carbon-free electricWastewater from Kesko's operations goes to municipal sewer sysity Kesko has been able to significantly affect the climate change tems. There is no water discharge referred to by GRI from Kesko's impact of properties. For example, in Finland, when electricity puroperations. chased by Kesko and K-retailers is included in the calculation, the CO2 emissions from electricity have decreased by 77% (2001 is the base year, with CO2 emissions totalling 220,644 tons). 76 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 environmental resPonsibility TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL Packaging delivered by Kesko Food's return logistics for recovery and reuse, 1,000 pcs method, EN22 2011 2010 2009 The total amount of waste generated in companies in Finland Aluminium cans 100,236 103,149 74,161 (Kesko Food Ltd (logistics), Kespro Ltd, Anttila Oy (logistics centre), PET bottles 56,841 53,540 28,463 Konekesko Ltd, Rautakesko Ltd and VV-Auto Group Oy) was 10,776 Disposable bottles 5,107 4,266 2,685 tons, of which 92% was recovered. The aggregate quantity of waste Deposit bottles 356 452 362 in the other operating countries was 9,628 tons, and the recovery Reusable crates 11,429 10,885 9,856 rate there was 67%. In Finland, Kesko’s waste statistics mainly cover warehousing operations, while in the other countries, most of the waste included in statistics is generated in retail stores. Impregnated timber and lead-acid batteries recycled by the building and home improvement trade (K-rauta and Rautia), Finland, tons In Finland, the quantity of mixed waste decreased significantly, 2011 2010 2009 as the new operating system for organic waste was fully introduced Impregnated timber 931 840 858 in the central warehouses. In 2011, the recovery rate in Kesko Food’s Lead-acid batteries 4 5 22 warehouses clearly improved from the previous year reaching 95% (84% in 2010). In 2011, the amount of mixed waste per cubic metre delivered was 0.15 kg (0.44 kg in 2010). Batteries and accumulators (Recser) collected in the K-Group stores, Finland, tons The recovery rate of Anttila's new logistics centre opened in 2011 2011 2010 2009 is over 99%. Batteries and accumulators 130 108 80 There are 223 recycling points made available to customers in K-food stores. A total of 338 million cans and 111 million recyclable plastic bottles were returned. TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT In spring 2011, a reusable Chep crate replaced the Transbox crate in SPILLS, EN23, AND COMPLIANCE WITH vegetable transportation. Their share of transportation via terminals ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS, EN28 operated by Keslog increased slightly. The ISO 14001 certified Kesko units manage their environmental This year, the amounts of batteries and accumulators recovered risks and readiness to act in exceptional and emergency situations in through the K-Group stores were reported for the first time. The accordance with the requirements of the standard. One of the biggest quantities are presented for the whole time during which they have risks for trading sector companies is fire, which is why employees been recovered in Finland. have been given appropriate instructions and training. In 2011, there were no reportable environmental damages or accidents within the Group. Waste management statistics on operations in Finland, tons Kesko Food (logistics) Kespro 4) Anttila (logistics centre) Rautakesko Car and machinery trade 2011 2010 2009 2011 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Waste for recovery 7,245 5,596 5,638 941 423 471 539 439 405 414 689 969 599 WEEE 14 96 94 95 Landfill waste 1) 2) 391 11003) 9013) 316 2 15 14 52 59 100 75 130 147 Hazardous waste 2) 18 3 12 3 61 120 65 Total 7,668 6,698 6,539 1,269 521 581 651 491 464 514 825 1,219 811 Recovery rate, % 95 84 86 75 99 97 97 89 87 81 91 79 74 1) Mixed waste and other components not suitable for recovery. 2) Composted organic waste and hazardous waste (from 2011) are included in the recovery rate. 3) In addition, in 2009: 110 tons and in 2010: 96 tons of building and special waste was treated, but such a one-off batch was not included in the calculation. 4) Reported by Kespro for 2011 for the first time. Waste management statistics for Sweden and Norway, tons Sweden Norway 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Waste for recovery 1,482 2,055 2,044 1,224 699 654 Landfill waste 441 480 555 22 504 574 Hazardous waste 41 48 37 38 8 Total 1,964 2,535 2,647 1,283 1,241 1,236 Recovery rate, % 75 81 77 95 56 53 Waste management statistics for the Baltics, Russia and Belarus, tons Estonia Latvia 1) Lithuania Russia Belarus1) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 Waste for recovery 402 158 196 189 2,300 1,905 2,069 574 2,343 1,906 8 Landfill waste 43 271 422 478 1,050 796 992 1,113 771 889, 53 Hazardous waste 7 8 7 25 11 21 132 Total 452 428 626 674 3,375 2,711 3,082 1,687 3,114 2,795, 193 Recovery rate, % 89 37 31 28 68 70 67 34 75 68,2) 4 1) Data of Latvia and Belarus for 2011 only. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 77 environmental resPonsibility Surveys of contaminated land are made annually in connection In 2011, Kesko Food joined the RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable with construction work and real estate transactions. In 2011, the Palm Oil). Palm oil is used in a large number of foodstuffs. Palm soil of four properties was surveyed in connection with construcoil is an important source of income for the national economies tion in Finland. Contaminated land was found at one site, which of the countries of production. The yield potential of oil palm per was cleaned up in 2011. The restored area of land is located in the growing area is higher than that of any other oil plant. However, region of Central Finland. The total quantity of land transported to palm oil production extending over wider tropical growing areas processing plants was 7,342 tons. In addition, the cleaning up of soil is an increasing concern for the environment. Palm oil production at one site begun in 2010 was completed. Land cleaning operations must be sustainable. Responsibility must be considered in respect were not performed outside Finland in 2011. of economic, social and environmental aspects. Kesko Food recomIn addition, possible disruptive substances and ozone-depleting mends that the manufacturers of Pirkka and Menu products use substances within structure are surveyed in connection with propCertified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). Currently, 14 Pirkka products erty transactions. and 10 Menu products contain CSPO. Read more at www.kesko.fi/ In 2011, there were no cases of non-compliance with environmenresponsibility. tal legislation or regulations within the Group. Instead of an ordinary plastic shopping bag, K-food store customers can choose a bag made of recycled plastic, a biodegradable Pirkka WATER BODIES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY THE bag or a non-disposable Pirkka bag. REPORTING ORGANISATION'S DISCHARGES OF The long-term development programme of the Pirkka product WATER AND RUNOFF, EN25 range includes the launch of biodegradable packaging to the market. Kesko has no discharges into water bodies. All wastewater from No genetically modified ingredients are accepted. Kesko's operations goes to municipal sewer systems. Rautakesko offers a wide selection of products featuring environmental or energy efficiency category labelling. In the building and PRODUCTS AND SERVICES home improvement trade, products with the EU Flower symbol or the Swan symbol, as well as products made of FSC certified wood, INITIATIVES TO MITIGATE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS are considered to be pro-environmental products. In environmental OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, AND EXTENT OF stores, these products are identified within shelf or other price labelIMPACT MITIGATION, EN26 ling. PEFC or FCS certified timber accounted for some 93.3% of sawn Kesko can have a direct impact on the reduction of the environmentimber sold by Kesko. Tropical wood and timber accounted for less tal impacts of products in respect of its own products and an indirect than 1% of Rautakesko’s total sales. In 2011, all garden furniture made impact through product selections. The selection and marketing of tropical wood imported by Rautakesko was FSC certified. In line policies concerning organic products and products with environwith Kesko’s sourcing recommendation, the garden furniture made mental labelling are, just like Fairtrade products, included in the of tropical wood in all K-Group stores is either FSC certified or made K-food stores’ chain concepts. At the end of 2011, Kesko Food had of such wood species whose cultivation is possible in accordance around 1,790 organic products and products with environmental with the principles of sustainable development. labelling in its selections (around 1,350 in 2010; number corrected In the car trade, Kesko’s selections include low emission brands. based on more accurate statistics available after the previous report Emphasis on low emission models is also manifest in the average was published), of which 73 (48) were Pirkka Organic products and CO2 emissions of, for example, Volkswagen passenger cars, which 73 (48) Pirkka products with the Swan label. were 133.7 g/km in 2011. The objective set in autumn 2011 was to double the number of When required, Kesko draws up sustainability statements conPirkka organic products from 50 to around 100 by the end of 2012. cerning product selections and purchasing criteria. These include: At the end of 2011, the number of organic products in K-food store ■■ A stand on genetic engineering selections varies depending on the size of the store. Some of the ■■ A fish and shellfish statement organic products – such as milk, bakery and meat products – are ■■ Pirkka egg statement delivered by suppliers directly to stores; K-retailers also buy organic ■■ Rautakesko’s timber policy vegetables direct from local producers. There are no reliable statis■■ Kesko Food's palm oil policy tics on these products. Anttila department stores and Kodin Ykkönen department stores The statements can be read in full at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. for home goods and interior decoration accept as pro-environmental products those which carry a Swan label, the EU Flower Ecolabel or PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS SOLD AND THEIR the label indicating that the energy consumption category is 'A'. PACKAGING MATERIALS THAT ARE RECLAIMED BY These products are highlighted by 'Pro-environmental product' shelf CATEGORY, EN27 labels in the department stores. Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen currently The Pirkka recycled plastic bags are manufactured to a 90% of recyhave some 280 products labelled as Pro-environmental (230 in 2010), cled plastic. Of this material, 30% is recovered from protective plastic especially paper products, light bulbs, batteries, washing agents and wrapping used in Kesko Food’s goods transportation. In 2011, 277 household appliances. tons of plastic recovered from Kesko Food's goods transportation Most of Kesko Food’s import suppliers of fruit and vegetables were used in the manufacture of the Pirkka recycled plastic bags. – 96.7% – have the GlobalGap (Good Agricultural Practice) certifiJointly with suppliers, Kesko contributes to the reuse and recycate. Banacol, the supplier of the Pirkka bananas, is both SA8000, cling of products on sale. Read more on page 35. GlobalGap and Rainforest Alliance certified. The Pirkka pineapple, The quantities of consumer packaging, such as bottles and cans, launched in early 2011, is also GlobalGap and Rainforest Alliance recyclable hazardous waste, like accumulators, batteries and impregcertified. nated timber, are reported at EN22. Kesko Food’s Finnish producers of vegetables must belong to the Finnish Horticultural Products Society (KK) and be entitled to use SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF the society’s seed leaf symbol. The society has published a guidebook TRANSPORTING, EN29 called “Quality Requirements for Vegetables” to ensure product CO2 emissions are reported at EN17. safety and environmental aspects of domestic gardening products. Compliance with this guidebook is compulsory for companies using the KK’s seed leaf symbol. 78 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY hr objectives and indicators Personnel productivity Competent and ■■ ■■ Average number of employees Wages, salaries and fees motivated people ■■ Wages, salaries and fees/gross profit ■■ Sufficient competence for own job (personnel survey) ■■ Wages, salaries and fees/net sales ■■ Motivated by own job (personnel survey) ■■ Net sales/average number of employees (CR report) ■■ Job satisfaction (personnel survey: own job, leadership, unit's operation) ■■ In-house mobility The most attractive workplace Ability to work ■■ Departure turnover ■■ Sickness absences ■■ Departure turnover of key persons ■■ Wellbeing at work (personnel survey) ■■ Internal employer image (personnel survey) ■■ Number of disability pensions ■■ External employer image Management approach to HR management, including the operatPersonnel productivity, continuing operations, €1,000 ing principles and monitoring and control systems, is described 2011* 2010 2009 on pages 54–57. The indicators in the social responsibility section Net sales/average number of employees do not include data for OOO Johaston, Russia, unless otherwise ■■ Finland 782 739 683 expressly mentioned. ■■ Other Nordic countries 504 489 437 Kesko’s HR goals are to be the most attractive workplace, to have ■■ Baltics 117 109 116 the most competent and motivated personnel and the best personnel ■■ Russia and Belarus 104 101 86 productivity in the trading sector. The indicators related to Kesko’s Profit before tax/employee 15 17 11 HR goals are presented in the above table and the results are dis*Including OOO Johaston, Russia cussed in the respective sections. The state of the working community and the quality of leadership Wellbeing at work consists of the job and competence, manageare measured by an annual personnel survey. Development plans are ment and leadership, personal life management and the working drawn up for each place of business on the basis of the survey results. community. The objective is to improve employees’ working capacThe external employer image is monitored with various surveys. ity and motivation, reduce sickness absences and raise the retireKesko came in the 15th place (27th) in the 2011 Universum Young ment age. Kesko’s responsibility programme for 2008–2012 contains Professionals survey investigating the views of business economy several objectives associated with employee wellbeing. Read more students and in the 20th place (18th) in the Universum Student on pages 58–59. survey among business economy students. Occupational safety management is defined in Kesko CorporaSystematic and continuous development of employee competence tion’s labour protection programme. The goal of labour protection is one of the main factors that ensure good customer service and is to secure and maintain employees’ ability to work and to prevent the competitiveness of stores. Staff competence and motivation and avoid occupational injuries, occupational diseases and other also improve the productivity of work carried out at Kesko and its physical and mental health hazards arising from work or the workchains. Kesko subsidiary K-instituutti Oy is responsible for training environment. Labour protection is part of the line organisation's ing services provided to Kesko and its chains. Annual planning and normal management and leadership work, and each superior is training programmes for developing competence are drawn up with responsible for labour protection in his/her area. business units. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 79 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The action plan of Kesko’s Occupational Health Service defines based on the Employment Contracts Act. The corresponding figures the general contents and objectives of occupational health care. in 2010 were 6.9% (288) and 20.4% (683) respectively. The objective of occupational health care is maintaining and proIn 2011, nine employment disputes were pending at different moting employees’ health, ability to work and function, preventing courts in Finland. One ruling was given in favour of the employer work-related diseases and injuries, ensuring health and safety in and three in favour of the employee. In one dispute, the plaintiff the working environment and supporting the functionality of work withdrew the case. In Kesko's other operating countries, there communities. Kesko’s Occupational Health Service is managed by were no employment disputes with a Group company acting as the the chief occupational health physician. defendant. TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND Changes in the number of Kesko employees EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, LA1, AND EMPLOYEE 2011* 2010 2009 TURNOVER, LA2 Finland at 31 Dec. 13,124 12,720 12,959 Other operating countries at 31 Dec. 10,251 9,404 9,248 At the end of 2011, the Kesko Group had 23,375 (22,124) employees, of Total at 31 Dec. 23,375 22,124 22,207 whom 87.4% (86.3%) were permanent employees and 12.6% (13.7%) Finland, average 10,056 9,914 10,284 fixed-term employees. The figure contains 1,433 (1,343) people who Other operating countries, average 8,904 8,300 8,916 were absent for an extended period, such as employees on parenTotal, average 18,960 18,215 19,200 tal leave. Employees absent for an extended period are included *Including OOO Johaston, Russia in permanent, full-time employees. The proportion of fixed-term employees is higher at year-end than at other times due to the Christmas season. BENEFITS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES, LA3 Part-time employees (working less than 37.5 hours/week) The Kesko Group provides its permanent, fixed-term and part-time accounted for 28,5% (28.7%) of all Group personnel at year-end. employees in all its countries of operation with the employee benThe majority of part-time employees work for retail subsidiaries in efits required by local legislation. These benefits include occupaFinland. Approximately three quarters of all Group employees work tional health services, insurance against occupational injuries and in retail. In 2011, the Group recruited 5,092 (4,011) new employees in diseases, parental leave and retirement benefits. Employees are also Finland. In Finland 4,392 (4,154) employees left the Group. provided with diverse shopping benefits that apply in the K-Group In other countries, the Group recruited 4,382 employees (3,844 in stores and staff shops. A company mobile phone and car are also 2010) while 3,969 employees (3,355 in 2010) left the Group. The most provided, if required in the job. common reason for the termination of an employment relationship in Finland was a fixed-term contract, which explained about 48% Bonus payments and share option schemes (53%) of departures. Elsewhere, the reason for approximately 66% In spring 2011, around €16.2 million (€8.4 million) was paid in (66%) of departures was the employee’s resignation. Finland in bonuses under the 2010 performance bonus schemes, In Finland, 3.5% of the terminated employment relationships accounting for some 4.7% (2.5%) of the total payroll. The perfor(155) and 20.5% (814) in other countries were terminated by the mance bonus schemes cover the whole personnel, with the excepemployer for financial, production-related reasons, or for reasons tion of sales assistants. In 2011, the total amount of different bonuses of the employer's operational reorganisation, or for other reasons paid in operations in Finland was €17.5 (€9.5 million) consisting of Fixed-term and part-time employments at Kesko BREAKDOWN of Kesko personnel by division 2011* 2010 2009 at 31 dec. 2011, % Fixed-term employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % Finland 14.7 14.6 15.3 Food trade 12.8% Companies in other operating countries 10.0 12.6 7.0 Home and speciality goods trade Whole Group, total 12.6 13.7 11.9 37.5% Part-time employees of total personnel Building and home improvement at 31 Dec., % trade 42.3% Finland 44.2 43.3 43.1 Car and machinery trade 5.3% Companies in other operating countries 8.4 9.0 9.3 Common operations 2.1% Whole Group, total 28.5 28.7 29.0 *Including OOO Johaston, Russia Including OOO Johaston, Russia. Kesko's personnel statistics for 2011 analysed by operating country Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania Belarus Russia Sweden Norway Total number of personnel at 31 Dec. 13,124 619 542 3,558 1,380 2,441 4) 1,146 565 Average number of personnel in 2011 10,056 592 517 3,065 1,335 1,793 4) 1,143 459 Number of new employments 1) 5,092 56 164 1,941 626 1,038 470 87 Number of terminated employments 1) 4,392 121 201 3) 1,674 600 753 554 66 Terminated by employer, % 3.5 11.6 29.4 15.7 37.5 1.9 41.3 16.7 Total turnover rate, % 2) 24.5 16.6 32.3 45.4 38.9 38.9 48.3 11.7 1) Including summer employees. 2) Excluding summer employees. 3) Excluding SIA Antti. 4) Including OOO Johaston, Russia. 80 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY bonuses, sales commissions and other similar monetary remuneraIn Norway, the unionisation rate was 25.5% (22.1%). Statistics tion. on employee unionisation in the other operating countries are not In Kesko Corporation’s bonus scheme, the key factors contributavailable. In the Baltic countries, Kesko’s subsidiaries have working to the bonus amount are the total performance of the Group and place committees composed of management and employee repthe division, the sales and performance of the employee’s own unit resentatives. and customer satisfaction. Personnel's job satisfaction is another The Kesko Group has a company-specific shop steward system contributing factor in superiors' bonuses. in place in all of its largest subsidiaries in Finland. Keslog Ltd has In 2011, the companies outside Finland paid €10.3 million in site-specific shop stewards whereas Anttila Oy and K-citymarket Oy bonuses and other remuneration, accounting for 8.2% of the payhave department store-specific shop stewards as well. roll. The corresponding figure for 2010 was €9.3 million, accounting The National Works Council meets twice a year. The international for 10.6% of the payroll. Group-level European Works Council (EWC) meets once a year. The Kesko Group’s management – comprising some 90 people – In all its operating countries, Kesko applies the notice periods are covered by a performance-based bonus scheme. The maximum specified in local labour legislation. In Finland, the notice period bonus amounts vary depending on the profit impact of the person’s is from two weeks to six months, depending on the duration of role and are equivalent to 3–8-months' salary. In 2011, Kesko operemployment relationship. ated the 2007A, 2007B and 2007C option schemes. More information on the schemes is available at www.kesko.fi/investors. The options PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE REPRESENTED had a €2.4 million impact on the Group's profit for the financial year IN FORMAL HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES, LA6 1 January-31 December 2011. Labour protection activities are arranged separately by each company On 4 April 2011, Kesko’s Board of Directors decided to introduce a or place of business in compliance with local legislation. Outside new share-based compensation plan for some 150 Kesko managethe Nordic countries, labour protection matters are dealt with in the ment personnel and other named key personnel, in which a total workplace committees. maximum of 600,000 own B shares held by the company can be K-instituutti provides labour protection training for Kesko granted to people in the target group within a period of three years. employees and K-retailers. There were also training sessions taiThe share-based compensation plan includes three vesting periods: lored to the needs of different Group companies. the calendar years 2011, 2012 and 2013. A commitment period of three calendar years following each vesting period is attached to the RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, shares issued in compensation, during which shares must not be LOST DAYS, ABSENTEEISM AND WORK-RELATED transferred. (Stock exchange release on 4 April 2011, www.kesko.fi/ FATALITIES, LA7 media/releases/stock exchange releases.) The statistics on injuries in Finland and an analysis of sickness In February 2012, the Board decided to grant a total of 93,875 comabsence days by country are presented on page 82. Injury statistics pany B shares to some 150 Kesko management personnel and other are not available for other countries. named key personnel, based on the fulfilment of the vesting criteria In 2011, the sickness absence rate in Finnish companies was 4.8% of the 2011 vesting period of the share-based compensation plan. (4.9% in 2010, figure corrected after publication of the previous (Stock exchange release on 2 February 2012, www.kesko.fi/media/ report) of hours worked. Some 81% (75%) of the sickness absences releases/stock exchange releases.) were short-term absences (paid sick days). In other countries, the sickness absence rate was 3.4% (3.7% in 2010, figure corrected after Pensions publication of the previous report). In Finland, 162 employees (180 in 2010) retired from the Kesko Group. The figures for 2010 and 2011 do not include the data for Konsoma The figure includes employees retiring on part-time pension and on Belarus and the figure for 2011 does not include the data for SIA Antti. partial disability pension. Rehabilitation allowance was granted for vocational re-training or trials for 16 (19) employees facing an apparEDUCATION AND COUNSELLING TO ASSIST ent risk of incapacity for work in the next few years. WORKFORCE MEMBERS REGARDING SERIOUS The number of disability pensions has remained low throughDISEASES, LA8 out the 2000s. In this period, the Occupational Health Service has At the Kesko Group, the training and counselling of employees, intensively focused on actions targeted at maintaining employees' appraisal and prevention of risks and treatment of serious illnesses working capacity. The average retirement age of employees was are part of the normal operations of the Occupational Health Service. 58 years (59). In Finland, Kesko's in-house Occupational Health Service reached In the other operating countries, 13 (15) employees retired. approximately 6,400 (6,200) Kesko Group employees. Occupational health services for retail employees outside the Greater Helsinki PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES COVERED BY area are mainly outsourced from private clinics. In other countries, COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS, LA4, occupational health care is arranged according to local practice and AND MINIMUM NOTICE PERIOD(S) REGARDING legislation. OPERATIONAL CHANGES, LA5 A total of €4.5 million (€4.3 million) was spent on occupational In all of its operating countries, Kesko complies with local leghealth care in Finland in 2011. The Social Insurance Institution of islation. The key statutes governing restructuring situations are Finland compensated around €1.9 million (€1.9 million) of this sum. included in the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings, according In 2011, Kesko’s Occupational Health Service spent €447 (€435 in to which, the minimum notice period in most cases is one week. 2010; calculation has become more accurate also for the previous In Finland, collective agreements cover about 80% of Kesko years) per covered employee on maintaining employees’ working employees. So far, industry-wide collective bargaining agreements capacity and providing medical care. have not been drawn up in the Baltic countries or Russia. A total of 38.8% (40.4%) of the Kesko Group employees in Finland Kesko's contribution to occupational health care, Finland were members of trade unions, mainly the Service Union United 2011 2010 2009 PAM. These statistics include the employees whose trade union €/person 447 435 424 membership fees are deducted from pay at source. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 81 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Injuries and occupational diseases in Finland 2011 2010 2009 TREND in number of sick days Fatal injuries 0 0 0 Occupational injuries, excl. commuting injuries 154 149 173 Sick days/million working hours Commuting injuries 75 62 47 Injury rate*/million working hours 9 9 10 8,000 Average degree of injury severity, days 17.3 23.3 15.5 7,000 Suspected occupational diseases 3 3 4 6,000 Occupational diseases 3 3 0 5,000 Sick days due to injuries and occupational 4,000 diseases 3,967 4,495 3,415 3,000 per employee 0.39 0.45 0.33 2,000 The calculation method 2010–2011: small injuries, i.e. those leading to 1,000 absence of less than three days, are not included in the figures. Statistics do not include contractors or the following companies: Vähittäiskau0 pan Takaus Oy, Vähittäiskaupan tilipalvelu VTP Oy, the Agricultural Foundation 2011 2010 2009 of Trade. * Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual working Finland hours. Other countries 2011: Data of Konsoma Belarus, Russia and SIA Antti, Latvia not included. Sickness absences by country in 2011 Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania Belarus* Russia Sweden Norway Total number of sick days 126,722 3,288 5,129 25,393 11,856 13,126 10,707 6,516 per employee 12.6 5.6 9.9 8.3 8.9 7.3 9.4 14.2 per million working hours 6,372 2,735 4,916 4 ,101 4,370 3,697 5,324 8,060 The calculation method: Sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees during the year. * Data of Konsoma Belarus not included. The expertise of the Occupational Health Service Unit is widely technics. Some 5,200 students took the opportunity to participate used by Kesko’s retail companies in the development of workplace in the training. ergonomics. In this context, ergonomics is a broad concept, includIn 2011, 753 (871) employees had an apprenticeship contract and ing chemical and physical, motion-related and psychosocial factors. 224 (289) of them graduated with a vocational qualification. Occupational health care interviews involving the employee, the The training programmes designed for K-retailers and store mansuperior and a representative of the Occupational Health Service agers focus on the daily management of the store, business planning are part of basic operations in occupational health care. Cases in and entrepreneurship. K-instituutti also offers training in customer which these negotiations can be conducted include, for example, service and selling for staff working at K-stores. an employee’s reduced working capacity, vocational rehabilitation Leadership skills and career advancement are supported with planning, high absence rate, experience of work-related strain or a managerial, expert and management training programmes provided conflict. The objective is early intervention in situations threatening to Kesko employees and store supervisors. In 2010, the general trainthe individual's working capacity. ing programmes were updated and the revised programmes were launched in 2011. A separate development path was designed for AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE, LA10, those employed in expert roles, and several new training courses AND PROGRAMMES FOR SKILLS MANAGEMENT AND were produced especially for more experienced target groups. SevLIFELONG LEARNING, LA11 eral brief tailored courses were carried out to support immediate In Finland, the breakdown of Kesko’s employees by education, as far Training days and costs in 2011 as information available, is as follows: 13% (15%) have basic educa2011 2010 2009 tion, 69% (68%) have intermediate vocational education and 18% Training days (18%) have a degree from an institution of higher education. In other countries, these percentages vary greatly by country. Finland 16,790 17,728 20,028 K-instituutti is in charge of the planning, provision and sourcing Other operating countries 1) 2) 15,219 10,558 3,050 of training services for the K-Group in Finland. In 2011, approxiTraining days per employee mately 34% (40%) of all training days were provided at K-instituutti. Finland 1.7 1.8 2.0 A total of 23,823 (24,300) K-Group employees, including the store Other operating countries 1) 2) 1.8 1.5 0.6 staff employed by retailers, received training at K-instituutti. Training costs, € million K-instituutti is responsible for carrying out the Master Sales Finland 3.0 2.7 3.4 Assistant training, one of Finland’s most extensive adult training Other operating countries 3) 0.9 1.3 0.7 programmes. In 2011, 15,912 (16,352) K-Group employees participated Training costs per employee, € in the programme, studying in 12 different product lines. The objecFinland 299 276 331 tive is to continuously develop the service attitude, sales skills and Other operating countries 3) 103 160 79 product knowledge of sales assistants in cooperation with suppliers. As in previous years, the Master Sales Assistant training pro1) 2009–2010: data of SIA Antti, Latvia not included. 2) 2011: data of Byggmakker, Norway not included. gramme was also offered in about 100 business colleges and poly3) 2011: data of OOO Johaston, Russia included. 82 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY leadership work. The chains arrange their own training courses to PERSONNEL SURVEY complement the general offer. The annual personnel survey plays a key role in measuring and The Management Coaching Programme (Jova) was split into two: developing the quality of workplace relations and leadership. The the Personal Development Programme focuses on supporting persurvey is carried out at Kesko and its chains’ stores. OOO Johaston, sonal development, and the Leadership Development Programme Senukai and OMA did not participate in the 2011 survey. The response focuses on strengthening management and leadership. From 2012 rate was 75% (74%) of the employees in the participating companies. onwards, these coaching programmes will be arranged in internaEmployees who are absent for an extended period are excluded tional groups with English as the coaching language. from the survey. The results of the personnel survey are presented Common management themes will be addressed in annual Manin the table below. agement Coaching. Topical seminars are also arranged for manFurther development of employee wellbeing, including working agement and potential future management. The theme of the 2011 capacity, and wider use of the personnel survey results were identiseminar was the digital era. Approximately 250 participants from fied as areas for improvement. In the Group companies in Finland, around Kesko attended the seminar. the results of the personnel survey have an impact on the bonuses In-house job rotation provides an extensive selection of career paid to superiors, including management. Since 2010, the Group alternatives. In Finland, some 1,200 (1,100) people moved to a new has compiled a new wellbeing index based on the personnel survey job within the Group. responses and used it as one of the wellbeing programme indicaIn Finland, recruitment in the K-Group is supported by the tors. The index is a combination of questions used for monitoring K-trainee and retailer training programmes. An essential part of employees' working capacity and experience of work-related strain. the K-trainee programme is work experience in a K-Group store. In 2011, the Group-level wellbeing index rating stood at 3.75 (3.75 in Future K-retailers are trained in the retailer training programmes. 2010, 3.80 in 2009). The coaching involves online studies, on-the-job training under a mentor retailer as well as regional and national on-site training COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE periods. Those completing the programme are qualified to start a BODIES AND EMPLOYEE CATEGORIES, LA13 career as independent K-retailers, which about 95–99% of trainees In 2011, the average age of personnel in Finland was 35.1 (35.4) years. choose to do. Find out more about the K-trainee and retailer coachIn the other countries, the average varied from 31 (27) years to 39 ing programmes at www.kesko.fi/jobs. (40) years. Kesko Corporation and its Finnish division parent companies PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT and subsidiaries draw up statutory company-specific HR and equalREVIEWS, LA12 ity plans and define objectives for improvement. The plans cover Performance and development review discussions and performance recruitment, career development and training, compensation, and assessment of key personnel are carried out at all Kesko Group comthe reconciliation of work and family life. panies and operating countries. In 2011, 76% (76%) of the Group’s In addition to gender equality, the plans also guide other aspects employees in Finland and 65% (63%, figure corrected after publicaof equality, such as the treatment of people in different age groups tion of the previous report) in other countries participated in the or with different cultural backgrounds. Employees’ experiences of reviews. The level of satisfaction with the reviews was 4.07 (3.98) equality with respect to age, ethnic origin and gender have been (on a scale of 1–5) for the whole Group. monitored as part of the personnel survey. In these areas, employees’ experiences of equality are good: in the Kesko Group's operations, Personnel's job satisfaction, Finland, Sweden and Norway (scale 1–5) Finland Sweden Norway 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Own job 3.82 3.81 3.86 3.93 3.95 3.96 3.91 3.90 3.82 Leadership 3.86 3.79 3.81 3.68 3.62 3.53 3.70 3.74 3.53 Unit's operations 3.86 3.80 3.83 3.88 3.86 3.81 3.71 3.64 3.51 Kesko's operations 3.65 3.63 3.59 3.47 3.83 3.63 3.42 3.35 3.26 Personnel's job satisfaction, the Baltics and Russia (scale 1–5) Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Own job 3.96 3.95 4.09 4.12 3.95 4.10 4.29 4.12 4.24 4.17 4.18 4.09 Leadership 3.83 3.78 3.85 4.02 3.70 3.83 4.38 4.10 4.01 4.30 4.29 4.21 Unit's operations 3.82 3.79 3.92 3.87 3.53 3.73 4.29 3.95 4.19 4.37 4.40 4.31 Kesko's operations 3.74 3.73 3.80 3.91 3.65 3.70 4.16 3.83 3.78 4.14 4.44 4.09 Personnel's job satisfaction, average by country (scale 1–5) Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 3.85 3.80 3.83 3.82 3.78 3.72 3.76 3.74 3.59 3.86 3.82 3.93 4.00 3.70 3.85 4.33 4.05 4.12 4.28 4.30 4.22 The average is calculated from the results in the categories 'own job', 'leadership' and 'unit's operations'. Questions at Own job, Unit’s operations and Kesko’s operations were updated in 2011. The updates have been taken into account in averages for 2009–2010 and the results are comparable with each other. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 83 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY breakdown of kesko personnel by age group breakdown of kesko personnel by age group in finland in 2011, % in other countries in 2011, % under 26 years, 28.0% under 26 years, 25.5% 26–35 years, 27.6% 26–35 years, 40.1% 36–45 years, 21.5% 36–45 years, 20.4% 46–55 years, 15.7% 46–55 years, 10.6% over 55 years, 7.1% over 55 years, 3.5% Sample of about 9,400 people. years of service in finland in 2011, % years of service in other countries in 2011, % under 2 years, 34.2% under 2 years, 49.4% 2–5 years, 22.1% 2–5 years, 35.3% 6–10 years, 13.9% 6–10 years, 10.9% 11–15 years, 9.8% 11–15 years, 3.5% 16–20 years, 5.2% 16–20 years, 0.6% 21–25 years, 8.1% 21–25 years, 0.1% over 25 years, 6.7% over 25 years, 0.2% Sample of about 9,500 people. Percentage of women by employee category, Finland Percentage of women by employee category, other countries 2011 2010* 2009 2011 2010 Top management 28.6 25.7 20.6 Top management* 24.1 32.3 Middle management 18.9 18.0 24.8 Middle management* 36.6 40.4 Superiors and specialists 46.0 44.5 50.1 Superiors and specialists* 52.2 52.6 Workers and white-collar employees 63.0 64.2 64.8 Workers and white-collar Total 59.8 60.7 60.9 employees* 40.6 39.8 Total 43.5 46.2 *Only the figure for top management is comparable with previous years. In 2010, the determination of employee categories was changed. *Breakdown by employee category does not include data for Senukai, Lithuania 2011 is comparable to 2010. and Byggmakker, Norway. 84 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the rating for gender equality is 4.11 (4.02) (on a scale of 1–5), age Human rights issues in Kesko's purchasing chain equality 4.07 (4.00) and ethnic equality 4.19 (4.12). In its operations, Kesko pays special attention to the human rights At year-end, 60% (61%) of the Kesko Group employees in Finland issues and working conditions in its purchasing chain and focuses were female and 40% (39%) were male. In foreign companies, the its monitoring efforts primarily on suppliers operating in the highfigures were 44% and 56% (46% and 54%) respectively. The figure risk countries. Read about supply chain control on page 56. for 2011 does not include data for Konsoma Belarus. High-risk countries typically produce clothing and home textiles, In 2011, one of the seven members of the Kesko Board, and two shoes and other leather goods, furniture, carpets, interior decoraof the eight members of the Corporate Management Board were tion products, sports equipment, toys, agricultural products (such women. Since 1 December 2011, the Corporate Management Board as coffee, tea, cocoa, fruit, vegetables, wines), and canned fish, fruit has had four female members. and vegetables. In the retail subsidiaries in Finland, a significant percentage of In 2011, direct purchases by Kesko’s Finnish companies from supsupervisory positions are held by women. 81% (82%) of K-citymarket pliers in the high-risk regions totalled €143 million (€114 million in home and speciality goods’ department managers and 69% (69%) 2010), which is 1.8% (1.5%) of Kesko’s total purchases. Direct imports of Anttila department stores’ department managers are women. from high-risk countries accounted for 25.6% (18.2%) of Kesko's total imports to Finland. No statistics are available on direct imports from RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF MEN TO WOMEN, LA14 the high-risk countries by Kesko's subsidiaries in other countries, The average annual salary of Kesko employees was €34,534 in but Kesko's purchases in 2011 analysed by company's country of Finland, €34,777 in the other Nordic countries, and €9,613 in the domicile and by supplier's country of domicile also include purBaltic countries, Russia and Belarus (OOO Johaston is included). As chases from high-risk countries at a total value of €237 million (€203 the Kesko Group’ operates in many lines of business, average salary million), or 2.9% (2.7%) of Kesko's total purchases. Approximately is not a good indicator of salary level or structure. 72% (82%) of Kesko's imports to Finland (excluding imports by VVThe wage groups and tables specified in the collective trading Auto) comes from other EU countries. sector labour agreement are applied to jobs covered by the agreeIn addition to its own direct imports, Kesko also purchases goods ment, such as sales assistants and warehouse workers. Salaries are produced in high-risk countries from other importers operating in affected by job-based responsibility bonuses, work experience and Finland and through international purchasing groups. There are the cost-of-living category which depends on the locality. Besides no reliable statistics available on the countries of origin of these the role and job requirements, the salary of a senior white-collar imports, which mainly consist of international branded goods that employee is determined by competence, work experience, perforhave been the subject of much attention in respect of assuring the mance and results. Because of the diversity of job descriptions, it responsibility of their production in recent years. There may also is not possible to comprehensively compare the salaries between be social risks involved in the manufacture of products imported genders at the Group level. to Finland through third countries or in the production of their Equality in compensation is considered as part of annual comingredients. pany-specific equality plans. Gender is not a factor in determining pay levels, and no significant differences in comparable jobs have Ethical purchasing principles and the Steering Group for been detected. Company-specific equality plans strive to promote Responsible Purchasing pay equality in jobs where comparisons can be made. Responsible purchasing is guided by Kesko's ethical purchasing principles, which are available at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. The principles are based on the national labour protection legislation and corresponding conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), applied when national legislation does not impose equally hihg standards. Kesko has a steering group for responsible purchasing, which steers and coordinates social quality control of suppliers. The group consists of representatives of Kesko's division parent companies importing from high-risk countries. The steering group met three times in 2011 and focused on purchasing policies, BSCI Committee work, BSCI audits and related annual objectives. Monitoring human rights and working conditions in the purchasing chain Kesko is a member in the European BSCI audit system, and uses the BSCI audits and the SA8000 standard for assessing its suppliers in high-risk countries. As a member of the BSCI, Kesko sets annual targets for the number of audits to be conducted in suppliers' factories in the high-risk countries. The objective is also to improve the quality of audit results. In cooperation with BSCI, Kesko follows other audit systems in the market and accepts audits based on them, provided that the level of requirements is the same as in the BSCI audit. Kesko accepts ETI, WIETA and UTZ audits as compliant with its sourcing practices, and other audits systems are assessed on a case-by-case basis. The table on page 87 presents some certification and audit systems which are applied to different product groups in Kesko. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 85 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Kesko is a member of CGF (The Consumer Goods Forum), a disSUPPLIERS' AND CONTRACTORS' SCREENING cussion and cooperation forum for the grocery trade and industry, ON HUMAN RIGHTS, HR2, AND OPERATIONS currently working on the Global Social Compliance Programme WITH A RISK FOR INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOUR, (GSCP), aimed to enhance the comparability of social and environOR FOR INCIDENTS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY mental audits. LABOUR, H6 AND HR7 In China, Kesko supports its suppliers of home and speciality No significant risks related to child, forced or compulsory labour goods through monitoring. A local monitoring officer guides, trains have been detected in Keskos' own operations. Kesko's reporting and oversees Kesko’s Chinese suppliers in issues related to the terms concentrates on supplier assessments. of employment and working conditions and compliance with environmental and chemical regulations. Kesko's own monitoring prinSA8000 certifications ciples support the BSCI audit requirements. The ultimate aim is to At the beginning of 2011, Kesko had 10 suppliers with SA8000 cerget the factory to apply for a third-party BSCI audit or SA8000 certitification. In addition, all plantations that supply Pirkka bananas fication. In 2011, a total of 64 (86) factory visits were made. have SA8000 and Rainforest Alliance certification. Rautakesko and Kesko Food monitor and develop the responsibility of the purchasing chain as part of the sourcing cooperation BSCI audits with other European retail chains (in Eurogroup, ICASS and AMS). Kesko’s objective for 2011 was to have 90 initial audits and 55 reKesko has a SUMO (supplier monitoring) database, in which all the audits at the factory premises of the suppliers of home and speinformation on supplier audits, certifications and monitoring visits ciality goods and foodstuffs, and five initial audits at the farms of to suppliers in high-risk countries is saved alongside their respecthe producers of agricultural products. The total number of initial tive risk ratings. The information on BSCI audits is also saved in audits carried out at suppliers' factory premises or farms during the database maintained by the BSCI and available for all members. the year was 73, while the number of re-audits was 61. At the beginning of 2012, a total of 247 factories or farms of Kesko's suppliers in Main elements of SA8000 and BSCI audits high-risk countries were in the BSCI auditing process, an increase Auditing areas Relevant ILO convention of 59 factories from the previous year. In addition, some of Kesko's Compliance with laws and agreements 110 (agriculture) suppliers are themselves members of BSCI and promote audits in Freedom of association and collective their own supply chains. bargaining 11, 87, 98, 135 and 154 The results of the BSCI audits of Kesko's suppliers' factories for Discrimination 100, 111, 143, 158, 159, 169 and 183 2011 are presented in the figures on this page. Most deficiencies Compensation 12, 26, 101, 102 and 131 occur in documentation, observance of working time regulations, Working hours 1, 14 and recommendation 116 compensation, and occupational health and safety. Experiences 155, 184 and recommendations 164 gained from monitoring work in China are similar, and it has been Health and safety at work and 190 found that Chinese suppliers need time and professional support 10, 79, 138, 142, 182 and in order to manage the corrective actions required by BSCI. ReChild labour recommendation 146 audits prove, however, that improvements in working conditions Forced labour 29 and 105 are possible. Basic environmental protection Kesko' target for 2012 is 45 initial BSCI audits and 40 re-audits. BSCI members also strive to improve the qualitative level of suppliers, and accordingly quantitative audit targets alone are informed to BSCI; instead, the targeted audit results must be at the ’good’ or ’improvements needed’ level. Kesko's BSCI results in 2011, initial audits Kesko's BSCI results in 2011, re-audits Good 33% Good 41% Improvements needed 37% Improvements needed 30% Non-compliant 30% Non-compliant 30% 86 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries used by Kesko Certification/audit system Product group Coverage of criteria Product label BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) All product groups Social, limited environmental part No SA8000 All product groups Social No Fairtrade Agricultural products, incl. cotton Social, environmental Yes Rainforest Alliance Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes UTZ Certified Coffee, cocoa, tea Social, environmental Yes FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Wood products and timber Social, environmental Yes MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) Caught fish and shellfish Environmental (sustainable fishing) Yes results of kesko's BSCI audits in different areas in 2011, % of audited factories Part B, initial audits (73) Part B, re-audits (61) Management Practice Good Documentation Improvements needed Non-compliant Working Time Not applicable Compensation Child Labour/Young Employees Forced Labour/Disciplinary Measures Freedom of Association/Collective Bargaining Discrimination Working Conditions Health and Social Facilities Occupational Health and Safety Dormitories Environment Fairtrade products Kesko Food has a comprehensive cooperation agreement with Fairtrade Finland and a licence for Fairtrade products in the Pirkka range. The selection and marketing policies of Fairtrade products are included in K-food stores' chain concepts. In 2011, Kesko Food had 222 Fairtrade products (213 in 2010) in its selection, of which 38 (37) were Pirkka products. According to the statistics of Fairtrade Finland, Kesko Food had 158 Fairtrade suppliers in 35 countries, and the products sold by Kesko Food generated over €280,000 in Fairtrade premium for social development projects. In 2011, Kesko's home and speciality goods companies had a total of some 70 (50) Fairtrade products made of Fairtrade cotton in their selections. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 87 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Assistant training, which is among Finland’s most widely attended CONCERNING ASPECTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS, HR3 adult training events, had more than 15,900 participants in 2011. In 2011, Kesko's buyers were trained in responsible purchasing pracDivisions also arrange regular training; for example, Anttila arranged tices with the focus on the BSCI audit process. BSCI also arranged a total of 256 security training workshops in 2011. training events for suppliers in high-risk countries in 2011. Kesko is actively involved in the development of security issues, for example, through participation in activities arranged by organiTOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION sations in the field. AND ACTIONS TAKEN, HR4 At the end of 2011, one case (the same as in the previous year) conINCIDENTS OF VIOLATION INVOLVING RIGHTS OF cerning discrimination in recruitment, with a Kesko Group company INDIGENOUS PEOPLE AND ACTIONS TAKEN, HR9 as the defendant, was pending at the Court of Appeal in Finland. No incidents of violation involving the rights of indigenous peoples in 2011. Kesko’s operations do not specifically impact the rights of OPERATIONS IN WHICH THE RIGHT TO EXERCISE indigenous peoples. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE AT RISK, HR5 PERCENTAGE AND NUMBER OF BUSINESS UNITS Page 81 reports on the unionisation of Kesko's personnel. The control ANALYSED FOR RISKS RELATED TO CORRUPTION, of and corrective actions by suppliers are included in the SA8000 SO2, PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED IN and BSCI audits. ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES, SO3, AND ACTIONS TAKEN IN RESPONSE TO INCIDENTS OF PERCENTAGE OF SECURITY PERSONNEL TRAINED IN CORRUPTION, SO4 ASPECTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS, HR8 Risks related to corruption are managed as part of the Kesko Group’s At Kesko, security matters are part of the Group's internal audit and risk management. risk management. Key risks are systematically identified, assessed, managed, moniSecurity issues are assessed and managed from a business pertored and reported at quarterly intervals as part of business operaspective as part of the operations at Group, division, company and tions at Group, division, company and unit level in all operating unit level in all operating countries. All divisions have a risk mancountries. In addition, risk assessments are made of significant agement coordinator who participates in the operation of the Risk projects related to capital expenditures or changes in operations. Management Steering Group. Security issues are also addressed in Rankings of Kesko’s operating countries in the Corruption Percepthe security and real estate security teams which hold regular meettions Index 2011 by Transparency International are presented herein. ings and have representation from all divisions. Kesko’s anti-corruption principles are included in the ‘Our The duties of Kesko Corporation's security manager include ensurResponsible Working Principles’ guide updated in 2011. According ing that the management of the Group's security matters is efficient to the 2011 personnel survey, 71% (69% in 2010) of employees had and proportionate to business operations, and that the Group's top familiarised themselves with the guide. Kesko arranges value dismanagement is adequately informed of security matters to make cussions on responsible working principles throughout the Group. decisions. The theme in 2011 was anti-bribery work and the management of Each division in each operating country has nominated people the business environment in Russia. responsible for security matters. In 2011, Kesko was not informed of any corruption-related lawKesko uses services provided by the security industry as needed suits against any Kesko Group company. and as considered appropriate. Finland has a law governing the operations of the private security business (Private Security Services Rankings of Kesko's operating countries in Transparency's Corruption Perceptions Index in 2011 Act, 12 April 2002/282). Local legislation is adhered to in the other Ranking Country Scale 1–10 operating countries. 2 Finland 9.4 When services are purchased, the operations of service providers must comply with relevant statutory requirements. 4 Sweden 9.3 The relevant legislation stipulates the minimum training required 6 Norway 9.0 of guards. The training includes the basics in the use of force and for29 Estonia 6.4 cible means equipment, and regular refresher training is required. 50 Lithuania 4.8 K-instituutti provides training in security issues to Kesko's per61 Latvia 4.2 sonnel in supervisory, retailer and management positions (around 143 Belarus 2.4 1,000 attendees each year). The Master Sales Assistant training also 143 Russia 2.4 includes a 'Threatening customer situation' course. The Master Sales 88 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY THE ORGANISATION'S PUBLIC POLICY POSITIONS, In October, Gaudiano Bio olives stuffed with almonds, which PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC POLICY DEVELOPMENT had caused botulism, were recalled in October. Later in OctoberAND LOBBYING, SO5, AND FINANCIAL AND IN-KIND November, all Gaudiano products imported by Kespro were recalled. CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES, POLITICIANS At the end of 2011, there were no lawsuits concerning product AND RELATED INSTITUTIONS, SO6 safety. In election years, political parties and candidates are given equal opportunities to arrange campaign events at K-Group stores. In PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION REQUIRED BY addition, Kesko may participate in economic and tax policy seminars PROCEDURES, PR3, AND NON-COMPLIANCE WITH arranged by political parties, at its discretion and without indicatREGULATIONS AND VOLUNTARY CODES ing partiality. The seminar participation fees and advertising in CONCERNING PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION party newspapers paid by Kesko in Finland totalled approximately AND LABELLING, PR4 €29,100 in 2011. In the table ‘Kesko's support for the public good’ In the product labelling of its own brands and imports, Kesko com(page 67) political support is, for the most part, included under plies with the Finnish law and with EU legislation. Voluntary product ‘Non-governmental and environmental organisations’. labelling on the product’s responsibility aspects can also be added. Read also 'Public policy' on pages 54–55. Such labelling may include, for example, organic and eco-labelling, as well as labelling indicating social responsibility. The selection LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTI-COMPETITIVE of organic products and eco-labelled products is discussed on page BEHAVIOUR, ANTI-TRUST, AND MONOPOLY 78, and product labelling indicating mainly social responsibility PRACTICES, SO7, AND FINES AND NON-MONETARY on page 87. SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS Product labelling of Kesko Food’s own brands always comprises AND REGULATIONS, SO8 – package size and space permitting – also the nutritional values. No legal actions or fines in 2011. Nearly all Pirkka products have the Guideline Daily Amount (GDA) labelling, which indicates how much energy and essential nutrients ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF are contained in one serving. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AT VARIOUS LIFE CYCLE In 2011, there were 21 (19 in 2010) product recalls resulting from STAGES, PR1, AND NON-COMPLIANCE WITH defective product labelling, 5 (4) of which concerned Kesko Food’s REGULATIONS AND CODES CONCERNING HEALTH own brands. AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS, PR2 The activities of Kesko Food’s Product Research include assessing RESULTS OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEYS, PR5 products’ impacts on health and safety. In 2011, the unit audited 32 The recognition level and images of Kesko’s chains are regularly suppliers (43 in 2010), of which 24 (4) were Finnish. These compamonitored in brand surveys targeted at consumers in all product nies mainly included manufacturers of Kesko Food’s own brands, lines. Store-level customer satisfaction is measured by customer satand the audits were conducted in compliance with Kesko Food’s isfaction surveys, complemented by the mystery shopping method audit protocol. in the food trade and the building and home improvement trade. A total of 10,369 (8,826) product samples were analysed. Nearly Satisfaction with the K-Plussa customer loyalty programme is meashalf of them related to product development of Kesko Food’s own ured once a year. brands. A total of 1,712 (1,488) batch control and other self-control The chains have different channels for giving customer feedback, samples were analysed. and Group-level feedback can be given through the www.kesko.fi In the development of the company’s own brands, Kesko Food website. All messages received via all the feedback channels are pays special attention, in line with its strategy, to the health aspects responded to. of the products. Since 2008, fat, salt and sugar have been reduced In 2011, Kesko Food’s consumer service, maintained by Prodfrom the Pirkka products containing a high content of them. By the uct Research, received 20,215 (19,106 in 2010) consumer contacts. end of 2011, a total of 89 (81) Pirkka products had been reformulated. Approximately 80% of these were product complaints. The conProduct Research is also responsible for product recalls, which sumer service received more than 2,400 (2,400) product samples or numbered 87 in 2011 (80 in 2010). Of these, 28 (24) were Kesko Food’s packages, of which the unit analysed almost 40% and sent the rest own brand products; in the other cases, Product Research assisted to manufacturers for analysis. the manufacturers in recalls. One was a public recall involving a potential health hazard. In this case, a batch of Pirkka and Euro Shopper fish fingers potentially contained egg, which had not been marked on the label. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 89 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ADHERENCE TO LAWS, STANDARDS AND VOLUNTARY According to the Finnish Personal Data Act, in individual cases, CODES RELATED TO MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS, customer data can be used in order to protect the vital interests of INCL. ADVERTISING, PROMOTION AND the data subject, without an express consent. Concerning the recall SPONSORSHIP, PR6, AND INCIDENTS OF NONof food preserves imported by Kespro Ltd in October 2011, Finnish COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS AND Food Safety Authority Evira ordered that, in order to protect the VOLUNTARY CODES RELATED TO MARKETING health of consumers who had bought the preserves, that the customCOMMUNICATIONS, PR7 ers's contact details be traced with the help of customer and receipt Kesko complies with laws and regulations in its marketing commudata registers. Thereby the recall could be carried out by personally nications. Amendments to legislation and authorities’ recommendacontacting the consumers who had bought the preserves. The data tions are monitored on a regular basis, and the staffs responsible for protection authorities were informed. marketing in each unit are kept informed. Sponsorship is guided by No reason for complaint was detected in the inspection by the Kesko’s sponsorship principles, available at www.kesko.fi/responsiData Protection Ombudsman in 2011. Read more at The Office of bility. There were no incidents of non-compliance with legislation the Data Protection Ombudsman (www.tietosuoja.fi), press release or voluntary principles in 2011. on 27 January 2012. FINES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND COMPLAINTS REGARDING BREACHES OF CUSTOMER REGULATIONS CONCERNING PRODUCTS AND PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF CUSTOMER DATA, PR8 SERVICES, PR9 In 2011, K-Plus Oy received a couple of direct customer contacts No fines in 2011. regarding the handling of personal information and checking their own information. Responses to these enquiries were provided as part of normal customer service, and they did not lead to further action. No data leaks were detected in 2011. 90 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Definitions of terms Definitions of terms AND THE BOUNDARIES The text and graphs contain terms and indicators whose contents are explained below. (Profit/loss before tax – income tax) Return on equity, % = x 100 Shareholders’ equity Operating profit Return on capital employed, % = (Non-current assets + inventories + receivables + other current assets x 100 – non-interest-bearing liabilities) for a 12-month average Shareholders’ equity Equity ratio, % = x 100 (Balance sheet total – prepayments received) Interest-bearing net debt Gearing, % = x 100 Shareholders’ equity Market capitalisation = Share price at balance sheet date x number of shares Profit/loss – non-controlling interests Earnings/share, diluted = Average number of shares adjusted for the dilutive effect of options Primary energy = Available in resources in their natural state; divided into renewable and non-renewable energy GWh = Gigawatt hour = a million kilowatt hours (kWh) 1 kWh = 3.6 MJ = 3,600 kJ (in GRI guidelines, the unit for measuring energy is joule, or J) CO2 = Carbon dioxide = causes climate change (‘greenhouse effect’) Carbon dioxide equivalent, the amount of different gases whose combined impact on CO2e = the greenhouse effect corresponds to the amount of carbon dioxide mentioned SO2 = Sulphur dioxide equivalent, affects acidification C2H4 = Ethene, affects the ozone content of the lower atmosphere Sickness absence/ Sickness absence 1 Jan.–31 Dec. = x 1,000,000 hours million working hours Theoretical regular working time 1 Jan.–31 Dec. Sickness absence 1 Jan.–31 Dec. Sickness absence percentage = x 100 (Number of hours worked 1 Jan.–31 Dec. + absence period)* Number of departures 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (excluding summer employees) Employee departure turnover = Number of personnel at 31 Dec. Injury rate/ Number of injuries 1 Jan.–31 Dec. = x 1,000,000 hours million working hours Number of hours worked 1 Jan.–31 Dec. * Calculation formula established at Kesko. For units whose hours worked are not known, calculation uses the theoretical regular working time. Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 91 Independent Assurance Report (Translation from the Finnish Original) Independent Assurance Report To the Management of Kesko not been prepared, in all material respects, ■■ Assessing Kesko Corporation’s defined Corporation in accordance with the Reporting criteria. material corporate responsibility We have been engaged by the Management In addition, we have conducted our work aspects as well as assessing Corporate of Kesko Corporation to perform a limited in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Responsibility information based on assurance engagement on the information Standard 2008. For conducting a Type 2 these aspects. on economic, social and environmental assurance engagement as agreed with Kesko ■■ Performing a media analysis and an responsibility for the reporting period of Corporation the AA1000 Assurance Standard internet search for references to Kesko January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 dis2008 requires planning and performing of Corporation during the reporting closed in Kesko Corporation’s Corporate the assurance engagement to obtain limited period. Responsibility Report 2011 (hereinafter “Corassurance on whether any matters come to ■■ Interviewing persons responsible for porate Responsibility information”). our attention that cause us to believe that the collection and reporting of CorpoKesko Corporation does not adhere, in all rate Responsibility information at group Management’s responsibility material respects, to the AA1000 Accountlevel as well as at site level in Russia. The Management of Kesko Corporation is ability Principles (inclusivity, materiality ■■ Assessing the systems and practices responsible for preparing the Corporate and responsiveness) and that the Corporate used for the collection and consolidaResponsibility information according to the Responsibility information is not reliable, in tion of quantitative information. Reporting criteria as set out in Kesko Corpoall material respects, based on the Report■■ Testing the accuracy of the information ration’s corporate responsibility reporting ing criteria. from original documents and systems instructions, the Sustainability Reporting In a limited assurance engagement the on a sample basis. Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative evidence-gathering procedures are more ■■ Testing the consolidation of informa(version 3.0), as well as AA1000 Accountlimited than for a reasonable assurance tion and performing recalculations on ability Principles Standard 2008 issued by engagement, and therefore less assurance a sample basis. AccountAbility. is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement Conclusion Practitioner’s responsibility involves performing procedures to obtain Based on our limited assurance engageOur responsibility is to express a conclusion evidence about the amounts and other ment nothing has come to our attention that on the Corporate Responsibility information disclosures in the Corporate Responsibilcauses us to believe that Kesko Corporation based on our work performed. Our assurity information. The procedures selected does not adhere, in all material respects, to ance report has been made in accordance depend on the practitioner’s judgement, the AA1000 Accountability Principles. with the terms of our engagement. We do including an assessment of the risks of Furthermore nothing has come to our not accept, or assume responsibility to anymaterial misstatement of the Corporate attention that causes us to believe that one else, except to Kesko Corporation for our Responsibility information. Our work conKesko Corporation’s Corporate Responsiwork, for this report, or for the conclusions sisted of, amongst others, the following bility information has not been prepared, that we have reached. procedures: in all material respects, in accordance with We conducted our work in accordance ■■ Interviewing senior management of the Reporting criteria, or that the Corporate with the International Standard on AssurKesko Corporation. Responsibility information is not reliable, ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance ■■ Interviewing relevant employees from in all material respects, based on the reportengagements other than audits or reviews various organisational levels of Kesko ing criteria. of historical financial information’. This Corporation with regards to stakeholder Our assurance report should be read in Standard requires that we comply with expectations towards Kesko Corporaconjunction with the inherent limitations ethical requirements and plan and perform tion, the meeting of those expectations of accuracy and completeness for Corporate the assurance engagement to obtain limited as well as stakeholder engagement. Responsibility information. This independassurance whether any matters come to our ■■ Assessing stakeholder engagement and ent assurance report should not be used for attention that cause us to believe that the responsiveness based on Kesko Corporainterpreting Kesko Corporation’s perforCorporate Responsibility information has tion’s documentation and internal commance in relation to its corporate responmunication. sibility principles. 92 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Independent Assurance Report Observations and holder engagement at different organialso recommend that Kesko Corporation recommendations sational levels. increases the corporate responsibility Based on our limited assurance engagement ■■ Regarding Materiality: Kesko Corporacommunication to its personnel, and we provide the following observations and tion has processes in place to determine that corporate responsibility issues recommendations in relation to adherence the material corporate responsibility are increasingly brought forward to to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. aspects. We recommend that Kesko consumers in stores. These observations and recommendations Corporation revises its materiality do not affect the conclusions presented analysis with those issues that arise Practitioner’s independence earlier. during the update of its corporate and qualifications ■■ Regarding Inclusivity: Kesko Corporaresponsibility program. PricewaterhouseCoopers’ own Global Indetion has a strong commitment to stake■■ Regarding Responsiveness: Kesko pendence Policy is applicable to Pricewaterholder engagement. The company uses Corporation is committed to being houseCoopers Oy, its partners and profesa systematic stakeholder engagement responsive to its stakeholders, which sional staff, including all members of the process to ensure that the stakeholder is evident from the ongoing and wideassurance engagement team. expectations and suggestions are taken ranging communication on corporate Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate into consideration in the development responsibility issues in media, forums responsibility and assurance specialists posof the activities of Kesko Corporation. and other communication channels, sesses the requisite skills and experience We recommend that Kesko Corporation such as social media. We recommend within financial and non-financial assurfurther develops the management of that Kesko maintains communication ance, corporate responsibility strategy and stakeholder engagement with special with consumers in social media and management, social and environmental focus on the management of stakeutilises social media in the communiissues as well as knowledge of the retail to cation of corporate responsibility. We undertake this assurance engagement. Helsinki, 3 April 2012 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Johan Kronberg Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Authorised Public Accountant Partner Director, Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability & Climate Change Sustainability & Climate Change Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 93 Contacts Kesko Corporation Satamakatu 3 FI-00016 Kesko Tel. +358 10 5311 www.kesko.fi www.facebook.com/KeskoOyj www.twitter.com/Kesko_Oyj CONTACTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTACTS The list gives contact information on the personnel who primarily provide additional information on different areas of the report. The list does not include all Kesko employees who have participated in editing the report. Name Title Unit Name Title Unit DEVELOPMENT, COORDINATION, RESPONSIBILITY FOR EDITING THE REPORT: HUMAN RESOURCES RESPONSIBILITY: Merja Haverinen Senior Vice President Kesko Corporation, Jennie Stenbom HR Manager Kesko Corporation, Human Corporate Communications Resources and Responsibility Mikko Myyryläinen HR Development Kesko Corporation, Human Helena Frilander CR Manager Kesko Corporation, Manager Resources Corporate Communications Janna Pirhonen Manager, Wellbeing at Kesko Corporation, Human and Responsibility Work Resources Satu Kuoppamäki Corporate Responsibility Kesko Corporation, Susanna Sorvari HR Specialist Kesko Corporation, Human Advisor Corporate Communications Resources and Responsibility Päivi Sariola Financial Manager Kesko Pension Fund, Pirjo Nieminen Communications Officer Kesko Corporation, Pension Insurance and (pirjo.j.nieminen@ Corporate Communications Occupational Health kesko.fi) and Responsibility Services Pirjo Anttila Occupational Health Kesko Corporation, Pension Service, Chief Physician Insurance and Occupational ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY: Health Services Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Kesko Corporation, Corporate Controller Corporate Accounting Tiina Nyrhi Corporate Financial Kesko Corporation, RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING: Controller Corporate Accounting Helena Frilander CR Manager Kesko Corporation, Päivi AvelinFinancial Controller Kesko Corporation, Corporate Communications Jakovlev Corporate Accounting and Responsibility Esko Mansikka Managing Director Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy PRODUCT SAFETY: Matti Kalervo Product Research Kesko Food Ltd, Product ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY: Manager Research Timo Jäske Environmental Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Commerce Jari Suuronen Maintenance Manager Kesko Food Ltd, CORPORATE SECURITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT: Real Estate, Maintenance Pasi Mäkinen Chief Audit Executive Kesko Corporation, Internal Toni Pelin Environmental and Keslog Ltd, Supply Chain Audit and Risk Management Safety Manager Development Petri Käyhkö Security Manager Kesko Corporation, Risk Harri Ajomaa Environmental Manager K-citymarket Oy/ Management Anttila Oy Timo Pajala Risk Manager Kesko Corporation, Internal Jesse Mether Sustainability Manager Rautakesko Ltd, Customers Audit and Risk Management and Concepts Joni Ikonen Development Manager VV-Autotalot Oy PRIVACY PROTECTION/CUSTOMER LOYALTY SYSTEM: Niina Ryynänen Managing Director K-Plus Oy E-mail address: firstname.lastname@kesko.fi. 94 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 KESKO’S CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT has been published in Finnish and English. The report can be ordered and read at: www.kesko.ﬁ/responsibility. It may also be ordered from Kesko Corporation, Corporate Communications and Responsibility, Satamakatu 3, FI-00016 Kesko and by phone +358 1053 23702. The report has been edited by Kesko’s Corporate Communications and Responsibility Unit (Helena Frilander, Satu Kuoppamäki and Pirjo Nieminen) and translated from Finnish into English by Taija Mäentaka and Pirjo Holm. PHOTOS: Mats Vuorenjuuri, Rasmus Wilén, Mia Saarinen, Volkswagen AG and Kesko’s image banks. LAYOUT: Anne Laakso, Kesko and Zeeland Branding PRINTED BY: Libris Oy PAPER: cover: 300g/m2 Scandia 2000 white, inside: 130g/m2 Scandia 2000 white The paper and the printers have been granted the right to use the Nordic Swan environmental label. Kesko Corporation Satamakatu 3, FI-00016 KESKO, Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 10 5311 www.kesko.ﬁ Business ID 0109862-8
