SAFARICOM UNCOP REPORT 2011/2012 SAFARICOM LIMITED CEO’S MESSAGE At Safaricom Limited, we acknowledge that our conduct and business practices today must be designed to create and shape a sustainable tomorrow. In the past year, we have undertaken an in-depth analysis of our stakeholders and our business ecosystem and have shaped our business decisions and priorities to ensure that we are operating in a sustainable way in relation to these priorities. This report precedes Safaricom’s first sustainability report, which will provide in depth analysis of our sustainability risks, in line with our corporate strategy. Implementing the United Nations Global Compact as part of our broader commitment towards being a responsible and accountable business falls in line with our commitment to our stakeholders. We will ensure that our operating standards are of a consistently high level, and that our policies are translated into practical actions. I am honored to have been recently been appointed to the United Nations Global Compact Board, a voluntary UN initiative that encourages businesses to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies. The initiative also encourages corporate support for the UNs Millennium Development Goals and corporate adherence to human rights, good labour practices, support for the environment and anti-corruption. My appointment as an honorary board member for a 3 year term is seen as recognition of Safaricom’s commitment to environmental, sustainability and anti-corruption issues, as well as the work the company is undertaking to address the Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5, regarding maternal health and child mortality. Safaricom is committed to a continuous improvement process, and through this report on our progress, Safaricom Limited continues to express its willingness to support and advance the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact through our policies, processes, products and services. This is our commitment to our stakeholders. Bob Collymore CEO, Safaricom Limited. Safaricom Ltd. | CEO’s MESSAGE 1 1. LABOUR 1.1 EMPLOYEE ENVIRONMENT Employees are one of Safaricom’s most valuable assets and key to the sustainability of the Absolute rules company. The aspects considered with regards We have developed the safety absolute rules, to employee environment include:: which all employees and contractors must comply with. There are the following three • Health and safety sets of absolute rules: • Lost hours Absolute road safety: • Always wear a seatbelt when travelling in, • Skills development and retention or operating vehicles. OUR EMPLOYEE CHARTER • Never exceed speed limits or travel at speeds that are dangerous for the type of Safaricom is committed to being an employer of road, vehicle or conditions. choice and has developed an Employee Charter • Ensure that the vehicle has its statutory to guide our interactions with staff. The Charter documents prior to road use. commits us to providing a great place to work — where both individual accomplishments and • Never use a hand held phone while driving and only make calls by using hands team effort will be rewarded — and a great place free devices or pulling over when it is safe to grow — creating opportunities for personal to do so. empowerment and career growth in an atmosphere of trust, honesty and openness. • Ensure that the vehicle is properly maintained at all times. • Never work under the influence of substances (alcohol or drugs) that are OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH illegal, or in excess of legal levels, or at PERFORMANCE levels that impair the individual’s ability to perform tasks. Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) is central (Cont’d overleaf) to the employee environment at Safaricom as we recognise the importance of creating safe, healthy and productive surroundings for all personnel. Several steps have been taken to improve our OSH performance, including: Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 2 • OSH Management System This management system provides for a comprehensive and systematic approach to managing OSH matters across the organisation. The end result of the implementation of the system will be achieving the internationally recognised OHSAS 18001:2007 certification. Absolute work at height safety: • OSH Policy • Use a suitable safety harness that is in good working condition. Safaricom has developed and published an • Use fall protection equipment and an OSH policy that defines our commitment to arrest or restraint system. safeguarding the safety and health of employees. The policy outlines: our • The harness must be attached at all times. compliance with national laws and Absolute electrical safety: internationally accepted OSH standards and best practices; our accident, illness and • Never carry out electrical work on electrical equipment, circuits or gear, dangerous occurrences prevention unless qualified. measures; our explicit philosophy that safety is everyone’s responsibility (i.e. • Always switch off the mains before employee dialogue and active undertaking repairs. participation), and our commitment to maintaining open communications regarding the company’s OSH practices. Our OSH policy is available at all Safaricom facilities and on the company intranet. • Safety and Health Committees Safaricom has also established formal, joint management-worker safety and health committees, which provide a forum through which dialogue and active participation of employees in the implementation of OSH can be achieved. We believe that these committees have been instrumental in our achievement of OSH excellence. The structure of these committees is two-tiered: comprising of facilities-based subcommittees and an overall steering committee. There are 44 sub-committees that have been formally constituted, trained and are now actively involved in activities, such as quarterly OSH inspections and meetings, accident investigation, hazard identification, risk assessment and worker safety and health training. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 3 • OSH training During the past year, over 90 % of employees underwent basic OSH awareness training. An online quiz was introduced to gauge their understanding of the course content and 85 % of attendees successfully obtained a grade of 80% or above. All new employees are taken through an OSH induction training program, which introduces them to our OSH management system, OSH policy and the Safaricom Absolute Safety Rules (see sidebar). The induction program will be expanded to include all Safaricom contractors, sub-contractors, suppliers and visitors at Safaricom premises. • Other OSH-related arrangements Other OSH arrangements available at the workplace include in-house clinics manned by medical practitioners and staff trained as first aiders and fire marshals. HOW WE PERFORMED The following table provides a statistical overview of our OSH performance, each of the indicators is discussed in further detail afterwards. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH STATISTICS (FY 2011) YTD: APR 2011 MAR 2012 ACCIDENT/ INCIDENT SAFARICOM CONTRACTORS THIRD TOTAL CLASSIFICATION EMPLOYEES PARTIES Fatalities 0 0 2 2 Lost Time Injuries 10 4 0 14 Medical Treatment Cases 17 6 17 40 First Aid Cases 679 525 7 1211 Work-Related Incidents 107 22 1 130 Total Manhours Worked 13179840 FIFR 0 LTIFR 0.15 * Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) is calculated as (Fatal Injuries X 200,000)/man-hours worked. ** Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is calculated as (Lost Time Injuries X 200,000)/manhours worked. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 4 • Fatalities Fatalities/fatal injuries refer to work-related injuries that result in loss of life, with no time limit between the date of the incident and the date of death. • Lost time injuries Lost time injuries (LTIs) are a work-related injuries that causes absence for one or more scheduled workdays (or scheduled shifts), counting from the day after the injury occurs to the day before the individual returns to normal or modified work. The majority of the LTIs reported were sustained in road traffic accidents (six of the ten employees and one of the contractor LTIs). Driving presents the greatest accident risk for Safaricom employees and contractors. Other than road accidents, causes of LTIs were slip and fall injuries and, in the other contractor LTI case, a BTS pedestal fell on a contractor while at a Warehouse in Mlolongo. • Medical Treatment and First Aid Cases Medical Treatment Cases (MTCs) and Medical Injuries (MIs) are work-related injuries that require treatment by a trained health care professional. The medical treatment and first aid cases that were recorded were both work-related and non-work related cases attended to at the Safaricom First Aid Room during working hours. A fully fledged clinic with a doctor, laboratory and pharmacy are now available within Safaricom House. • Work-related incidents These are specific events, sequences of events or extended conditions that had, or could have had, unwanted or unintended impact on the safety and/or health of people, property, the environment, or on legal/regulatory compliance. The major accident type reported in Safaricom is road traffic accidents, accounting for over 88% of reported incidents (see table below). As a result, several initiatives have been implemented to help deliver a reduction in the number of incidents reported, including: a review of the fleet policy; implementation of the Safaricom Absolute Road Safety Rules, along with an improved defensive driving course to be offered to all staff driving company vehicles. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 5 EMPLOYEE WELLNESS PROGRAM Safaricom is committed to the overall health and wellbeing of its employees. Safaricom recognizes employee wellness is key to the company’s success. Safaricom believes that employees are the most valued assets, respects their talents and believes in growing and developing the potential of its employees. The company supports and promotes wellness initiatives that will lengthen life, reduce the incidence of illness and assist everyone on achieving a productive, satisfying lifestyle. Through the wellness programs, Safaricom aims at enhancing the health of employees, improve attendance at work, improve employee morale and increase productivity. 1. Workplace Wellness/Health programs (WHP) Safaricom has designed and implement wellness programs that have the greatest impact on reducing health care costs and improving the overall health status employees. The primary focus of the wellness programs is on preventing healthy employees from developing chronic diseases by reducing employee risk factors. This is done most effectively by changes to policies and work environments that increase opportunities and support for employees to become more physically active, select healthier foods, avoid drug and substances abuse and manage stress. The wellness programs also offer interventions to employees with existing chronic disease conditions to help them better manage those conditions and prevent the further progression of those diseases through early screening and disease management programs. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 6 2. Employee and family assistance programs (EFAP) Safaricom has designed programs to assist in the identification and resolution of productivity problems associated with employees impaired by personal concerns, including but not limited to health, marital, family, financial, alcohol, drug, legal, emotional, stress, or other personal concerns which may adversely affect employee job performance. An example is counseling services available to staff. 3. Financial Wellness programs (FWP) Safaricom recognizes that financial problems are a major cause of medical stress-related conditions, injuries on duty, absenteeism, poor quality, low morale and high turnover. The risks associated with financial problems negatively impacts on the Employee as well as the company. The company is in the process of development and implementation of Financial Wellness programs to help employees manage their finances well and improve their living standards. 4. Chronic Disease Management Program Safaricom has partnered with AON Kenya to develop and implement a Comprehensive Wellness Program as an additional benefit to staff, under the medical scheme. One of the major components of the wellness program is the Chronic Disease Management Program. This program aims at prevention and management of chronic diseases. Benefits of the wellness program • Improved quality of life and increased productivity • Information is power – Increased awareness/knowledge • Prevents illness and address proactively the factors that influence wellness. Prevention is better than cure • Enhanced recruitment and retention • Reduced medical costs and absenteeism. • Maintain employer of choice status How do we do it? Access to medical facilities: • Medical policy • Comprehensive medical cover • Medical Creche’ at JCC • Health Talks by service providers Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 7 Promoting physical activities: • Active clubs across the company • Sports/Family fun day • State of the art Gyms across the company • Safaricom Marathon in Lewa Promoting workplace wellness: • Wellness Workplace program • Trained and experienced wellness champions • Wellness/ HIV/AIDS policy • Wellness Website (in the pipeline) • Wellness days and health talks create awareness Promoting a Safe and friendly working environment: • Promoting and supporting breast feeding and postnatal support – Mother’s room and Baby day care • Training on wellness and provision of a wellness system – e.g. leave management & work life balance Promoting good nutrition, healthy eating habits and emotional support: • Excellent cafeteria services. Meals at subsidized rates • Nutritional talks by our service provider • Counseling services at employee’s disposal Insurance Covers: • Group Life Cover • Group Personal Accident Cover (GPA) • Work Injuries and Benefits Act Cover (WIBA) Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 8 WELLNESS FACILITIES: DAY CARE Safaricom set up the Crèche/Daycare Facility in JCC Mlolongo in the year 2009 to offer onsite Crèche/Day care facilities to staff as a fundamental offering on our benefit scheme to ensure that staff and their dependents have access to Crèche facilities. The Crèche/Daycare facility is situated at the Jambo call center and Safaricom has partnered with professionals to run the facility. It offers easy access and quality child care to staff and their dependents. The Crèche/Day care facility is designed to offer a safe, happy and caring environment for children. It is well equipped with modern toys and equipment to help develop skills and create learning opportunities for children. A wide range of activities are carried out at the facility to keep children excited and active. GYM Safaricom is committed to ensuring the physical fitness of employees is maintained. The company recognizes that physical activity is key to the prevention and management of chronic diseases. The company has designed programs that provide workplace opportunities and policy support to help employees become more physically active on a daily basis. One of the initiatives put in place is gym services available at employees’ convenience. We have two state of the art gyms located at the Jambo Call Center (Mombasa road) as well as Head Quarters in Westlands. These are managed professionally and we have various programs running throughout the week. The gyms are opened 7 days a week and have been fully kitted with gym equipment. Services available at the gyms are: Sauna, Steam room, Strength Machines Area, Aerobics section, Cardio Machines Section, Massage parlor and Massage chairs amongst many others. GAMES ROOM Considering that a daily routine can sometimes become monotonous and in the spirit of promoting physical activity, the company has set aside a Game room at the Jambo Call Center. This is an area where staff can go and play games to keep their mind busy and to have a break Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 9 from the daily routine. The games room is well equipped with pool tables, darts board, Table tennis equipment, TV etc. It is quite spacious, welcoming and is well designed to help keep the mind alert and active. LOUNGE AREA Sit back and relax…this is the feeling you get when you enter the lounge area. Office work can make one feel tired and needing stimulation. Situated at the Jambo Call Center, the lounge area offers a relaxing atmosphere and fresh air. Fitted with comfortable sofas – a far cry from the office seats – and a TV, the lounge area will offer you a place to relax and just drift away…. CYBER CAFÉ Situated at the Jambo Call center, the cyber café is well equipped with adequate computers which staff can use to access internet and other facilities at their convenience. CAFETERIAS Situated at HQ, SCC and JCC, the cafeterias offer easy access to healthy snack and meal options in the work place. The cafeterias are manned by catering companies that have a wide range of experience in the industry. High hygiene standards are maintained at the cafeterias. The facilities are designed to offer both comfort and meals. CLINICS Located both at HQ1 and JCC, the clinics have been put in place to allow staff easy convenient and quick access to medical attention without leaving the premises. In addition to this, the clinics offer low cost medical treatment to staff. The clinics are well equipped with a Laboratory, a pharmacy, Triage, Doctors room etc. The clinic is also managed by experienced professionals and service providers. RESOURCE CENTER The company has two resource centers Located at HQ 1 and at JCC. The resource Center/ Library offers an avenue for staff to access information that is relevant for their learning and developmental needs. The resource center has been designed to match the current modern trends. The resource center offers a serene environment where staff can go and just have a quiet reading time. Staff have at their disposal quick and easy access books, magazines, videos, audio tapes, DVDs, computer aided programs and all other resources that may be availed for learning and development purposes. Staffs are able to borrow books, carry out research, read magazines etc. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 10 PRAYER ROOM Safaricom is committed to ensuring that employees are both spiritually, intellectually and emotionally enriched. In addition to this staff at the call center may once in a while require time off to just go and have a closer quite moment with the almighty/spiritual being. It is for this reason that the company has put in place a prayer room at JCC which doubles up as a quiet room where staff can go and just relax. The prayer room is located at the Jambo Call Center, the room is designed to allow staff who would like to pray and to have a quiet moment with the almighty to go there. The prayer room has a soothing ambiance that is meant to help calm and reassure employees. It has been well designed to give a calming effect to staff. MOTHERS ROOM Safaricom strives to invest in work-life balance initiatives that will help employees find balance and personal satisfaction. This has been done by supporting and enhancing employees’ physical, mental, emotional, and family health/well-being. One of these initiatives is the mothers’ room. The Mothers rooms, situated at HQ1, SCC and JCC, have been set aside for lactating mothers. The mothers’ rooms offer comfortable and private environment where mothers can go and express milk. The rooms are well equipped with all the requirements i.e. a refrigerator, sink, plenty of water supply etc. The rooms are well decorated to cheer up the mothers and make them feel at home. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 11 EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS The following tables detail our employee demographics by gender, grade, contract and location. Permanent employees by gender and grade 31st March 2012 Job grade Total Permanent Staff No. of Women No. of Men Gender Ratio 1 1 0 1 N/A 2 10 3 7 1:2 3 34 14 20 1:1 4 126 33 93 1:2 5 220 66 154 1:2 6 516 181 335 1:2 7 545 238 307 1:1 8 1247 623 624 1:1 9 2 0 2 0:1 Totals 2701 1158 1543 1:1 Although the overall gender ratio across all job grades within the company is a healthy 1:1, we openly recognise that there is plenty of room for improvement, particularly at the higher grades. We are committed to ensuring that women who have the appropriate knowledge and skills are always equally considered for positions. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 12 We have also introduced specific initiatives that ensure female employees receive mentoring, coaching and work-life balance counselling designed to help them successfully maximise their employment growth opportunities within Safaricom, while leading productive, fulfilling lives outside of the office. Total number of employees by employment contract Employment Contracts* No. Permanent 2701 Temporary Staff 890 TOTAL 3591 Permanent employees by location Region Number of staff Nairobi Region 2276 Western region (Rift, Nyanza and Western) 190 Eastern region (Eastern, Central & Coast) 235 TOTAL 2701 Safaricom employs staff throughout the Nairobi, Western and Eastern regions of Kenya, although the overwhelming majority of the workforce is situated in Nairobi. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 13 Hiring procedures Safaricom is a Kenyan company and so our hiring procedures are rightfully focused on giving opportunities to citizens with the required skills and qualifications, especially at senior levels. Where there are deviations, these have been dictated by shareholding agreements or a lack of qualified local candidates. We have also invested in a robust performance management system that allows employee performance to be regularly monitored and reported. The system helps us ensure that every employee receives regular, objective performance and career development reviews. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 14 Average employee training hours by gender and grade Category / Grade Total Number of Employees Number of Female Employees Trained Number of Male Employees Trained Total Training Hours by Grade Average Training Hours by Grade Total Training Hours – Females Total Training Hours – Males Average Training Hours Females Average Training Hours Males Total Cost of Training by Grade Average cost of Training by Grade Director/Ge neral 2,593,6 324,2 Manager 8 3 5 484 61 308 176 103 35 51 06 Heads of 6,922,6 168,8 Department 41 8 33 1,364 33 952 412 119 12 00 44 Senior 8,888,6 83,85 Manager 106 27 79 2,840 27 1,424 1,416 53 18 28 5 25,291, 62,75 Manager 403 137 266 7,782 19 2,372 5,410 17 20 252 7 Senior 31,92 22,26 61,931, 40,98 Officer 1,511 476 1,035 6 21 9,659 7 20 22 336 7 65,26 32,86 32,39 96,935, 31,43 Specialist 3,084 1,068 2,016 2 21 8 4 31 16 269 2 173,1 87,62 85,49 8,690,9 Operatives 5,307 2,379 2,928 13 33 2 1 37 29 90 1,638 Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 15 SKILLS DEVELOPMENT AND RETENTION Safaricom has developed several policies to address the risks associated with skills and retention, which every employee is able to access conveniently via the company’s intranet. Available policies include: talent acquisition and management, promotion, recognition, learning and development, and job evaluation. Safaricom also regularly carries out staff surveys in order to receive vital feedback from employees. As a result of one survey, a Staff Council was formed. The Council meets with the CEO at least once a quarter and provides a platform for exchange of views across the organisation and for staff to engage with management on issues affecting them. Other initiatives that Safaricom has put in place as a result of the staff surveys include: • participating in salary surveys to ensure we remain competitive and pay within the 75th percentile; • identifying talent and managing their career progression and opportunities through a talent management programme; • providing a holistic wellness programmes and a wide range of services to establish a culture of work-life balance and to help staff remain fit and healthy, including blood drives, blood sugar screening, breast cancer screening and wellness days; • launching a campaign to propagate a culture that is inclusive and looks beyond work, dubbed ‘the Safaricom way’; • introducing Sema na CEO, an intranet platform that allows staff to engage with the CEO on a one-on-one basis on any issues affecting them; • hosting regular social events, that allow informal interactions between staff at all layers of the organisation, and • providing gym facilities within the Nairobi premises and by making arrangements with local gyms for our regional offices that enable staff to access premium services at a negligible (subsidised) cost. EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION, BENEFITS AND TURNOVER The workforce is remunerated based on wages subject to Kenya’s minimum wage rules. Our entry level salary is significantly higher than the Kenya’s minimum wage 2011. There is no gender distinction on standard entry-level wages as these are pre-defined. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 16 The following benefits are provided to Safaricom employees: medical insurance and work injury benefits, as well as annual, sick, maternity/paternity and compassionate leave with funeral expenses, pension, car allowance, group life insurance, social clubs (based on grade criteria), group personal accident insurance and stock ownership. There are no industry standards on employee turnover and, hence, we cannot offer a comparison. Levels of staff turnover are monitored internally, nonetheless, and we would like to achieve a rate of less than 8%, based on the closing turnover rate for the previous year of 10.05%. Learning and development is an integral part of Safaricom’s commitment to attract, motivate and retain talented employees. We use a blend of instructor-led and e-learning courses. Instructor-led training hours will, on average, be higher for staff with leadership/management responsibilities as a result of longer course days. The reverse will be true for e-learning courses, which have been accessed by 2 750 staff in the categories of officers, specialists and operatives to date. Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 17 Future commitments • An ergonomics Software Solution is being introduced to help staff develop good computing habits and workstation ergonomics, improving productivity and reducing the costs associated with workstation injuries and fatigue. • We plan to achieve OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, which will help us eliminate or minimise OSH-related risks for employees. • More workplace OSH-related training will be introduced as we strive to entrench our health and safety culture across Safaricom. • The Safaricom Steering Committee will be formally constituted, with a mandate to cohesively manage and co-ordinate the various OSH subcommittees and to provide leadership and guidance on OSH functions and programmes. Under employee retention as we move to the next level our focus will be in the following areas • Identification, development and retention for our Talent Pool • Technical Skills development for unified communication • Professional development • Leadership and people management development Safaricom Ltd. | LABOUR 18 2. ENVIRONMENT 2.1 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Safaricom has embraced environmental performance as a key challenge, not just to fulfill our responsibilities as a corporate citizen, but because we believe it will push us to become more productive, more innovative, more efficient and more competitive as an organisation. Safaricom has developed an integrated green agenda: an eight point blueprint for transforming our company into an environmentally aware and sustainable organisation. A greener operation is good news for our triple bottom line (people, planet and profits); it means a lighter ecological footprint and a healthier, happier, more productive place to work. Our integrated green agenda focuses on the following, interrelated aspects: Climate change and carbon footprint Green Base Transceiver Stations Energy consumption ‘Green’ products and packaging Paper usage ‘Green’ offices Water usage Resource sharing, reuse and recycling OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The first step was to develop and adopt an environmental management framework. The framework includes, among other elements, a policy that describes the commitments and objectives of our environmental plans and processes. It reinforces existing internal operations with a comprehensive approach to environmental management. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 19 The environmental management framework is a path to a wide range of benefits, including: • financial savings from reduced waste generation; • efficient energy consumption and associated impacts; • easier compliance with environmental legislation; • increased staff morale and pride, and • improved customer relations. The framework is divided in to three parts: • Part one provides an overview, explaining the elements and commitments of our proposed environmental policies and objectives. • Part two defines the roles and responsibilities of the various stakeholders — management in particular — and environmental issues from a best practice perspective. • Part three focuses on the implementation of the framework, including procedures for compliance with environmental legislation and regulations, environmental impact assessments and audits for our internal and external infrastructure The framework has also helped us devise our Environment Management System (EMS).The EMS is an automated system, modelled around ISO14001. The system will help us to address and manage our environmental impacts. HOW WE PERFORMED As a material issue, environmental performance has been separated out into the following distinct sub-categories: carbon emissions, water, waste (electronic and paper), electromagnetic waves and infrastructural impacts, each of which is reported on in further detail below. • Carbon emissions Climate change has come to the fore as a key sustainable development issue. Many governments are taking steps to reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions through national policies that include: the introduction of emissions trading schemes, voluntary Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 20 programs, carbon or energy taxes, and regulations and standards on energy efficiency and emissions. Accordingly, we must be able to understand and manage our GHG risks to be prepared for future national and regional climate policies and to ensure continued, long-term success. Recognising this, we have committed to calculating our carbon footprint (by quantifying as many emission sources as possible). We do not have targets or benchmarks for carbon emissions performance data yet, but these will be defined going forward. We are, nonetheless, already taking steps to reduce our carbon emissions through initiatives aimed at improved generator usage, efficient fleet management and operational energy efficiency that we anticipate that our carbon footprint will be released by July 2012. • Water Safaricom receives water from three sources for its daily operations: the municipal council, boreholes and tanker water supplies. For the period of April to December 2011, the company consumed KShs 8 172 068 in water — 67% from the municipal council and 33% via tanker delivery. We do not have targets or benchmarks for water consumption performance data yet, but these will be defined going forward. Water conservation measures In order to minimise water wastage, the company has installed sensor taps in the Safaricom Care Centre building washrooms and these will be rolled out to all other company facilities over the next three years. Borehole supplies are also used to supplement the local council water supplies at Safaricom House I and II and the Jambo Contact Centre. Rain water collection systems will be considered for any new company facilities and plans are also underway for the construction of a borehole to supplement the existing water supplies at the Safaricom Care Centre. • Waste management The Environmental Management and Coordination (Waste Management) Regulations provide guidelines on the handling, packaging, treatment, condition, storage and disposal of waste. Waste generators are responsible for ensuring the segregation at source, collection and proper disposal of their waste streams. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 21 We have contracted a NEMA-certified waste collection company to handle the office waste and all other waste, including IT/Network waste, is also disposed of in accordance with the waste management regulations. Network waste Waste generated by Safaricom Base Transceiver Stations (BTS) BTSs forms part of the ewaste management programme. Batteries and engine oils are returned to the suppliers for recycling (at an average of 75 generator starter batteries and 1 550 litres of engine oil a month). Site batteries are returned to the warehouse, with Logistics responsible for declaring them obsolete and disposing of them as per set procedures. No accidental major spills have been recorded yet, but secondary containment facilities have been installed at the MSR stations and certain BTS sites have been provided with bunded areas. IT waste The Safaricom Foundation and Computers for Schools Kenya (CFSK) have partnered in the refurbishment of computers that have nil net book value to Safaricom. The Finance, Supply Chain and IT departments are involved in the clearance process of old computers and laptops. An inventory has been developed and is maintained by the IT department on the number of PCs and laptops that have been handed over to CFSK. Going forward, an agreement will be drafted stipulating the roles and responsibility of Safaricom and CFSK in the management of IT waste. Safaricom has also piloted a handset recycling programme aimed at managing the environmental impact of old mobile devices and accessories, which might otherwise end up in landfills. The collected phones and accessories are recycled by CFSK. We plan to scale up this handset recycling programme during the course of 2012. Paper and resource management Safaricom started to manage its paper consumption in 2008. To minimise paper usage, printing and photocopying are only recommended when absolutely necessary and printers are set to duplex printing by default. All shredded waste paper is sold to Chandaria Industries for recycling. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 22 Solid waste management Safaricom employees and contractors are encouraged to adopt the waste management hierarchy — prevention, minimisation, re-use, recycling, energy recovery and, finally, disposal — to promote waste minimisation within our workplaces and to encourage reuse and/or recycling wherever possible. Waste is separated to promote recycling and composting of biodegradable waste. All waste is collected by a NEMA-licensed waste handler/collector. We avoid the use of non-recyclable plastic containers and substitute thin plastic containers with durable containers. We do not have targets or benchmarks for waste management performance data yet, but these will be defined going forward. • Electromagnetic Frequencies At Safaricom, we are committed to ensuring that our activities and services pose no risk to the health and safety of the communities in which we operate. Even though there is no evidence that EMF emitted by mobile phones and base stations are dangerous, we take our responsibilities seriously and comply with the World Health Organisation (WHO) recognised, International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICINRP) guidelines. All of our BTSs have been subjected to comprehensive actual EMF measurements and we ensure that the radio equipment we use is approved and within the internationally recommended EMF range. We are compliant with all regulations and have conducted all EIAs and EAs as required by NEMA. We have also developed a booklet answering the frequently asked questions about mobile phones, masts and your health, available via our website at www.safaricom.co.ke CCK has also developed a guide that is available at their website www.cck.go.ke • Infrastructural impacts In the past year, Safaricom has developed 300 BTS sites across the country. Before a BTS or other facility is developed by Safaricom, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is conducted to ensure that the development is environmentally sound and sustainable and that environmental consequences have been recognised and taken into account. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 23 After one year of project existence, we conduct an Environment Audit (EA) of the site. The objectives of the EA include: identifying any public concerns and significant environmental impacts (and establishing mitigation measures, if required); assessing compliance with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements (measuring air emissions, noise and vibrations, waste management processes, electromagnetic emissions, energy consumption, discharges into the aquatic environment and land/ground contamination penetration), as well as facilitating the management and control of environmental practices. So far, all of our facilities and BTSs have been subjected to an EA and all new developments are subjected to an EIA. We have 1 900 EIA approvals for our BTSs and 2 300 EA approvals from NEMA in total. Milestones and successes • We launched the handset and accessories recycling programme in advance of any e-waste regulations. The modalities of the project are in discussion with NEMA, key internal stakeholders and CFSK. • We were awarded the most compliant company in the telecommunication sector by NEMA, following negotiated compliance to EMCA 1999 and subsequent regulations. • We have installed the IsoMetrix system and implemented an automated Environmental Management System (EMS). • We successfully launched the Green Awareness Day and showcased our green initiatives across the business. We designed and disseminated an EMF communication info-pack ‘The Answer is in your Hand: Mobile Phones, Masts and your health’. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 24 2.2 ENERGY SECURITY Energy security poses a significant challenge for Kenya and Safaricom, given the nation’s irregular energy supply and the company’s expanding infrastructure and energy requirements. The primary energy source used by Safaricom is electricity from the national grid. Grid electricity is supplemented by backup diesel generators and renewable sources. Electricity is used in Safaricom facilities and the network. As of the 31 March 2012, Safaricom facilities consist of four offices (Jambo Contact Centre, Safaricom Headquarters I and II, and the Mahiga building) and 37 retail centres (34 existing and three planned). Within the network, there are approximately 3 000 Base Transceiver Stations (BTSs), our Major Switch Rooms and our medium-size Media Gate Way (MGW) sites. OUR ENERGY POLICY STATEMENT Our network relies on energy, making it a vital input into our business operations. Accordingly, we have drafted an energy policy statement. Our statement prioritises energy efficiency as a means of both reducing our environmental impact and generating cost saving opportunities, and we currently have several initiatives underway. It also guides decisions made by our technical division regarding equipment specifications, site designs, power optimisations and power strategies. ENERGY SECURITY-RELATED RISKS The risks associated with this category include: • Energy dependence (for network stability) • Availability of energy • Cost of energy • Emissions associated with our energy consumption Current energy supply resources for the Safaricom network (and facilities) include national grid electricity, diesel generators and certain renewable sources (solar, wind). Grid electricity supply is unpredictable, with long outages often experienced and current downtimes of around an hour per day. As a result, approximately 90% of our BTSs have backup generators that run on diesel fuel. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 25 Base Transceiver Station Energy Supplies: Source No of BTSs National grid 2 700 24/7 diesel-generated energy 140 Renewable and Hybrid energy 102 OUR RENEWABLE ENERGY COMMITMENT Safaricom currently has approximately 100 sites using a hybrid renewable energy source (solar-wind-diesel-battery hybrid systems) and two 100% renewable energy sites, which run on solar-wind-battery hybrid systems1. Our present objective is to convert 140 sites that are currently powered 24/7 by diesel generators to hybrid renewable energy sources this year. We are also aware of the carbon emissions associated with our energy consumption and have calculated our carbon footprint for the first time this year. This will help us understand where our biggest emission sources are and how we can start to reduce our impact. Green energy awareness workshops Safaricom held a company-wide green energy awareness workshop in February 2011, which showcased the green energy initiatives we are undertaking. Safaricom vendors and regulatory stakeholders were also invited to exhibit and share experiences with our staff. 1 It is important to note that the renewable energy systems are supplemented with diesel-generated power as only about 70% of the power requirement can, currently, be supplied by the renewable energy systems. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 26 HOW WE PERFORMED The following tables detail our electricity and diesel consumption for the 2011/2012 financial year. ELECTRICITY Network Facilities2 BTSs MSRs Megawatt Hours 8 538.8 6 503.38 2 637.79 (Mwh) Gigajoules (GJ) 30 741 495.9 23 412 156.88 9 496 039.04 Cost (KShs) 144 706 130.76 126 815 51 436 878.13 849.78 Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 27 DIESEL Network Facilities2 BTSs MSRs Volume (Litres) 244 518 612 119.71 69 550.74 Megawatt Hours 786.38 1 968.577 223.675 (Mwh) Gigajoules (GJ) 9 389 620.98 23 505 397.05 2 670 748.39 Cost (KShs) 30 264 998.72 72 168 914.39 8 200 032.16 2 The buildings data is based on monthly bills received from KPLC and includes Safaricom Headquarter I and II and the Jambo Contact Centre, but excludes the Safaricom Care Centre (SCC), which is measured as part of the Technical Network electricity consumption. Benchmarking energy performance As this is our first sustainability report, no formal benchmarks have yet been established for our energy performance. One of our objectives is to overall objectives to improve efficiency in diesel and electricity consumption in financial year (FY) 2013 In FY 2012/13, we will establish energy performance baseline data that can be used to benchmark us against other Vodafone companies going forward. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 28 FACILITIES ENERGY MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES LED Lighting Power Factor Correction Banks LED lighting has been installed in all the main Office and administrative facilities have had power administration facilities, resulting in a substantial factor correction banks installed as part of the 40% reduction in energy consumed. Plans are in electrical system. This ensures efficient delivery of progress to install LED lighting in all retail shop power and that Safaricom only draws from the facilities during the next financial year. national grid the actual load it utilises. Digital Addressable Lighting Interface Building Management System Safaricom House II has had the latest Digital Jambo Contact Centre, Safaricom Care Centre and Addressable Lighting Interface (DALI) installed. Safaricom House II feature a fully integrated The DALI adjusts the lighting levels in the main building management system, incorporating work areas based on the intensity of external occupation-based lighting and air-conditioning lighting, optimising lighting power consumption control. The system has enabled the company to throughout the building. monitor and control building systems, increasing energy efficiency. Merged Electrical Systems Previously, the power supplied to Safaricom Houses I and II was supported by different electrical and generator systems. By integrating these systems, we have been able to achieve reduced generator running hours, lower exhaust emissions and reduced diesel consumption. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 29 NETWORK ENERGY MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES Immediately after deployment, the network-related energy efficiency initiatives described below had the cumulative effect of reducing the running hours (and carbon emissions) of our diesel generators by approximately 67%. Power Management Units (PMUs) Automatic Voltage Regulators (AVRs) By stabilising the quality of grid supply These stabilise input voltages and are ideal for (reducing voltage fluctuations, conditioning sites with very high and very low voltages. voltages, isolating bad power, regulating under and over-voltages, regulating generator running and monitoring battery condition) these reduce unnecessary generator running and diesel consumption. Auto Phase Selectors (APS) Vanadium Redox Batteries Similar to the PMUs, these check voltage Switching from Lead Acid batteries to these phases and isolate unhealthy grid phases, high-cycle, deep-discharge batteries also delaying generator running in case voltage significantly reduces generator running hours tolerances are not met. and diesel consumption. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 30 OTHER INITIATIVES Other initiatives under trial include: biofuels, hydrogen fuel cells and grid extensions (Safaricom constructs up to 6km of power lines in off-grid areas to substantially reduce generator running hours). These trials will be reported on at the end of the current financial year. Lighting the way LED lights are currently being installed at the Jambo Call Centre in Mlolongo, all future retail shops will incorporate LED lighting and, in existing retail shops, a phased replacement of the existing incandescent fluorescent lamps will be implemented in the new financial year. By 1 April 2013, all retail shops will be lit using LED lights. Safaricom Ltd. | ENVIRONMENT 31 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION 3.1 GOVERNANCE AND VALUES At Safaricom, the Board of Directors and senior management are committed to the highest level of corporate governance, which we consider critical to business integrity and success. Accordingly, we promote an organisational culture that values, and rewards, the highest ethical standards of personal and corporate integrity, and expect all of our directors, employees and suppliers to act with honesty, integrity and fairness. As a company, we are committed to operating lawfully, with integrity and respect, and to observing and respecting the cultures of the Kenyan people. Our principles An inclusive, outward looking organisation Customer in the middle Ecosystem not company mindset Constructive not competitive advantage Being liked not feared There are a number of sub-risks associated with maintaining governance and values, including: • Unethical behaviour • Fraud • Bribery and corruption • Improper use of CSI funding Safaricom Ltd. | ANTI-CORRUPTION 32 The bottom-line on governance Maintaining our governance and values is important because any failure to do so could severely dent our reputation, leading to reduced brand value, market share and, ultimately, share price. Similarly, if the right culture is not established and upheld, the company faces an increased risk of individuals engaging in unethical practices and fraud and bribery cases. Fraud can also impair our CSI programmes because it may result in a skewed allocation of resources. POLICIES THAT SUPPORT OUR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE: The Safaricom Way Whistle Blowing Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Gift Policy Fraud Policy Bribery Policy Duty to Report Policy Disciplinary Policy The Foundation’s CSI Policy SPECIFIC GOVERNANCE-RELATED INITIATIVES: • The Safaricom Ethics Committee An Ethics Committee has been set up to establish our ethics vision and to provide guidance on ethics management. We are also currently reviewing our ethical management structure. This includes carrying out an ethical assessment of Safaricom, assessing our code of ethics and evaluating our ethics intervention initiatives (and improving on these). Safaricom Ltd. | ANTI-CORRUPTION 33 • Fighting fraud A number of strategic actions have been recently implemented to fight fraud, including setting up three distinct sections to handle fraud (fraud prevention, fraud detection and fraud investigation) and the use of automated fraud detection tools to increase the speed at which frauds are detected. There has also been increased prosecution of staff involved in fraud, which acts as a powerful deterrent. • Bribery and corruption A bribery and corruption policy has been developed to guide staff on these issues. Programs to fight corruption have also been developed, including bribery risk assessments, process changes to reduce the risk of bribery and due diligences on business partners. • Training and awareness Company-wide training and awareness sessions are also carried out to improve staff knowledge on matters related to fraud and corruption. The main aim of the sessions is to equip employees with the understanding, skills and motivation to fight fraud and corruption. Safaricom Ltd. | ANTI-CORRUPTION 34 HOW WE PERFORMED All business units have been analysed for risks relating to unethical business practices. This analysis has been used to identify the gaps that need to be addressed, to develop appropriate training plans and to prioritise fraud reviews. The following indicators help us to measure how we have performed: Bribery and ethics awareness training Ethics awareness sessions are undertaken company-wide through face-to-face sessions. The particular focus this year has been on bribery. These sessions are supplemented with bulletins and emails sent to staff throughout the year. 1 014 staff have undergone awareness sessions to date, which represents 30% of Safaricom’s workforce. It is expected that the awareness sessions will be complete by May 2012. Initially, the sessions focused on high risk divisions within the organisation, but training has now commenced on the Call Centre division (lower bribery risk), which accounts for the largest number of staff. Safaricom has signed up for the Code of Business Ethics in Kenya as a demonstration of its commitment to responsible and ethical business practices. Fraud reviews Fraud reviews are undertaken on high risk areas within the organisation, with the main objective of uncovering fraud. Where fraud is detected, investigations are carried out, disciplinary measures are applied to the parties involved and action is taken to close the loophole(s). During the last calendar year, a number of investigations were successfully completed, with the following disciplinary action taken: ranging from termination, police action and referral to anticorruption authorities. Safaricom Ltd. | ANTI-CORRUPTION 35 The Safaricom Foundation The Safaricom Foundation is a charitable Trust, registered by Trust Deed in 2003. The Foundation has a separate Board of Trustees and is independent from the decisions of the CEO and Company. The Foundation considers proposals that are in line with its mandate and strategic direction. Proposals are reviewed by the Trustees on a monthly basis. Feedback is given to the applicants within eight to twelve weeks. The Foundation ensures good corporate governance through: • Independent trustees • Annual external audits • Random internal audits • A clear mandate and criteria for project selection • Project monitoring (Foundation staff and ‘project champions’) • Transparent communication (online and print) Safaricom Ltd. | ANTI-CORRUPTION 36 PARTERNSHIPS: CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT The Safaricom Foundation was founded in 2003 to provide a focused mechanism for Safaricom Limited to exercise its Corporate Social Investment mandate The Foundation supports initiatives that provide sustainable and community based solutions which support achievement of the Millennium Development Goals or the objectives of the Global compact. In 2011, the Safaricom Foundation entered its seventh year of working with our partners and continued to support the implementation of projects in a broad range of areas that include Economic Empowerment, Education, Environmental Conservation, Health, Water, Arts, Music and Culture, Sports and Disaster Relief. Safaricom Limited also contributes to the other MDGs through products and services that enhance livelihoods and education, improve health, support gender equality, and help protect the environment. Below is a selection of the projects that Safaricom Foundation implemented during the course of the year KENYANS FOR KENYA DISASTER RESPONSE In in a 4 week period between July and August 2011, the Safaricom Foundation led a coalition of partners in the Kenyans for Kenya fund-raising initiative raise over KShs 677,716,622 to help address the famine situation in Northern Kenya. Kenya’s worst drought in six decades, compounded by runaway inflation, a poor harvest and a ballooning refugee crisis in neighbouring countries, left over 3.5 million Kenyans exposed to starvation and even death. Kenyans for Kenya was the biggest such effort ever mounted in Kenya, the month-long fundraising initiative resulted in over 200,000 people received emergency food and water. The initiative will also finance a number of programmes designed to further alleviate suffering and underpin long-term food security across the region. Three integrated water, sanitation, health and agriculture pilot projects will be implemented in Turkana, Pokot and Moyale. Safaricom Ltd. | PARTERNSHIPS: CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT 37 MAJI NA UHAI WATER SECURITY The Safaricom Foundation in partnership with the Kenya Red Cross and Action Aid Kenya has been running community-focused water projects dubbed “Maji na Uhai”. These projects provide clean and safe water for domestic use, livestock and agriculture; with a view to improving food production and food security in arid and semi-arid areas. Maji na Uhai as the name suggests aims at improving livelihoods and saving lives. Katalwa and Mumbuni centres are both semi-arid areas in Mwingi, in Eastern Province. They both receive very little rainfall in rather unpredictable patterns. Katalwa centre has a population of 7,500 people while Mumbuni’s population is estimated at 9,000. Safaricom Ltd. | Maji na Uhai 38 The Mumbuni – Katalwa water project was funded by the Safaricom Foundation and implemented by the Kenya Red Cross Society. Before the project was implemented, the Katalwa community used to walk 15 kilometres to draw water from the river or alternatively, use raw water collected from ground catchments (pans). The Mumbuni community used raw water fetched directly from the Tyaa River. The source of the water for the Mumbuni – Katalwa project was a borehole drilled in the year 2002. Although drilled and equipped with a submersible pump and a generating set, no pipe work or point of off take was set up hence the project had limited benefits to the community. It is with this in mind that the Kenya Red Cross Society partnered with Safaricom Foundation to complete the project and improve on accessibility of safe water to the broader community of Katalwa and Mumbuni. The project benefitted an estimated 8,500 residents directly, including communities in seven primary schools, three secondary schools and three health centres. Safaricom Ltd. | Maji na Uhai 39 WORLD OF DIFFERENCE STAFF PARTICIPATION The immensely popular World of Difference (WoD) is a Safaricom Foundation programme that provides employees with the opportunity to actively participate in Foundation projects by working with project partners and NGOs, such as the Kenya Red Cross Society, the Northern Rangelands Trust and Moving the Goalposts. Through WoD, selected employees are seconded to work with Foundation project partners (at no cost to the partner), sharing their skills, time, energy and technical expertise, while working for an organisation or cause that they believe in and gaining insights into community development and the project partner’s work. The employees are selected through a competitive process. To date 31 employees have participated in the WOD programme as at 31st March 2012. In the year we also partnered with three tertiary education institutions and offered three competitively selected university students the opportunity to participate in WOD too. Safaricom Ltd. | World of Difference 40 Safaricom Ltd. | World of Difference 41 FIRST GIRLS SECONDARY SCHOOL IN FAFI DISTRICT EDUCATION Built partly through funding of KShs 5.4 million from the Safaricom Foundation, the new Fafi Girls Secondary School was officially opened on July 14, 2010. As the only secondary school for girls in Fafi District, it is set to significantly increase access to secondary education within the district and the entire North Eastern Province. Fafi District has one of the poorest school enrolment rates in Kenya at just 9% of girls and 11% of boys, but the new school should start to help change the situation and 54 girls were admitted in its first intake. Safaricom Foundation believes that education is the key to a brighter future for both boys and girls and a decisive way of eradicating poverty. Accordingly, the Foundation funds a range of projects in the education sector, supporting the provision of learning environments that encourage students to thrive and succeed. Safaricom Ltd. | First Girls Secondary School in Fafi District 42 FOOD SECURITY In partnership with the Kenya Community Development Foundation (KCDF), the Safaricom Foundation is implementing a programme designed to combat food insecurity in a communityfocused, sustainable manner. Through an innovative programme known as “Ustawi” which is Kiswahili for ‘’growth’’ or ‘’prosperity’’, communities in arid and semi-arid areas of the country such as Mwingi, Yatta, Isiolo, Garissa, Kajiado, Mbeere, Samburu, Marsabit, Wajir and Mandera were identified to receive funding, equipment and training to enable them to adopt alternative and more effective faming, storage and water conservation mechanisms. With technical support from KCDF staff, community groups are able to harvest food that caters for both their domestic needs and generates additional income within three to six months. Bumper harvests of watermelons, kale, spinach, butternut, tomatoes, avocados and pumpkins are now a common feature in communities that were on the brink of food insecurity less than a year ago. Safaricom Ltd. | First Girls Secondary School in Fafi District 43 HURU REUSABLE SANITARY PAD PROJECT HEALTH The Safaricom Foundation has partnered with Huru International, to distribute free reusable sanitary kits to needy adolescent girls to ensure their dignity and help them stay in school during their monthly cycles. The Foundation has donated KShs 500 000 towards this project, which has seen the purchase of 455 Huru Empowerment Kits. Each kit comes packaged in a drawstring bag that also functions as a backpack and includes reusable sanitary napkins, underwear, soap, a waterproof bag to safely store used pads and an educational insert featuring information on proper pad usage, sexual and reproductive health and HIV/AIDs prevention. Safaricom Ltd. | Huru Reusable Sanitary Pad Project 44 ABERDARES NATIONAL PARK ELEPHANT GRIDS ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION Since its inception in 2003, the Safaricom Foundation has supported the preservation of Kenya’s environment and natural resources through reforestation, the conservation of biodiversity, reducing human-wildlife conflict and promoting of use of renewal energy sources. The Foundation’s latest environmental conservation project is the commissioning of three elephant grids along the fence of the Aberdares National Park and Forest Reserve. The grids, which allow human and vehicular traffic to pass but prevent wildlife from doing so, will help stop elephants from moving into neighbouring farmland and clashing with communities. Safaricom Ltd. | Aberdares National Park Elephant Grids 45 ALIVE & KICKING KENYA SPORTS The Safaricom Foundation has partnered with Alive & Kicking Kenya, a not-for-profit ball making social enterprise that makes and donates (or sells at cost) durable, repairable, affordable leather footballs, volleyballs and netballs to orphanages, refugee camps, street kids projects, community schools, youth groups and NGOs with preventive health programmes. Alive & Kicking Kenya encourages children to play sport to learn life skills like teamwork and to build self-esteem. It undertakes road shows around the country to interact directly with young people and address social and health issues. The road shows use music, drama, sports personalities and sporting events to create HIV/AIDS awareness and offer advice on how to avoid contracting the virus. This has been carried out in Rarieda, Mumias and Machakos. Safaricom Ltd. | Alive & Kicking Kenya 46 KAKAPEL ROCK ART PRESERVATION ARTS AND CULTURE The Safaricom Foundation has partnered with the Trust for Rock Art (TARA) to preserve and promote the Kakapel Rock Art site in Western Kenya. Invaluable historical treasures, the drawings are over 4 000 years old and an important part of the Iteso people’s heritage. The Foundation’s grant made it possible for TARA to remove graffiti damage and rehabilitate the site, to construct the Abasuba Cultural Centre, and to begin marketing the site as a tourist attraction. The project has helped uplift the community by bringing income into the area. Community members are employed at the centre on a full-time basis, over 300 were employed during the construction and rehabilitation phase, and the income from visitors is being put towards community initiatives like orphan education, building schools and the micro-financing of local businesses. Safaricom Ltd. | Kakapel Rock Art Preservation 47 LAST WORD We are currently in the process of developing our first sustainability report. The report will be issued in July 2012. Safaricom Ltd. | last word 48
