Communication on progress Implementing UN Global Compact principles in KnowledgeGroup 1 2 About the company Established in 1986 KnowledgeGroup has grown to become one of the leading companies delivering IT training and consulting services on the Norwegian market. For over 25 years KnowledgeGroup has delivered services in the IT field of Microsoft and Adobe products to government agencies, domestic and international enterprises. KnowledgeGroup The company is located in Oslo, Norway and employs about 30 highly motivated men and women. We are Microsoft Silver Certified Partner CPLS and Microsoft Portal and Collaboration Silver Certified Partner. Adobe Certified Associate and Prometric-, Certiportand ECDL test centre. In collaboration with our partners we deliver our services in all the largest cities across Norway. Our vision is: “to create profitability and well-being, to help businesses utilize information technology smarter, better and more effectively”. We do this by developing smart and user-friendly solutions, as well as the transfer of valuable experience and knowledge. The key to our success derives from our philosophy and aim to be the best in what we do, and we put customer satisfaction and knowledge in front of diversification and growth. We experience that our expertise and quality of work are appreciated within the marketplace. We are proud that most of the major businesses in public and private sector have chosen our services. Our collaboration with large international clients provides a very good foundation for developing and be able to offer the best solutions and expertise. 3 Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of specific human rights issues for the company (i.e. based on assessment of human rights risk). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. KnowledgeGroup supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our company is located in Norway and we abide by the Norwegian legal requirements and human rights. We strongly believe that all humans are equal and have the right to enjoy freedom, justice, and peace anywhere in the world. Human Rights Principles Our corporate culture and daily operations are based on the written code of conduct which we actively communicate to our stakeholders. Our code of conduct fully supports the Human Rights and highlights the importance of respect and equal treatment for each individual. We furthermore emphasize the importance of fair agreements and respect for the law. Our main priority for the upcoming year is to make our social policy more visible and promote Human Rights actively towards our stakeholders. We constantly strive to become a good corporate citizen and contribute in a positive way to the society. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights related concerns. KnowledgeGroup promotes freedom of speech and encourages its employees to contribute to improvement of the working environment. The company has an electronic Grievance Procedure in place where the employees can freely express their opinion. In addition all our employees take part in weekly individual coaching sessions which offer the opportunity to discuss important issues for each employee. We focus on dynamic collaboration at the workplace. We support and stimulate each other both in work and social matters and in that way we believe our employees grow as individuals. Whenever important changes are to take place within the company our employees are engaged in the process and we appreciate their contribution. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. There have been no reports or incidents involving Human Rights violations in the past year at the company. 4 Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. KnowledgeGroup supports the ILO Core Conventions and we are determined not to carry out business activities with organizations that use forced or child labour. As a part of the Norwegian business environment KnowledgeGroup abides to the Working Environment Act which purpose is to lay the foundation for a safe working environment and to ensure secure employment and equal treatment in employment for each individual. All employees at KnowledgeGroup are issued with a contract of employment which lays the foundation for a fair employment situation. Our employees are Labour Principles organized in collective agreements and unions. KnowledgeGroup has a conscious and active relationship with HSE work. HSE activities are adapted to our daily operations and relationships. All employees are required to follow our code of conduct which contributes to sustain a good working environment. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. KnowledgeGroup has a dedicated HSE resource which is responsible to ensure that the employees thrive and have a safe working environment. The company has implemented initiatives aiming to protect our employees’ physical wellbeing. Such actives constitute in providing the employees with appropriate equipment, ergonomic working conditions, home office, sport and social activates. We encourage our employees to join unions and organize in collective agreements which protect their labour interests. The employees have their own representative within the Board of Directors that protects their interest. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The company has carried out a HSE satisfaction survey to measure the efforts outcome made in the past years and to identify potential problems. There have been no reports of incidents involving health and safety issues in the past period. Individual coaching sessions have been carried out between employees and management. Group conversations both with the union and the employee representatives have taken place. These efforts have contributed to positive changes in the terms and conditions of employment. 5 Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. KnowledgeGroup operates within the IT sector and most of our activities are office based. The nature of our operations is regarded to have a relatively small impact on the environment. KnowledgeGroup is an IT training course provider and an IT consultancy company. As a part of our IT training operations we produce our own course Environmental Principles material. In the past year the company has taken measures to minimize the environmental footprint of our operations. The company focuses on environmental policy and we follow environmental guidelines written in our code of conduct and the UN Global Compact. Ever since the company became a member of UN Global Compact the environmental issues have been given greater importance and several actions have been taken. We constantly strive to reduce the environmental impact of our business by exploiting our resources more efficiently. Our goal in the upcoming period is to have a more visible environmental policy towards our stakeholders. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Our company has taken several actions in terms of smarter printing solutions, waste management control, renewing equipment and better exploitation of the working space.  The company has invested in new printing solutions reducing the amount of paper and energy significantly.  Old and inefficient equipment has been reduced and replaced with new equipment.  Measurements for waste management control have been taken.  The company was earlier located in two different offices and has now been merged at a single location.  Transition from paper to electronic documentation. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Our actions in the past period have given the company the opportunity to take advantage of the resources in a more efficient way and contributed to reduce cost and at the same time the environmental impact has been reduced significantly. 6 Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. KnowledgeGroup supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption and we furthermore abide by Norwegian laws and regulations regarding anticorruption. The company has policy guidelines for anti-corruption by which all members Anti-Corruption Principles have to adhere. Our company has zero tolerance for corruption, bribery, extortion, fraud, theft, maladministration or any other dishonest activates taking place and such actions will lead to severe consequences. We are committed not to take part or carry out business with companies that are exerting any of these actions. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. We educate our employees to behave in a responsible manner when doing business. The employment contract includes regulations for anti-corruption and other dishonest activates and is rigorously discussed with each employee. Our code of conduct includes guidelines for employee behavior and all members of the company are expected to behave accordance with and abide by Norwegian laws and regulations. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. There have been no reports or incidents involving violations or infringements of the law at the company. 7
