UNGC Communication on Progress 2012 www.parco.com.pk HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Basic Health Protection of Company Work Safety Road Safety Corporate Citizenship for Employees Facilities Assets and Employees Results PARCO treats its PARCO provides a healthy PARCO helps and guides its PARCO provides 100% In order to maintain a safe and PARCO ensures that All PARCO drivers are While pursuing its business, PARCO ensures, as far as employees humanly, cares and green working employees through free medical cover to secure working environment, Personal Protective provided training to possible that its internal and external stakeholders are for them and helps them environment to its appropriate training to make PARCO employs security Equipment (PPE) is assured of basic human rights and facilities. PARCO has its employees, their comply with Road Safety when they are in need of employees and has been the best use of their talent. spouses, dependents services for protection of provided to all Rules, Pakistan Traffic implemented proactive CSR Initiatives in Health, Education help with their jobs, with illness, with personal winning prizes for its The training and (up to 21 years) and company assets as well as employees. Service Code, etc. and Community Development for the underprivileged problems. At PARCO Corporate Garden for the development takes place reimbursement of employees at all PARCO Providers are also sections of society. offices, we have a five-day last 9 years. We have been primarily through on-the-job 60% medical costs of locations. required to provide PPE`s PARCO ensures that all its work week enabling ST ranked 1 for 6 consecutive training activities, employees’ parents. to their staff. employees and staff of Access to Education/Basic Health A standard operating employees to spend years in the Corporate supplemented by a range of Service Providers practice procedure, with communication quality time with their Garden Category in the in-house and outside training Road Safety regulations Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at and command levels has been families and pursue other and precautions as neighbor to many remote and underprivileged competition held by the programs. Mid-Country Refinery established to report security personal interests. We communities. Since 2007, PARCO conducts an extensive Horticultural Society of (MCR) ensures timely responsible citizens. Our discourage late sittings and incidents, accidents, natural Pakistan. PARCO also provides HSE department conducts Schools & Clinics Support Program which aims at encourage our staff to medical assistance to calamities and other risk complete work during financial assistance to monthly Road Safety improving the education and health infrastructure in the employees and situations. office hours. The Company employees who wish to trainings. adjoining communities by supporting Rural Health Clinics, their families posted also has a program of pursue further studies to The newly launched automated Primary, Middle and Secondary Schools, being run by at the Refinery in employee benefits aimed Incident Reporting System (IRS) PARCO Engineers at the refinery Proper road markings and Government of Pakistan. Up till 2011, PARCO has provided increase their competence Qasba Gujrat which is at economic protection of road safety signs are assistance to 62 institutions along its pipeline and refinery under its ‘Education Refund in a remote area. ensures complete tracking, PARCO`s Mid-Country employees and their Plan’. reporting and investigation of Refinery has achieved 9 installed within all PARCO across Pakistan. This number has increased from 49 families in the event of incidents, as well as amending million man hours facilities and locations for institutions in 2010. retirement, physical PARCO supports education of disability or death. policies to avoid future compared to 7 million strict compliance. its employee’s children who These institutions have been provided assistance in incidents. during 2010 without lost Employees are entitled to produce good academic developing infrastructure, civil works, procurement of time accident (LTA). annual, casual and sick results, and has established a equipment, etc to help them sustain their operations to leaves for rest and special fund for this purpose. provide basic health and education. PARCO`s Corporate Headquarters PARCO`s Pipeline recreation, attending to personal affairs and PARCO has received The School at PARCO `s MidDivision has successfully More than 10,000 children are receiving education in sickness respectively. National Environment Country Refinery (MCR) completed 3 million man PARCO encourages PARCO supported schools. PARCO`s assistance to these Excellence Awards for the Housing Complex provides hours during 2011 employees to avail their institutions has raised communities` interest to enroll last six years in a row. subsidized education to the without lost time annual leaves every year. their children in these refurbished and well-maintained employees` children till prePARCO Ibn-E-Sena Hospital Security Personnel performing security check accident (LTA). All departments are asked schools diverting them from child labor to primary to present their annual university level. The School education, raising the literacy rate. leaves plan for each also has a board which Medical policies are revised from time to time to suit departmental member well employees’ requirements and provide appropriate health PARCO has developed three schools with The Citizens includes PARCO in advance. This helps care system. Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area of management and parents of employees to take some Apart from our own employees, PARCO also assists staff of Safety Sign inside PARCO Facility imparting quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, children. time off from routine life external Service Providers working with PARCO by near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. Altogether, 584 and come back with fresh providing financial assistance for illness or accidents not children are receiving quality education in all the three and creative outlook. Leave covered by insurance or hospitalization cover. PARCO-TCF campuses. encashment is discouraged for NMPT staff and not All employees at the age of 45 years and above are required PARCO Management celebrating Under the umbrella of schools and clinics support allowed to Management to undergo a comprehensive health check-up once in a year, 3 million man hours without LTA of program, PARCO has supported several Basic and Rural Staff. whereby expenses are covered by PARCO. Pipeline Division. Health Centers based in small villages nearby PARCO cross-country pipeline and Stations and Terminals. The PARCO sponsors 5 NonA large community welfare clinic is being constructed at Midclinics are providing basic healthcare to the local Management Staff and 2 Country Refinery to provide free medical care to nearby communities within their villages. As a result, community Management Staff for PARCO Mid-Country Refinery School communities and service provider staff which will start its members are no longer required to travel for long hours to “Hajj” (Holy Pilgrimage) operations by May 2012. the cities for basic treatment. annually. Filtered potable drinking water is made available to all Environment Excellence Awards won by PARCO employees. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 1 of 13) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Contd. BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Work Safety Corporate Citizenship for Employees Results Employees posted at PARCO holds an annual PARCO has always encouraged During the catastrophic floods in Pakistan in 2010, PARCO organized free medical camps and 7,300 flood outstations work on ROTA Inter-Station young minds to blossom with Yearly Lost Time Accident and Lost Time Incident Rate affectees were treated. bright ideas. The Company 4 System, where they work for competition for the A Community Welfare Clinic is operating at the Mid-Country Refinery, which provides free medical assistance to 20 days and then enjoy 8 days Best Housekeeping at holds an Article Competition to 3 the adjoining community. A larger clinic is also being constructed to handle more nearby communities without paid leaves with their families. PARCO Stations and encourage employees’ children LTA & LTIR charging any fees which will start its operations by May 2012. Terminals. in developing creative writing PARCO has a cafeteria for skills. The winners are 2 Support During Natural Calamities employees where nutritious At its Mid-Country Refinery, rewarded with certificate and The 2010 floods caused catastrophic damage to infrastructure across large areas of Pakistan. meals are served at more PARCO provides monetary prizes. The 1 than 70% subsidy. PARCO international level facilities competition is conducted twice 0.36 PARCO made a contribution of Rs 40 million to Prime Minister’s Flood Relief Fund which included employees’ employs 2 cooks at each for Sports like Cricket (Flood a year. During 2010-11, 9 0 0.32 one day salary. Station and Terminal for Lit Stadium), Hockey, children have won in two 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 cooking meals for staff. Football, Volleyball, competitions, and were PARCO also opened a PARCONIANS FLOOD RELIEF account in which the Company contributed Rs 10 million. LTA MCR LTA Pipeline LTIR MCR LTIR Pipeline Swimming, Tennis, etc. rewarded with certificates and Besides this, the employees and their relatives also generously contributed more than Rs 3 million. Indoor sports are also cash prize. In a major ongoing relief program, approximately 35,000 flood affectees have been provided cooked food, provided in a Club Complex Educational Awards which PARCO conducts in-house Occupational Health Safety and e.g. Bowling Alley, includes a certificate and cash Environment (OHSE) training programs and achieved 1.5 man More than 1,600 dry food packets have been distributed, Gymnasium, Badminton, rewards are given to school days per employee of training during 2011. Contractor trainings Table Tennis, Snooker, going children of the are also conducted once a week. A vital part of every contract 7,300 flood affectees have been treated at Medical Camps and Squash, etc. requires contractors to comply with PARCO’s HSE standards. employees, based on good performance in their 250 families were provided tented accommodation. Cafeteria at Mid-Country Refinery Secondary Education. This PARCO provides dowry grant, During winter, the Company distributed 550 quilts at Bubak, Shikarpur and Fazilpur. recognition helps motivate funeral assistance and children to further enhance PARCO launched an expanded Rs 60 million rehabilitation program to rebuild homes and institutions destroyed education assistance for their educational by floods near its Stations, Terminals and Mid-Country Refinery (MCR), of which 97 houses are completed and children of employees. performance. handed over to the respective owners, while 109 more houses are under way. Approximately 15 flood affected PARCO organizes Family Day, Schools & Clinics were rehabilitated and 19 more are underway. annually for all employees HSE Trainings and Drills in progress and their families where they enjoy fun rides, puppet PARCO Corporate Garden Before mobilization, Service Providers` staff undertakes show, magic show, games, Orientation & Training covering Occupational, Health, Safety & food, etc. Environment procedures and practices. Noise Monitoring is being done on quarterly basis. High noise areas are being identified and sign posting for the compliance has been done. Noise monitoring is carried out to check the 8 hours noise PARCO Flood Relief Efforts dosage of employees exposed to high noise areas and their PARCO Dream World (Shikarpur PS-3) audiometery is done. During 2011, Pakistan was again faced with yet another natural disaster. The torrential rains hit the interior Sindh very badly, and devastated crops, livestock, peoples’ and Government property, displacing people off Dust dose is also checked for employees potentially exposed to their houses etc. any kind of dust. PARCO provided approximately 750 dry ration packets and 130 tented accommodations to the flood affected Toxic Gas areas are marked with toxic gas signs and no one is areas of Bubak, Badin District and Shaheed Benazirabad, Nawabshah District. Approximately 3.3 million have Certificate Distribution Ceremonies of allowed to enter the area without proper gas masks. been spent so far and more initiatives are being planned. PULSE Article Competition Altogether, since the 2010 and 2011 floods, PARCO has spent more than Rs 31 million in terms of medical The drinking water is checked on a monthly basis to eliminate camps, distribution of dry ration, cooked food, quilts and tented accommodation, reconstruction of houses, any bacterial contamination. PARCONIANS Family Day schools and clinics in the flood affected areas of Punjab and Sindh. Cricket Stadium For more details pertaining to work safety, please see Principle 8. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 2 of 13) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, Communities etc. Actions Ethical Standards and fair dealings with shareholders, staff, customers, Equal Opportunity Employer Women Empowerment suppliers, service providers and other external partners Results During recruitment, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to the PARCO`s Guiding All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved As a professionally managed organization, we at PARCO ensure that all the stakeholders are provided Principles which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and ethical dealings with customers, vacant positions. Our recruitment process ensures fair and competitive equal opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities etc. we ensure equal treatment at all internal and external stakeholders and communities. Violations of these principles are viewed matching of candidates with job specifications. Non-job factors e.g. levels. gender, origin, religion, and external influence are not considered. seriously, have resulted in disciplinary action, and in some cases have led to the termination of The Government of Pakistan promulgated Protection Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Under–age employment is strictly forbidden. service. Following are some highlights of PARCO`s Guiding Principles: Act, 2010 with an objective to create a safe working environment for women which is free of PARCO provides equal opportunity to both male and female employees harassment, abuse and intimidation so that they can work with dignity. PARCO enforces this Act We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any influence throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet portal to educate women at workplace about of gender, color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential persons. in all its areas of operations. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, IT, Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical their rights. PARCO formed a committee to deal with harassment complaints takes suggestions and gives recommendations to Management. Employees, including head of departments, are advised to report PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital functions. any acts of harassment by any gender as such harassment is considered misconduct liable of disciplinary of the Company and the Nation. action. PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, female employees, some of whom are also heading key departments PARCO has supported three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area productivity of operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic management and sections in the Company. of imparting quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. These of its assets and skills, while contributing to the well being of the Society. schools employ all female staff belonging to the nearby communities. The existences of these campuses Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of have generated employment for these local women to earn a decent living. PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider their training, are considered on merit against vacant positions, as them as safeguards against potential faults. Amongst the above mentioned three campuses, the PARCO–TCF Campus II at Qasba Gujrat offers permanent employees without discrimination. education till Grade V and is operating at full capacity. In 2011-12 session, 176 students have enrolled We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with (47% girls). PARCO will be extending the current facility with an additional academic block to Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s them with the same fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers. accommodate another 180 students at a cost of Rs 6 million. The project will not only enhance the policies are provided to all employees and their dependants without enrollment of young girls but will also increase the rate of women employment at Qasba Gujrat, as TCF discrimination. has an all female staff. As a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and industry of Pakistan. Altogether, PARCO-TCF campuses have 584 children enrolled, of which 42% are girl students receiving quality education. We strive for zero impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done to nature by man. We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or the work place. PARCO-TCF Campus I PARCO-TCF Campus II PARCO-TCF Campus III PARCO has supported Ten Literacy Centers in Partnership with National Commission for Human Development (NCHD) – an NGO working in rural areas for education and health in different villages near MidCountry Refinery. This initiative has helped 250 uneducated women in improving their living standards, hygiene and health. These women were taught to read, write and learn the basics of mathematics within five months. These educated women will be able to understand their children’s need for education and will motivate them to pursue further education. The women will also be able to handle their daily chores with a sane mind. PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program supports 62 institutions with 48 schools and 14 clinics. Out of these 48 schools, approximately 80 percent are situated in the rural areas, with maximum female staff. The majority number of patients treated at the Community Welfare Clinic at Mid-Country Refinery are mostly women and children. Directly and indirectly, PARCO supports women in many areas inside and outside the Company. High enrollment of students at PARCO supported schools in rural and urban areas www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 3 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Freedom of Association Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances to maintain a good Organizational Climate Union Charter Signing partners Results PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of their choice without fear of PARCO has a history of good management – employee The working environment at PARCO is warm and friendly. The Company tries its level best to address all employee grievances. Our intimidation or reprisal. relations. There has never been a labor strike since system of management is singularly democratic and participative. Organizational Climate Surveys, Focus Groups, MBWA PARCO`s inception, and all CBA agreements have been (Management By Walking Around) and Exit Interviews are some of the activities conducted by HR Department to gain feedback, The Company complies with Industrial Relations Ordinance 2010. PARCO has one negotiated in a friendly atmosphere. suggestions and complaints from employees and take remedial actions. registered trade union comprising of all non-management employees represented by 10 Collective Bargaining Agents (CBA). Facilities and benefits provided to unionized staff exceed those required under the Industrial Relations Ordinance and Labor Laws prevalent in Pakistan. Examples are mentioned in Principle 1. PARCO holds annual events to recognize long service, reward outstanding employees, etc. Non-Management staff is included without discrimination, and also participate actively in organizing these events. The CBA and other workers are members of the organizing committees of these events including Family Day, Award Ceremony, Corporate and Sports events, etc. PARCO sports teams include staff from all levels and functions. The employees at PARCO are satisfied with their work, environment and the benefits received which can be evaluated by the long lasting employee retention at PARCO. During 2011 Long Service Awards – an annual function organized by the Company to recognize employees with long association the number of employees receiving awards in each category are given below: 7 years: 29 employees 10 years: 130 employees 15 years: 26 employees 20 years: 8 employees 25 years: 3 employees 30 years: 13 employees 35 years: 7 employees Long Service Awards to acknowledge hard work and dedicated services of PARCO employees PARCO Cricket Team www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 4 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Our Commitment PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labor in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Business Partners, Operations Actions The terms of employment at PARCO provide maximum freedom to Maintaining industry-competitive Compensation and Compliance by checking of Vendors/Suppliers/ Service Providers employees to voluntarily enter or leave the organization on free will. Benefits Results PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor laws. partners All ILO conventions ratified by the Government of Pakistan have been Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO that no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. implemented. All employment contracts can be terminated by giving notice of 30 days by either party. Suppliers are selected after they confirm the legitimacy of their labor practices and assure that they Workers are provided excellent benefits like group insurance, pension, gratuity, are not in violation of any law of the land (this includes labor laws, Industrial Relations Ordinance, Exit Interviews and surveys are conducted by Human Resource Department to gain provident fund, accident compensation, health care and other facilities which etc.) direct feedback from separating employees and take remedial measures for enhancing are better than the provisions of Labor Laws of Pakistan. Employee Satisfaction. PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for different jobs to provide equal opportunity to all qualified vendors/suppliers. PARCO hires the services of external independent consultants to conduct Separation process, payment of outstanding dues, post retirement benefits, etc. are surveys and advise industry competitive salaries. The findings are then shared done expeditiously. with the HR Review Committee, which includes top management and decisions PARCO employees visit suppliers and vendors to visually observe and report if any children are are taken for compensation increases/adjustments/salary restructuring related employed or if forced labor is practiced. Upon induction, all employees are provided an employee handbook which includes all to inflation, competition, merit performance, location, etc. the Human Resource policies and procedures pertaining to hiring, training and development, compensation, benefits, leaves, medical benefits and much more. All workers in PARCO are above the minimum wage fixed by the Government and are paid competitively according to market conditions. PARCO also ensures that all Contractors/Service Providers follow the prevailing minimum wages of the country. Wages are paid on time every month. Workers are also given 5% profit of the Company under the Workers’ Profit Participation Fund. There is no discrimination in wages or benefits on the basis of gender, religion, origin or any other external job factor. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 5 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR Our Commitment PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labor in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Documented procedures prohibit employment Third party audit of Labor conditions Inclusion of Labor Laws (that disallows child PARCO assists in enhancing primary and secondary schooling to reduce Child of Child Labor labor) in contracts with Business Partners Labor in its adjoining communities Results No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Despite Regular third party audits are conducted by the By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to Under PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program, the Company supports schools and clinics of the fact that under the labor laws of Pakistan the minimum Labor Directorate and other authorities who the laws of the country, they are required to comply rural communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and its Stations & Terminals in the age of hiring is 14 years, PARCO`s minimum age limit for ensure elimination of Child Labor and compliance with all labor laws, meet security and human rights Sindh and Punjab provinces of Pakistan. induction is 18 years, which is thoroughly checked by birth of other requirements of Labor Laws. requirements as well as eliminate employment of certificates, educational transcripts, national identity card, under-age workers. Compared to 2010 with 49 institutions, during 2011-12 around 62 Government schools and clinics NADRA (National Database and Registration Authority) and have been provided assistance for developing infrastructure, procurement of equipment, etc., to other age verification documents, thus ensuring that there help them sustain their operations for providing basic facilities to the communities. Out of these 62 is no child labor across the company. institutions, 48 are schools where more than 10,000 children are receiving education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities` interest to enroll their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO supported Schools and Clinics since 2007 till date PARCO has partnered with TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – a reputed NGO in Pakistan and has developed two primary schools in Qasba Gujrat and Karachi. The Company has recently set up the third campus, a secondary school in Qasba Gujrat which commenced classes in April 2011. These campuses are built in under-privileged communities and impart quality education to around 584 Children receiving quality educational environment at PARCO supported schools children. The total cost of the project was Rs 21 million with an additional cost of Rs. 2.1 million for operational expenses. The PARCO–TCF Campus II at Qasba Gujrat offers education till Grade V and is operating at full capacity. In 2010-11 session, 176 students have enrolled (47% girls). PARCO is extending the current facility with an additional academic block to accommodate another 180 students at a cost of Rs 6 million. Educating Women for a Better Tomorrow During 2011, PARCO has supported ten Literacy Centers in Partnership with National Commission for Human Development (NCHD) in different villages near Mid-Country Refinery. National Commission for Human Development is an NGO operating in 134 districts in Pakistan, with the mission to transform lives by improving access to basic education and healthcare in the country’s poorest communities. This initiative has helped 250 uneducated women in improving their living standards, hygiene and health. These women were taught to read, write and learn the basics of mathematics within five months. These educated women will be able to understand their children’s need for education and will motivate them to pursue further education. PARCO-TCF Primary Campus I (Karachi) PARCO-TCF Primary Campus II (Qasba Gujrat) The Newly Established PARCO-TCF Secondary Campus III (Qasba Gujrat) www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 6 of 13) LABOR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. Our Commitment PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Ensuring Equal Employment Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s interaction Organizing Plant Visits for Technology Transfer Opportunities for all Ethics and Promotions with Educational Institutions University Students Results PARCO offers equal opportunities PARCO ensures that PARCO employs 1,254 direct PARCO discourages nepotism and PARCO undertakes regular summer and Universities show keen interest in PARCO offers Trainee Program in the fields to all qualified applicants, men and employees abide with the employees, including 21 every other form of favoritism. winter internships for students belonging visiting PARCO’s facilities and the of management and engineering. The women, belonging to all faiths and Company`s Code of Ethics. people from minorities. These The way up the PARCO ladder is to business and engineering disciplines company organizes plant visits for training ranges from 1 to 2 years and religion, origin, ethnicity, color, Every employee has to employees come from all over open to everybody. The policy of where the selection of internees is done on petroleum, chemical, civil, provides the candidate learning and caste or creed. sign, at the time of the country, irrespective of the Company is to develop and merit. Every year we take 100 internees. electrical, electronics, exposure to different aspects of a real life induction, a declaration domicile/origin, ethnicity, promote employees from within telecommunication, and other working environment. Upon PARCO also participates actively in Career demonstrating satisfactory performance at PARCO ensures that no agreeing to PARCO`s religion, gender, or any other the organization through career engineering and business students Fairs at the leading Engineering and the end of the training, the Trainee is then discrimination is made amongst Principles which include a non-job dimension. Thus there and succession planning. belonging to different universities. Management educational institutions inducted as a permanent employee if a employees and till date, all male complete guideline on are workers of all ages, from Hiring and promotions are done where counseling and job opportunities at suitable vacancy exists. and female employees belonging avoiding discrimination, all provinces i.e. from the on merit, performance, PARCO, etc. are discussed with students. to different religion are employed ensuring fair and ethical northern most cities to the qualifications and ultimate In 2011, more than 1,000 students were Since 1975, PARCO has trained more than at all levels including senior dealings with all internal southern most area of Karachi. potential of each employee provided career counseling. PARCO 883 Engineering and Management trainees. management positions. and external stakeholders Despite being a petroleum through professional and received over 600 applications for Since January 2011 alone, 33 trainees have including communities, engineering organization, transparent HR processes. If any internships. been inducted in PARCO. This number is Employees are given holidays in customers, suppliers and PARCO encourages women employee exerts external increasing and shows that PARCO has not accordance with their religious vendors. pressure of any sort he/she is stopped inducting fresh talent even at a customs. for employment at the Midautomatically disqualified and time when Pakistan is facing an economic Country Refinery, which is faces disciplinary action. downturn, natural calamities, etc. PARCO gives special employment located in a remote area, by preference to handicapped providing separate accommodation for single PARCO has a huge reservoir of highly applicants and has till date skilled and experienced human capital and employed 5 such people. women. many of our experts are teaching at different universities transferring See Women Empowerment in knowledge and skills to the younger Principle 2. generation. Joint research projects are also undertaken with educational PARCO stall at IBA Career Fair institutions. PARCO also supports research, conferences, Students visiting PARCO Plant facilities trade fairs, workshops and other events of educational institutions. We also provide technical equipment for labs of engineering institutions. General Manager-Corporate Affairs, PARCO presenting internship certificate to the best intern 2011 www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 7 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Environment Friendly Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Environment Friendly Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Awards Products Results Crude Oil is the basic raw material in Effluent monitoring is carried out at all Stations and Terminals PARCO is a fully IMS CERTIFIED ENERGY Company and amongst PARCO proactively works to Solid waste generated at the Mid-Country Refinery is disposed in and the Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). Reports are sent to EPA the first in Pakistan to simultaneously achieve three a manner that protects human health and the environment. It any oil refining firm. Environmental ensure that its products and against SMART Program. international certifications, that is, ISO 9001:2008 (Quality takes an inclusive approach that endeavors to protect surface stewardship is a prime motivation as fuels are environment and ground-water, air, flora and fauna. Impact on the environment from the refining process is Management System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental we manage transportation of crude friendly. Lead free Gasoline controlled by treating and managing emissions. Low NOx Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational from Keamari Port in Karachi to our Health and Safety Management System). complies with the standard PARCO’s Mid Country Refinery and Stations and Terminals have (Nitrous Oxide) burners and Sulfur removal from fuel gases are designated procedures and areas for effective system of waste refinery in Mahmood-Kot, MCR having sulfur content less examples. collection and segregation. Drums marked in yellow and green through 864 km pipeline which is During August 2011, surveillance audit was conducted at Pipeline than 150 ppm. With the approx 400 ft above sea level. The Effluents are treated in a state of the art effluent treatment Division by a certified body for re-validation of the IMS are placed in each area e.g. plant, maintenance, truck loading, 3 investment of 132 million USD plant having capacity of 340m /hr involving extensive chemical certificates. laboratory, office area, etc. Hazardous, non hazardous waste and pipeline ensures that each drop of on a Diesel Hydro and biological treatment. The waste water from all over the recyclable materials are segregated at the source. crude oil is transported to MCR Desulfurization unit, Diesel refinery is collected and through skimming, neutralization, In September 2011, surveillance audit was conducted by a without effecting the environment. dissolved air floatation, aeration, clarification, filtration and certified body for re-validation of the IMS certificates at CHQ. produced by PARCO is now on The Solid Waste Management yard is the storage point for waste drying operations the effluent water is brought with in NEQS Euro II specifications i.e. less at MCR. It is a well organized area catering for everything from We have leak detection system, limits before being discharged. The treated water is reused for than 500 ppm. This positions spent catalyst and chemical drums to used batteries. An emergency shut down system, In December 2011, IMS certificates of Mid-Country Refinery were plants after compliance with NEQS (National Environmental PARCO at the top in Pakistan internationally operating third party has been contracted for intelligent pigging, corrosion re-certified by a third party certification body. Quality Standards) is ensured. All effluents are checked and disposing the waste. All types of solid wastes are collected in the protection, microwave towers for where the running standard is verified regularly before discharging by third party EPA waste yard and separated according to their nature. There are communication, SCADA (supervisory During 2010, 13 risk assessments were carried out and 7 in 2011 5000 ppm of sulfur in diesel. five separate yards according to nature of waste. (Environment Protection Agency) approved Labs to comply with for various activities at PARCO Corporate Headquarters. The control and data acquisition) system The extracted sulfur is NEQS. purpose of risk assessment is to define mechanism and solidified and sold as a by Scrap Yard is situated near the south side boundary wall of the to avoid leakages, thefts and responsibilities to identify OHS hazards and assess their risks in All contractors’ equipment is checked for compliance to NEQS. product. refinery in front of Solid Waste Management Yard. All the waste intermediate storage tanks at 5 respect of normal and ascertained activities performed in the generated at the stations & terminals and MCR is stored in the different pumping stations. Various chemicals in use are stored in a well ventilated premises of PARCO. It also aims to provide mechanism and Solid Waste Management & Scrap yard. Environment section warehouse and it is ensured that a minimum level of inventory responsibilities to identify EMS aspects and assess its impacts. keeps the record of Solid Waste Management Yard. Hazardous During the year 2011, approx 3.7 is kept to minimize the hazard. The chemical warehouse is waste yard gate is kept locked and the keys are available with Million Metric Tons of crude oil was equipped with deluge valve system to suppress any kind of Striving for professional excellence has been a hallmark of PARCO. As the leading energy provider in Environmental Engineer. The Non hazardous waste is dumped in transported from Karachi to contamination. Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have been placed the country, PARCO has always been mindful of its responsibilities towards its customers, employees, the green drums. It is shifted to the non-hazardous waste yard PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery under the chemical drums to meet the required level of the community and the environment it operates in. Recognizing and appreciating our HSE procedures by the contractor. Administration Department keeps the record (MCR) at Mahmood Kot through an protection. and business processes, the Employers Federation of Pakistan has awarded PARCO the “Best Practices of all the municipal waste and submits the record to the 870 km pipeline network, ensuring Award for Occupational Safety and Health” for 2011 at a ceremony held in Karachi, Pakistan. Environment Engineer on monthly basis. In compliance of Integrated Management System (IMS) at safe and secure transportation. This Corporate Headquarters, environmental sampling and testing of The Award shows the efforts and commitment of HSE and all departments, our comprehensive training efficient supply chain eliminates the programs and high standards of operational safety control and audit which have made this achievement Around 80 tons of hazardous waste was disposed off in 2010-11 liquid effluent (sewerage and car wash area) and gaseous movement of oil tankers possible. by a certified and EPA approved third party. During hazardous emissions (generators of CHQ and Commercial buildings) are waste management, around 2000 Empty metal and plastic drums significantly contributing in being carried out against NEQS on an yearly basis from EPA were sold with safe recycling/ disposal guarantees. The payback reduction of air pollution. certified laboratory. Liquid effluent parameters include of recycled drums contributed significantly in disposal of temperature, pH, chemical oxygen demand, biological oxygen hazardous waste. Similarly, during 2011, the 817 km demand, total dissolved solids, total suspended solids, oil & WOP (White Oil Pipeline) grease, phenolic compounds and chlorides while gaseous transported approx 3.6 Million emissions are being tested for Co, Nox, Sox, H2S, smoke and noise. Three years’ (2009, 2010 & 2011) results remained within Metric Tons of HSD (High Speed permissible limits specified in NEQS. Diesel) from Karachi to MahmoodKot. EMS (Environment Management System) Impact Assessment registers have been prepared at every Station, and EMS impact is assessed on regular basis to ensure IMS conformance with ISO and EMS requirements. In the picture: PARCO representative (extreme left) receiving the Managing Solid Waste Yard “Best Practices Award for Occupational Safety and Health 2011” PARCO`s Efficient Pipeline System www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 8 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 (Contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Air Emissions Monitoring Results Regular third party monitoring is done diligently, and the results are well Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box PARCO takes into account the air emissions monitoring on a regular basis by a third party and the results are well below permissible NEQS limits. Results of some key parameters are etc, Yearly third party vehicle emissions monitoring, bi-annually third party below permissible NEQS limits. Results of some key parameters are shown below. shown below. stack emissions and liquid effluent monitoring, bi-annually third party ground water monitoring within the refinery and neighboring areas. Bi-annually third CO NEQS Limit Results party ambient air monitoring around the PARCO installation within 2 kms of 900 Oil & Grease NEQS radius, are all ongoing and routine environmental projects. 800 Results 700 12 Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to 600 mg/Nm3 10 ensure safe environment in the office areas. Any discrepancies found during 500 8 the audit are analyzed for their risks on safety and appropriate 400 recommendations are provided as key performance indicator. mg/l 300 6 200 4 100 0 2 DecJul-07 JanJul-08 JanJul-09 DecAprOctAprDec06 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 0 DecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprDecM onth NEQS NOx (Oil Fired) Results 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 11 700 Month 600 500 mg/Nm3 Total Suspended Solids NEQS 400 Results 300 250 200 200 100 0 150 mg/l DecJul-07 JanJul-08 JanJul-09 DecAprOctAprDec06 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 100 Month NOx(Gas Fired) NEQS 50 Results 450 0 400 DecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprDec350 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 11 300 mg/Nm3 M onth 250 200 150 NEQS (Upper Lim it) 100 pH NEQS Res ults NEQS (Lower Lim it) Chemical Oxygen Demand Results 50 0 10 180 DecJul-07 JanJul-08 JanJul-09 DecAprOctAprDec06 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 160 9 M onth SOx NEQS* 140 Results 120 6000 8 Value 100 mg/l 5000 80 7 4000 60 mg/Nm3 3000 40 6 20 2000 5 0 1000 DecJulJanJulJanJulDecAprOctAprDecDecJul-07 JanJul-08 JanJul-09 DecAprOctAprDec0 06 07 08 08 09 09 09 10 10 11 11 06 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 Dec-06 Jul-07 Jan-08 Jul-08 Jan-09 Jul-09 Dec-09 Apr-10 Oct-10 Apr-11 Month Month Month *The NEQS for SOx is 1700m g/Nm 3 based on 1% sulfur contents in fuel. Above NEQS is prorated on the basis of sulfur contents in fuel . Monitoring is carried out by EPA aprroved 3rd party www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 9 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, IMS, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship Increasing Health and Safety Environment Certificates Reduction in Pollution Ground Water Sampling Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Awareness and Performance and Excellence Awards Responsibility Results PARCO infuses the core value of Environmental training is conducted The National Forum for Environment PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) The surrounding area of Mid PARCO has a well documented Business Continuity Plan which preserving the environment, this is twice a month in which PARCO and Health (NFEH) has awarded has developed a comprehensive Country Refinery (MCR) has many covers contingencies related to its core business. Recently the plan not only limited to emissions far employees and Service Provider`s staff PARCO with the Annual Environmental ground and soil monitoring plan to fuel service stations and auto has also been reviewed by a foreign crisis practitioner. below NEQS limits or products on participate. All contractors are workshops which are potential Excellence Award for the sixth ensure that there is no contamination Euro II standards but also to preserve responsible for complying with our contaminants for ground water. PARCO engineers participated in Barracuda (Marine Oil Spill) drill consecutive year in 2011. The NFEH is in soil and water and has developed Realizing this environmental aspect, conducted by Maritime Security Agency, Karachi. natural habitat by diverting its oil Environmental Policy and legal pipeline. requirements as part of their a non-government, non-profit base line data for continuous MCR has developed a contractual obligations. EMS training is organization which works in monitoring. We perform 3rd party comprehensive ground and soil PARCO engineers have participated in a drill organized by NDMA The 2,000 km of oil pipelines also conducted at all stations in which collaboration with the United Nations (EPA certified) ground water monitoring plan, whereby 8 soil (National Disaster Management Authority) on National Industrial traversing the country, save PARCO`s and Service Provider`s staff Environmental Program (UNEP) and is monitoring of the surrounding areas samples are collected twice a year Disaster Plan conducted at Engro Chemicals Limited, Dherki, thousands of gallons of fuel and attend the training sessions. supported by the Ministry of of PARCO Refinery and Corporate to ensure that there is no Pakistan. reduce pollution that would otherwise contamination in soil and water. Fire, rescue and emergency drills are Environment, Government of Headquarters twice a year, to ensure In designing and aligning its oil pipelines routes, environmental have been caused by tank lorries conducted regularly at all PARCO Pakistan. that the community nearby is using The ground water monitoring of the matters were addressed and the requirements of Pakistan traffic. locations to ensure preparedness for safe underground water. There are 16 surroundings of MCR and CHQ is Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) fully complied with NEQS. The refining complex at PARCO’s Midemergencies. Four batches of different parameters that are tested: performed against 16 parameters No property on the World Heritage List is impacted. Country Refinery is equipped with a Emergency Response Team are being pH, Color, TDS, Taste and Odor, Total through a third party (EPA certified) state-of-the-art effluent treatment trained every year to ensure consultant, twice a year, to ensure Specific measures were also taken to avoid disturbance to wildlife Hardness, Faecal Coliform, Coliform plant, low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) and availability of trained manpower at all that the community nearby is using and vegetation. Even in choosing our main pipeline pumps, care times. First Aid staff is trained by Organisms, Arsenic, Chloride, SOx (Sulphur Oxide) burners and a safe underground water. was exercised to ensure that pump specifications conformed to the professional Fire and Rescue personnel, Sulphate, Iron, Cyanide, Lead, noise level of +/85db to remain within environmentally safe limits. Sulfur Recovery Unit. Approximately, 16% of the refinery’s cost has been refresher courses are ensured Selenium and Manganese. utilized in this project. periodically. Oil is removed from the oily water at the Effluent Treatment Plant To create a general awareness amongst To avoid noise pollution, a and recycled with crude in the process. This process minimizes the the employees regarding the comprehensive noise survey is also spoilage of crude as well as its exposure to the environment. importance of maintaining a good carried out regularly at the boundary health; health and safety brochures walls of the MCR in order to make sure The Company conducts HSEQ Internal Audits to ensure that defined were launched on subjects like the mechanism and responsibilities for planning, conducting and that the community surrounded by importance of good posture, quitting reporting internal health, safety, environment and quality smoking, dengue fever, bird/swine flu MCR is not affected by the noise management systems are being followed. viruses, office ergonomics, healthy generated due to operations of balanced diet, importance of refinery. A valuable and well known chemical, Methyl DiGlycol is used as an sanitation, how to avoid hepatitis A, B antifreezing agent in Jet Fuel. About 30,000 liters of this chemical & C, AIDs, etc. Ambient air monitoring at 1 Km and 2 was reused which resulted in saving about Rs 3.5 million. Km distance around PARCO’s MidCountry Refinery is also done twice a PARCO representative (right) receiving year by EPA certified third party the Environment Excellence Award monitoring NOx, SOx, CO and 2011 particulate matter. Ground water Sampling Tank lorries that are received for filling are “Top loading” and of a variety of sizes and dimensions. This leads to Hydrocarbon vapor emissions that create a very hazardous environment in the truck loading area, in the explosive limit range. Apart from constant danger of fire incident due to high volatile vapors, the situation is also very serious for the environment as these vapors contribute to Global Warming. According to Environmental Impact Assessment Report, 85% of the annual hydrocarbon emissions from the refinery take place during the filling of the Truck Lorries. In order to control this hazard, a fire proof cloak was fabricated for covering the truck lorry manhole. The fugitive emissions are then collected in an overhead tank. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 10 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship HSE Training Programs Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Responsibility Results Ambient air monitoring at 1 Km and 2 Km distance around our refinery is done twice a year by EPA certified At PARCO, we have an in-house Health Safety and Environment (HSE) training programs. PARCO is EMS In offices we have a culture of using both side of paper in third party. The parameters being monitored are NOx, SOx, CO and particulate matter. printers. This recycle paper not only saves cost but also 14001 certified company and all relevant employees including Top, Middle and Lower Management are fully reduces the consumption of paper and ultimately trees that Comprehensive noise surveys are conducted within all operational areas, Stations & Terminals and the Midaware of Environmental Management Systems (EMS) and National Environmental Quality Standards are to be cut to prepare pulp. Since 2009, there has been 6% Country Refinery. Equipment and locations are identified where a detrimental noise level may be present. (NEQS). This is ensured by our routine EMS and HSE in house trainings pertaining to Air Emissions average reduction in paper usage. Ear muffs and ear plugs are made mandatory accordingly. Generator/ turbine housings, fired heaters, Management, Effluent Discharge Management and Solid Waste Management supported by Standard compressors and similar potentially high noise equipment are monitored periodically. Even at the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make sure that communities surrounding our facilities Operating Procedures. PARCO has a comprehensive system of contractor are not affected by any noise generated due to operations. management that ensures compliance with PARCO During 2010-11, PARCO achieved a target of 1.5 man-days i.e. 12 hours per employee of HSE training and is procedures for Health, Safety & Environment. Training and PARCO works proactively to prevent occupational health illnesses at all its sites. Noise monitoring, currently en route to its target of 1.75 man-days per employee of HSE training in 2011-12. awareness including emergency response is given to all Audiometry, Dust monitoring and illumination surveys are carried out on a regular basis. Noise exposure is contractor workforces weekly and before the measured through a personal noise monitoring program. Noise surveys are conducted three times a year commencement of work. and noise levels are compared. Contractor’s HSE performance is monitored and feedback is shared. PARCO ensures every contractor has first aid and medical facilities for its workers. Medical fitness certificates are necessary for highly hazardous work. PARCO conducts Emergency Evacuation Drill twice a year. The purpose is to assess the preparedness of the employees and available system for emergency situations that may result due to activities, processes, equipments or locations of the Corporate Headquarters. All employees including Top, Middle and Lower Management are fully aware of Environmental Management Systems and National Environmental Quality Standards. This is ensured by our routine EMS and HSE in-house trainings including air emissions management; effluent discharge management and solid waste management are conducted. These are also supported by our Standard Operating Procedures. During last three years HSE training sessions conducted on the Environment had 1028 participants. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 11 of 13) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Diesel Hydro-Desulphurization Plant (DHDS) to Effluent Treatment Plant Automated Incident Reporting System Air Dispersion Modeling produce Euro II Spec. High Speed Diesel Results With commissioning of the DHDS plant at its Mid-Country 3 PARCO`s Effluent Treatment Plant has a capacity of 340m /hr. The Incident Reporting System (IRS) has been functioning in PARCO PARCO Mid-Country Refinery uses an Environmental Monitoring Refinery, PARCO has the capability of producing High Speed Waste water from the refinery is collected and through over a long period of time. The system has undergone companysoftware for Atmospheric Dispersion Modeling. The software helps Diesel conforming EURO II standards and is the only refinery in skimming, neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, wide changes in 2011. The IRS is now fully automated by identify the theoretical concentration of certain environmental Pakistan to have achieved this capability. This product is helping clarification, filtration and drying operations, the effluent integrating it with the currently running email management system pollutants like Sulfur Oxides and Nitrogen Oxides released from the EURO II compliant automobiles to perform better by being fuel water is brought within NEQs limits before discharge into local (IBM Lotus Notes) which is being used by most reputed heater stacks in the refinery. MCR has developed an integrated solution efficient and giving low emissions. All impacts on the drainage or reuse for plants. organizations around the globe. The objective of the upgrade is to using the MAESTRO System developed by ATM-PRO in order to perform community, flora and fauna identified in the Environmental make incident reporting much easier and encourage the incident realistic impact assessment of industrial pollution. The solution consists Impact Assessment study for the DHDS project had mitigation reporting and provide a more transparent and user friendly system, of software called “MAESTRO W/D/P” that generates local meteorology strategies which were implemented with meticulous care. where all employees can benefit from the lessons learned. taking into account the topography and land use in the surroundings of Employees will now be able to track incident reporting through the industry and a sample set of pre-calculated data basis, providing During 2011, the DHDS plant at PARCO has processed their emails and investigate down to meticulous detail. This will one year of meteorological (3D) data fields and dispersion calculation of approximately 196,000 metric tons of High Speed Diesel on be a valuable learning experience for employees’ the sources within the company. EURO II specifications. companywide. PARCO’s steps towards incorporating environmentally friendly technologies were appreciated by the international jury of “Living the Global Compact” Responsible Business Award 2010-11. PARCO being an active member of the UN Global Compact, has been recognized with this award in the Multinational Companies category, by the UNGC Pakistan Local Network. The international jury appreciated PARCO’s efforts in making important and Effluent treatment plant at PARCO MCR substantial investments in sustainability for its products, especially the dramatic reduction of sulphur by a factor of 14. The award nominees passed through a rigorous and documented process of successive stages of short-listing by multi-disciplinary local and foreign experts, who assessed performance in each of the four major categories of the GC, namely Human Rights, the Environment, Labor and Transparency. The New Automated Incident Reporting System PARCO representative (right) receiving the Living the Global Compact Responsible Business Award 2010-11 www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 12 of 13) ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. Our Commitment PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results PARCO adopts international standards of accounting. In PARCO`s 38 years of operations there has been no instance of extortion or bribery. Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions. Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and locations. Suppliers/Service providers are required to sign integrity pact with PARCO to declare that the supplier/service provider has not used any external or internal influence, Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements commission or fee in getting the contract from PARCO. All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company. placed in newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria. Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for Compliance with regulations of the Security & Exchange Commission of Pakistan. transactions at various levels and positions. Contracts/Supplies in excess of Rs 50 million are approved by a Bid Evaluation Committee of Board of Directors while contracts in excess of Rs 100 million are approved by the Purchase orders exceeding Rs 10 million issued include a clause which states that the supplier with Constitution of Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors. Board of Directors. the acceptance of purchase order shall submit a statement, duly signed by an authorized executive of the supplier on Rs 100 stamp paper that the supplier has not given or agreed to any individual, Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an company or official of PARCO or Government of Pakistan within or outside Pakistan, directly or indirectly any commission, gratification, bribe, finder’s fee, or kick back with the objective of according to the HR Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be employee. HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or obtaining the contract/purchase order or any other benefit from PARCO. terminated for such misconduct. pressures as mentioned in Principle 6. PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company PARCO has an Internal Audit Department which conducts periodical audits for Policy on Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary procedural compliance and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of action. Such deviations can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee`s Directors. performance appraisal. Constitution of separate committees for transparent and merit-based prequalification, quotations opening, tender opening, etc. Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by external Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in monthly and quarterly management review meetings. All contracts, business activities, operations, procurements, etc., are subject to Internal and External Audit. Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement under Rs 1 million. An Internal Evaluation Committee has been formed to evaluate proposals for orders of Rs 1 million and above. Centralized Procurement with due diligence and more than one step evaluation process for selection of Supplier/Service Provider. PARCO Materials Department is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider against any law of Pakistan. Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance by End User through signing of inspection report. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2012 (Page 13 of 13)
