Search Home > Responsible business > Our story > Better Future report 2012 > Indexes > UN Global Compact Principles Index Better Future report 2012 UN Global Compact Principles Index Search this report Better connected Better with less Better lives Introduction Better business BT is a signatory to the Global Compact. The Compact challenges business to operate according to ten principles covering bribery and corruption, human rights, labour and the environment. BT and sustainability BT's progress on the principles, and the experience we have gained in their application, is reflected in our independently About our reporting verified Social and Environmental report. Our stories This Communication on Progress (see table) summarises the key sections of our report as they relate to the Global Download centre Compact's principles. There are links to further information such as measures, lessons learned and next steps. Global Compact Principle BT information Pages on the site Principle 1: The Human Rights section of the report Respect for human rights Businesses should support and respect the summarises BT's approach to protecting Ethics and anti-corruption protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. BT's potential impact both and bribery human rights. positive and negative on human rights is managed by a number of departments and units throughout the business. Principle 2: The Human Rights section of the report Assessing environmental Businesses should make sure that they are summarises BT's approach to protecting and social risks not complicit in human rights abuses. human rights. BT's potential impact both positive and negative on human rights is managed by a number of departments and units throughout the business. Principle 3: The employee section of this report sets out Consultation Businesses should uphold the freedom of our relationship with trade unions. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: BT's Sourcing with Human Dignity standard, Assessing environmental Businesses should uphold the elimination of introduced in 2001, specifies the minimum and social risks all forms of forced and compulsory labour. standards we expect of our suppliers. Onsite supplier assessments Principle 5: BT's Sourcing with Human Dignity standard, Assessing environmental Businesses should uphold the effective introduced in 2001, specifies the minimum and social risks abolition of child labour. standards we expect of our suppliers. Onsite supplier assessments Principle 6: We are an equal opportunities employer. The Valuing diversity Business should uphold the elimination of valuing diversity section sets out our policies discrimination in respect of employment and and practices relating to the elimination of occupation. discrimination in our employment practices. Principle 7: BT's environment policy and the product Product stewardship Businesses should support a precautionary stewardship section set out BT's approach to Reducing our approach to environmental challenges. this issue. environmental impacts Principle 8: Our approach to environmental issues is Employee motivation Businesses should undertake initiatives to outlined in the Better with Less section of this Product stewardship promote greater environmental responsibility. report. Including our environmental policy and Reducing our our work to reduce the impacts of our environmental impacts products. Carbon emissions Principle 9: The Better with Less and Procurement and Better with less Businesses should encourage the Supply Chain sections provide information on Procurement and supply development and diffusion of environmentally our efforts in this area. chain friendly technologies. Principle 10: The ethics and anti-corruption and bribery Managing our risks Businesses should work against corruption in section details BT's business principles Ethics and anti-corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. (which apply world-wide to all employees, and bribery agents, contractors and others when representing BT) and progress on our implementation of them. Explore BT PLC Publications Media News & comments Links to other BT sites Do things Site functions Annual report 2012 Videos Corporate news BT products & services Apply for a job Contact BT Summary financial Podcasts & audios Press releases Next Gen Broadband Sign up to email alerts Site map statement & NOM 2012 Games 'Inside Out' Blog BT Vision Subscribe to BT RSS Glossary Forward shareholder CR Blog BT Shop Shareholders forms Privacy policy magazine Innovation news BT Business Sign up for shareholder Accessibility 2012 Better Future report offers Current jobs BT Global Services Presentations for Share with.. Better World e-zine Openreach shareholders & analysts BT London 2012 news BT Wholesale BT Business Direct Change cookie settings
