COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Li & Fung Group 2011 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Li & Fung (1937) Limited on behalf of the Li & Fung Group of Companies (hereafter the “Group”), is pleased to publish our Communication on Progress. This report outlines the steps that we have taken to promote the UN Global Compact principles within our Group companies, as well as throughout our supply chains and amongst our stakeholders. First and foremost, I would like to reiterate the support of the Li & Fung Group for the UN Global Compact principles. Since we began doing business, the Li & Fung Group has endeavored to embed the Compact’s principles into our strategies, operations, organizational culture, and relationships with our stakeholders. 2012 marks the 10th anniversary of our signing on to the Global Compact. Today, we remain as committed as ever to the UNGC principles and to promoting the Compact wherever we operate. In a world increasingly stressed by climate change and resource scarcity and facing the challenges of sustainable, inclusive development, the Compact serves as an innovative platform for collective action and engagement between business, government, and civil society. In laying out our actions and efforts to continue to improve our performance under the UNGC framework, we share our experiences and invite others to join us in partnership. Yours sincerely, Victor Fung Group Chairman Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 3 THE TEN UNGC PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 5: the effective PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses abolition of child labour; and development and diffusion should support and respect of environmentally friendly the protection of internationally PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination technologies. proclaimed human rights; and of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that Businesses should work they are not complicit in ENVIRONMENT against corruption in all its human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses forms, including extortion should support a and bribery. LABOUR precautionary approach to PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses environmental challenges; should uphold the freedom of association and the effective PRINCIPLE 8: undertake recognition of the right to initiatives to promote greater collective bargaining; environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 4 THE LI & FUNG GROUP OF COMPANIES Who We Are and Our Approach to Sustainability WHO WE ARE OUR APPROACH to SUSTAINABILTY Li & Fung (1937) Limited is the controlling shareholder Our operating companies share a common set of values of the Li & Fung Group, a multinational group and approach to sustainability, which reflects the belief headquartered in Hong Kong, whose companies that we are an agent of change with a duty to contribute are engaged in sourcing, distribution and retailing positively to the economic and social development of of consumer products. societies and communities in which we operate. Li & Fung Limited (hereafter “Li & Fung (Trading)”) Each of the four operating companies has a corporate operates three distinct business networks including sustainability task force comprised of managers Trading, Distribution, and Logistics. The company across key functions and geographies to set strategies, coordinate actions, and drive the sustainability agenda designs, develops and sources consumer products for forward. These task forces are typically headed by retailers and brands worldwide, and also operates an a senior executive responsible for sustainability, who extensive distribution and logistics network serving major reports directly to the CEO, who is then accountable brands in Asia and beyond. Other Group companies to the Board of Directors. For Li & Fung (Trading), this are engaged in retailing: Convenience Retail Asia Limited process is reinforced by the additional governance operates convenience stores and bakeries, Trinity Limited structure of a Risk Management and Sustainability develops and markets luxury menswear, and Toys“R”Us Committee within the Board of Directors. Asia Limited, a joint venture with Toys“R”Us, Inc, sells toys and children’s products in stores throughout Asia. At the Group level, we operate an additional sustainability working group which draws together the heads of Li & Fung (Trading), Trinity Limited and Convenience the respective sustainability task forces in each of the Retail Asia Limited are listed on the Hong Kong Stock operating companies, plus other key functions such Exchange, while we hold a minority share in Toys“R”Us as communications, IT, properties, and philanthropy, Asia Limited. In sum, the four companies employ to coordinate actions and strategies and facilitate best over 41,000 men and women across 40 economies practices and resource sharing. worldwide, with total revenue of over US$21 billion in 2011. In this report, we highlight our policies and actions to carry out the UNGC principles, and invite anyone with further interest to explore the public disclosures and websites of our respective group companies. These may all be accessed through our Group website: www.funggroup.com Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES Asia has its own Toys“R”Us Standards for Partner The Li & Fung Group of Companies is committed to Conduct. Any supplier trading with these companies upholding internationally proclaimed human rights in must indicate acceptance of these requirements for the our own operations and externally in our supply chains course of his or her business with us. and relations with key stakeholder groups. Each of our group companies has in place a Code of Conduct Compliance with the code is verified by processes and and Business Ethics which covers human rights. New checks within each respective company. In the case employees are briefed on the code and must agree to of Li & Fung (Trading), due to the scale and nature of abide by it before starting employment. The code is its business, a trained, in-house supplier auditing team published on employee intranets and in handbooks. conducts announced and unannounced audits and Employees are encouraged to report any violations works with approved third-party auditors to ensure under a written policy to their manager, or as an compliance to the code. Li & Fung (Trading) holds alternative, directly and confidentially to the Group training seminars, workshops and sessions in order Chief Compliance Officer. to ensure understanding of the principles contained in the code and the benefits of sustainable compliance. Group companies operate in over 40 economies Where violations occur, our compliance teams work worldwide, including many developing countries and with the supplier concerned to address the problem countries where the rule of law may not be strong. and raise its performance. In doing business, we are conscious of our dual obligation to comply with local legislation as well as With increasing knowledge about the interface to respect and follow international norms of behavior between human rights and business operations and with regard to human rights. rising expectations from consumers and stakeholders worldwide, Li & Fung (Trading) updated its standards We also recognize that our responsibility extends in 2011 by revising its Code of Conduct for Suppliers to relations with key stakeholders, and therefore, and Supplier Compliance Manual. The launch of these Li & Fung (Trading) Ltd and Trinity Limited each have standards, in January 2012 to all suppliers, provides a in place a Code of Conduct for Suppliers that requires transparent framework for improving working conditions suppliers to respect and uphold local legal requirements and environmental performance, and for providing more and internationally proclaimed human rights. sustainable sourcing options. Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 6 The Code requires compliance with local and international will continue into 2012 with initiatives to enhance the regulations, including the International Labor Organization’s company’s sustainability programs and its management of risks. core conventions. Key revisions include expanded ethical conduct requirements, enhanced disclosure of PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES suppliers’ performance information and the issue of human During 2011, over 10,000 audits to assess compliance trafficking, in support of the California Transparency in of third-party suppliers with the Code of Conduct for Supply Chains Act. Suppliers were conducted by Li & Fung (Trading)’s compliance staff. The Supplier Compliance Manual outlines how to meet the Code and is the first step in building competency for To further sustainability in the supply chain, Li & Fung sustainable compliance. In parallel, a new assessment (Trading) has developed tools and programs, and tool for suppliers was launched to identify gaps in meeting engaged with its partners, to improve working conditions. Code requirements. This information enables employees Over the course of 2011, it focused on enhancing its to follow-up, identify opportunities for improvement as compliance tools to support its suppliers to improve needed, and support suppliers with training, education their social and environmental sustainability. and tools to build management systems that support ongoing compliance. Suppliers identified as having In addition, monthly meetings of the Sustainability compliance issues will have access to capacity-building Working Group discussed human rights issues so as to resources and be required to resolve the issue(s) to give executives responsible for sustainability knowledge continue business. Launch of the revamped codes was and guidance on how to ensure that our operations and accompanied by an orientation and training program on stakeholder relations continue to promote human rights. human rights and labour issues, for all Li & Fung (Trading) Lastly during 2011, the Group organized over 100 employees along with suppliers and business partners. trainings sessions, workshops or seminars targeting third-party suppliers and business partners. Li & Fung (Trading) also reinforced its commitment to human rights both publicly on its website, as well as internally through employee education and training on its Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. This effort Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 7 LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES Code specifically references the UN Global Compact The Group supports and actively promotes the principles, the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the four UNGC Labour principles internally in our own ILO’s core conventions. The other group companies will operations and externally with our business partners progressively adopt similar approaches. and stakeholders. The revision of the Code of Conduct and Business Ethics Internally, each of our Group companies has in place also takes into account guidelines in the ISO26000 and in a Code of Conduct and Business Ethics which binds the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by all employees to upholding Principles 4, 5, and 6 and the Special Representative to the UN Secretary-General. specifically refers to these principles in our operations, Launch of the revamped codes will be accompanied by for instance, in recruitment, training, review and a training program on human rights and labour issues promotion, remuneration, and so on. On top of these for all Li & Fung (Trading) employees. principles, we strive to create a workplace and working environment known for diversity, respect, collaboration Employees are encouraged to report any violations of and opportunity. the Code under a written policy to their direct manager or alternatively directly and confidentially to the Group Each new hire is briefed on the Code and must agree Chief Compliance Officer. to abide by it before starting employment. The code is published on employee intranets and in employment Externally, we recognize our responsibility to promote handbooks. Human resources staff are given training the UNGC labour principles throughout our supply chain and provided resources to allow them to continuously and relations with key stakeholders. As such, Li & Fung upgrade their knowledge and practices for carrying (Trading) and Trinity Limited each have in place a Code out these principles in their work. of Conduct for Suppliers that binds suppliers to uphold the UNGC labour principles. Any supplier trading with our With regard to Principle 3 on collective bargaining Group must accept the Code and remains contractually and freedom of association, the Group follows the bound by it during the course of his or her business with us. employment regulations or labour codes of the jurisdictions in which it operates. We are currently Compliance with the code is assured by a series of updating the Li & Fung (Trading) Code of Conduct and processes and checks by each respective company. Business Ethics was updated, specifically to incorporate In the case of Li & Fung (Trading), due to the scale new detail on human and labour rights. The revised and nature of its business, a trained, in-house auditing Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 8 team conducts announced and unannounced audits PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES and works with approved third-party auditors to ensure During 2011, over 10,000 audits to assess compliance compliance to the code. In addition, Li & Fung (Trading) of third-party vendors with the Code of Conduct for holds training seminars, workshops and sessions in order Suppliers were conducted by compliance staff of to ensure understanding of the principles in the code and Li & Fung (Trading). of the benefits of compliance. Li & Fung (Trading) also engaged in a number of The Group recognizes that compliance with the Code of industry initiatives to improve labour standards, working Conduct for Suppliers is necessary, but is only the first conditions, and compliance, within the supply chain. step in a process of building sustainable compliance. These include the Better Work program under Compliance backed by audits must be tied to capacity the ILO and the HER Project of the Business for building and training to ensure that suppliers have Social Responsibility. the tools and incentive to raise their performance and product while improving working conditions and In addition, labour issues regularly discussed in monthly being compliant. meetings of the Sustainability Working Group, with the intent to give executives responsible for sustainability information and operational guidelines for respecting and promoting fair working practices including the UNGC labour principles, within our operations and stakeholder relations. Lastly during 2011, the Group organized over 100 trainings sessions, workshops or seminars targeting third-party suppliers and business partners. Internally, labour issues and social compliance were also covered in Group leadership and executive development programs as a core building block for supply chain sustainability. Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 9 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES We endeavor to increasingly build and operate green Our companies have always endeavored to operate offices and facilities, and where possible to achieve responsibly with regard to the environment. Today more recognized industry standards in these areas, including than ever, we recognize that climate change and water • Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design scarcity represent serious challenges and risks for the (LEED) or Building Research Establishment global community. We therefore have redoubled our Environmental Method (BREEAM) certification for commitment to environmental responsibility in our buildings and offices; certifications achieved for operations, while continually seeking new ways to upgrade 10 our offices to date. the environmental sustainability of our supply chain. • The Wastewi$e and EnergywiSe labeling schemes As a baseline, our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics run by the Hong Kong Environmental Protection references the need for all employees to protect the Department environment in line with the precautionary principle, in our • In the United States, the Environmental Protection operations and supply chain. This message is reiterated Agency’s Climate Leaders program and reinforced through a number of means including internal meetings, training, promotion through the staff Lastly, in view of concerns of natural resource scarcity intranet, employee outings, and Group promotion of and environmental stewardship, Li & Fung (Trading) activities such as Earth Hour. has developed and implemented our Green Meeting Guidelines set of guidelines designed for in company In our own operations: meetings. Other Group companies are expected to We measure our energy consumption, greenhouse gas adopt these whenever possible. emissions, water consumption, and waste throughout our own facilities and offices, and make targeted annual In our supply chains and stakeholder relationships: reductions across all of these areas. 2011 marked We expect our suppliers to abide by all local environmental the first full year of implementing the energy savings legislation, and where appropriate we require that they avoid initiatives recommended by the Investment Grade Audit the use of ozone depleting chemicals, the use of certain (IGA) of our headquarters in Hong Kong and of the toxics in production processes, and trade in endangered global campaign for our employees to adopt a range of species. We also encourage and provide technical support behavioral changes. Our network of offices around the to suppliers on energy and water efficiency, greenhouse gas world also retrofitted existing lighting, where feasible, reductions, sustainable building, lean manufacturing, health with more efficient LED, CFL and/or T5 fixtures in 2011. and safety and human resource management, both directly Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 10 and through recognized industry programs. Lastly, we also also maintained its EnergyWi$e label, all under the facilitate the sharing of best practices across our supplier Hong Kong EPD scheme. network, both directly through our own programs and through industry groups. With regards to sustainable offices and buildings, we developed our own Sustainable Design, Construction In keeping with our role as a responsible employer and and Renovation Guidelines for New Construction, Major corporate citizen, we have also introduced programs to raise Renovation and Commercial Interiors in 2011. These userand encourage greater environmental awareness amongst friendly guidelines support our offices and facilities around employees and the community at large. For example, the world to adopt LEED elements whenever feasible. community clean-ups and tree-planting activities are regularly organized by our offices. The Group now has 237,000 sq ft of office space certified to LEED. Furthermore in 2011/2012, the PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES following offices were certified: As outlined above, the Group has initiated diverse • Approx 4,500 sq ft in our Bangladesh Office were streams of action in view of our commitment to implement certified LEED Gold the principles on the Environment. While we have made • Approx 8,000 sq ft in our London office were certified noticeable progress, our challenge is to ensure that our BREEAM Pass Rating approach is comprehensive, harmonized and focused. • Approx 50,000 sq ft in our LF Trinity office, Hong Some of our progress indicators are outlined below. Kong, were LEED Certified In our own operations: The Group actively promotes environmental awareness In 2011, Li & Fung (Trading) recorded a total global amongst employees through our internal intranet site, electricity consumption of 163,461 GJ (45,405,947 formal training, a sustainability speaker series and KWh) compared with 171,016 GJ (47,504,489 KWh) in informal engagement activities. In 2011, throughout 2010, and our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions our Group in Hong Kong there were over 20 such were 32,120 tons of CO2 equivalent, compared with environmental awareness sessions. 35,630 of the same unit the previous year. The same has been reported to the Carbon Disclosure Project. To promote the Environmental Principles in our Li & Fung (Trading) comprises the bulk of the Group’s supply chains and relations with stakeholders, Group emissions from our own facilities, and we expect that in companies were active in a number of non-governmental our next COP, we will be in a position to report Group totals organizations, industry associations, foundations, and for these two factors, and for our water consumption. academic organizations in 2011, including: In addition, throughout our offices, stores and facilities, • Business for Social Responsibility –through which we seek to engage suppliers on environmental and issues the Group has proactively taken the following measures to increase energy efficiency: • Global Social Compliance Programme – to improve working conditions and environmental practices in the • Progressive commercial retrofit of chillers; global supply chain • Replacement of T8 and halogen lights with T5, CFL • Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange – with or LED energy-efficient lights, and de-lamping where which we share data and knowledge to improve the possible; ethical performance of our supply chain • Adoption of an enterprise-wide environmental management and accounting software system; • Sustainable Apparel Coalition – as a Founding member, we are contributing to the development of its • Installation of recycling bins for paper, bottles and Apparel and Footwear Index tools, which will improve cans, and contracting with relevant waste handlers our ability to measure and manage the environmental for recycling; impact of products in our supply chain • Progressive conversion of vehicle fleet to Euro IV • Sustainable Fashion Business Consortium – to standard or better, and abiding by fuel efficiency increase sustainable practices across the supply chain guidelines in vehicle procurement; • Observing firm-wide air conditioning thermostat setting • The Natural Resources Defense Council – on the of 26.5 degrees C in Hong Kong (in the summer) Responsible Sourcing Initiative In 201, Li & Fung (Trading) globally and Trinity Limited’s • The Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) – to promote environmental awareness amongst our employees Hong Kong offices consumed a total of 153,572 reams of A4 paper, which constitutes a 44% increase over • Business Environment Council of Hong Kong and the previous year. This increase was attributed to an Environmental Sustainability Committee of the Hong expansion in our operations. However, we reduced Kong General Chamber of Commerce, both of which aim to raise awareness of environmental issues in our consumption per person by 10% as a result of our Hong Kong as well as share best practices amongst continued conservation efforts. Our paper reduction companies campaign remains an ongoing initiative throughout the Group, supported by progressive migration of paper • Green Economy Task Force and Energy and Environment processes to electronic and online platforms. In addition, Commission of the International Chamber of Commerce, which provide business input on environmental issues to both Li & Fung (Trading) and Trinity Limited earned global policy and multilateral groups multilateral groups WasteWi$e labels, while Li & Fung (Trading) Limited Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACTIONS to PROMOTE THE PRINCIPLES We recognize that corruption and bribery are serious Our group companies have been recognized for their threats to the integrity of markets and rule of law, and achievements in ESG issues. For instance, Li & Fung undermine fair competition. We thus support a strict (Trading) has been recognized for its achievements in anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy as a part of our the area of corporate governance, including in 2011: employee Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, • Corporate Governance Asia Recognition Awards in line with our continuous effort to operate according 2011 – by Corporate Governance Asia Journal to the highest principles of accountability, transparency and good governance. • The Asset Corporate Platinum Award 2011, for all around excellence in financial performance, Each Group company’s Code contains strict guidelines management acumen, corporate governance, ton corruption, bribery, gift-giving, gratuities, kick-backs social responsibility, environmental responsibility and other favors, and all full time employees must sign and investor relations, by the Asset Magazine and abide by the Code. Since 2011, more stringent Lastly, and in recognition of achievements in all areas conflicts of interest policy and declaration procedures reflected in the Ten UNGC Principles, and based on a to staff are being put into place to reinforce the Group’s rigorous third-party ESG analysis, Li & Fung (Trading) business ethics management and monitoring. was again included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index and FTSE4Good Index Series, while both Employees are also encouraged to report violations of Trinity Limited and Li & Fung (Trading) were included in the Code, including for corruption and bribery, through the Hang Seng Corporate Sustainability Index Series of a dedicated whistle blowing channel directly to the Group the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. Chief Compliance Officer. Li & Fung (1937) Limited Communication on Progress 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 Li & Fung Group
