BRANDIX LANKA LIMITED Communication on Progress Year: 2012 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT The 10 principles of United Nations Global Compact and the Millennium Development Goals are reflected in the company‟s core values-values that are proactively driving economic, environmental, social and ethical imperatives. In 2012 our commitment and vigilance to the Principles remains strong. Mr Ajit Johnpillai Director 1st February 2012 Contact: Ms Anusha Alles Email: AnushaA@brandix.com Phone: +94(0) 11 4727000 Fax: +94(0) 11 2575485 P 1/13 Brief description of nature of business Sri Lanka‟s largest apparel exporter with an annual turnover exceeding USD 500 million. Employing over 35,000 Associates and generating indirect employment to an equivalent number. Supported by over 35 manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka, India & Bangladesh and strategically located international Sourcing Offices. Providing over 50% of value addition locally through our backward-linked operations in textiles, thread, buttons and hangers. P 2/13 PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Actions taken Commitment: Brandix adheres to internationally recognized best practices in human rights, social compliance, corporate governance and ethics. System: Internally developed policies and procedures to protect human rights standards of anyone working within the organization. Activities: 1. Well instilled core values of the Group communicated at regular intervals from Actions Induction and throughout the career of an employee. 2. Well established recognition system which rewards and recognisers performance in line with core values. 3. HR and Compliance departments within each Strategic Business Unit to constantly evaluate & uplift the welfare of employees. 4. An independent Corporate Compliance division and Group Human Resources division to monitor the processes and activities of the Group‟s strategic business units. 5. Annual 3rd party certifications ranging from WRAP to SA8000 to ETI. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Most of our facilities are WRAP (Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production), ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative) or SA8000 (Social Accountability) certified. P 3/13 PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Actions taken Please refer Principle no.01 Actions Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Please refer Principle No.01 P 4/13 PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Actions taken Commitment: Brandix recognizes and respects the right of employees to exercise their lawful right of free association. Actions System: Internally developed policies and procedures on Freedom of Association. Activities: 1. All business units have an active Workers‟ Council with office bearers being chosen from the cadre by the employees themselves. 2. Monthly meetings are conducted with minutes being maintained. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes 1. No labour strikes, walkouts or other indications of unresolved issues. 2. High ratings in employee satisfaction measured through the annual employee survey P 5/13 PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Prohibition of forced labour is one of the key components of the Brandix Social Compliance policy. System: Internally developed policies and procedures on prohibition of forced, bonded or prison labour. Actions Activities: 1. Terms and conditions are clearly defined in the appointment letters and 3rd party contract letters which they are required to sign before start of employment. 2. Wages are directly issued to employees. 3. No deposit of cash or identity papers. 4. Employees are hired through direct hiring methods through the HR Department of each strategic business unit. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Numerous 3rd party certifications by international certification bodies such as WRAP, ETI as well as buyer audits conducted regularly. P 6/13 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Actions taken Commitment: Brandix practices zero tolerance in child labour. System: Actions Internally developed policies and procedures to prevent employment of children. Activities: 1. Mandatory proof of age documentation (such as National Identity Cards, Birth Certificates) prior to recruitment. 2. Identification and age check of all 3rd party contract labour prior to gaining access to the facility. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes Numerous 3rd party certifications by international certification bodies such as WRAP, ETI as well as buyer audits conducted regularly. P 7/13 PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Actions taken Commitment: Brandix employs, pays and promotes employees based on a well established performance appraisal system and does not discriminate based on their personal characteristics or beliefs. System: Internally developed policies and procedures on prohibition of discrimination. Actions Activities: 1. Male and female employees are paid on one pay structure. 2. No discriminatory questions are asked during the recruitment. 3. Pregnancy testing is strictly prohibited within the organization. 4. All promotions are based on performance and skill level of the employee. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes 1. Many differently-abled associates employed within the Group. 2. All facilities employ different ethnic groups with the new facilities in the East Coast of the country providing a high percentage of employment to the minorities. P 8/13 PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Actions taken Commitment: We are committed to ensuring that our business decisions will balance economic progress while driving a sustainable development through a responsible consciousness for the environment and community. System: Since its inception, Brandix has been conscious of its environmental imperatives. We are consciously adopting innovative approaches and technology to minimize the impact manufacturing processes has on the environment. Actions Activities: LEED buildings are „green‟ building places which place high priority on health, environmental and resource conservation performance over its life-cycle. Since its adoption of the Brandix Casualwear Seeduwa factory to LEED under the US Green Building Council (USGBC), Brandix has converted it‟s Brandix Essentials Koggala factory under the LEED concept (Gold Rating) and is on the way to obtaining a Gold Rating for its Brandix Bangladesh plant. This is not the end of the road for LEED factories at Brandix; we are hoping to convert two other factories to LEED this year, which will make Brandix the only company to have five LEED manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company One of our factories in the South (Brandix Essentials Koggala) has achieved the following Outcomes reductions through implementation of LEED: 26% reduction in electricity consumption 27% reduction in carbon footprint 31% reduction in water footprint Zero waste to landfill In addition to this, it also has improved security and safety measures and health and comfort of its occupants. It also has a policy to purchase sustainable raw materials. P 9/13 PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions taken Commitment: The Brandix Group‟s raison d‟être of “inspired solutions for branded clothing” encompasses all aspects of its business including its commitment to CSR in all its manifestations. We believe are stakeholders are as passionate about our commitment to the complex issues of water and environment management as we are. Since its importance tour manufacturing processes we have over the past few years focused our attention on “Water” as a giver of life and drawn in our associates, their families, suppliers and business partners into the initiatives we have employed around the country. System: Brandix has always worked on the platform of conscious responsibility. Our position as the Actions largest exporter in the country and an industry leader adds more responsibility, transparency and accountability to our role and emphasizes the need for sincerity, ethics and integrity in the way we do business. With water birthed the issue of environmental management and the crucial link, we as an industry leader know the importance of adopting these sustainable environmental practices. Hence the Group has committed US$25 million over the next 4 years to convert all its factories to Green manufacturing and thereby reduce the entire carbon footprint to 30%. Activities: The Live green and Go Green campaign which was launched in 2010 targeted the executive carder in order to promote the importance of sustainable living both at the work place and at home. The aim of this on-going campaign was „Change the way you think, to change the way you live‟. Knowledge sharing, poster campaigns, quizzes and other activities were carried in order to capture the interest of associates in the sustainability concept, while at the same time sharing knowledge and educating them on ways of minimizing resource usage. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcomes The lifestyle changes brought about by the campaign helped reduce resource usage in the group. The consumption of resources such as electricity, water and raw materials such as stationary and paper was reduced considerably after the launch of this campaign. It also raised the awareness of the associates of the group on the „green‟ theme, with a green quiz showing that over 80% of the associates had a good idea of what sustainability was and how they can contribute. P 10/13 PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Actions taken Commitment: Clean technology, waste management and environmental preservation have been inextricably integrated into our overall business. Believing strongly that clean technology can drive our ultimate goal of being a completely green business concern; we have invested a large proportion of time and money in order to ensure clean technology is integrated into our processes and operations. System: Brandix is currently in the process of completing a 4 year sustainability plan that would take us towards our goal of becoming a totally “Green company”. Our carbon footprints will set Actions the way forwards via milestones annually. We are always exploring numerous options for renewable energy and investment in new green technology. Activities: We have introduced Building Management Systems (BMS) in most of our factories which help monitor and control the consumption of electricity, fuel, and water through a centralized dashboard system. Renewable energy options such as skylights have also been introduced to replace fluorescent lights, and most of our factories in the group are now fitted with them. Biomass in boilers was another renewable energy option that was looked into. In addition to a biomass boiler which is already in operation, we have started the operation of two others; to include a one ton boiler which is converted from furnace oil to biomass. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Through various new green technologies the group is on track to achieving its pledges of a reduction in carbon footprint of 30%, a reduction in water consumption to 35 litres per day Outcomes per head and zero waste to landfill. Currently, the carbon footprint of the group has reduced by 25%, the water consumption is on average 38 litres per day per head and about 80% waste is diverted from landfill. The group was awarded the coveted national award, Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Award, for its Brandix Casualwear Ratmalana plant in the large scale industry category for the massive energy reductions achieved through implementation of new and more efficient technology. P 11/13 PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Actions taken Commitment: Our company is committed to working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. For this we have our own code of ethics and fully respect to our customers/suppliers code of ethics in this regard. System: “Integrity” is recognized as the first value of our company/associates. Our strategy is to follow the best management systems with higher level of transparency. Strict adherence to written policies in all operations helps us for transparent transactions. Independent audit system supports us to identify further steps for improvement. Actions Activities: 01. Induction sessions help us to deliver the company expectation of „integrity” to all new employees. 02. Frequent awareness sessions to improve the employee‟s knowledge of the company‟s policy/procedure and transparency. 03. Strict adherence to company finance and other policies. Such policies are available in the company intranet for easy access. 04. Frequent communication of our company values to our customers and suppliers. 05. Frequent internal and 3rd party audits to ensure the correct implementation of our policies and procedures. 06. Strict follow up of audit recommendation to ensure further enhancement of transparency of transactions. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value added for our company Outcom es How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? Through our sustainability report, company website and half yearly CSR newsletter. P 12/13 P 13/13
