1111GROU P A YR Group Limited United Nations Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress (COP) 20092010 Company name AYR Group Limited Date 26 .11 .2012 Address 100 Pall Mall London Membership date 31.07.06 SW1Y 5NQ Country United Kingdom Number of employees 60 Contact name Abbie Holmes Contact position Office Administrator Sector Aerospace &Aviation Contact telephone no. +442076648727 Brief description of nature of business AYR Group Limited owns and operates aircraft for peacekeeping and humanitarian relief missions as well as for commercial charter. We specialise inthe operation of heavy-lift helicopters in austere environments, for which we provide flight crew, engineering support and project management. We are currently flying in Republic of South Sudan , Uganda and Central African Republic. Our main clients have included the UN World Food Programme, several non-governmental organisations , and contractors to government agencies. AYR group is a British company in origin but now has satellite offices in the USA, Russia and Ukraine and an aircraft base and maintenance facility in the United Arab Emirates. Despite our broad range in geographical terms we remain a relatively small organisation with sixty permanent employees. Statement of support AYR Group Limited is a participant in the UN Global Compact. Created in July 2000 by UN Secretary­ General Kofi Annan, the global Compact is a voluntary network of UN agencies, corporations , non­ governmental organisations, labour and academic institutions that endorse a shared set of principles on good corporate citizenship.A YR Group Limited is proud to be a UN Global Compact signatory and is committed to advancing the Global Compact's ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. AYR Group Limited remains committed in its support for the UN Global Compact principles, which are aligned to its own policies on enviro~mental and social responsibility. By developing our policies in line with these principles, ~d disseT inating them to companies with which we work, we can further the UN's aims of creati '8 ore etHicaii e ponsible business community . Signature . ~ [1\ Posi on Executive Vice President PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our commitment or policy Much of AYR Group's work is in support of projects to improve the lives of people living in zones of conflict and deprivation. Many of the people living in this area have been subjected to gross human rights abuses and forced to flee their homes. The peacekeeping missions we often support were put in place to create the security conditions necessary to allow the sustainable and voluntary resettlement of refugees . AYR Group inherently andnecessarily supports the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. A brief description of our processes or systems We comply with all laws of every country in which we operate, including those relating to human rights. We consider our employees to be our greatest asset and treat them with the respect they deserve. All permanent UK employees are provided with a package of benefits including a pension and healthcare. Although conditions for our employees in the field can at times be difficult, we endeavour to make their living conditions as comfortable and secure as possible. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Declarations for our suppliers to sign, stating that they aren’t involved in any contravention of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, they abide by the principles laid out by the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Measurable results or outcomes To date AYR Group Limited has found nothing measurable for now. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our commitment or policy AYR Group Limited upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Management engages in open discussion with employees on matters of working conditions. A brief description of our processes or systems All AYR Group employees are free to join trade union bodies. No employee has ever been discriminated against as a result of any associations or beliefs he or she has had. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year AYR Group has no immediate plans for any actions as they pertain to the above principle. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no measurable results as of yet. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our commitment or policy AYR Group supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. A brief description of our processes or systems AYR Group does not force employees to work beyond the reasonable working hours described in their contracts of employment, which are in line with employment law in their countries of employment. The working hours of our flight crew are strictly controlled by civil aviation authority rules. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Improve scrutiny of suppliers with regard to forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our commitment or policy AYR Group supports the effective abolition of child labour. 2 A brief description of our processes or systems AYR Group does not and will not employ anyone under the age of 16 in any of our operations, regardless of local laws in the countries in which we operate. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Check suppliers’ adherence to ILO child labour guidelines. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our commitment or policy AYR Group Limited supports the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. A brief description of our processes or systems AYR Group Limited employs a range of men and women across a broad range of ages, from different nations and ethnic backgrounds, and with differing religions and beliefs. AYR Group supports diversity in its workforce and its associates. In matters of hiring, advancement and remuneration,AYR Group does not discriminate on any criteria other than an individual’s experience, skills and performance. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year In June 2010 AYR Group published a formal Code of Business Conduct, which must be read and signed by all employees. Within this code is a section on equal opportunities and diversity issues. A grievances procedure is included for any employee who feels that they have been the victim of discrimination in the workplace. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no reports of discrimination in the workplace. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our commitment or policy AYR Group Limited is committed to making our operations as environmentally sustainable as possible. A brief description of our processes or systems We strive to maximise the efficiency and lifespan of all our technical equipment, including aircraft parts, through regular maintenance. Parts are refurbished and reused wherever this is possible without compromising on safety and performance. This policy is economically as well as environmentally beneficial. AYR Group’s London office has a recycling policy for all office recyclables. The office purchases postconsumer recycled paper for printing and copying, which is then reused for scrap paper where possible, before being collected for recycling. We source promotional items whichare manufactured using recycled materials where possible. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have been working to create a paperless office environment. We have increased the amount of recycled promotional goods that we have used. 3 Measurable results or outcomes Our project offices in the field are now paperless apart from a small amount of crucial paper documentation required by our clients. PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our commitment or policy AYR Group Limited is committed to working against corruption is all its forms, including extortion and bribery. A brief description of our processes or systems Unfortunately, corruption is rife in some of the areas in which we operate, particularly among officials such as those in customs. AYR Group will always do its best not to become involved in bribery. Our own company accounts are submitted annually to independent auditors. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year In June 2010 AYR Group published a formal Code of Business Conduct, which must be read and signed by all employees. Within this code is a section dealing with issues of corruption and bribery. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no measurable results as of yet. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? AYR Group Limited’s Communication on Progress will be made available to interested parties online via: the UN Global Compact website – www.unglobalcompact.org; and the AYR Group Limited website – www.AYRgroup.co.uk . It will also be distributed to AYR Group Limited employees and selected clients and suppliers. 4
