Corporate social responsibility report aeroportsdeparis.fr The world is our guest Contents Editorial by Pierre Graff, Chairman and CEO p.1 Identity Card p.2 Our strategy 2011-2015 p.6 2011 at a glance p.8 Cross-talk with Bernard Cathelain, Executive Director and Chief Development 1. Officer and Didier Hamon, Environment and Sustainability Director p.9 Stakeholders and challenges p.10 Transparent governance 12 1.1 Acting responsibly p.14 1.3 Acting safely and reliably p.18 1.2 Putting CSR at the heart of p.16 our organisation 2. Encouraging professional development 2.1 Motivating our employees p.22 2.3 Ensuring health and quality of life 20 p. 26 2.2 Respecting equal p.25 opportunities 3. Our commitment to preserving the environment 3.1 Working to meet our commitments p.30 3.4 Monitoring air quality and noise pollution 28 p.37 3.2 Reducing our energy p.32 3.5 Protecting the natural p.38 footprint environment 3.3 Controlling our emissions p.35 3.6 Supporting our airports’ p.41 partners 4. Looking after our customers’ and suppliers’ interests 4.1 Working closely with our partners p.44 4.3 Building loyalty with our lessee companies and developing 42 p.48 sustainable procurement 4.2 Listening closely to our p.46 5. passengers Working together with civil society 50 5.1 Our commitment to regional p.52 5.4 Developing sponsorship p.59 development and voluntary work 5.2 Supporting SMEs and p.54 5.5 Strengthening our links with p.60 monitoring changes in jobs local residents 5.3 Innovating for jobs p.56 Publication available for all This document is available on our Internet site, Opinions from the stakeholders’ panel p.62 Governance Indicators p.64 www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, under Method for reporting indicators p.65 the heading «Group». A voice Table of indicators p.66 synthesis version is available GRI summary p.68 for the visually-impaired. Abbreviations and subject index p.69 Editorial We want to lead Pierre Graff by example Chairman and CEO Financial year 2011 marked an important turning point for our Group: it saw the start of both the second economic regulation contract with the public authorities and our new five-year strategic plan. Within this plan, I set the Company the ambitious but motivating target of becoming the European benchmark in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility (CSR). I am convinced that we have the ability to succeed in this. Our environmental performance targets are clear; our investment programmes are geared towards energy diversification requirements; we have initiated a large number of actions regarding the local areas and their residents; and our governance complies with the criteria expected by the financial community. In addition, as you will see in this report, we no longer use an annual rating of non-financial aspects of our business, which will encourage us to make continual progress, improving our weak points and consolidating our strengths. We have recently been ranked in first place in the CSR panel of 18 European «transport and logistics» companies. This does not mean that we are perfect, far from it. These results do, however, constitute a serious and unmistakable step along the road to leadership and a solid motivation to making further progress. This is the struggle of corporate responsibility. And we will make it ours. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 1 Identity Card 8 departments involved 1,281 The Group in 2011 municipalities 6,686 hectares Number 1 airport area in Europe As the gateway to France, the world’s most popular tourist destination, Aéroports de Paris is a major international air transport hub. As a result of its location, worldFlights leave for more than class infrastructure and competitiveness, it is ideally positioned to take full advan360 cities in 115 countries tage of the expected growth in air traffic over the medium and long term. from Paris-Charles de Gaulle Aéroports de Paris owns and operates the three major airports in the Paris area and Paris-Orly. (Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly, and Paris-Le Bourget). The company provides airlines, passengers and freight and mail operators with high quality facilities, and a range of services tailored to their needs. n°1 Ranked first by Vigeo in the Aspi Eurozone® transport and logistics index Paris-Le Bourget Paris-Orly Paris-Charles de Gaulle No. 1 European airport 3 runways 4 runways, 9 passenger terminals for business aviation 2 passenger terminals 3,257 hectares 1,540 hectares 7th largest airport in the world for passenger traffic 2 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Key figures Consolidated revenue (em) 2,400 (1) Ranked 1st 2009 2,480 (1) 2010 2011 2,502 among airport groups in Europe Number Water for freight and of passengers consumption (m3) mail 83.0 2,854,558 2009 2010 83.4 2009 2010 2,858,174 Ranked 2nd 2011 88.1 2011 2,981,454 among airport groups in Europe Average headcount for passenger Aéroports de Paris Internal energy Group consumption (GWhep) traffic 12,063 (2) 1,304 2009 2009 9,550 1,337 2010 2010 With 88.1 million passengers 2011 9,092 2011 1,260 handled in 2011, the Group’s airport system (Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly) is the largest en Europe. Community Greenhouse gas involvement (em) (3) emissions (teqCO2) 2.2 143,271 2009 2009 2.2 156,117 2010 2010 2011 2.2 2011 107,875 (1) The Aéroports de Paris Group has adopted a new presentation of its consolidated accounts with effect from financial year ended 31 December 2011. Pro-forma accounts for 2009 and 2010 have been drawn up in accordance with these changes. (2) Scope not comparable (3) Excluding the Aéroports de Paris Foundation. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 3 Identity Card Nearly 1,000 companies use the three airports and employ over 115,000 people The airport city Airports are specially designed to handle all the operations involved in the landing and take-off of aircraft. This requires a whole range of related services and creates business that are directly or indirectly linked across the airport. In all, several In 2011, Aéroports de Paris hundred companies are involved in airport operations and providing services to had a total of 189 airline passengers. customers Aéroports de Paris Companies Government services • O rganizing and operating • A irlines and suppliers of • A ir traffic management: the airport ground handling general direction of civil • Retailing & services • Security companies aviation (DGAC) • P roperty (leasing, • Air cargo and mail suppliers • S afety and security: construction) border police (PAF) and • S hops, restaurants, air transport gendarmerie • A irport services to airlines hotels, banks, car rental, (GTA) & professionals: industrial cleaning and maintenance services, supplies water/ companies energy, car parks 4 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Distribution of wealth Main subsidiaries Government Aéroports de Paris and local authorities 100% Management e62m ADPI 100% Property tax (1) Shareholders Hub télécom 100% e50m and banks Contribution to the local e150m economy (1) Alyzia Sûreté 100% Dividends (paid in 2011 e64m for the year 2010) Société Other taxes and fees (1) de Distribution 50% e524m e2m Aéroportuaire Reimbursement of debt Community involvement and e98m Aéroports de Paris Foundation Média 50% Net financial expenses Aéroports de Paris Suppliers Relay@ADP 50% e636m Investments e686m Capacity, renovation Employees and quality, property e677m Employee expenses (Salaries, social charges, shareholding, incentives, provisions for labour commitments) (1) Paid in 2011 for 2011 taxes. Additional information Information about financing is presented in the Aéroports de Paris Registration Document, available on our website. For more information, see under «Group» on our website, www.aeroportsdeparis.fr Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 5 Vision Our strategy 2011-2015 Strengthening our economic model Our new strategic plan 2011-2015 was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 January 2011. Drawn up alongside our second economic regulation contract (CRE2), it aims to improve our economic performance beyond the scope of the regulations, by expanding retailing activities, property diversification and our subsidiaries’ activities. This vision forms part of our existing economic model, which has proven its effectiveness in periods of growth and robustness in periods of crisis. Customer satisfaction comprises the core of our strategy. The professional development of our employees, together with the HubLink alliance signed in 2008 with the Schiphol Group, manager of Amsterdam Airport, will be significant factors in achieving this objective. €1.8 billion will be allocated over five years to our programme of investment in the regulated scope (1). In terms of sustainable development and social responsibility, we are continuing to implement the recommendations of the Grenelle Environment summit, in order to become the reference airport group in Europe. A 5 -year vision Thanks to the men and women who work at Aéroports de Paris, to become the benchmark airport group in Europe on customer satisfaction, business performance and sustainable development. (1) Investments in the Aéroports de Paris SA scope amount to €2.4 billion over five years. 6 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 10 Strategic focus to 2015 Customer satisfaction Property HubLink projects Being among the leading benchmark Developing the property portfolio, its The HubLink alliance signed between companies in Europe. Achieving an ovevalue and performance. Aéroports de Paris and Schiphol Group, rall passenger satisfaction rate of 88.1% manager of Amsterdam Airport, has celeby 2015. International brated its third anniversary. In 2011 we defined seven priority projects, of which four Increasing the Group’s presence outside projects fall directly under our corporate Employees the Ile-de-France (Paris region) and, in responsibility: Encouraging professional development particular, internationally. • shared principles regarding quality of and seeing this reflected in Group perforservice, accompanied by targeted actions mance in line with participation. to harmonise services; Security • processes to optimise safety; Ensuring regulatory compliance. • implementation of actions to facilitate Shareholders the welcome and experience for Chinese Continuing to improve business perforpassengers; HubLink • installation of solar power plants at our mance and value creation. Implementing and strengthening the respective sites on a test basis. partnership with Schiphol Group. Aviation activities Personnel exchanges Supporting airlines’ growth and strengSustainable Development Since 2010 we have organised exchanges thening the Paris-Charles de Gaulle hub. between volunteer managers. Three longand Corporate Social term exchanges started in 2011, in the Responsibility areas of quality and sustainable developRetailing Becoming the European benchmark by ment. Two seminars were held (in Lausanne Raising business to the level of the leain June and at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in implementing the recommendations of ding benchmark companies in Europe. October) which brought together 30 mathe Grenelle Environment summit. Renagers from the two companies to discuss ducing internal CO2 emissions by 25% strategic themes, including environmental between 2009 and 2015, while keeping challenges and partner relationships with quality of service constant and taking into airlines. account the increase in airport capacity. Fact In 2011, Aéroports de Paris and Schiphol Group also signed a cooperation agreement with Icheon International Airport Corporation, the manager of Seoul’s main airport, covering 12 topics and whose first assessment was carried out in early 2012. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 7 Panorama 2011 at a glance The year of all energies In 2011 we focused our energies on consolidating our organisation and rolling out transversal action programmes. We intensified our policy of high-quality service, consolidated our employment policy, implemented our renewable energy projects and tightened our links with surrounding communities. Strategy and Corporate Governance Environment New strategy 2011-2015 (p.6) • Second ecoSocial Renewal of ISO 14001 certification for the nomic regulation contract (p.6) • Third year Schemes to promote internal mobility airports of Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly of the HubLink alliance with Schiphol (p.7) (p.23) • Development of professional traiand Paris-Le Bourget and the heliport at • Improving the proportion of women on ning (p.23) • Implementation of a new Issy-les-Moulineaux (p. 31) • Installation of the Board of Directors and the Executive compensation and career management poa geothermal power plant and construction Committee (p.14) • Organisation of the licy for managers (p.24) • Reduction of the of a biomass plant (p. 32) • HQE® certified first regional conference on CSR (p.16) • pay gap between men and women (p.25) Works Council building (p.34) • An interNew internal control and risk management • Study and analysis of the prevention of company travel plan (p.35) • Renewal of governance (p.18) • Extension of the parwork-related stress (p.26) • Analysis of psyLevel 2 of the Airport Carbon Accreditation tnership with Transparence International chosocial risks, with the aim of an agree(p. 36) • Policy for preserving biodiversity France to the Group’s subsidiaries (p.19). ment on prevention (p.27). (p.40). Customers Sustainable procurement Civil society Customer satisfaction, the core of the 2011Study of a Purchasing Code of Ethics (p.49) Economic, social and environmental 2015 strategy (p.44) • First training courses • Gradual increase in purchasing from inspartnership agreement with the Conseil at the Service University (p.44) • Operatiotitutions in the sheltered sectors (p.49) • Général (General Council) of Seine-etnal quality of service committees bringing Study on the inclusion of clauses relating to Marne (p.53) • Hubstart Paris® recotogether the companies, ground handling social integration in our maintenance work gnised by the public authorities (p.53) • companies and Aéroports de Paris (p.45) • markets (p.49). Signature of the Pole d’Orly Sustainable Introduction of the Parafe biometric recoDevelopment Charter (p.53) • Creation gnition system at border crossings (p.46) • of AERO Skills, a regional consortium for Indoor geolocalisation for passengers using training for airport jobs (p.56) • Third smartphones (p.47) • New discussion tools public information campaign on the aid for site businesses (p.48). for soundproofing scheme (p.61). 8 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Cross-talk In December 2011, Aéroports de Paris organised the first regional conference on corporate social responsibility. What message did you want to give? BC: Rather than corporate social responsibility, we should be talBernard Cathelain, king about the social responsibility of organisations. Our practices, Executive Director and those of the major companies who joined us for this confeand Chief Development Officer rence, show that the Government, local authorities, associations and NGOs are no longer only stakeholders. They are actors in corporate social responsibility in their own right. We see a collective We have developed several aid programmes to support access to approach emerging. We want to work together to identify the training and jobs, including in particular, the regional AERO Skills proinnovations and initiatives which will ensure the sustainable devegramme. We are helping to increase the attractiveness of the region, lopment of companies and of society. alongside our partners, by participating in Hubstart Paris® and Orly International, two initiatives promoting the region, and also in the What concrete action is Aéroports de Paris taking to Aeropole business incubator. We have made firm commitments to achieve this? reducing CO2 emissions and we have an ambitious energy policy. DH: CSR is part of the recommendations of the Grenelle EnviWhy are you encouraging companies in this voluntary ronment summit which we are implementing. We have already initiative? been applying the principles of this voluntary initiative for many years. We are supporting the development of our region by forBC: The CSR approach should be an integral part of their strategy, ging partnerships with economic actors and local authorities. as it is in our own 2011-2015 strategy. It improves corporate transparency at both a social and environmental level. Because of this, it also increases the confidence of employees, suppliers, customers and civil society in the ability of the company to take their expectations into consideration. It is a very effective tool for risk prevention and analysts use it to rate listed companies. In addition, it is an important lever in conducting business. This approach is most effective when it is followed by all our employees. That is why we have started a process which aims to integrate it as closely as possible within our organisation. What is your assessment of your own CSR practices? DH: The non-financial ratings which we have undertaken on a voluntary basis every year since 2005 show that we are making progress. In 2010 the Group reached a level close to excellence, with a rating of 3 out of 4. This rating covers governance, environment, human resources, human rights, behaviour in the market and community involvement. It is therefore a positive assessment. On the environment, for example, we will reach the targets set by the Grenelle Environment summit early. Our ambition is to eventually create a reference in corporate social responsibility, by becoming the European leader in our business segment. And we are well on the way. Didier Hamon, Environment and Sustainability Director Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 9 Stakeholders and challenges CSR on a daily basis With stakeholders Civil society Employees Customers Residents, associations, Aéroports de Paris employees, Passengers and those local authorities, NGOs, the works council, trade union accompanying them, airlines, influential parties and organisations, employees at companies using the sites, ground leaders of opinion and airport companies handling companies and airport business analysts Information Tools retailers • Intranet Information Tools Information Tools • In-house media, newsletter • Websites • Websites • Information and awareness-raising • Annual reports • Aéroports de Paris LifeStyle booklets for staff • The press (passenger magazine) • Environment and Sustainable Methods of consultation • Customer guides Development Centres • Annual Social Climate Survey (passengers and companies) • Works committee • E-newsletters (passengers and companies) Methods of consultation • HRD Club for airport-based • Airport orientation committees (AOC) • Forums and exhibitions companies • Environmental advisory committees Methods of consultation • Aéroports de Paris Foundation • Websites • Touchscreens at information points (passengers) • A single telephone number 3950 • Satisfaction questionnaires • Discussions with companies • Quality of service operational committees Challenges Challenges Challenges Be among the leading European Aim for a fair social balance. references in customer satisfaction: Systematically embed environmental concerns in all our Stimulate individual and collective meet their expectations by activities and promote these values. efficiency through skills training listening and innovating; introduce and motivating employees. and achieve high standards of Efficiently manage soundproofing Respect diversity and equal quality of service. aid funds. opportunities. Ensure that passengers are always Enable local and regional Promote employee health and safe and comfortable. authorities, local businesses and the populations around our sites quality of life. Cooperate with airlines to make to benefit from the growth of our them more competitive. Ile-de-France airports. 10 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Business partners Financial Partners The French Government, Service providers, suppliers, Reference shareholder public bodies subcontractors (the French Government), The French Government, Information Tools banks, investors, individual European institutions, public • Conferences (business) shareholders bodies and general interest • www.ecoairport.fr (companies) Information Tools organisations • www.tendersmart.com • Annual reports Methods of consultation Information Tools • Shareholder newsletter and Internet • w  ww.tendersmart.com • Annual reports guide (supplier consultation) • Quarterly results Methods of consultation • Self-assessment questionnaire • Half-yearly results • Working groups • Markets and consultations • Participation in regional groups • Environmental partners’ club Methods of consultation • Dialogue with Government ministries • General Meeting of Shareholders and agencies • Shareholders’ club • Shareholders’ meetings • Site visits Challenges Challenges Challenges Develop economic and social Pursue strong business cooperation. Apply the Aéroports de Paris performance. Purchasing Code of Ethics and Ensure legal compliance ensure it is observed. Respect the interests of small Respect our economic regulation shareholders. Respect the interests of suppliers contract. and service providers when purchasing. Ensure our business partners comply with service quality standards and social responsibility best practices. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 11 Governance 1. Transparent governance 12 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Contents 1.1 Acting responsibly 14 The Daniel Lebègue’s point of view, President of Transparency International France (an NGO) 1.2 Putting CSR at the heart of our organisation 16 Daniel Lebègue, President of Transparency International France, explains the risk of corruption and the role that companies such as Aéroports de 1.3 Acting safely and reliably 18 Paris can play in the fight against its devastating effects. Transparency International is the leading civil society organisation dedicated to the fight against corruption. Established in 1995, Transparency International France is the French chapter of the organisation. Corruption, which represents a violation of human rights and of fundamental democratic principles, leads to the distrust of citizens in their institutions. It also makes many environmental and human safety offences possible. It distorts international trade rules, while breeding poverty and underdevelopment. For all these reasons, Transparency International France aims to fight corruption by improving our country’s public and private governance, with the support of all stakeholders. The private sector, in particular, is expected to play a leading role in promoting transparency, integrity and accountability in economic life and advance the global fight against corruption. That is one reason why our association is encouraging French companies to engage in this fight. Other reasons may naturally lead them there: understanding corruption and the necessity of being protected against it is fundamental, so that the company never has to face a serious offence due to a lack of sound procedures concerning its business conduct and the behaviour of its staff Additional in its markets. information We thus offer companies our help in implementing policies and programme aimed at preventing corruption. In 2008, we partnered with Aéroports de Paris S.A. In 2011, this partnership was extended to the Group and its four main subsidiaries. Our methodology included assisting with a self-assessment, making recommendations based on the information provided by the company, and suggesting project phasespecific tools developed by our NGO. We also contributed to the development and dissemination of the parent company’s rules of ethics. In 2010 and 2011, we participated in staff awareness and staff training sessions on the public tender rules. For more information, This work will continue in 2012, for both Aéroports de Paris SA and its subsidiaries. see the «Group» menu item on our website: www.aeroportsdeparis.fr Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 13 Governance 1.1 Acting responsibly Female members on the Aéroports de Paris is a French public limited company governed by a Board of Board of Directors Directors (Société Anonyme à Conseil d’Administration). Internal regulations set forth the scope of the Board’s responsibilities and its operating procedures. Board The Board of Directors has provided for an increasing representation of female Member Guidelines govern the rights and duties of each director, and a code of directors. On 31 December 2011, a woman ethics relating to share transactions and respect for French regulations on insider replaced an employee-elected director. As a trading, breach of insider trading laws and market manipulation is appended to the result, three of the 12 Directors covered by internal regulations. the AFEP-MEDEF Code of Corporate Governance are now female Directors, representing 25% of the membership (excluding employee-elected directors). The Board of Directors In April 2009, the Board decided to apply the AFEP-MEDEF guidelines for the corpoRemuneration of corporate rate governance for listed companies issued in December 2008. officers The Board of Directors sets the remuneraComposition tion of the corporate officers after hearing The Board of Directors is a collegial body that determines the Company’s business the opinion of the Remuneration Commitstrategy and ensures its implementation. It consists of 18 members, including six tee and in accordance with the AFEP-MEdirectors appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting, six directors representing DEF recommendations. In 2011, two CSR-rethe government and six directors elected by employees. Two censors participate in lated objectives were added to the criteria the Board meetings in an advisory capacity. The term of office for both directors and used for the variable portion of executive censors is five years, as of 15 July 2009. In 2011, the Board of Directors met 14 times. remuneration: controlling energy consumption and increasing workforce diversity. Assessment of the Board The annual internal evaluation of the Board of Directors for the 2010 financial year Examples of areas reviewed was entrusted to an independent director and its results were presented to the Board by the Board of Directors at its meeting of 20 October 2011. The comparison with previous assessments (both in 2011 internal and external) shows high levels, constantly growing, of satisfaction by the • S trategy and investments Board about the conditions under which it carries out its mission. • Initial assessment of the partnership with the Schiphol Group • Risk management and internal control Special Committees • Approval of the company financial statements Three advisory committees contribute to the quality of the decisions taken by the • Remuneration of corporate officers Board of Directors: • Operation of the governing bodies The Audit Committee It examines the corporate and consolidated accounts. It regularly reviews the Group’s major risks with senior management. It ensures that risks are effectively tracked and that internal controls are monitored. It ensures the existence of a process for preparing and validating financial communication. In 2011, it met seven times with an attendance rate of 93%. The Strategy and Investments Committee It advises on the definition and implementation of the Aéroports de Paris Group’s business strategy, in particular as it concerns the diversification of operations, and regularly audits the actual results. It examines the internal and external growth plans made by the Company and its subsidiaries. In 2011, it met three times with an attendance rate of 94%. The Remuneration Committee It makes proposals on the amounts of and changes to the total remuneration of corporate officers. It advises on the remuneration policy for the Company’s senior executives. In 2011, it met twice with an attendance rate of 100%. 14 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Our Executive Committee Our values The Executive Committee Chaired by the Chairman and Chief ExeCorporate social responsibility (CSR) puts the principles of sustainable development cutive Officer, the Executive Committee meets weekly. It is responsible for the to work in the enterprise. It calls on companies to take their own initiatives to company’s strategic and operational improve society and protect the environment, in tandem with their stakeholders. management. It discusses all matters A proactive policy of sustainable development relating to its successful operation and ensures proper execution of the deciFor several years, we have been exercising our corporate social responsibility sions made. through a proactive policy of sustainable development to support our growth. This policy is based on the reduction of the environmental footprint of our operations, as well as on economic and social cooperation programs benefiting local communities, but also on our social responsibility towards our employees and the respect Three governance for the interests of our customers and suppliers. principles Our commitments 1 Improve performance in We conduct our policy in compliance with human rights and fundamental rights as line with ethical behaviour defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO). Since 2003, we have been and national and international signatories to the UN Global Compact. We also partnered, in 2008, with Transpastandards. rency International France, an NGO that focuses on the fight against corruption. In 2 Manage all risks for which the line with Grenelle Environnement (the French Environment Forum) recommendacompany is directly responsible. tions, we made seven commitments to reduce our climate footprint. More gene3 Report to stakeholders. rally, our approach follows the guidelines of ISO 26000, the CSR standard selected by our Environment and Sustainable Development division. Independent assessment From 2005 to 2010, our performance has been evaluated annually by an indeTransparency pendent, non-financial rating agency. Full-scale assessments alternated with parEvery year, we report on our sustainable tial assessments. From 2011, such evaluations will be conducted every two years, development activities in the Environmento allow us to properly implement actions needed to make progress. The ratings tal and Social Responsibility Report, prepaevaluate our performance in the areas of corporate governance, environmental red under the Global Reporting Initiative protection, respect for social commitments, human resource management and res(GRI) guidelines. Widely distributed to our pect for human rights, as well as our behaviour in the market. For the first time in stakeholders, this report is also made available on our website. 2010, non-financial ratings were assigned, by Vigeo, to all Group companies. The audit of Aéroports de Paris S.A. and its four main subsidiaries revealed a convincing commitment level (level 3) for the Group, in relation to environmental, social and governance factors. Leader on the Aspi Eurozone index® The UN Global Compact In 2011, as a result of an unsolicited rating, Aéroports de Paris S.A. became The Global Compact is a UN initiative the leader in the Transport & Logistics sector on the ASPI (Advanced Susthat lays out ten principles in the areas of tainable Performance Index) Eurozone®. This index includes the 120 best human rights, labour standards, environrated companies in the euro zone according to Vigeo, based on ethical, mental protection and anti-corruption. As social, environmental and governance criteria. a Global Compact signatory since 2003, we ensure that we abide by these principles. Each year, we provide proof of our compliance with these commitments by communicating about our best practices. Additional information For our best practices recognised by the UN, visit our website: www.aeroportsdeparis.fr («Group» tab, «Sustainable Development» section). Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 15 Governance 1.2 Putting CSR at the heart of our organisation A regional conference In December 2011, we organised at Paris oles and responsibilities R Charles de Gaulle the first regional conference on corporate social responsibility. of the divisions This event placed the issues of the CSR in Our corporate social responsibility policy is driven from the highest level of senior the context of European standardisation and noted its future role in corporate ramanagement. tings. A CSR club, which brings together A policy rolled out in all units Aéroports de Paris and large corporates The Group’s social responsibility policy is proposed by the Environment and Sustaiparticipating in the conference, suggested that the discussions be continued. We also nable Development division to the Executive Committee. This division, which also announced our partnership with Afnor manages the non-financial rating process, forms part of the Planning and Deveand the Ile-de-France Regional Developlopment activity cluster, whose Executive Director and Chief Development Officer ment Agency. is a member of the Executive Committee. The Audit and Internal Control division and the Security and Risk Management division ensure that all risks are covered Think Clubs and carry out all necessary checks and amendments. Sustainable development and To bring together airport stakeholders to exacorporate social responsibility policy is applied in all of the company’s functional mine economic, social and societal challenges, and operational activity clusters. we have organised business clubs on our three main sites. Validation and implementation of sustainable • A irport Player Clubs carry out partnership inidevelopment policy tiatives to promote and develop the airport area as a whole. • H RD Clubs are designed to bring HR executives together to focus on training, employment, employee quality of life, disability and Senior management new laws. and Executive Committee • E nvironment Partners Clubs bring together environment officers to discuss and share environmental best practices for eco-effi1 cient airports. Planning and Development 5 activity cluster 2 Environment and Sustainable Development division 3 1 Validation of CSR Policy 2 Scoping paper for planning All divisions 3 Definition and implementation of CSR Policy Horizontal Actions 4 Division reporting Implementation dashboards 4 5 Quarterly reporting to the Executive Services and operational Committee services Implementing the CSR policy: annual operational plans, horizontal 6 actionsopérationnels annuels, actions transversales 6 Self-assessment submitted to the Audit and Internal Control division Audit and Internal 6 Control division 16 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Contributions of divisions to the CSR policy Divisions CSR focus Key horizontal actions Main duties of with other divisions the Environment Airports’ divisions • Maintaining SME and SMI • Training and local initiatives and Sustainable certification Development Human Resources • Employment policy, human • Training in CSR, quality division and social rights, equal of service, CSR clauses opportunities, diversity, in outsourcing contracts, 1 Gain support for the health, and training and social actions for local development of airports in the communities Paris region. 2 Draw up the support agenda Customer • Quality of service and Service • Disseminating a customerfor environmental management satisfaction University centric culture across the entire Aéroports de Paris S.A. Group. Marketing, • Retailing relationships in • Customer satisfaction 3 Provide optimal management Retailing and terminals and respecting the surveys Communication customer for noise pollution aid financed by the tax on aircraft noise. Property • Services to business users in • Third-party environmental Development airports and environmental performance 4 Develop strategies that enable (Planning and quality of real estate assets local businesses and governments Development to benefit from the dynamism of activity cluster) Paris airports. 5 Help local communities in Engineering, • Environmental quality of • Monitoring the difficulty. Architecture and buildings and ethical practices environmental quality of Contracting for building tenders projects 6 Keep local residents informed. IT • Security and protection of • Energy savings, raising personal information awareness about IT security, and quality of service and innovation Regional units for sustainable development Innovation activity • Quality of service to • All projects cluster passengers in terminals The two regional units for sustainable development (one for Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget, and one for Paris-OrFinance and • Adherence to the Code • Economic and ly) propose guidelines for the economic and Administration of Conduct for Trading social cooperation, social cooperation policy and for relations activity cluster, and Market Activities, CSR communication about with regional authorities. They drive disincluding criteria in contracts, solidarity economic and social cussions among partnership structures and Purchasing division purchasing, and training responsibility, and local networks, and represent the company buyers implementation of the in dealings with local (public or private) purchasing policy stakeholders. Five horizontal activity Organisation of the Environment clusters and Sustainable Development division Five horizontal activity clusters handle specific The Environment and Sustainable Development division works through an environcampaigns to inform the stakeholders and mental and energy policy unit, two regional units for sustainable development and provide assistance to local residents, in synergy horizontal activity clusters. The environmental and energy policy unit oversees strategic with the regional units: directions in environmental and energy issues, monitors technical and regulatory spe• Trade, employment and training watches; cifications, and provides technical support to other divisions. The regional delegations • Management of communication to local and the horizontal activity clusters roll out the strategies for economic and social cooresidents; • Management of soundproofing aid for peration, solidarity and communication to local or regional stakeholders. local residents; • Partnership management; • Aéroports de Paris Foundation. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 17 Governance 1.3 Acting safely and reliably Business continuity Managed by the Security and Risk ManaInternal control and risk gement division, the company’s comprehensive policy for business continuity was management initiated in 2011. Its objective is to identify priorities and principles of implementation A comprehensive approach of business continuity solutions, covering Aéroports de Paris has a comprehensive approach to internal control and risk manaall divisions within the scope of Aéroports gement. This method is driven and coordinated by the Security and Risk Managede Paris S.A. This policy will be supported ment division and the Audit and Internal Control division. by a methodology guide for the divisions. Internal control and risk management are business control systems assisting in the management of the performance of the Group and its entities. Internal control aims Keep passengers informed to improve the efficiency of daily activities. Risk management allows for the prioritisaIn the event of traffic disruptions, the tion of major risks and ensures that they are managed at Group level. These systems airlines are responsible of informing and comprise a set of resources, behaviours, procedures and actions appropriate for the assisting the passengers. To support this characteristics of the Group and its entities. effort, we mobilise our employees and information tools: billboards, freephone The internal control guidelines for the Aéroports de Paris Group and the risk mananumber, alerts by email, text messages or gement standards were released in January 2010 and January 2011, respectively. via social networks. They show how these systems are organised: regulatory frameworks and internal standards, stakeholders, roles and responsibilities, and associated governance. The fleet of snow clearing Internal regulations vehicles The Aéroports de Paris S.A. internal regulations define the permanent rules of gene75 ral discipline and lay out the enforcement process for hygiene, health and safety. They include rules of ethics and specific rules specified in the procurement code of 2010 ethics, the code of ethics for trading and market activities, and the code of ethics for 2011 125 information security. +67% Simplified governance and professionalism In 2011, to optimise and simplify the governance of the risk management and inter41 nal control processes, we brought together within a single network the «risk ma2010 nagement» coordinators and «internal control» coordinators in all divisions of the 2011 60 company and the Group’s major subsidiaries. We also updated the job descriptions of these coordinators. Joint committees were further created: a Coordination Com+46% mittee that includes the coordinators and an Operations Committee at management Paris-Charles de Gaulle Paris-Orly level. The four awareness sessions on risk management and internal control systems were attended by more than 150 managers. Lessons learnt Following the exceptional snowfalls of the winter of 2010-2011, we reviewed our winter management model to improve its operational strength. We also established, on 1 July 2011, a Winter Sustainability activity cluster at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly airports. This activity cluster centralises all activities and resources dedicated to snow clearing and de-icing, in particular inventory management, operational monitoring of utilities consumed, purchasing of de-icing and snow clearing products. Winter Sustainability establishes appropriate rules, procedures and operating methods. We have invested about 60 million euros to be able to deal with harsh winters. This investment enabled us to purchase new de-icing and snow clearing equipment, to build new aircraft de-icing spaces and increase our storage capacity. With the help of the Human Resources division, many volunteers have been trained to intervene quickly. 18 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Transparency International France The risk management system The Risk Management and Prevention department in the Security and Risk ManageFirst signed in 2008, the partnership agreement between Aéroports de Paris and ment division is responsible for overseeing Transparency International France was renewed on 11 February 2011 for 2011 and this facility and intends to give all stake2012, and extended to cover Aéroports de Paris Management, ADPI, Alyzia Holding holders an accurate, collaborative and shaand Hub télécom. It focuses on ethics issues and the prevention of corruption risks. red global vision of risks and their level of The Aéroports de Paris SA’s first three year fraud-fighting programme for the period control, through: 2009-2011, managed by the Audit and Internal Control division, identified sensitive • a structured organisational framework areas. The extension of the partnership to cover the subsidiaries is an opportunity and a risk management policy; for the parent company to learn from their best practices. ADPI and Hub télécom • a risk management process based on an have already approved their action plans. Aéroports de Paris Management will «identification/analysis/risk» processing approve its plan during the first quarter of 2012. A presentation on «Protecting model; expatriate employees and the fight against corruption» will be given during the • continuous monitoring of the system. framework convention for expatriates to be held in Paris, in March 2012. The department is also responsible for the policy of crisis management and business continuity and policies regarding IT security, protection and prevention. Aéroports de Paris Management Assisted by Transparency International France, Aéroports de Paris ManaPrisme, a shared information gement conducted an internal ethics audit. This initiative allowed to intool form headquarters employees about the related risks, while emphasising Since 2010, we have been developing the importance given to this matter by senior management. In particular, Prisme, a GRC (governance-risk-compliance) the audit resulted in the drafting of a code of ethics. In 2012, this code system managed by the Audit and Internal will be included in the internal regulations and will be widely distributed Control division. This shared information to employees. To ensure its sustainability, Aéroports de Paris Managesystem will gradually bring together, in a ment scheduled dedicated training and awareness activities. practical manner and on a single medium, all the data that needs to be managed: risk ADPI maps and information sheets, associated control elements, action plans, monitoADPI has just completed its draft ethics charter. In 2012, the company ring records of compliance with regulatory will formalise its procurement and outsourcing management processes. requirements and events impacting the It will also organise awareness sessions for its staff. At the same time, Group’s business. ADPI is also pursuing its CSR policy. In this respect, in 2011 it launched an initiative in favour of professional equality between men and women and also established a skill management process. Improved legal watch In 2012, Prisme will be connected to the new Hub télécom regulatory watch system for environment, health and occupational safety, which was In accordance with its action plan approved in 2011, in 2012 this subsiimplemented in 2011 by the Environment diary will develop a code of good behaviour and will formalise its procuand Sustainable Development division and the rement and outsourcing management processes. For several years now, Human Resources division. Hub télécom has been conducting a proactive policy for environmental responsibility with the strong involvement of employees. It designs products that promote the reduction of energy consumption and the carbon footprints of its customers. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 19 Social Encouraging 2. professional development 20 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Contents 2.1 Motivating our employees 22 Observations by Catherine Benet, Human Resources Director of Aéroports de Paris 2.2 Respecting equal opportunities 25 Appointed Human Resources Director of Aéroports de Paris in 2011, 2.3 Ensuring employee health Catherine Benet has set ambitious goals for her programme. She aims and quality of life 26 to boost professionalism and to cultivate a service-focused culture while maintaining balanced labour relationships. Between 2006 and 2010 we implemented a new human resources policy to support our changing corporate culture and the extensive restructuring that these changes entailed. We hope to continue growing even in a difficult economic situation by relying on the quality of our services and the professionalism of our employees. In 2011, I gave priority to the employment policy in order to spur employees’ interest in internal mobility, which makes it possible for the company’s resources to continuously adapt and respond to the Group’s needs. A major initiative was carried out in order to make the mobility management tools created during the past ten years easier to read and use. We believe that employees will now be better guided as they proceed down their career path and will more clearly see the benefits of mobility for their careers and continued skills and expertise. At the same time, we will be able to gradually refresh our workforce over time thanks to the incubators we have established to cultivate young talent destined for certain sectors within the Company. Additional 2012 will be a year of restructuring for our division. Our objective is to rearrange information roles and responsibilities to adopt a project-based management system. This new organisational system will be more efficient and will ensure that our action plans are compatible with our strategic objectives and values. One centre will be assigned to promote our labour commitments, particularly in relation to quality of life at work, diversity and equal opportunities. In this last regard, we will work especially hard to continue the actions taken in favour of gender equality and women’s access to managerial positions. A multidisciplinary Organisational Change activity cluster For more information, will help entities adapt their organisational structure. A Managerial Development please see the section entitled activity cluster will respond to our managers’ desire to receive support from the Human Resources division in order to develop their managerial skills. There is still «Group – Human resources» a lot of work to be done to promote and encourage this type of mobility and to on our website, provide more individualised support for our employees. www.aeroportsdeparis.fr Aéroports de Paris Rapport de responsabilité sociétale d’entreprise 2011 21 Social 2.1 Motivating our employees 2011 goals and progress We will achieve the goals set under our five-year strategic plan thanks to the men and women of the company. Our social policy stimulates individual and collective Quality of employment conditions empowerment within balanced labour relationships. This balance is based on respect Objectivity and transparency of for diversity, equal opportunities, health and quality of life at work. We spread these remuneration schemes values of corporate social responsibility throughout the Group and also with our Managing jobs and skills stakeholders. Quality of job management Skills development and employability M  anaging changes in employment Quality of working conditions Protecting health and safety and jobs Organising work time carefully The Human Resources division Professional and social Our Human Resources division operates at the Group level. A Human Resources relations Committee lays down common Group directions for Aéroports de Paris SA and its Promoting employee participation subsidiaries. A Group Committee presents the company’s strategic directions to partners. Promoting social dialogue and collective bargaining The Human Resources division makes sure that human and social rights are respected within the group and under the contracts it signs with third parties. In 2011, it drew Non discrimination up a set of social responsibility clauses to be included in the tenders it issues and the Preventing discrimination contracts it signs with suppliers and contractors. It works to disseminate a customerand promoting gender equality centric culture throughout the corporation and contributes to the regional economic Preventing discrimination and and social cooperation activities of Aéroports de Paris. promoting equal opportunities for vulnerable groups Managing jobs and skills Respect for fundamental We rely on a dedicated jobs and skills management system (GPEC) to oversee emhuman rights ployment policies. The GPEC is used to anticipate changes in employment and jobs. It enables employees to adapt to changes and determine their future career path. In This roadmap shows progress points over 2011 we entered into negotiations with our social partners, in accordance with the the medium term (2011-2015). French law on planning for social cohesion, in order to organise a dynamic employStarting On-going ment management system in conjunction with the predictions from the jobs analyses. Advanced Attained Redeployment of employees As part of the strategic directions for the 2011-2015 period, we reorganised our Property Management division. The social aspect of this reorganisation was agreed on with our social partners in 2010. In 2011, out of the 179 employees affected by this reorganisation, 82 were assigned to modified positions or to positions created within the Property Management division; 60 employees were redeployed to other departments. The second economic regulation contract (2011-2015) provides for a 2% average reduction in staff per year within the parent company, until 2015. Incubators to cultivate new talent In order to fill positions that require rare skills, several years ago we created an incubator system for young managers coming from prestigious universities or having specialised master’s degrees. These young graduates, hired under long-term contracts, come face-to-face with various corporate issues. We are working on a project to develop an external incubator system for maintenance technicians made up of our best apprentices. 22 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Careers and mobility Social survey Each year, our employees are asked to share their perception of the company Using mobility to invigorate the company as part of an anonymous poll run by an Our company adheres to a hiring control policy and encourages internal mobility. outside firm. The results of this poll are Mobility opens doors to rewarding careers while making it possible for the compaused to draw up the social survey, which ny’s resources to continuously adapt and respond to the Group’s needs The Career is presented to employees during the Mobility activity cluster advises, guides and supports employees as they follow their first quarter of the subsequent year. In career paths. The Mobility Committee helps by pooling needs and employee career 2011, the survey included a question on plans. Since 2011, we have been enhancing the methods used to encourage profespsychosocial risks. This survey helps managers improve internal communication and sional mobility, such as the “mobility spaces” for managers. These spaces aim to help identify actions to foster a positive social managers identify gateways between jobs. climate. Motivating managers Our Managers project, which took effect in January 2011, recognises manager perEmployment figures formance and provides tools to motivate managers. This project includes a system for Workforce (Group) (1) 9,092 setting clear, measurable, individual goals, a new method for managing professional development, a dynamic remuneration scheme and a flexible promotion plan. Hiring Developing career plans Manager incubators 14 The cornerstone of the professional development system is the professional appraisal Apprentice and work-study 83 meeting, which takes place between managers and their employees. For managers, contracts the documentation for this appraisal has been computerised. This computer system Education and training will be expanded to non-managers between 2012 and 2013. People trained 6,114 Hours of training given 215,095 Training as a tool for progress Investment in continuing education (in thousands of euros) 21.2 Our employees receive collective training that focuses on the company’s corporate (1) New scope: excludes group handling strategy: corporate social responsibility (CSR) thus forms part of several training companies and commercial joint ventures. modules. The customer relations development program – customer relations being the number one priority in the Group’s 2011-2015 strategic plan – is managed by our new Service University. Individual professional training may be accompanied by role-playing scenarios as part of a mobility plan. Managers Managers act as relays for HR policy in the company’s various divisions while drawing on the support of their local human resources department. They set the objectives for their units in terms of their workforce, develop skills and help employees make their career goals a reality. They disseminate corporate culture and help prevent risks. They are given training in order to equip them to perform these duties. Managers are educated on the human values embodied in the company’s social policy. A career mobility website Employees have access to a website dedicated to career mobility, where they can consult job openings within the Group. This website maps out the various jobs and their corresponding descriptions and provides recommendations and tools to enable employees to play an active role in determining their career path. It also informs them of the resources at their disposal (training, skills review, workshops, resumes, etc.). Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 23 Aéroports de Paris SA data R  ecognising contributions 2011 profit sharing (in thousands of euros) 14,052 and skills Average gross premium (in euros) 2,113 Our wage policy aims to reward the contributions made by our employees. The Participation 2011 Group is offering interesting remuneration packages with very good health insu15,034 (in thousands of euros) rance/ retirement benefits. Average gross premium (in euros) 2,261 Fair compensation Diversified employee The new compensation system for managers, launched on 1 January 2011, accounts savings at 31/12/11 71,315 for the quality of the manager’s contribution as well as skill development. The va(in thousands of euros) riable portion of this compensation, which depends on the extent to which targets Number of investors 8,838 were met, is being gradually increased over time. Pursuant to the agreement on Employee shareholding gender equality, the wage gap analysis has made it possible to reduce major gaps. at 31/12/11 81,308 These measures will continue, if necessary, once the situation has been re-evaluated. (in thousands of euros) A wage agreement signed in late 2010 approved a company-wide wage increase Number of investors 6,188 of 1.6% as of 1 January 2011 and the payment of a non-renewable bonus for employees at the top of the pay scale. 72% of Aéroports de Paris employees Profit-sharing linked to sustainable development are shareholders via the Aéroparts fund. For financial year 2011, Aéroports de Paris SA paid its seventh share-holding preThese employees owned a 1.61% equity mium and its 24th incentive bonus. The profit-sharing agreement applies three sishare in 2011. milarly-weighted criteria: business performance, customer satisfaction and energy consumption. Marker In 2011, the energy conservation goal under A five year outlook for employee savings the profit-sharing agreement was surpassed: All employees are entitled to a Group savings plan (PEG) and a retirement savings -2.3% drop in 2011 in relation to 2010, plan under the collective Group pension plan (PERCOG). In 2011, the scale for contriversus a goal of -1.7%. butions paid into the Aéroparts fund under the PEG and into the PERCOG funds was established for a period of five years. Pursuant to the law reforming the retirement pension system, 50% of the share-holding premium will be invested, by default, in the PEG and unavailable for five years, and the other 50% will be invested in the PERCOG and unavailable until retirement. Solidarity investment fund Aéroports de Paris selected a corporate mutual fund (Amundi Label Actions Solidaire) in 2009. The socially supportive part of the fund is invested in the investment company France Active that finances projects for the environment, integration and fighting social exclusion. This fund is known as a socially responsible investment (SRI). Inspiring creativity Our employees submit around 50 innovative proposals each year through two participatory innovation efforts – Innov’idées et Innov’équipes. The best proposals are implemented and presented at the special initiative day. In 2011, two teams from Paris-Charles de Gaulle won the prize for the best proposals: the first for a computer tool designed to aid in feasibility studies and to track work activities in the terminals, and the second for a more efficient remote display system for baggage sorting. Two employees presented a proposal to equip boarding bridges with an additional control screen to improve safety during manoeuvres. 24 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Social 2.2 Respecting equal opportunities Our corporate agreements and proactive policy require that we promote social and Sheltered sector gender diversity and equal professional opportunities among our employees. As In November 2011, we participated in the the Group is a signatory to the Global Compact, we fight against discrimination. first conference on the sheltered sectors. We have a dozen partnerships in place  ender equality, disabilities, G with sheltered workshops in France. These establishments provide services such as senior employees maintaining green spaces, cleaning light vehicles and special equipment, maintaining the beacon lights or distributing Communicating our values internally mail. We pay special attention to informing all divisions and employees of our commitments. Employees are kept informed through internal media and publications, Job equality for men during seminars or at national events. Our managers, staff representatives and the and women network of human resources correspondents attend special training sessions. 33% Gender equality 2010 In December 2010 we signed our third agreement on gender equality (2011-2013). In doing so, we agreed to promote diversity, to mobilise corporate players and to 2011 38.2% aim for an optimum work/family balance. Two key goals in the agreement are to facilitate access to managerial positions and ensure equal pay for women. Thus, 32% since 2011, the Human Resources division of Aéroports de Paris has been led by 2010 a woman who sits on the Executive Committee. The main wage gaps identified 2011 32.8% between men and women were reduced by an annual amount of €350,000 in 2010 and 2011. Each year, an audit is carried out to determine whether the equal pay 3.8% policy has been upheld. A booklet to raise awareness was distributed to managers 2010 and employees. Training modules related to diversity have been thoroughly revised and will be deployed in 2012. 2011 6.2% Disabled workers Women recruited by open-term contract Disability contact people and the Disability team serve as special, dedicated points Women Executives and Supervisors of contact for disabled workers. The seventh agreement on jobs for people with Women promoted disabilities (2010-2012) was signed in January 2010. This agreement establishes a required minimum percentage of disabled workers, assistance for disabled emDisabled workers hired ployees or those who have a disabled dependent and increased purchasing from relevant sheltered sectors. We signed an agreement with the National Union of Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA Sheltered Workshops. Every year, since 2009, we have organised a Handicafé du2011 2010-2012 ring the Week for the Employment of People with Disabilities and participating in 11 forums on this issue. Long-term contracts 4 (minimum) Senior employees Assisted / fixed term 4 20 The 2010-2012 corporate agreement on seniors’ jobs and job retention guarantees contracts the right for older employees to continue to serve in a motivating occupation, for Work-study contracts 1 9 example, through the development of mentoring programs. Under this agreement, their experience can be leveraged while guaranteeing them access to training. The Interns 5 15 company is committed to a recruitment rate of 4% for the term of agreement. End Sheltered workshops of career support measures, including part-time work, timetable adjustments and 328 (in thousands of euros) aid for pension buy-back have been implemented. Diversity Senior employees 2010-2011 A diversity audit was carried out in late 2009/early 2010 by the IMS Entreprendre pour la Cite association at the request of Aéroports de Paris SA. The priority actions Hiring rate (%) 4.3 identified in 2010 will serve as the basis when defining the diversity policy. Part-time 24 Timetable adjustments 25 Training (%) 80.5 Cases of pension buy-back 5 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 25 Social 2.3 Ensuring employee health and quality of life A new tool for monitoring Our workplace health and safety policy is based on prevention and the notion that regulatory affairs work should be adapted to the worker. Our 2011 annual plan for the prevention of occupational risks draws on the 2010-2014 Health at Work plan (Plan santé au In 2011 Aéroports de Paris acquired a new tool for monitoring regulatory affairs, as travail) of the French Ministry of Employment and Health and on the regulatory proregards occupational health and safety. This visions applicable to work hardship. We anticipated these lines of action beginning tool will be integrated in the Prisme risk in 2009 and continued our efforts in 2010 and 2011. Communications are issued management tool in 2012. periodically under the prevention policy. A booklet was provided to the employees of Aéroports de Paris SA in 2009. Expatriates Group expatriates and French staff working overseas are covered by a special protection Our organisation and programme scheme that permanently monitors security conditions in countries where they are Organisation visitors or residents. This real-time alert sysEight committees on health, safety and working conditions (CHSCT) are spread tem was upgraded in 2011 Specific audits over 20 Aéroports de Paris sites, and 20 safety officers have been assigned to were carried out in the countries where the operating and functional divisions. A multidisciplinary medical and technical Group has permanent sites. Expatriates and commission brings together the work of doctors and the officers specialising in French staff working overseas have access occupational hazard prevention under the leadership of the Director of Human to an intranet site and are given safety awareness training. Resources. This commission decides on additional areas of study to support the annual prevention plan. Markers An eight point action plan for 2011 • C ESU: 975 beneficiaries in 2011, including Our 2011 action plan focused on the prevention of psychosocial risks, the risk 21 disabled workers (employees or of falls to the ground and road risks, on concurrent activities, on the prevention spouses) and 12 children with disabilities. of chemical risks, on exposure traceability, on regulatory compliance and on the • 4 0 automatic defibrillators were installed deployment of automatic defibrillators. at the three airports. Conventional risks Technical risks In 2011 we completed our efforts to track the risk of asbestos at the three airports. Traceability procedures for chemical risks have been operational since 2009, while traceability procedures for exposure to asbestos, noise, vibrations and ionising radiation were implemented in 2011. Staff are made aware of the new labelling of chemicals to protect them from the risks of carcinogens, mutagens and reprotoxic agents (CMRs). A plan to implement alternatives to CMRs is currently being drawn up. Work hardship In 2011, the Human Resources division led a study for the prevention of work hardship. The hardship audit, which will identify “difficult” jobs and the personnel concerned, is currently under way. An agreement on work hardship prevention is being negotiated with our social partners and is expected to be signed in 2012. This agreement, which will essentially be a plan of action, will include the measures already taken to prevent occupational hazards or other corporate agreements, such as the agreement on seniors’ jobs and the agreement on gender equality. Partners and third parties Aéroports de Paris has drawn up prevention plans with airline service providers in regard to baggage sorting and handling operations. Meetings between the various parties involved are held on a quarterly basis. Prevention plans are updated on a yearly basis. 26 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Pedestrian and road traffic Rate of accidents at work Over half of the workplace accidents that occur within the Group are caused by falls to the ground and on stairways. Preventative signage has been installed at all Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA of our sites. The analysis of pedestrian routes continued in 2011. A third campaign to raise awareness about road risks has been organised. The company plans to 151 develop an internal policy for road accident prevention and to pinpoint the “black 2010 spots” on the roadways of the three airports in 2012. 2011 114 Psychosocial risks 14.6 Steps taken towards a prevention agreement 2010 An interdisciplinary alert network was tasked with detecting psychosocial risks. It consists of physicians, the social department, managers and CHSCT representa2011 11.1 tives. In 2011, a joint prevention group worked on a shared diagnosis. This diagnosis will lead to the signing of an agreement on psychosocial risk prevention in 2012. Consequently, the agreement on methods for preventing psychosocial risks, signed 1 with trade union organisations in 2011 and valid for a 12 month period, has been 2010 extended. A working group has also been assigned to define a method for assessing psychosocial risks so that they can be included in the annual risk assessment. 2011 0.6 The first assessment of these risks will take place in 2012. Day-to-day AT (accidents at work) In 2010, internal and external mediators were appointed and tasked with the folTF (frequency) TG (severity) lowing: 2011 figures indicate a clear drop • Starting dialogue and seeking compromises; in accidents at work. • Alerting the Human Resources division of any collective malaise, deterioration of the social climate or problems arising from organisational change. In 2011, a resource group was created to handle individual situations. An awareMarkers ness-raising seminar was held for managers. Training modules on psychosocial risks • A éroports de Paris is a member of a network are currently being developed. of large companies, moderated by ANACT to discuss experiences of psychosocial risk. Quality of life and health • P aris-Charles de Gaulle is OHSAS 18001 certified (occupational health and safety). This certification was renewed until April Work-life balance 2014. Our employees can take advantage of the Cheque Emploi Service Universel (CESU) programme as per the conditions set forth in the agreements on gender equality and the employment of disabled people. These cheques are awarded to pay for services for young children, home help services, extracurricular activities and disability support. In 2011, the company’s participation in the CESU programme increased by 53%. Additional aid is provided to people with disabilities to adapt their homes and vehicles or to finance a different method of transport. Two inter-company nurseries have been available to employees since 2006 and 2009, respectively, at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. Health and safety In 2011, the Health Protection Committee distributed a booklet to employees encouraging them to regularly drink water to stay in good health. The Committee’s intranet site provides nutrition, hygiene and fitness advice. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 27 Environment Our commitment 3. to preserving the environment Cleaning the rainwater retention pond at Paris-Charles de Gaulle 28 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Contents 3.1 Working towards our commitments 30 Franck Goldnadel, Managing Director at Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport, talks to us 3.2 Reducing our energy footprint 32 Managing Director at Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport, Franck Goldnadel presents our latest projects, which will reduce our greenhouse gas 3.3 Controlling our emissions 35 emissions and improve the management of rainwater. 3.4 Monitoring air quality In 2008 we made a commitment to launch a programme to install renewable energy and noise pollution 37 facilities at our airports. This decision was part of our strategy to control our activities’ CO2 emissions and formed part of the Grenelle Environment Plan. The first facility to 3.5 Protecting the natural environment 38 be installed was a geothermal power plant at Paris-Orly, which was commissioned in 2011. This year we launched the construction of a biomass plant at Paris-Charles de 3.6 Supporting our airports’ Gaulle which will supply 25% of the airport’s heat requirements. Fuelled by waste from partners 41 forestry activity around the site, it is expected to be put into service during 2012. This new facility will reduce CO2 emissions by 18,000 tonnes annually. Our actions in the field of energy are clearly not limited to the production of renewable energy. We implement a high environmental quality approach to our building and renovation activities, which includes criteria for energy consumption. As an example, let’s look at satellite 4, which is scheduled to open at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in 2012. This terminal will have a very efficient shell and will be heated and air-conditioned using a thermo-frigo pump which can simultaneously produce heat and cold using electricity, and has an excellent performance. Additional In a completely different area, we have carried out a major study on rainwater information management. We want to make further progress in controlling what we call the treatment of winter pollution, linked to the use of products on aircraft and runways during cold spells. In 2011 we saw improvement plans being put into operation, which will be continued in 2012. These actions fit well into our environmental management system, based on continual improvement in controlling and reducing our impact. Our airport has been ISO 14001 certified for several years and we have integrated systems for managing For more information, quality, environment, health and safety at work into a single system. This Integrated see under «Group Sustainable Management System (IMS) was certified in 2010 and again in 2011. development» on our website, www.aeroportsdeparis.fr Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 29 Environment 3.1 Working towards our commitments Targets and progress 2011 Striving for efficiency Energy efficiency – HEQ ® Our ambition is to excel in the environmental management of impacts from our Design/construction of new buildings activities. Our 2011-2015 strategic plan sets out the Group’s target of becoming the Rehabilitation of existing buildings European benchmark in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility Carbon (CO2) footprint in its business segment. Renewable energy Our commitments Implementation of renewable energy In line with Grenelle Environment (the French Environment Forum) recommendaproduction systems tions, we made seven commitments to reduce our climate footprint. In accordance Purchases of renewable energy with the agreement signed in 2008 by the aviation operators, these commitments are subject to an annual report sent to the French Civil Aviation Authority (DGAC). Transportation Concrete results Action in the Company and Inter-company Business In 2011, a geothermal power plant was commissioned at Paris-Orly airport and Commuting plan construction work was started on a biomass boiler at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. We also signed an agreement for the purchase of around 200 electric vehicles between Waste now and 2015, as part of a joint scheme led by La Poste. Internal energy consumpRecycling general waste tion per passenger in 2011 was 20% lower than in 2004. The introduction of local Recycling organic waste management of departures, in early 2011, led to a reduction in aircraft taxiing time at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. In November 2010, our Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Sorting passenger waste Gaulle sites received Level 2 Airport Carbon Accreditation, recognising the effective Water knowledge and management of our greenhouse gas emissions. Certified by an indeReducing drinking water consumption pendent auditor, this accreditation was renewed in 2011. Biodiversity A new environmental policy Reducing the use of pesticides In 2011 we updated our environmental policy. A general policy will be developed further according to themes: water, air and emissions, waste, biodiversity and energy. Biodiversity action plan It will consider each of the objectives laid down in the 2011-2015 strategic plan and This roadmap shows progress points over incorporate the items in the second economic regulation contract. the medium term (2011-2015). Starting On-going Environmental Policy Advanced Attained Engagement Déploiement Application of existing best practices; Systematic factoring in of compliance with regulations and additional the environment within our corporate commitments in a spirit of activities continuous improvement Reduce energy consumption, improve Act as a responsible player in transport methods around the airport, controlling local emissions construct HEQ® buildings Earmark the requisite technical and human Prevent the risk of collective resources; involve employees, businesses and pollution regional partners Promote its values Communicate transparently on environmental and share best practices impacts, support actions for environmental with environmental partners management by all other players in the airport and local stakeholders hubs 30 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 A tailored organisation With the support of a network of Environment Officers across the Group, the Environment and Sustainable Development Division provides transversal management The seven of environmental policy. It undertakes an annual performance review and produces commitments a dashboard showing the results, based on eight environmental indicators, and which is presented to the Executive Committee every quarter. The Sustainable Deof the Grenelle velopment Steering Committee, created in late 2010 as a result of the merger of Environment the Energy Steering Committee and the Climate Plan Monitoring Committee, is the decision-making body on environmental policy matters. Forum 1 Lower aircraft average taxiing In 2011, the Environment and Sustainable Development Division undertook an intime by 10% at Paris-Charles depth review of its tool for monitoring regulations, which will be incorporated de Gaulle airport by 2015, in into the ‘Prisme’ Group risk management tool during 2012 in order to improve association with other stakeholders monitoring of regulatory compliance and to centralise corporate action plans. involved. 2 Apply a high environmental O  ur environmental management quality approach to new construction projects. systems are certified 3 Reduce the company’s internal energy consumption by Management certified by third parties 20% per passenger between 2004 The environmental management systems (EMS) of the Paris-Orly, Paris-Charles de and 2020. Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget airports, as well as the heliport at Issy-les-Moulineaux, 4 Launch a renewable energy are certified and comply with the ISO 14001 standard. This global standard is based installation programme. on a system of continuous performance improvement on which the effectiveness 5 Reduce CO2/km emissions by of the system depends. 30% in the light vehicle fleet by The integrated management system at Paris-Charles de Gaulle (based on com2012. pliance with quality management standard ISO 9001, management of health and 6 Contribute, in partnership safety at work standard OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001) had its certification rewith airlines to limiting the use of newed in March 2011. This approach is also being applied at Paris-Orly, where an auxiliary power units for aircraft. initial analysis was carried out in 2011. The aim is to achieve IMS certification at 7 Promote carpooling among Paris-Orly before the end of 2012. The ISO 14001 certifications at Paris-Orly, Parispeople working in Paris airports. Le Bourget and the Issy-les-Moulineaux heliport were renewed in 2011. In order to be lasting, these processes require the commitment of all employees at every level in the Company. Communication, training, awareness Aéroports de Paris We use a number of internal environmental communication tools: a quarterly eManagement Expertise newsletter, a bimonthly technical environment watch bulletin and a system of elecThanks to the support of Aéroports de tronic document management. We are systematically training all employees who Paris Management, the operators of the are called upon to operate in environmental areas. In 2011, we developed a new airports in Amman (Jordan), Algiers (Algetraining programme which will be introduced in 2012. In addition, we organise ria) and the 13 Mexican airports operated by Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte awareness-training days for new hires, both management and non-management, (OMA) had their Management System cerand for all current employees. Two and a half days were organised in 2011 on the tifications renewed in 2011. themes of the environment and corporate social responsibility (CSR) and a booklet promoting awareness of IMS was distributed to all employees at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. We also ask our partners and employment agencies to sign our environmental awareness guidelines for temporary staff. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 31 Environment 3.2 Reducing our energy footprint Internal energy consumption (en GWhep) Ambitious targets 1,015 Our 2011-2015 strategic plan sets out a target of a 12.46% reduction in primary 2009 internal energy consumption per square meter of building between 2009 and 2015, 1,043 being an average 2.2% improvement per year in energy efficiency. It aims to provide 2010 2011 961 15% of our final internal consumption from renewable energy sources by 2015. The overall objective is to reduce our CO2 emissions by a quarter between 2009 and 2015. In accordance with this, the Energy pole of the Environment and Sustainable 279 Development Division is developing a new energy policy, based on the ISO 50001 2009 281 energy management standard published in June 2011. This pole is steering the appli2010 cation of the energy policy across the Company. 2011 290 Paris-Charles de Gaulle Increasing our production of Paris-Orly renewable energy Share of renewable A geothermal power plant and a wood-fired boiler There are a number of renewable energy production systems currently in place, under energy in our final internal construction or in test phase on our sites. The geothermal power plant commisconsumption (%) sioned in early 2011 at Paris-Orly will eventually produce all the heat required for Scope: Aéroports de Paris the terminals. The only installation of its kind in France, and which reduces annual CO2 emissions by 9,000 tonnes, it was awarded the Essonne Environnement prize (energy/climate category) by the Essonne Chamber of Commerce and Industry in 1.06 October 2011. In 2012, we will put a high-performance thermo-frigo pump system 2009 into service at Paris-Charles de Gaulle for heating and cooling the future satellite 4, 1.03 2010 as well as a biomass plant whose construction was started in 2011. 2011 3.86 Solar energy Several facilities use solar power. At Paris-Orly, the roof of the inter-company restaurant is equipped with thermal solar panels. Measuring 72 m2, this system can heat 4,000 litres of water and represents an annual electricity saving of approximately 30,000 kWh. In 2011, we installed stand-alone lighting equipped with wind turbines Existing thermo-frigo electric plant housing two wood-fired boilers Paris-Charles de Gaulle introduces wood-powered energy To reduce the carbon footprint at ParisCharles de Gaulle, we are installing a woodfired boiler on the site of the thermo-frigo electric plant, which is expected to enter service in Autumn 2012. With a 7 MWth capacity, the two new boilers will be fuelled by wood chips coming, for the most part, < 50 km from forests located within 50km of the Wood conveyors airport. Consuming 40,000 tonnes of wood per year, the boiler will reduce CO2 emissions by 18,000 tonnes per year. By 2013 this New wood storage installation is expected to produce 25% of building the site’s heat requirements. 32 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Stand-alone lighting installed at Orlytech and photovoltaic solar panels along the walkway linking Orlytech to the neighbou«Greener» computers ring RER train station. A thermodynamic solar water heater was installed at Paris-Le The IT department is starting to roll out Bourget at the end of 2011 to provide hot water for the fire station. a new range of IT terminals using four times less electricity than traditional comProjects puters. Data are stored on a single server To diversify our energy provision sources even further, we are investigating the possishared with other users. This shared stobility of increasing our renewable energy production installations. A number of prorage reduces unnecessary consumption. All jects are being studied: biogas production and the installation of photovoltaic panels computers now have an optimised system to supply the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre at Paris-Charles de for putting them in sleep mode, which is Gaulle. expected to save 2,000 hours of electricity per day. Reducing our energy consumption Designing tomorrow’s towns Reducing our carbon footprint also means reducing our energy consumption. We have Aéroports de Paris has joined forces with set ourselves the goal of reducing our internal energy consumption by 2.2% per square the competitiveness pole, Advancity. This meter per year. We have already achieved other goals, such as the gradual replacement pole brings together 192 companies of all of lighting systems in terminals by high performance lamps and the automatic switsizes and more than 200 research facilities ching off of IT equipment after use. to favour the creation of research projects on sustainable towns. Research will cover Tests in terminals projects in areas as diverse as mobility, In 2011 we tested two energy-efficient initiatives at Paris-Orly. At Orly West, display waste methanisation, building insulation screens switch off automatically when there are no longer any passengers in the airand managing waste water networks. In port. This practice will gradually be extended to other terminals. At Orly South, a new three years, Advancity has identified 270 projects, of which more than 105 have computer system for controlling the baggage handling facility could lead to a reduction received financing investment for research of 35% in the installation’s electricity consumption. The baggage belt no longer moves and development amounting to €230 milcontinually but starts as soon as a piece of luggage is placed on it and stops after the lion. last piece of luggage is removed. This system could be used with future baggage handling facilities. A tight regulatory framework The Climate Energy Package adopted in December 2008 requires the 27 member states of the European Union to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, through measures to ensure that an average of 20% of their consumption comes from renewable energy sources and by improving energy efficiency by 20%. In France these tarWood gets have been written into the Grenelle laws Boiler storage and the multi-year investment programming (PPI) which has set the renewable energy target for 2020 at 23%. Revised in 2007, the directive on energy efficiency in buildings stipulates that energy consumption of office and residential buildings should be reduced by 38% by 2020. Ash disposal Smoke treatment Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 33 EU embassy in Tokyo In November 2011, the building housing A  dopting a high environmental the European Commission delegation in quality approach Tokyo was inaugurated. Designed and built by ADPI, Europa House complies with the As architects and planners we build and renovate our buildings according to a Japanese Comprehensive Assessment Sysdemanding approach in compliance with High Environmental Quality and LEB guitem for Building Environmental Efficiency (Casbee) standard. delines. We implemented new thermal regulations (RT 2012) early in our most recent projects, applicable since 28 October 2011. These regulations apply to new office buildings. They take up the levels set by the LEB Effinergie® seal of approval, A shopping and sustainable by limiting primary energy consumption to 50 kWhep/m2per year, being between services centre three and five times less than the level recommended by the previous regulations. The Aéroville shopping and leisure centre under construction at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Satellite 4, a giant in high environmental quality will open in late 2013. It will have 100,000 m2 Satellite 4, housing the future departure lounges for terminal 2E at Paris-Charles of shops, a hypermarket and restaurants. The de Gaulle, will be delivered in 2012 and will cover 100,000 m2. It was designed project incorporated energy saving, water in accordance with the high environmental quality (HEQ®) approach. Called upon consumption and waste recycling methods. Its to be a reference, it was subject to a pilot HEQ® audit in 2010. In order to reduce designer is also conducting a feasibility study into geothermal heating. Aéroville is aiming energy consumption, its features include a very efficient shell and innovative enerfor Breeam certification, the British equivalent gy-saving systems. In total, Satellite 4 is expected to consume 30% less energy than of High Environmental Quality certification. the average of the existing terminals. A HEQ® freight terminal Training The new freight terminal, GB3, on the Paris-Charles de Gaulle site, will enter service The Engineering and Architecture Division in September 2012. It will comprise nearly 14,000 m2 of warehousing and 4,000 m2 organises regular training sessions devoted to of offices. After the construction of terminal GB2 in 2008, which enabled HEQ® stanLEB design and very low energy consumption dards to be developed for the logistics sector, this new building will be HEQ® certified renovation. Ten training and awareness sesand its offices LEB certified. sions took place in 2011. With Schiphol Group As a result of the partnership between Schiphol Group and Aéroports de Paris, the Altaï office building in the Roissypole business district will be inaugurated in June 2012. This 12,500 m2 HEQ® building will only consume 65 kWh/m2per year, which qualifies it for the Effinergie®LEB label. This performance requirement is set down in the project specifications given to the architect and construction company chosen by Schiphol Group and Aéroports de Paris. A works council clad in wood The new works council building at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, which opened in June 2011, is a first. The decision to construct a wooden building enabled a negligible carbon footprint to be achieved, together with minimal environmental pollution and generation of waste on site (panels and frames partially prefabricated). The majority of the products used are recyclable. Energy efficiency takes pride of place. The heating and air conditioning system is provided by a reversible heat pump and an underfloor heating/ cooling system. Combined with a high performance shell, this installation cuts energy consumption in half. The planted terraces drain rainwater and increase the sound insulation. This building is the first service building built by Aéroports de Paris that is entirely HEQ® certified. 34 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Environment 3.3 Controlling our emissions Encouraging low-pollution travel In order to help employees manage their travel better and reduce the environmental impact of their transport, we set up a corporate travel plan (PDE) in 2005. Our most recent travel barometer shows that 81% of employees favour private car for their home-work journeys, a figure which has fallen four points since 2010. Around 11% of employees use public transport, 2% use carpooling and 6% an alternative means of transport. IT to the rescue To reduce the need for travel during the workday we have introduced a network of 33 video conference rooms and six self-service office spaces. Since 2010 we Mobility meetings have installed more than 1,200 computer workstations equipped with the MOCS In association with 26 partners, we held communication tool, enabling audio and video conferencing and online sharing of the fourth European Mobility and Road documents with one or more participants. Our Intranet site has a «Transport and Safety Week from 16-22 September 2011 journeys» tab which gathers together public transport information for all sites. around 30 hosts were present on 54 stands in 13 entertainment areas. They raised the A three year action plan awareness of nearly 15,000 employees of To make the PDE more attractive, in 2010 we created a new three year action plan. the Paris-Le Bourget, Paris-Orly and ParisThis aims to increase the attractiveness of public transport, to reduce the number of Charles de Gaulle airports to the climatic journeys that need to be made and to ensure that car use is carefully thought out. impact of transport, the challenges of It also suggests solutions adapted to the diversity of demand. Eleven action points road safety and responsible behaviour. A competition was organised, as well as a have been defined, including revising the «Transport and journeys» section of the joint conference with Paris-Orly and ParisIntranet, improving teleconference facilities, improving the carpooling system and Charles de Gaulle. Brochures on optimising the debate on taking «soft» modes of transport into account. business travel, and the organisation of and improvements to public transport had Reducing our fleet’s carbon footprint been specially created for the event and Over the next four years we will take delivery of around 200 electric vehicles. As were widely distributed. part of this project, we are studying the installation of recharging stations. We use light and utility vehicles with low emissions (LPG, NGV and electric). Our aim is to On a regional scale reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our fleet. In 2010, Aéroports de Paris announced its Improving site access proposals for the major inter-modal proOn 15 June 2011, we signed an agreement with the RATP and the STIF (Ile-dejects for the greater Paris area, and for high speed train services and RER B+ trains France Transport Union) to define the methods of financing and construction neat its sites. cessary for a tram line serving Paris-Orly. Starting in 2013, tram line no. 7 is expected to link the Paris metro line 7 to Paris-Orly and Athis-Mons. Vehicle emissions (in tonnes of CO2) From PDE to PDIE Scope: Paris-Charles de Gaulle et Paris-Orly On 7 April 2011, in association with five of the largest companies at Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport (Air France, FedEx Express®, La Poste Hub3,076 courrier de Roissy, La Poste PIC Paris-Nord and CIF Keolis), we joined an inter-company travel plan (PDIE), named R’Promobilité. The objective is to 2009 improve site access conditions for employees and to promote responsible 3,255 2010 mobility. Coordinated by the Versailles-Val-d’Oise-Yvelines Chamber of Commerce and Industry, this plan is relevant to half the employees at the 2011 nd airport. A PDIE is also being developed at Paris-Orly airport. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 35 Strict monitoring of thermal power plants  elping our partners to reduce H Our three main sites each have their own their carbon footprint thermal power plant. Boasting a capacity in excess of 20MW, these combustion faciTo meet our commitments, we have a embarked upon a series of actions with our lities are part of the national greenhouse partners. gas emission quotas allocation plan (PNAQ). Their CO2 emissions are therefore strictly Specific changes monitored. Specific changes, such as the opening of the Echo4 taxiway at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, have enabled reductions in taxiing time, the number of stops and aircraft On an international scale kerosene consumption. We are installing 400Hz power sockets at our main sites for In the framework of the Sesar and Aire inaircraft on the stand. These sockets replace the diesel units (GPU) or auxiliary power ternational research projects, Aéroports de units (APU) for supplying electricity. Paris participates in the debate on tomorrow’s contributions to reducing aircraft fuel Working together consumption. In conjunction with the DGAC and Air France, Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport has introduced local management of departures (GLD). Produced as a result of Collaborative Decision Making, this IT tool helps to reduce the taxiing time of an aircraft Facts between the moment it leaves the stand and take-off. This time optimisation gene• S ince 2010, Paris-Charles de Gaulle has rates significant fuel and CO2 emission savings. Continuous descent by aircraft, been labelled as a «CDM Airport’’ by Eurocontrol, the European Agency for the Safety tested by the French Civil Aviation Authority, may be extended. It enables air crew of Air Navigation. to taxi on landing with reduced use of the engines and therefore reduced fuel • T he average aircraft taxiing time for deparconsumption. tures at Paris-Charles de Gaulle was almost 10% lower in 2011 than in 2007. Towards Level 3 Airport Level 3 Inclusion of stakeholders’ Carbon Accreditation emissions In 2010 we achieved Levels 1 and 2 Airport Carbon Accreditation for Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. In 2011 this accreditation was renewed and we prepared Emission management Air traffic Consumption for the inclusion of our stakeholders’ and reductions of third-party buildings emissions to achieve Level 3. Developed Level 2 at the European level, Airport Carbon Accreditation evaluates and recognizes the efforts undertaken by airports to reLevel duce their greenhouse gas emissions. It requires checks to be carried out by an independent third party and includes three APU GPU Ground handling levels of accreditation: vehicles CO2 inventory Level 1 Energy production plants, Passenger journeys Employee journeys vehicles and motors Extent of footprint Direct emissions Indirect emissions 36 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Environment 3.4 Monitoring air quality and noise pollution Assessing air quality Air quality data (en µg/m ) 3 NO2 The requirement to measure air quality and assess noise levels is laid down in our operating specifications. In 2009, we signed an agreement on information sharing and joint work with Airparif, a network which assesses air quality in the Ile-de29 France region. We provide data for the Survol study, led by the regional prefecture. 32 The Aéroports de Paris laboratory, which is COFRAC-accredited , is tasked with 2009 31 constantly monitoring air quality at the airports. 45 Five measuring stations The laboratory now operates five air quality measuring stations on the Paris-Orly nd and Paris-Charles de Gaulle sites. An additional station was installed at both Paris34 Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle in 2011. 2010 31 44 A plan to protect the atmosphere in 2012 In 2011, we participated in work to revise the plan to protect the atmosphere 28 (PPA) in the Paris urban area. Based on the regional air quality plan, this document 29 defines the measures to be taken to improve air quality in the Ile-de-France region. 2011 26 40 The new PPA will be subject to consultation and is expected to be approved in 2012. NO Measuring and mapping noise 11 13 Our laboratory draws up noise maps for the DGAC. The noise maps are determined 2009 11 by calculations and represent curves of equal sound intensity reflecting the ground 15 noise impact of air traffic around an airport. These make it possible to draw up exposure maps to aid site planning around the airports. They are also used to prend pare noise pollution plans (PGS), which entitle local residents located in the areas 13 most affected by noise to special aid for soundproofing. 2010 10 13 Acnusa In June 2011, we presented the results of our Grenelle commitments, the taxiing 11 time for departures at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, the limitation on the use of APUs, 12 environmental monitoring and the corporate travel plan to the Airport Pollution 2011 10 Control Authority (Acnusa). Acnusa’s area of responsibility covers airport noise. 15 Paris-Charles de Gaulle (North station) Paris-Orly Paris-Le Bourget adopts a noise Tremblay-en-France Paris 18e pollution plan An Environmental advisory committee (CTE) met again regarding ParisLe Bourget airport, as it does for Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle Aircraft movements airports. A noise pollution plan proposed by the DGAC was approved in in 2011 December 2011. Drawing up of the noise exposure plan is expected to start in Spring 2012. Paris-Orly 228,534 Paris-Charles de Gaulle 506,888 For further information The website www.entrevoisins.org provides: • annual results of measurements of air quality and data in real time; • noise measurement data. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 37 Environment 3.5 Protecting the natural environment Separate meters We are aiming to reduce drinking water Managing the water cycle consumption per passenger by 2015. SepaOur responsibility as regards water is determined by regulatory requirements and rate water meters are being installed for the majority of airport customers, in order by the size of our airport activities. Within our sites we manage the complete to increase awareness of the impact of water cycle: drinking water supply, waste water collection, and the collection and their consumption. Aéroports de Paris and treatment of rainwater. This management covers our own activities and those of its partners consume nearly 3 million m3 of third parties. Collected waste water is discharged into departmental networks drinking water (almost 30 m3 per passenwhich take it to treatment stations in the Paris urban area. Rainwater is specially ger).across the three airport sites. collected and treated, if necessary, before being released. Monitoring and control Drinking water We constantly monitor the quality of waste water discharged into departmental consumption (in thousands of m ) 3 networks and of rainwater released into the natural environment. The quality of Internal and external scope drinking water supplies is monitored for buildings and for aircraft. Treatment of rainwater 2,252 Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly airports include approximately 1,500 hectares 2009 of sealed ground surfaces. Controlling the impact of rainwater on the natural 2,294 environment is therefore a significant challenge. Water run-off from these surfaces 2010 can contain chronic pollution (winter melt used for de-icing runways or aircraft) 2011 2,406 or accidental pollution (hydrocarbons). To reduce the risk of deterioration in the aquatic ecosystem, we have a rainwater collection system with pollution isolation and retention ponds that limit downstream outflows. Rainwater treatment systems 505 (STEP) are installed, after which water is released into the river Orge (for Paris-Orly) 2009 478 or a tributary of the river Marne or Seine for Paris-Charles de Gaulle. 2010 Limiting and offsetting sealing 2011 492 We are committed to limiting and offsetting new sealing. Guiding principles for rainwater management have been finalised for development projects at the two main sites. They incorporate national and local legislation. 97 2009 86 2010 2011 84 Paris-Orly is innovating In July 2011, the prefectural authorities renewed the order authorising the release of rainwater from Paris-Orly into the Orge for ten years. This Paris-Charles de Gaulle Paris-Orly agreement recognises the correct management of rainwater. We are Paris-Le Bourget working to improve the treatment station’s performance. In order to reduce the risk of pollution, a 2,000m3 retention pond will be built in the These figures correspond to the total consumption North zone. Following tests, a rainwater treatment system using a filter of drinking water on Paris-Charles de Gaulle, marsh is expected to be put into service in 2012. Each year, 70,000m3 of Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget sites. Aéroports de rainwater at Paris-Orly are reused in the airport’s central cooling system. Paris consumption (companies, passengers, subcontractors, etc.) is consolidated for each site. 38 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Recycling and reducing our waste Our subsidiary, Hub telecom, eco-designs for its Every company is responsible for eliminating and recycling its own waste. It must customers ensure that the end of the waste cycle complies with all regulations in effect. Our subsidiary, Hub telecom, has designed Grenelle Act 1 sets a national target of 75% for recycling of general company waste an advanced Internet telephony solution and a reduction of 15% in the volume of waste incinerated or dumped. Grenelle for is customers, which eliminates the need for them to buy specialised infrastructures Act 2 introduces detailed specifications on waste from buildings, biodegradable and dedicated servers. The infrastructure is waste, items of furniture and the harmonisation of recycling instructions. hosted by Hub telecom. This product saves the customer company significant financial Reducing our waste expense and high energy consumption linAs the owner and operator of airport sites, we define the rules for sorting waste, ked to IT installations. The development of the organisation of its collection, the positioning of containers and transport rules this solution was itself the subject of eco-defor general waste produced on our sites. We try to limit the amount of waste sign: the technologies and equipment selecwe produce and encourage our partners to adopt these practices. We organise ted offer the best available performance in selective waste collection on our sites to optimise waste recycling. terms of energy performance, electro-magnetic safety and recycling. Hub telecom Developing sorting at source has also implemented a responsible procuOur target is to recycle 35% of our waste by 2015, through developing sorting at rement policy with its suppliers. source and introducing an attractive tariff policy for our partners. All administrative areas at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle terminals have paper and ink cartridge Waste characteristics recycling containers. This action was extended to our other airports in 2011. By To increase waste material recycling, a study programming copiers to print double-sided as the default setting, we have reduced was carried out of the waste characteristics the Company’s paper consumption. Inside the airports, we are installing waste bins at Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport. This for selective waste disposal both before and after the screening checkpoints. analysis studied the quantities of different types of waste produced by airport activities Reusing building site waste by zone and proposed ways in which waste Recycling materials also means reusing them. When buildings 225 and 280 were management could be improved. being taken down at Paris-Orly, demolition waste was sorted and crushed on the site. Most of this was reused in the construction of car parks and their access roads. Repère This operation avoided the transportation of 25,000 tonnes of material by lorry, • A Waste Reference Guide has been issued saving 11,000 litres of diesel fuel in addition to reducing the cost of the building to site employees. site by half. Recycling plastics The systematic collection of used badge wallets at Paris-Charles de Gaulle has enabled one tonne of plastic waste to be recovered since the operation was started in 2011, and recycled as piping. Following successful tests in 2010 on prototypes designed by Aéroports de Paris employees, compactors for plastic bottles will be installed at certain screening checkpoints. These systems will enable waste recycling: the bottles will be recycled as ... bottles. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 39 A new biodiversity policy Operating more than 6,000 hectares of land in the Ile-de-France region, Aéroports de Paris has a direct role to play in protecting biodiversity. The new national biodiversity strategy launched in 2011 encourages all members of civil society to act, at different levels and in different activity sectors (water, land, sea, climate, energy, agriculture, forestry, urbanism, infrastructure, tourism, industry, commerce, education, research and health), to protect the diversity of life. Rare environments and species The first step in our commitment was to carry out an analysis of the existing wealth in terms of animal and plant species already living on land managed by Aéroports de Paris. Ecologists discovered the large diversity of the natural land we manage. At the Paris-Charles de Gaulle site alone, no fewer than 176 species of bird were spotted , including several which are rare in the Ile-de-France region, such as the wheatear (œnanthe œnanthe) and the stone curlew (burhinus œdicnemus). Come into the biodiversity Integrating biodiversity into our strategy garden In 2011, a transversal working group, in conjunction with our plant health network, Inaugurated on 21 June – the first day of drew up a biodiversity conservation policy. This policy aims to integrate biodiversity summer! – The biodiversity garden at the Environment and Sustainable Development conservation into our strategy, to improve the Company’s internal knowledge, to Centre at Paris-Orly has a threefold misrestore or conserve rare species and habitats and to improve communication and sion. It symbolises the Group’s commitment dialogue. to the conservation of rare animal and vegetable species. Open to the public, this Reducing the use of pesticides 1,000m2 area contains 57 varieties of plant We have signed a framework agreement relating to the use of pesticides by compafrom five continents and offers visitors the nies in non-agricultural areas. As part of the Ministry of Agriculture’s Ecophyto proopportunity to appreciate the beauty of a gramme, which aims to reduce the use of pesticides by 2018, this agreement comnatural space. During the flowering season, mits us to using alternative practices for the maintenance of green spaces. Spraying the garden also offers the 400,000 bees machines have been fitted with detection heads to locate unwanted plants and from neighbouring hives a considerable with GPS to avoid passing a second time over sectors which have already been biodiversity ... of food. treated. This equipment has enabled a reduction in the volume of products used. Facts Sharing data and best practices • 1 ,400 hectares of green space and In May 2011, we signed a protocol agreement with the General Council of Seinesix beehives at Paris-Charles de Gaulle et-Marne. Under this three-year agreement, we will exchange best practices, flora • 8 50 hectares of green space and five and fauna inventories and species monitoring data. We will carry out awarenessbeehives at Paris-Orly raising actions together for employees and the general public. • 8 00,000 trees and shrubs have been planted on 570 hectares of green space at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. A flower meadow has been sown at Paris-Orly Bringing a touch of the countryside to this densely urban area, it encourages biodiversity, while saving a significant amount of time on maintenance of the area. The diversity of flowering plants attracts pollencollecting insects and reduces the risk of insufficient food sources for the bees from the site’s beehives. 40 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Environment 3.6 Supporting our airports’ partners We  have created best practices Eco-actions rewarded Eight partner companies were awarded clubs Eco-action certificates during the Sustainable Development Week: Acna, CFA-AfThe environmental performance of airports is a concern for the businesses and admimae, CIF-Keolis, Europcar, Logair, Passerelle CDG, Servair 2 and OAT. The remaining nistrative facilities working there. To educate and support our partners, we have creafive certificates went to Aéroports de Paris ted the Environmental Partners Clubs (CPE) at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly and teams. Paris-Le Bourget airports. Membership of the CPEs is free. In 2011, there were 218 members of the CPEs at the three sites Three Eco-action label trophies were awarded to Schenker, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Dialogue and increasing awareness Bourget. The Eco-action label special prize, Each year the CPEs draw up an action plan which is then monitored at annual reviews. created in 2011, was awarded to Servair for The Club members participate in events such as National Sustainable Development its significant environmental commitment. Week, Mobility Week, and the European Waste Reduction Week by organising activities to educate their employees. In 2011, the CPEs organised information meetings Facts on a variety of themes including sustainable travel and the integration of sustainable • N ew CPE members in 2011: Air Canada, development challenges to the purchasing function. Air France Industries (Paris-Le Bourget), Air France headquarters (Paris-Charles A dedicated Extranet de Gaulle), DHL Express, DHL GF, FedEx The Extranet site, www.ecoairport.fr, which was given a new look in 2010, gives CPE Express®, GEH members self-assessment tools, including Ecocarte, to carry out initial environmental • 65 Ecomaps diagnosis. The site is dedicated to dialogue and information on the actions of wor• 2 8 companies signed Paris-Charles de king groups for best practices and the latest environmental legislation. Gaulle’s Environment Pact www.ecoairport.fr • 1 4 companies signed Paris-Le Bourget’s Environmental Quality Charter Finding the carbon footprint® • 1 9 companies signed the environmental To help our partners control their greenhouse gas emissions, we carried out manageawareness guidelines for temporary staff ment awareness training on CO2, as part of the Environmental Coffee Break sessions • 2 Environmental Coffee Breaks organised by the CPE. This initiative covered the different greenhouse gases generated by anthropic activities and the means of assessing them. The Bilan Carbone® (carbon footprint) method was presented, including its implementation and the assistance which companies can receive, together with the Airport Carbon Accreditation scheme (p. 36). Working on the water footprint For the eighth consecutive year, we ran the Sustainable Development Week, in conjunction with the CPE. From 1-7 April, a total of 77 partners (compared to 67 in 2010) ran more than 30 activities across the three airport sites, the heliport at Issy-les-Moulineaux and four general aviation airfields. Around 50 presenters took part. The main theme was the water cycle. Partners and association representatives held conferences and hosted themed stands, Interactive tools were displayed on the plasma screens in our terminals. Our Water Cycle Guide was distributed to participants. In total, more than 6,000 people took part on Aéroports de Paris sites. In addition, 18 diplomas were awarded to school children for commitment to sustainable development. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 41 Customers and sustainable purchasing Looking after 4. our customers’ and suppliers’ interests Passengers in the Soundcorner music area in terminal 2B at Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport 42 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Contents 4.1 Working closely with our partners 44 Florence Parly, CEO, Air France Cargo and member of the Air France Executive 4.2 Listening closely to our passengers 46 Committee, talks to us 4.3 Building loyalty with our lessee Florence Parly, CEO of Air France’s Cargo division, explains how the companies and developing 48 business’s competitiveness hinges on close collaboration between the sustainable procurement players in the airport. Air France Cargo is a division of Air France. For the IATA year 2010-2011, our consolidated revenue, together with KLM Cargo and Martinair Cargo, amounted to €3.15 billion. The global economic crisis deeply affected air cargo carriers, while the competition continued to increase. We reacted swiftly to preserve our competitiveness, adopting a new strategy based on saving resources and improving the efficiency of our logistical processes. Our efforts paid off. Following the posting of losses for several consecutive quarters, the financial result for Air France – KLM Cargo was a positive €69 million for IATA year 2010-2011. On the one hand, we prioritised transportation in the holds of long-haul passenger aircraft, which today represents 75% of our capacity, compared to 25% in cargo-only aircraft. On the other hand, we carried out a comprehensive dematerialisation of all our documents: e-freight and e-booking. Replacing paper documents with electronic documents has resulted in a smoother flow of commercial and customs formalities, increased reliability and tracking of operations and meets regulatory requirements concerning safety and security. In particular, it allows us to pass information regarding loading an aircraft to the appropriate department before the aircraft’s departure. Additional As part of this, at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, we are participating in the Cargo Information information Network (CIN) programme to draw up a single electronic message format. This programme brings together all the players in the air cargo transportation logistics chain: the association of air freight professionals, airlines, handling agents, customs and of course, airport management. Aéroports de Paris has played a central role in bringing these parties together and supporting this programme. The alliance between Aéroports de Paris and Schiphol Group, operator of Amsterdam airport, has proven its worth, since it is Schiphol Group that is developing the CIN software which will allow For more information, cargo to be tracked in real-time. In conjunction with Aéroports de Paris, we are also see our website, optimising logistics on the ground. In 2011 a large warehouse was opened at Pariswww.aeroportsdeparis.f Charles de Gaulle to house a pallet storage buffer zone between the main storage area close to the cargo-only aircraft departure points, and the passenger terminals. This close relationship with the airport manager has been integral to our practices for a long time and helps to reinforce our strategy. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 43 Customers and sustainable purchasing 4.1 Working closely with our partners Targets and progress 2011  eveloping a customer service D Focusing on customers culture Customer satisfaction Being among the leading benchmark One ambition companies in Europe Looking after our customers’ interests is one of the challenges of sustainable deveCustomer-centric culture lopment. Improving customer satisfaction comprises the core of our 2011-2015 strategy. We are targeting a significant improvement in performance to become a Corporate training in customer culture recognised European benchmark in this area. This undertaking is being led by the Quality of service to airlines Executive Vice-President, who reports directly to the Board of Directors. Quality standards and collaborative As a service integrator, our economic and societal performance hinges on imapproaches, innovation proving the quality of our service provision to passengers, airlines and compaQuality of service to passengers nies based at our airports. Our second economic regulation contract.2011-2015 Satisfaction surveys, quality standards, (CRE2) has raised the level of the indicators relating to quality of service. innovation Fundamentals Quality of Service for lessee In 2008 we created a Customer Satisfaction Department to spearhead our improcompanies vement plans. In 2010 a customer quality director was appointed to site divisions Quality of infrastructure at Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle. 2011 saw the opening of our Service and buildings University to improve the training of our teams in customer culture. Our improveSustainable purchasing goals ment plans are based on strategic and operational programmes, compliance with quality standards, and close cooperation with partners, suppliers and concessionSuppliers and providers holders. We have earmarked some €155 million for stepping up quality of service Purchasing ethics between 2011 and 2015. Factoring CSR into tenders and contracts Purchasing from SMEs The Service University This roadmap shows progress points over The Service University, part of the Customer Satisfaction Department, the medium term (2011-2015). opened its doors in June 2011 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. This facility Starting On-going is dedicated to service relationships and their management. It aims to develop and embed a service culture within the Company and its Advanced Attained operating partners. A steering committee, chaired by the Executive VicePresident of Aéroports de Paris, defines the programmes, development and budgets. A dynamic programme The first training course, «Reception and customer relations», was introduced in 2011. Designed primarily for employees with customer contact, it was created around a benchmark in customer relations and management standards. The dynamic training is based on immersion in real situations and regular practice under the guidance of coaches. As a complement to the training, service forums organised by the operating and functional unit directors promote dialogue between employees. An e-newsletter is sent to employees regularly. The Service University programme will eventually be available to all Aéroports de Paris personnel and its partners too. 44 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 The building linking terminals 2A and 2C at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Making the airport cooperative Consultation mechanisms • T  he Airport Orientation Committee (COA), is a structure for discussions on Airline satisfaction is, in particular, dependent upon the quality of airport services quality policy, sustainable development, and the services provided to our shared customers, the passengers. Our annual and environmental and safety issues. satisfaction survey shows that 43% of them felt that the relationship with Aéroports • T  he Economic Advisory Commission, comde Paris had improved in 2011. A customer guide has been produced to make posed of aeronautical user representainstallation easier for new companies. tives, professional aviation organisations and Aéroports de Paris, advises on pricing Structures for listening and sharing proposals for airport fees and investment In 2011, we created a Companies Marketing Department within the Strategy programmes. Division. The purpose of this department is to anticipate changes in the aviation • T  he agreements signed with Star Alliance market, to better understand companies’ expectations and to develop collaborative and Oneworld. tools. Service Quality Operating Committees have also been set up in each operating • T  he CRE monitoring committee and the unit. These committees bring together airlines, ground handling companies and service quality operating committees Aéroports de Paris. They monitor CRE 2 indicators and steer action plans. Each • The Réussir Ensemble scheme. airport Service Quality Operating Committee is required to meet at least once a quarter. New terminals and renovation works Service University During CRE 1 (2006-2010), we invested in increasing the capacities of our facilities, • 5,041 participants in university activities in 2011 with, in particular, the Galerie parisienne which opened in 2007, the link between terminals 2A and 2C and satellite 4 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, which will open in • 1,200 people trained (2011-2012) 2012. Since 2010 we have been focusing on modernising our older terminals. The Hub 2012 working group CDM Since 2006, we have been cooperating with Air France in the Réussir Ensemble Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport is a «Collaboscheme to boost our joint performance in delivering passenger services. Our work rative Decision Making» (CDM) Airport. This aims to benefit all our airline customers. In 2012, with the opening of satellite 4 label certifies the process of consultation between the air navigation authorities and and the link between terminals 2A and 2C, Air France will move its activities to the the airlines, in particular, to improve flight East side of Paris-Charles de Gaulle. To ensure as little disruption as possible for punctuality and smooth traffic flows on the operators and passengers, together with Air France, we have brought together all ground. those concerned in a working group named «Hub 2012». In 2011, we also prepared an action plan with Air France, which focuses on signposting for passengers, the surroundings and the quality of service at checkpoints. Tools • The Passenger Observatory • The annual airline satisfaction survey • The ACI «Airline Quality Survey» Smart, acting intelligently • Mystery customers The SMART experiment is an example of our collaboration. It brought together the French border police authority (DPAF), Air France and Aéroports de Paris. Tested at terminal 2E at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in 2010, it was extended to terminals 1 and 2A in 2011. New companies have joined the scheme, as well as several airport service providers. This scheme asks our partners’ employees to make suggestions, if they wish, for reducing waiting times, streamlining queues and reception practices at border crossings, and optimizing DPAF activities. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 45 Customers and sustainable purchasing 4.2 Listening closely to our passengers Our target for 2015 88.1% overall passenger satisfaction (86.0% Improving passenger welcome, in 2011 according to annual departure and information and comfort arrival surveys) We welcomed 88.1 million passengers in 2011. To meet their needs, since 2009 we Overall passenger satisfaction have been focusing on improving signposting, passenger flows, reception, cleanliness and comfort. We are developing leisure areas and widening our selection of rate (%) bars, restaurants and shops. Between 2011 and 2015, €155 million will be allocated 82.4 to improving the surroundings, fitting out terminals and car parks and developing 2007 83.9 quality standards. 2008 85.6 Signposting 2009 85.8 After redesigning terminal and public transport signposting, we have improved 2010 signposting on access roads and car parks. These operations were completed in 2011* 86.0 2011. Oversized signposting in car parks, linked with a colour code for each level, is now easier to read. In 2011, we launched a world first a smartphone «indoor» * excluding security agents’ strike 16-28 December 2011. geolocalisation application. Passenger flows Connecting flight routes In 2011, we continued improving the screening checkpoints with, in particular, the As part of Réussir Ensemble, Air France and introduction of reception staff to help passengers get ready for screening, more Aéroports de Paris have set up a measureergonomic layout of tables and displays showing waiting times. At the busiest ment tool to assess connecting flight routes periods, one queue is reserved for families. For passengers who are EU citizens and propose the best routes to passengers. crossing the Schengen borders, we are gradually introducing the Parafe automatic biometric recognition system, which reduces the time taken to pass through the Disabled and reduced border checkpoint to just 30 seconds. More than 40,000 people joined this system mobility in 2010 and 2011. Aéroports de Paris is responsible for providing Reception assistance to passengers with disabilities or To improve our welcome, since 2011 we have been training all our passenger reduced mobility in its facilities. contact employees in customer relations at the Service University. Our partners at • Assistance from drop-off to aircraft seat the screening checkpoints have signed a charter agreeing to offer passengers the and vice versa same quality of welcome. Collaborative actions with the DPAF are also aiming to • Parking and drop-off locations: 92 achieve this objective. We are refurbishing our reception areas. At Orly South, a interactive signalling kiosks adapted to all new 140 m2 space in the centre of the departure area, which can be easily seen types of disability. from a distance, groups together the information desk, reception and waiting area • 11 reception areas. for people with reduced mobility. Such innovations could inspire future terminal • Special arrangements at reception desks, refurbishments. A concierge service which opened in early 2011 at Paris-Charles de checkpoints and in lounges. Gaulle and Paris-Orly provides a personal service to travellers. Cleanliness and comfort A prototype sanitary block was tested in 2011 at terminal 2D of ParisCharles de Gaulle and received positive feedback from passengers. It is currently being installed in other terminals and is a reference in terms of cleaning and maintenance. Our cleaning markets have strict quality requirements. We have expanded our range of seating in 2011, as in 2010, with the introduction of a wide variety of seats. Between 2009 and 2011, 10,000 seats were installed or replaced. We have installed water fountains in all terminals and provide pushchairs in departure lounges. 46 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 My Airport «indoor» geolocalisation smartphone application M  aking the airport easy, lively Passengers’ ideal airport Passengers have three means of expressing and in touch their views about our services: our arrival and departure surveys, touchscreen comReal-time information puter tablets at the information desks and the website www.ditesnous.fr, launched In 2011, we launched the «Paris Airports Live» service. Travellers can access important in 2010. Ditesnous.fr asks users to imagine information in real-time, such as timetables and flight status, road traffic and journey their ideal airport. Certain suggestions have times, airport news and waiting times for baggage. These services, which are primarily already been taken into account and we aimed at Frequent Fliers, are available on our website, www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, now choose one idea per month. In 2011, in a mobile version from m.adp.fr, on the smartphone application My Airport, by we opened the «Dites-nous» club, which telephone and on the airport display screens. brings together the most enthusiastic Internet users and invites them to visit our sites Relaxing and eating quickly but well and meet our teams. Departure lounges now offer various amenities for relaxing or working, with play areas for children, video games, Internet cafes and Wi-Fi terminals, power sockets www.ditesnous.fr for recharging computers, shops and restaurants. In 2011, 5,000 m2 of renovated commercial areas were opened in our three main airports. The range of restaurants, Working together incorporating more demanding quality standards, was widened. The level of branded Since 2009, we have been leading worcatering is now higher than 65%. Paris-Charles de Gaulle has inaugurated two brand king groups with our partners to generate new areas: a high definition video area and an area for music relaxation. constructive dialogue. Many ideas for improving customer satisfaction have emerged from these. Innovating Data In late 2009 we set up an innovation coordination unit. The aim of this unit is to Areas for working 30 develop a culture of innovation within the Company and to test strategic themes in order to meet or anticipate customers’ needs. New information technologies Children’s play areas 10 play a key role in improving the service provided to passengers. In 2011, we rolled Nurseries 77 out or tested a number of solutions, in particular for providing information to or Water fountains 87 directing passengers. More than ten tests were carried out. Those that received positive feedback from customers will be implemented. Premium parking 6 Geolocalisation Following the My Airport smartphone application, this year we tested the «indoor» geolocalisation application, My Way. Any passenger with a compatible smartphone can download the application from our website. My Way guides the passenger through the airport or locates shops and services in certain terminals at ParisCharles de Gaulle. This system is a world first in an airport. In 2012, this service will be extended across the whole site. Improving passenger flows around the baggage drop-off At Paris-Orly we are testing an automatic baggage drop-off system, which has been entirely designed by our teams. This system enables passengers to check-in their luggage very simply, in just 30 seconds. Welcome holograms and touchscreen terminals In addition to our agents, virtual reception silhouettes are being deployed at ParisOrly to provide information to passengers at junctions. We have also installed touchscreen information terminals for international passengers. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 47 Customers and sustainable purchasing Building loyalty with our lessee 4.3 companies and developing sustainable procurement Improving services to businesses on airport sites Our three main airports house more than 1,000 companies and over 115,000 employees. This figure is expected to grow, with the planned Coeur d’Orly business district at Paris-Orly, and the expansion of Roissypole and the new Aéroville shopping and services centre at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. As planner, developer and investor, we build lasting relationships with business customers on our sites. In 2011, we implemented action plans to better tailor our services to match our business customers’ requirements. The overall satisfaction rate of businesses was 71% in 2011, against a target of 69%. Listening Sustainable Airport City As part of the reorganisation of our Property Division, we paid particularly close Our real estate strategy is based on the Susattention to customer contact roles. In 2011, we set up a new commercial team. tainable Airport City concept of the enviFrom 2012, they will carry out between five and ten visits each month. We have ronmentally friendly and sustainable city. also set up an IT communications tool which businesses can use to report a proThe airport city will be of high environmenblem or request support. Each year, we organise themed meetings with lessees: tal quality and served by an excellent transfour meetings were held in 2011. Annual surveys are carried out to assess satisport hub, and will constitute a strong competitive advantage for companies already faction. Mystery visits regularly check that the services provided comply with our located there or wishing to relocate to it. service quality standards. On-going actions Companies In 2011, we continued our programme of renovating existing buildings, prioritising • T ertiary activities, commercial or industrial, energy saving and heating and cooling systems. External refurbishment work was hospitality, airport services, cargo, safety carried out to improve insulation. To make the buildings more comfortable for and maintenance services. those using them, we continued to upgrade communal areas, sanitary blocks and • T wo guides for new arrivals: Relocating to hallways. In all three airports, we improved quality controls on cleaning services. Paris-Charles de Gaulle (2009), Relocating Signposting in buildings is currently being renewed. to Paris-Orly (2011). For shops In 2011, inspired by the experience of our partner, Schiphol Group, manager of Facts Amsterdam airport, we have developed an IT decision-making tool which is shared • 250 buildings; 2,580,000 m of buildings, 2 with our commercial concession-holders. including 1,210,000 m2 owned by Aéroports de Paris. • 427 hectares of undeveloped land. F ollowing a proactive, sustainable purchasing policy Since 2009, our sustainable purchasing policy has been based on four key principles: the incorporation of environmental and social requirements in regulations on consultations and specifications, the need to inform providers and suppliers of the principles of the Global Compact and Aéroports de Paris best practices; the commitment of specifiers and purchasers to sustainable purchasing; and the development of longterm partnerships with service providers and suppliers. 48 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Preparing the Journal d’Aéroports de Paris for posting, as part of a partnership with the sheltered sector Organisation SME charter Our Purchasing Division is currently responsible for purchasing within Aéroports de Since 2010 we have been a signatory to Paris SA but its scope will eventually be extended to cover the whole Group. A purthe Ministry for the Economy’s Best Pracchasing code of ethics appended to the Aéroports de Paris SA internal regulations tices Charter which governs relationships sets out the ethical rules for suppliers and service providers. This code is provided to between large companies and SMEs. This employees in brochure form and appended to contracts with suppliers and service Charter requires us to protect and support providers. In 2010, the Purchasing Division was reorganized to improve collective small businesses. It includes a mediation facility which can be requested by suppliers performance and reduce the risk of extra costs and fraud. A code of ethics tailored and subcontractors. A mediator was apto the needs of subsidiaries is being drawn up as part of our partnership with the pointed for Aéroports de Paris SA in 2010. NGO Transparence International France. CSR in subcontractors’ contracts CSR facts Since 2009 we have been incorporating environmental and social criteria in our • 54 CSR trainings including 15 for new consultations and project specifications for subcontractors and suppliers. In 2011 buyers and 39 for existing buyers we embarked upon a process to design a new sustainable purchasing policy which • 85% of the contracts in 2011 include CSR will support the economic, environmental and societal interests of stakeholders in clauses a balanced and long-lasting way. We have reassessed our diagnostic and selec• A round €328,000 of purchases from tion procedures as part of a CSR working group led by the Purchasing Division, sheltered companies and the protected the Human Resources Division and the Environment and Sustainable Development sector in 2011 Division. A training plan for buyers Supplier facts To anchor these new responsible practices into our buyers’ behaviour, we are sys• € 1,110 million per year spent tematically training them in corporate social responsibility. In 2011 two-thirds of on purchasing buyers underwent this training. To help with environmental clauses, our buyers can • Around 3,300 suppliers refer to advice sheets prepared by Factea, a sustainable development consulting firm. Airfields too Protected and integration sectors We are also incorporating corporate social In 2011, in accordance with our commitments, we increased our purchasing from responsibility clauses into contracts concerning sheltered companies and the protected sector. The amount allocated to these purour general aviation airfields. chases in 2011 was €328,000 and is expected to rise to €600,000 in 2012. We will include this sector in consultations with companies, and intend to select it for a number of tenders or bids. An agreement was signed in 2010 with the National Union of Sheltered Enterprises (UNEA) to help the Purchasing Division select likely suppliers. A list of ten sectors of activity compiled by the UNEA was distributed to departments. In addition we are studying possibility of including clauses relating to social integration in our maintenance and works markets. Self-assessment by our suppliers In association with a specialist company, we have developed a CSR self-assessment questionnaire for our service providers and suppliers. It has three parts: environment, social responsibility, and ethical behaviour. Our suppliers can also complete a self-assessment using our marketplace TenderSmart.com. At the same time, we have a social and environmental audit benchmark for suppliers at risk. The questionnaire and the audit benchmark are both currently being revised to better pinpoint company practices and constraints. A Sustainable Development Coffee Break was held by the Environmental partners’ club at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in November 2011. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 49 Community 5. Working together with civil society Environment and Sustainable Development Centre at Paris-Charles de Gaulle 50 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Contents 5.1 Our commitment to regional development 52 Daniel Guérin, Ile-de-France Regional Counsellor and Chairman 5.2 Supporting SMEs and of Orly International, talks to us monitoring changes in jobs 54 Ile-de-France Regional Counsellor, Daniel Guérin, is Chairman of 5.3 Innovating for jobs 56 Orly International, a promotion and integration association at Pole Orly. He explains how this organisation contributes to employment 5.4 Developing sponsorship opportunities for local people. and voluntary work 59 The Ile-de-France region, together with the departments of Essonne and Val-de5.5 Strengthening our links Marne and 17 municipalities, has been actively involved in the development of Pole with local residents 60 Orly for many years. In 2009 this major economic cluster benefited from a regional agreement to which we are a stakeholder, alongside the region’s major players. The aim of this agreement is to develop employment opportunities and training, and to create a dynamic economic environment, while improving the quality of life of local residents around Orly airport. To achieve this ambition, around 60 organisations and institutions from the area, including Aéroports de Paris and the authorities who are partners to the agreement, joined together in the Orly International association to create a working tool. As regards employment, we can all see the facts: out of 173,000 jobs identified at Pole Orly, only 22% are filled by people living close to the airport. The first results of the implementation of our agreement are now starting to show. Since November 2011 an Ile-de-France employment and recruitment agency (Pôle Additional emploi) has been housed by Orly International. It serves the 400 companies at Parisinformation Orly airport. Its team of specialist advisers also benefits from the support of the network of employment agencies in surrounding towns. This facility, which gives local companies a single point of contact for all their recruitment requirements, will provide easier employment opportunities for local residents. It’s a first step. For 2012 we are working on other projects, such as an employment forum at the cluster and an apprentice training centre for airport jobs. For more information, see the website, www.entrevoisins.org Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 51 Community 5.1 Our commitment to regional development Targets and progress 2011 Our challenges Making activity clusters more attractive Each year, we spend €2.2 million on economic and social cooperation with our immediate region. We are exercising social responsibility by forming partnerships Supporting SMEs with social and business players in these large airport regions, including represenHelping business start-ups and SMEs tatives from political and consular bodies, associations and government services. access Aéroports de Paris markets Major social responsibility Cooperation with local and regional More than 115,000 people work in nearly 1,000 companies on our airport sites. authorities The Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget airports have been Supporting local employment identified as major economic sites (TEM) in the Ile-de-France regional plan (SDRIF). and training They form part of the Greater Paris project. A coherent portfolio of training and Our organisation support and communicating it to job In order to best meet the needs of our multiple stakeholders, we created two regiostakeholders nal delegations within our Environment and Sustainable Development Division, one Solidarity for Paris-Orly and another for Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget. We Supporting integration projects are also working through partnerships on jobs and economic growth. Funding for and employee volunteering these partnerships is managed by a grants committee. Circulating information about jobs A political framework and business support Since 2008, our strategy for Paris-Charles de Gaulle has also been prepared witAid for soundproofing hin the framework of the recommendations made by the French Government following the «Dermagne» and «Canepa» commission reports on the sustainable This roadmap shows progress points over development of the airport. To this end, we have created a strategic working group the medium term (2011-2015). whose work was presented at Rencontres du Grand Roissy. In 2011, the Ministry Starting On-going for Ecology set up, for a one-year term, a strategic commission to consider the Advanced Attained future of Paris-Orly in terms of economic development, employment and quality of life of nearby residents. Our aid and cooperation strategy Sponsorship Partnership Regions Airport employees Supporting Airport job Attractiveness Everyday life associations opportunities for and promotion • Young children • Housing • Disability and health local residents • Regional value • Transportation • Integration/training • Tourism • Social support • Citizenship and the fight • Business creation against exclusion • Vocational training • SME/SMI coaching • Mobility • Integration through economic activity/ community and solidarity economy 52 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Helping to create a dynamic region Grand Roissy The main activities in 2010 and 2011 were: • Hubstart Paris® For a number of years, we have been closely involved in the business clusters of Orly • Partnership agreement with the General and Roissy, recognised since 2010 as strategic areas in the Greater Paris project. We Council of Seine-et-Marne have developed separate approaches for each one. • Participation in the development study conducted by the Regional InterdepartGrand Roissy (Greater Roissy) mental Department for Equipment and In January 2011, the Rencontres du Grand Roissy were organised for the first time by Development and in regional developthe Ile-de-France Regional Prefect and brought together all the region’s stakeholders, ment contracts including Aéroports de Paris, to discuss economic development and environmental the• Work with the Roissy CDG job booster mes, space organisation and governance. We are involved in work to prepare regional organization (GIP) development contracts. In March, we signed a partnership agreement with the General • Reducing the time taken to process soundproofing applications Council of Seine-et-Marne for an economic, social and environmental project. Pole d’Orly Pôle d’Orly We have been working alongside Pole d’Orly since 2005, and play a role in the two The Pole d’Orly regional agreement and governance bodies of the regional agreement on jobs, training and economic developsustainable development charter were ment, signed in 2009. In March 2011 a sustainable development charter was signed. It signed by the Ile-de-France, the General commits signatories to carrying out ambitious joint transversal actions to animate the Councils of the Essonne and Val-de-Marne, cluster, promote job opportunities and improve the quality of life. the Government, the Portes de l’Essonne local community, consular offices, ADOR and SIEPOR. Partners of the Orly Agreement, we The attraction of airports are also signatories to the sustainable development charter. Hubstart Paris® Hubstart Paris® is a joint regional project to promote the region internationally. It Facts was recognised by the public authorities during the Rencontres du Grand Roissy as • 11 economic and social cooperation a way to open up Grand Roissy for value creation. Hosted by the Paris Ile de France agreements with regional authorities Regional Development Agency (ARD) and actively supported by Aéroports de Paris, are in place in 2011, as well as an Hubstart Paris® has 23 public and private partners. In 2011 it attended ten internaagreement with the General Council of Seine-et-Marne for Paris-Charles de Gaulle. tional fairs, organised a number of business tours of Grand Roissy and diversified its communication tools (film and photo library). Hubstart Paris® signed two joint agreements with airport sites in the United States: Memphis, in association with Aérotropolis-Europe, and Atlanta. In addition, Hubstart Paris® organised the «SusFunding for local residents Breakdown (in millions of euros) tainable Airport Area» seminar which was well-attended internationally. Montant total e6,77 million www.hubstart-paris.com Orly International Since 2010, Orly International has been the driving force behind the Pacte d’Orly 2.2 Agreement. Orly International is responsible for implementing the agreement’s action plan: enhancing the value of its real estate, international marketing, deve4.57 loping high value industrial or service sectors, and supporting jobs and training. In 2011, Orly International drew up a marketing plan, produced a brochure, organised an export forum in association with the Paris Val-de-Marne Chamber of ComEconomic and social cooperation Funds for compensating aircraft noise pollution merce and Industry (CCIP 94) and, with support from the Government, arranged a meeting between the public employment service and the airport site businesses. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 53 Community Supporting SMEs 5.2 and monitoring changes in jobs Financing We use two partnership structures to help young businesses or support their move to our area a business incubator and a local resource centre. We regularly sign and Aeropole 2011 renew agreements with consular or business assistance organisations to support SMEs. Since 2009 we also have a branch of Coopactive, a job and activity cooperaAeropole financing partners • French departments 77, 93 and 95 total tive for self-employed businesspeople. contribution e63,000 • A éroports de Paris: contribution e21,000 and provision of premises free of charge  business incubator and resource A with an estimated value of e600,000 centre • O ther partners: economic expansion committees (77, 93 and 95), CCI Aeropole, the road to start-up (77, 93 and 95), chambers of trades of The Aeropole business incubator is on the Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport site. It ofMeaux, Val-d’Oise and Seine-Saint-Denis, Medef, Air France fers a «road to start-up» package: nursery, incubator and company hotel. Aeropole, set up in 2000 by Aéroports de Paris and its partners, is the only interdepartmental • 7 5 businesses have been welcomed since 2002. incubator in the Ile-de-France region. It has been awarded the «technopole» and «international incubator» labels. Aimed at young entrepreneurs and businesses less than three years old, Aeropole offers fully-equipped premises, shared services and advice. Since 2011, very young businesses benefit from group and individual Datagora 2011 Total budget: e465,000 coaching. In addition, this year Aeropole has employed a student from one of France’s most prestigious universities as an intern to help the young companies on 120 a part-time basis. www.aeropole-roissy.com Datagora, resource centre and business intelligence 345 Datagora, a Grand Roissy resource centre and value creation company, is a oneDatagora financing partners stop socio-economic information centre. It is aimed at French or international busi• French departments 77, 93 and 95, three nesses wishing to set up in the region. Datagora also offers technical support to CCI, Ile-de-France region, three regional Hubstart Paris®, which promotes Grand Roissy on the international scene, and prodevelopment agencies, Paris Ile-de-France regional development agency vides business intelligence about the Paris-Charles De Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget airport sites. • A éroports de Paris grant: e120,000 and provision of premises free of charge with • 1 an estimated value of e80,000  ,770 businesses have been welcomed Sharing the Plato network since 2005. Aéroports de Paris is a member of the Plato network, which aims to share the experience of large companies with SMEs. The Plato Roissy CDG working groups, set up for two years (2011-2013), tackled nine themes in 2011, ranging from busiOther partners Aéroports de Paris ness strategy to generation Y management (people in their thirties) via customer relations and social policies. At the Orly site, Aéroports de Paris participates in the Plato Orsa and Plato eco-jobs networks on the themes of the business plan, projectFacts mode management and conquering new markets. • Aéroports de Paris held a business convention for the second consecutive year on «Large company purchasing for SMEs». 8 large companies and 150 local SMEs Innovating thanks to «the road attended. to start-up» Aeropole helped RETinCO and Cyrpa find success. RETinCO developed an automatic distribution system for healthcare, hospitality and personal services products. Their automatic dispensers are installed in public places. Terminal 2E installed one of their «Minipharmacies» in 2011. Cyrpa has created a system for positioning medical lasers, which makes medical treatments using this technology safer. Its creators developed their prototype and found financing thanks to the nursery. In March 2011 the first equipment was installed in a medical environment. 54 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 The Aeronef building houses Aeropole and Datagora. Our observatories Breakdown of jobs by site Paris-Charles de Gaulle Trade, employment and training Observatories have been set up to improve visibility over employment and changes in the nature of jobs in the Paris airports. Job Watch Observatories are governed by framework agreements between the government, the 637 region, local authorities, consular services, government job agencies, the employment 2010 centre, the Jobs and Vocational Training centre, the AFPA and airport companies inclu86,000 ding Aéroports de Paris. Three roles Paris-Orly Survey: every two years, the Observatories organize a complete survey of businesses and public services at the three airports. 203 Forecast: the Observatories carry out research to assess future job trends in major airport employment sectors; 2010 Share: the Observatories create partnerships with other business intelligence agencies 26,745 and with the key social and economic players in the immediate locality and the region. They contribute to the work of the Ile-de-France Regional Observatory on Employment and Training (Orefi), the Pole Orly and the Roissy CDG job booster organization (GIP). Paris-Le Bourget A study of social and economic impact In late 2011, Aéroports de Paris commissioned a study of the social and economic 68 impact of its three airports from the Bipe (Bureau of Information and Economic Forecasting) This study, run notably with the support of the Observatories, enabled a scientific 2010 evaluation of the different categories of economic and social impact from airport acti2,658 vity. In total, when the various impacts are combined, activities from the three airports generated nearly €30 billion in added value in 2010, representing nearly 6% of the Number of companies in 2010 Total number of employees in 2010 region’s GDP. The total number of jobs (direct, indirect, induced and catalytic) generated by the airports is estimated at 340,000, or more than 8% of the paid employment in the Ile-de-France region. Employees Helping the Roissy job booster organization (GIP) • 77% of employees work staggered hours at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and 73% at Since July 2011, the Observatories have been contributing to the preparation of a perParis-Orly. manent system of employment and training observation and a jobs and skills mana• T he gender breakdown is 62% men and gement (GPEC) tool to be used by the Roissy CDG job booster organization (GIP). This 38% women at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and work is being carried out in association with the GIP as part of a task given to Afpa67% men and 33% women at Paris-Orly. Transitions and the GIP Carif Ile-de-France by the Government and the region. The aim • 96% of staff have permanent contracts. is to harmonise regional and local employment policies and strategies. When ready, these tools will be used to make the career paths of interim workers and unqualified temporary staff more secure in the Grand Roissy region. More than 63 municipalities are affected. Furthermore, in 2011 the Observatories produced a brochure on the recruitment methods used by companies at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. Job fact sheets In association with the job centre, Pôle emploi, we designed 36 «Airport jobs» fact sheets aimed at job candidates, schools and colleges. These sheets are distributed by the job centre, employment agencies such as the Roissy CDG GIP, local employment agencies, and our Environment and Sustainable Development Centres. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 55 Community 5.3 Innovating for jobs 2011 Planèt’AIRport results Jobs near our airport sites are characterised by a large amount of flexibility and a need for specialist knowledge related to airport jobs. These jobs remain insufficiently Total number of beneficiaries 2,002 filled by the local population, amongst whom the unemployment rate remains high. For 15 years we have been investing in schemes to promote integration, employabi253 249 lity and job retention, alongside our economic partners. The creation of AERO Skills in 2011 extended the scope of the company’s activity. 1,103 Training and support for everyone 236 Planèt’AIRport We are involved in five partnership structures whose services are promoted under 145 16 the brand Planèt’AIRport: AIR, Adife, First Stade, Papa Charlie and Comité Habitat. These on-site structures offer advice, training, follow-up and support services to General IT training Mobility assistance local residents, local authorities and businesses. Each year, 2,000 local residents Reception, information, advice benefit from these services. in 2011 Planèt’AIRport launched its website, designed Support towards employment by a local job-integration company. Vocational training Social support www.planetairport.com Partners & services AERO Skills In 2011, AERO Skills, a regional training consortium for airport jobs, was launched • A  éroports de Paris, the Government, with the support of Aéroports de Paris. Led by AIR, the consortium’s sponsor, it the region, local authorities, CCI, employment centre, companies. brings together AIR, Afpa, Greta BIP 93, Camas Aéroformations, Prom’hôte and the Seine-Saint-Denis Chamber of Trades and Crafts. The consortium, holder of • Aéroports de Paris grants: €320,000 a contract for the Ile-de-France region, is the leading regional provider of training • Other Planèt’AIRport financing: €920,000 for airport jobs. These one-year training courses, which result in a certificate or other qualification, are provided free of charge. They are open to the unemployed of all ages, in the form of paid work experience, and cover 14 trades. This project AERO Skills brings together within the Aéroports de Paris group, the Human Resources division, • 10 sites in Ile-de-France (including the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres and the subsidiary Alyzia Environment and Sustainable Development Centres): Bobigny, Créteil, Sûreté, which provides the training for security-related jobs. The first course started Garges-lès-Gonesse, Gonesse, in September 2011. Le Blanc-Mesnil, Orly, Roissy, Rungis, Tremblay, Villepinte Teach’AIR Created by the AIR association, Teach’AIR® is a regional knowledge-acquisition or • 665 internships per year updating programme. It provides 19 workshops on cross-sector knowledge and • Annual market value: €2,065,000 professional approaches relating to the airport environment, aviation, aerospace and tourism. Structures partenariales de Planèt’AIRport • A IR, general interest association • Adife, urban social development public interest group • First Stade, a government-approved job integration company for on-request transport for member companies • Papa Charlie, an association for social car rental • Comité Habitat, an association supporting access to housing 56 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Job discovery seminars First Stade Each year we organise weekly «Discovering airport jobs» seminars, mainly aimed at The government-approved First Stade job young job seekers. Participants meet businesses located in the airports and attend integration company was founded by AIR. a preparatory workshop to validate a vocational project. These seminars are held It employs very disadvantaged people as at the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres. They are a step towards local couriers for 66 member businesses. the training offered by Planèt’AIRport or can lead directly to recruitment. In 2011, First Stade has six vehicles. 39 very disadthree coaching workshops prepared young applicants for recruitment. At Paris-Orly vantaged local residents were thereby able to get a job at the end of their integration they covered citizenship, communication and image advice while at Paris-Charles period. de Gaulle they covered job search techniques, image and vocational projects. Forums Projects for schools In 2011, the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres held a number of forums Eclair network in partnership with the parties involved in We support the Eclair networks (formerly Successful Ambition Networks (RAR)) for employment and each site’s businesses. the priority education of young people from low-income or disadvantaged backParis-Charles de Gaulle grounds and introduce students to airport jobs. We have signed partnerships with • 1  freight and logistics jobs forum the Val-d’Oise education authority for three towns in Grand Roissy Sarcelles in • 1 reception jobs forum 2010, and Villiers-le-Bel and Garges-lès-Gonesse in 2011, and with the Seine-et• 1 seasonal and summer jobs forum Marne education authority for the town of Meaux. • ½ day informing companies about sandwich training Schools for a second chance • 1 senior workers forum In 2011 we signed a partnership agreement with the Val-de-Marne school for a second chance. We are co-founder of «schools for a second chance» in La CourParis-Orly neuve, Cergy-Pontoise, Argenteuil and Sarcelles. The aim of these schools is the • 1  work experience and summer jobs forum professional integration of young people who left the school system more than • 1 ‘jobs for people with disabilities’ forum a year previously. and 1 «sport for people with disabilities» forum followed by a sports challenge «I’m entitled to work experience» • 1 ecological jobs forum With the General Council of Essonne, we signed the «I’m entitled to work experience» charter to fight against discrimination in work placements for high school Bilan des séminaires students from «sensitive» urban areas. • 268 people attended • 4  2% of people had qualifying training or were employed within three months Securing career paths We are a partner of the Roissy CDG job booster organization (GIP), which is active in the Grand Roissy area. Revamped in 2009, this GIP launched a programme of actions in 2010 relating to employment, training and also support for companies which are recruiting. The «STEP employment» project is a way of securing career paths, and has been designed for seasonal and temporary employees. The first project took place in 2011 and covered around 100 people. In addition, English lessons were introduced at several levels of proficiency because fluency in English is essential for working in an airport. Workshops to make companies aware of sandwich training also took place. A sandwich training marketplace is currently being set up. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 57 Vehicles belonging to the Papa Charlie association Papa Charlie • 9 8 vehicles Transport et logement social • Aéroports de Paris grant: Papa Charlie expands to Lyon €168,000 • Partner funding: The Papa Charlie association provides job seekers and those who have recently got €256,000 a job with a car for a short period at a low rental rate. This service is available to • Contributions from beneficiaries: people living in the Ile-de-France region who do not have a vehicle and who cannot €109,000 use public transport. Papa Charlie provides training in road safety awareness and is planning to organise a carpooling scheme. In 2011, the association launched the Nurseries Auto Buy Project, a micro-credit programme for the purchase of vehicles. Total number of children cared for in 2011 A partnership agreement is being finalised with Lyon-Saint-Exupéry airport, the • P’tits Loup’ings at Paris-Orly: 148 local CCI and the Rhône, Ain and Isère departments to expand this mobility pro• Globe-Trotteurs (L’Ombr’aile, L’Envol) gramme to their local area. Papa Charlie has been recognized by the European at Paris-Charles de Gaulle: 267 Social Fund as an innovative and transposable project and by the Global Compact Partners as a best practice in fighting against discrimination in employment and at work. • nearby municipalities, DGAC, public services, Air France, site businesses, Nurseries Aéroports de Paris. Our airports are equipped with two inter-company nurseries used by residents of all municipalities: Globe-Trotteurs at Paris-Charles de Gaulle (85 places) and the P’tits Filéo Loup’ings at Paris-Orly (60 places). These nurseries are open to parents who work • 2 011 participation from Aéroports de Paris: staggered timetables, or live more than two hours from their place of work, or who €305,000 have no facility close to home. In 2010 Globe-Trotteurs became a child-care centre • Partners: STIF, General Councils of and has two facilities to meet its care obligations better. L’Ombr’aile (25 places) is Seine-et-Marne and Val-d’Oise, open during atypical hours. L’Envol (60 places) is open during standard working the Plaine de France urban area and hours. Tremblay-en-France. • 458,000 reservations; 350,000 journeys; Comité Habitat 14,000 customers; 620 calls per day The Comité Habitat association, created in 1995, helps site employees find accomto the Filéo centre modation. It organizes rental housing around Paris-Charles de Gaulle in tandem with enterprises, local authorities and housing professionals. It organized the proGuides ject to build a residence containing 213 apartments for young workers, which ope• C ÉDÉGÉ, the Paris-Charles de Gaulle ned on the site in 2008. Since 1995, 1,500 people have been housed, including employee guide, updated in 2011, 500 employees aged between 18 and 30 who were housed in the residence. lists the services available on the site. • The Paris-Orly employee guide is expected to be rewritten in 2012. Filéo, an on-request bus network Filéo, established in 1998 by the STIF (Ile de France Transport Union), is an on-demand shared transit service reserved for employees at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. Operating alongside regular public transport lines, this network consists of six buses and serves 16 towns on a 24/7 basis. Aéroports de Paris is the only company to finance this arrangement, alongside its public partners. Filéo has an online reservation system: www.fileo.com 58 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Community 5.4 Developing sponsorship and voluntary In 2003 we created the Aéroports de Paris Foundation to develop our sponsorship Young apprentices activities, and we encourage voluntary work activities. Our sponsorship is split into at the Renaissance Museum three types: financial, in-kind and skills. A Grants Committee approves annual Aéroports de Paris Foundation supporamounts and the nature of the contributions from our various divisions, as well as ted an apprentice project to construct a the Foundation’s annual contribution. This committee is chaired by the Executive reception centre in the Château d’Ecouen Director and Chief Development officer of Aéroports de Paris. Its secretariat is run forestry reserve (department 95). This proby the Environment and Sustainable Development division. ject was organised for young job seekers by the National Institute for Art Trades and the Château d’Ecouen, as part of the C’MaAéroports de Paris Foundation diversité programme. It is supported by the Val-d’Oise prefecture and the Ile-de-France region. The Aéroports de Paris Foundation co-finances local initiatives to benefit the most vulnerable populations near the airport sites. Under the auspices of the Fondation de France, it provides financial assistance for local solidarity projects. Its executive 2011 Aéroports de Paris committee, chaired by the Chairman and CEO of Aéroports de Paris, has defined three priority action areas: integration and training, citizenship and the fight against Foundation report exclusion, and disability and health. The average grant for each project is €10,000. Number of projects 63 In order to give young disadvantaged people access to culture, the Foundation has signed multi-year agreements with several important cultural sites, such as the Fondation Royaumont. 29 22 Sponsorship and skills volunteering As part of our sponsorship activities, we share our skills with community and general interest groups. These activities are overseen by the partnership management unit of the Environment and Sustainable Development division. Since 2010, this delegation 12 has also been promoting skills volunteering amongst working employees or those that Total amount of aid e573,700 have retired from Aéroports de Paris. Our aim is to support our partner associations in the areas in which we are located in another way. Since then, a pool of 150 people has 260 195,7 been created. In 2011, around 20 projects were carried out, including English lessons and several educational workshops to help job seekers to succeed in the recruitment process. Sponsorship in-kind 118 In 2011, in association with the IT department, the partnership management unit of Citizenship and the fight against exclusion the Environment and Sustainable Development division organised the distribution Disability and health of 347 donations of IT equipment. In addition, it carried out a study on distributing Job insertion and training scrapped equipment to developing countries where our subsidiary ADPI operates. Contacts • www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, «Groupe» • www.planetairport.com Volunteer work during leave • Email: lafondation@adp.fr In 2011, our subsidiary, Hub télécom, signed an agreement with the Planète Urgence association offering its employees the opportunity to carry out voluntary work during their leave. The employee who wishes to, can take part in a charity project during his leave. Hub télécom pays the project costs. Planète Urgence has 250 projects around the world, covering the environment, socio-educational projects and adult training. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 59 Community 5.5 Strengthening our links with local residents Environmental advisory Consultations with local residents close to our airports is register in our set of operating duties. We have chosen to build a trusting relationship with the local committees authorities, associations and residents, and to promote our sustainable developIn 2011, 13 Environmental Advisory Comment values among them. These relationships are constantly being strengthened, mittee (CCE) meetings were held: three for Paris-Charles de Gaulle, two for Parisin particular by the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres’ (MDEDD) Orly, one for Paris-Le Bourget and seven for activities. Each year more than 20,000 people visit these offices. the general aviation airfields. These local consultation bodies convened by the Prefect give opinions on issues concerning the Welcome, inform, animate impact of development or operations at the airport on the environment. The secretariat Areas for local residents is provided by Aéroports de Paris. Environment and Sustainable Development Centres are located on-site at ParisCharles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. They are open to local residents, and provide Organic produce information and documents on the company’s environmental policy, aid for soundproofing, business opportunities, jobs and employment. They hold «Discovering and integration airport jobs» seminars for job seekers and recruitment forums and information Paris-Orly airport has renewed its parabout jobs. These forums are organised in partnership with the different players in tnership with the vocational integration assistance association, Les Potagers de Marthe employment market and companies on site. coussis (the Marcoussis Vegetable Growers). Communication about economic and social policy The growers sell baskets of organic vegetables to on-site employees. Since 2008, the MDEDD have cooperated closely with local municipalities via partnership charters. These charters provide a framework for the exchange of information and the development of specific, joint action plans in the areas of the environ2011 partnership charters ment, the community and the economy. Moreover the MDEDD organise meetings • E ssonne: Champlan, Longjumeau, Nozay for elected officials, such as the Sustainable Development Mornings and site visits. • Seine-et-Marne: Iverny, Ozoir-La-Ferrière, They also take part in local and regional work on environmental themes linked to Saint-Pathus airport site development work. • Val-d’Oise: Bouqueval, Épiais-lès-Louvres, Montsoult, Villeron A website for local residents • In total, 52 charters have been signed The website www.entrevoisins.org provides general cultural information on aviafor Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly tion amongst its topics, the most up-to-date information on its airport activities since 2008. and practical information linked to the Aéroports de Paris’s policy of economic and social cooperation. This website is intended for residents, elected officials, businesses and the general public. The Entre D’Jeuns feature offers a fun look at the aviation world and its jobs. www.entrevoisins.org Colleges and the sheltered sector for green spaces To make its green spaces more attractive, MDEDD at Paris-Charles de Gaulle has created partnerships with two local horticultural colleges. It has selected a company in the sheltered sector for the upkeep of its flower beds. Trade shows for the planet Throughout the year, the MDEDD offer events and trade shows. In 2011, two trade shows were held on the theme of eco-construction and one on eco-jobs. An exhibition on woodland wealth celebrated the International Year of the Forest. Since 2011, Paris-Orly organises a monthly conference on environmental themes or sustainable development. 60 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Aid for soundproofing Communication Each year since 2009, the DGAC has We manage a financial aid scheme to help soundproofing near the airports. It is conducted an information campaign on funded by the tax on aircraft noise (TNSA) paid by airlines for each flight take-off. the financial aid scheme, in association with Aéroports de Paris. This campaign can be TNSA revenues totalled €42.21 million in 2011. seen on: Aid and noise management map www.entrevoisins.org This aid applies to certain premises located within the scope of the noise pollution map (PGS) at Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle. From 2012 it will also cover housing units or premises Paris-Le Bourget. The Ministry for Ecology anticipates extending eligibility for the receiving aid (2004-2011) scheme’s aid to new geographic sectors or new categories of premises. This aid is attributed on the basis of a favourable opinion from the Advisory Commission Soundproofing work on Aid to Residents (CAAR), composed of the regional Prefect, the French Civil 1,069 Aviation Authority, local authorities, associations and the boards of professional 2004 aviation organizations. 1,106 2005 2,956 New tariffs 2006 The regulatory base rate is 100% for an acoustic diagnosis and 95% for work orga3,359 2007 nized into grouped applications. From December 28, 2011 until the end of 2013, 2,466 2008 a rate of 100% applies to diagnosis and work which meets certain conditions. 2,988 In 2011, the funding limit was raised to €5,000 for exterior roof insulation work 2009 2,816 for individuals and €1,000 per unit for renovation of VMC systems in collective 2010 housing units. The limit may be up to three times higher for certain social housing. Since 2010 funding may be payable in advance. 2011 1,762 Assistance for the contracting process Total Paris-Charles de Gaulle 18,522 We provide a supervisory work assistance service (AMO) free of charge to local residents. The AMO helps with acoustic diagnosis, consultation of firms, analysis of 1,147 2004 tenders, the technical specifications, monitoring of relations with contractors and 515 the completion of the work. It is compulsory for grouped applications and for bene2005 785 fiting from the 100% rate. The AMO ensures the work is properly coordinated and 2006 optimises costs. It is recommended in all cases. A system of awarding certification 1,335 2007 to companies is currently being studied. 1,922 2008 Information about noise 1,379 2009 The DGAC provides information for local residents about noise conditions around 1,082 the airports in the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres. To do so, it 2010 uses visualisation software to display traffic and noise levels. One of these tools 2011 1,292 Vitrail was designed by Aéroports de Paris, and gives an almost real-time view of aircraft trajectories. It is also installed in 22 town halls. Total Paris-Orly 9,457 • C  ost of work (2004-2011)*: €271.73 million for 27,941 housing units and Un pôle dédié 38 service buildings located in the noise Notre pôle dédié au management de l’aide aux riverains met en œuvre et pollution map of the two airports, coordonne les processus d’attribution des aides à l’insonorisation. Il veille in the amount of €176.05 million for à la bonne utilisation des fonds. Nos équipes ont été renforcées en 2011 Paris-Charles de Gaulle and €95.68 pour répondre à l’accroissement de charge induit par les nouvelles dispomillion for Paris-Orly. TNSA revenues in sitions réglementaires. 2011: €42.21 million, of which €21.15 million for Paris-Charles de Gaulle and €21.06 million for Paris-Orly. • A  mount authorised for work in 2011*: €40.21 million, of which €21.18 million for Paris-Charles de Gaulle and €19.03 million for Paris-Orly. • A  mount for acoustic diagnosis in 2011: €1.8 million for 6,182 premises. * Amounts at 31 December 2011 do not include the potential increase in coverage rate for certain applications. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 61 Appendices Opinions from the stakeholders’ panel Five quality principles Method underlying the report 1 Balance: the various types of Since 2006, we have asked a panel of stakeholders to assess the quality of our information must be able to be Corporate Social Responsibility Report. This year, the Company is also submitting compared objectively by stakeholders. the quality of communication about our strategy for sustainable development and 2 Comparison year on year. social responsibility to external evaluation, in addition to evaluations carried out by 3 Accuracy: the information must be non-financial ratings agencies. The 2011 Report on Corporate Social Responsibility accurate and detailed. has been written to meet the recommendations of the third generation manage4 Clarity: the information must be easy ment and reporting guidelines laid out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the to understand and use by stakeholders. recognised authority in this matter. 5 Reliability: based on the quality of Collecting stakeholder opinions compilation. Opinions were collected on four chosen areas: • the relevance of the policies and actions described; • stakeholder involvement, their identification and paying special attention to their expectations in the treatment of the topics; • incorporation of performance into a broad-based long term global vision; • ensuring completeness to provide a balanced assessment (strengths and weaknesses) of performance. The combination of these requirements for the content and presentation provide a frame for the evaluation method chosen for collecting and synthesizing the contributions of the stakeholder panel. This new Aéroports de Paris panel has ten members, who assessed the quality of this report using an analytic grid. The results are summarized and reported in this document. The follow-up of suggestions and comments from stakeholders from one year to the next illustrates our systematic determination to continuously improve. Factoring in the 2010 comments The stakeholder panel rated the 2010 report as balanced, clear, comprehensive and reliable. Panel members felt it gave a detailed picture of Aéroports de Paris’ actions and key figures, allowing them to assess changes in the Group from one year to the next. They felt that the 2010 report provided a clearer focus on Aéroports de Paris’ societal and community commitments and its positive role towards its partners and the clear objectives that the Company has set for the future. The panel suggested three areas for improvement: a more detailed description of the mediumand long-term challenges and vision, more in-depth coverage of the Company’s communication strategy with stakeholders, and fuller information on the actions involving companies using the airport sites. To address these suggestions, the 2011 report adopts a threefold presentation: two double page spreads dedicated to strategy, the challenges relating to our stakeholders and the means of communication put in place; an interview with a personality opens each section to present some of our key areas of activity in 2011; and a roadmap for each section describes our mediumterm objectives and their state of advance. 62 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 O  pinions and areas Members of the 2011 panel • Daniel BARNIER, Sub-Prefect of for improvement Palaiseau (91) • Maresca BASSET, Quality Coordinator, The members of the stakeholders’ panel consider that the report is comprehensive and GSF Concorde based on accurate, reliable evidence. They feel they are well represented in it and their • Christelle DUBOIS, Director of Papa views are accurately expressed and addressed. They singled out the following elements Charlie as attesting to the report’s reliability and accuracy, its transparency and openness: the • Marc GENTILHOMME, Chief Executive chart of GRI indicators in the appendix, verified by a third party, and the certifications Officer of the Terres-de-France urban and quality labels awarded to Aéroports de Paris. Readers feel that the report reflects area community services the Group’s social responsibility policy and its development well. They were particularly • Patrick HADDAD, Community pleased to see the ambitious objectives Aéroports de Paris has set as part of the Grenelle Councillor of Val-de-France Environment Plan and the many partnerships which show a real desire to collaborate • Pascal LEFEVRE, Head of the Collège with stakeholders. The majority of readers believe the report has made progress in Henri-Wallon (95) terms of format, editorial content and in the way it handles information. • Pierre LEFORT, Chairman of ADOR. • François SCELLIER, Representative The contents of the report of Val-d’Oise (95) The stakeholders’ panel considers that the topics have been given a balanced, • Sylvain UBERSFELD, Projects Manager, pertinent and full treatment. They note, however, that the «Environment» theme Federal Express occupies a major part of the document, whilst feeling this to be justified. Objectives • Emmanuel VEIGA, Transport are presented in a clear manner and the information is of good quality. The report Development Department Manager, is easy to understand and well presented and enables comparisons to be made CCI of Versailles-Val-d’Oise-Yvelines (78) with previous years. Among the report’s strong points, panel members highlighted the presence of the numerous quantitative indicators, the roadmaps summarising objectives, the double page spread devoted to stakeholders, the interviews at the Using the panel’s advice beginning of each chapter and the links to websites belonging to Aéroports de We will study the comments made in response Paris or organisations in which it participates. The majority of members (eight out to our request for feedback with the utmost care and address them, wherever possible, in of ten) feel that the document gives a good over-view. the 2012 corporate social responsibility report. Areas for improvement The main areas for improvement are: highlighting Aéroports de Paris’ involvement with authorities and the Company’s openness to its stakeholders, and increasing the visibility of its partnerships with local authorities regarding employment; a broader vision of the major structural transportation (Grand Paris) and real estate projects, and of their economic, environmental and social impact in the local area; a more in-depth coverage of relationships with local companies and concerning sustainable procurement; more examples of projects carried out in the area of human resources management policy; reference data allowing an understanding of the changes in Aéroports de Paris over a longer period of time and its position in relation to current best practices; and a more detailed presentation of the way in which noise pollution management responsibilities are shared between the airlines and Aéroports de Paris. Structure and form The majority of the members of the stakeholder panel appreciate the layout and the tone of the report and the presentation which allows for both rapid and more indepth reading. They felt that reading the report was very enjoyable thanks to its concise text and high quality graphics. They also appreciated the computer graphics and highlighting of information in the page margins. Eight out of ten members thought that the information was presented in a sufficiently educational way. Areas for improvement Suggested areas for improvement: a note for readers who have little knowledge of corporate social responsibility, giving an introduction to the topic and a summary of Aéroports de Paris’ activities in this area; this note could also serve to explain how to use the document. Several members of the panel would like to see a company organisational chart and a simpler presentation of the organisation of CSR responsibilities and reporting structure. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 63 Appendices Governance Indicators • The  Chairman of the Board of Directors fulfils the role of Chief Executive Officer. Stakeholders • Three  directors are deemed independent Members of the Board under the criteria specified by the AFEPTerm of Office 5 years Medef code of corporate governance in December 2008. The independent direcAppointed by the Elected by the 18 members State: 6 tors account for half of the directors apShareholders: 6 employees: 6 pointed by the General Assembly and less Jurisdiction Register of directors at the IFA(1) than 20% of all members. • The  directors are relatively young (53 Independence Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors years on average) and Board membership Auditors is balanced in terms of composition, to guarantee shareholders and the market The auditors cannot provide that its tasks will be carried out with indeconsulting services except Yes pendence and objectivity. for ancillary audit services. • In  addition to independence as judged by Shareholders the criteria laid down in the AFEP-Medef code, it should be noted that each direcOne share equals one vote. Yes tor and each observer has agreed, in the directors’ charter set out in the appendix to the internal regulations of the Board of Directors, to retain his independence Involvement in decisions in terms of analysis, judgement, decisionBoard of Directors making and action (article 6 of the charNumber of meetings and average ter). The annual evaluation questionnaire 14 meetings, 74% attendance rate relating to the operation of the Board of Directors satisfies Aéroports de Paris as to Internal Regulations and Code Yes the independence of directors. of Ethics • Introduction  in 2010 of a first non-finanAudit, strategy and compensation Strategy Audit Compensation cial criterion in determining the variable committees and investments portion of executive compensation. • Number of members 4 6 3 • The  corporate officers’ remuneration • Number of meetings 7 3 2 scheme is related to performance, handling conflicts of interest and the skills of • Attendance rate 93% 94% 100% directors and is presented in the report of the Chairman of the Board, Appendix Annual assessment of Board, result Internal assessment 2 of the Aéroports de Paris registration of the 2010 annual assessment (confidential questionnaire and interview) document. It can be consulted at: presented in 2011 Level of satisfaction: high www.aeroportsdeparis.fr General Assembly Turnout at the last General 87% of voting rights Assembly Percentage of votes cast at the General Assembly Resolutions adopted by over 98% (5 May 2011) by shareholders Financial and non-financial information Publication of criteria and Yes (management report, registration document). amounts of corporate officers’ Compliance with AFEP-Medef code regarding compensation compensation Publication of the amount of fees Yes (management report and registration document) Stock-options, free shares granted No to corporate officers (1) French Institute of Directors 64 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Method for reporting indicators This report concerns Aéroports de Paris’ activities from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011. It has been based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) third generation management and reporting guidelines. This is co-led by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to harmonise the consolidation of data on sustainable development. These guidelines provide principles that help organisations deliver a balanced and reasonable presentation of their economic, environmental and social performance (p. 68). Control and consolidation The Environment and Sustainable Development Division consolidates the sustainable development indicators on the basis of data submitted by the departments in question. • F or each indicator reported, Aéroports de Paris uses a specific reporting protocol to define the indicator and the scope and method of the calculation. • In light of the different collection methods and operating systems in the three airports, the scope of the reports may vary for certain indicators. • F or indicators of the number of employees at airports, the census has been carried out by the Occupations, Jobs and Training Observatories. • S ocial indicators use a social reporting protocol that defines the reporting scope and methods. They are sent to the Environment and Sustainable Development Division by the Human Resources Division. • Night traffic data are collected by Aéroports de Paris. • F or ISO 14001, the procedures for reporting environmental indicators are applied by Aéroports de Paris. • F or soundproofing aid indicators, the data come from the review published at the end of December 2011. • F or air and emission quality indicators, the data are calculated by the Aéroports de Paris laboratory, Cofrac-accredited and certified to ISO 9001, using methodological guides that include the instructions used. They are then sent to the Environment and Sustainable Development Division. For aircraft emissions, the calculations have been made on the basis of a methodology established by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) for calculating the Landing and Take-Off Cycle. Changes in scope • F or the presentation of financial statements: Aéroports de Paris Group has adopted a new presentation of its consolidated accounts with effect from financial year ended 31 December 2011. Pro-forma accounts for 2009 and 2010 have been drawn up in accordance with these changes. • F or corporate data: new scope excluding ground handling and commercial joint ventures. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 65 Appendices GRI indicators Aéroports de Paris in figures INDICATORS UNITS 2009 Pro-forma (a) 2010 Pro-forma (a) 2011 GRI Ref. AÉROPORTS AÉROPORTS AÉROPORTS Aéroports Aéroports Aéroports DE PARIS DE PARIS DE PARIS de Paris SA de Paris SA de Paris SA GROUP GROUP GROUP Revenue em 2,400 2,323 2,480 2,385 2,502 2,473 EC1 EBITDA em 875 – 922 – 972 – EC1 Net income: Group share / em 270 244 300 238 348 312 EC1 annual profit Total investments* em 429 nd 496 nd 686 nd EC1 Economic Data INDICATORS UNITS 2009 2010 2011 GRI Ref. CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL Number of companies in the airports number nd nd nd nd 637 203 68 908 nd nd nd nd EC9 Jobs at airports number nd nd nd nd 86,000 26,745 2,658 115,403 nd nd nd nd EC9 (excluding temporary) Compensation Fund for airport em 2.61 1.96 na 4.57 2.61 1.96 na 4.57 2.61 1.96 nd 4.57 EC9 noise (FCNA) Aéroports de Paris Foundation: amount granted by the Foundation e na na na 579,947 na na na 508,500 na na na 573,700 EC8 MARKET PRESENCE Passenger air traffic in millions 57.9 25.1 nd 83.0 58.2 25.2 nd 83.4 61.0 27.1 nd 88.1 EC6 Number of aircraft movements in thousands 518.0 220.6 nd 738.6 491.9 215.6 nd 707.5 506.9 228.5 nd 735.4 EC6 Staff and payroll data INDICATORS UNITS 2009 2010 2011 Pro forma (b) GRI Ref. AVERAGE HEADCOUNT Aéroports de Paris number 7,029 6,958 6,879 LA1 Subsidiaries number 5,034 5,261 2,213 LA1 Aéroports de Paris Group number 12,063 12,219 9,092 LA1 Workers disabilities(1) number 295 320 335 LA13 Average age(2) years 44.1 44.8 45.3 LA13 Percentage female(2) % 38.1 38.2 38.3 LA13 HIRES AND DEPARTURES Permanent contract hires(1) number 665 571 263 LA2 Hires of under-25 year olds(2) number 15 29 35 LA2 Departures (all reasons)(1) number 1,889 1,630 613 LA2 Promotion rate(2) % 5.2 3.8 5.9 LA2 Replacement rate % 1.9 1.7 2.3 LA2 for permanent jobs(2) TRAINING Percentage of payroll spent % 6.08 6.13 6.6 LA10 on in-service training(2) ABSENTEEISM Absenteeism for all causes(2) % 6.83 7.06 6.60 LA7 Absenteeism(2) heures 750,887 773,859 715,671 LA7 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WORKING CONDITIONS Accidents at work(2) number 160 151 114 LA7 Deaths(2) number 2 0 0 LA7 Accidents at work frequency rate(2) % 15.5 14.6 11.1 LA7 Accidents at work severity rate(2) % 0.99 1 0.6 LA7 Other employee data INDICATORS UNITS 2009 2010 2011 GRI Ref. Participants in «Airport and related number nd 725 268 SO1 jobs» seminars Beneficiaries of employment assistance (training, support, number nd 1,557 2,002 SO1 mobility assistance) * Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (1) for Aéroports de Paris Group. (2) for Aéroports de Paris SA (1) The Aéroports de Paris Group has adopted a new presentation of its consolidated accounts with effect from financial year ended 31 December 2011. Pro-forma accounts for 2009 and 2010 have been drawn up in accordance with these changes. For further information, see the notes to the consolidated financial statements available at www.aeroportsdeparis.fr. (b) New scope excluding ground handling and commercial joint ventures. 66 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 Environmental data INDICATORS UNITS 2009 2010 2011 GRI Ref. CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CURFEW EXEMPTIONS (PARIS-ORLY) Number of exemptions number na 46 na na na 181 na na na 69 na na SO1 between 11.30 pm and 11.45 pm number na 31 na na na 88 na na na 45 na na SO1 NIGHT TRAFFIC BY TIME SLOT (PARIS-CHARLES DE GAULLE) 22 pm 24 pm local time number 27,800 na na na 28,487 na na na 27,922 na na na SO1 00 pm 05 pm local time number 20,991 na na na 22,308 na na na 21,062 na na na SO1 05 pm 06 pm local time number 10,503 na na na 10,460 na na na 10,226 na na na SO1 Total number 59,294 na na na 61,255 na na na 59,210 na na na SO1 NOISE Cases handled number 1,695 814 na 2,509 1,666 971 na 2,637 1,578 1,272 na 2,850 SO1 Soundproofed homes and premises number 2,988 1,379 na 4,367 2,816 1,082 na 3,898 1,762 1,292 na 3,054 SO1 Aid granted(1) em 27.3 15.2 na 42.5 25.4 11 na 36.4 21.2 19.0 na 40.2 SO1 AIR, EMISSIONS AND WASTE QUALITY Air quality at the airports Nitrogen dioxide (NO2 rate) μg/m3 29 32 nd na nd 34 nd na 28 29 nd na / Particle rate (PM 2.5) μg/m3 17 20 nd na 19 21 nd na 19 19 nd na / Ozone (O3 rate) μg/m3 nd nd nd na 39 42 nd na 41 43 nd na / Nitrogen monoxide rate (NO) μg/m3 11 13 nd na nd 13 nd na 11 12 nd na / Plant emissions CO2emissions(2) tonne 118,267 20,065 4,939 143,271 126,146 24,520 5,451 156,117 93,318 10,708 3,849 107,875 EN16 NOx emissions kg 92,276 21,178 3,114 116,568 94,508 15,508 3,437 113,453 67,272 6,774 2,427 76,473 EN16 GHG emissions from aircraft CO2emissions tonne 871,750 290,550 nd 1,162,300 856,800 288,000 nd 1,144,800 894,600 301,700 nd 1,196,300 EN17 NOx emissions tonne 4,020 1,180 nd 5,200 4,032 1,183 nd 5,215 4,225 1,241 nd 5,466 EN20 Vehicle Emissions CO2emissions tonne 1,847 1,229 nd 3,076 1,917 1,338 nd 3,255 nd nd nd nd EN16 ENERGY Share of renewable energy in our final internal energy consumption % _ _ _ 1.06 _ _ _ 1.03 _ _ _ 3.86 EN6 Thermal generation MWh 306,345 123,549 19,986 449,880 340,890 145,232 23,976 510,098 259,168 102,531 13,251 374,950 EN4 Refrigeration MWh 132,439 18,124 na 150,563 123,825 17,196 na 141,021 118,135 20,162 na 138,297 EN4 Portion of cogeneration in energy consumption designed % 49.3 na na na 42.8 na na na 42.6 na na na EN4 to produce heat Paris-Charles de Gaulle Total electrical power per airport GWh 342 103 32 477 339 101 32 472 329 100 29 458 EN4 (internal + external) Internal energy consumption Aéroports de Paris GWhep 1,015 279 10 1,304 1,043 281 13 1,337 961 290 9 1,260 EN3 (hot, cold, electricity) WATER Water consumption thousands of m3 2,252 505 97 2,854 2,294 478 86 2,858 2,406 492 84 2,982 EN8 Aéroports de Paris portion thousands of m3 1,460 305 18 1,783 1,395 275 21 1,691 1,252 309 13 1,574 EN8 WASTE OIW volume collected tonne 39,413 12,684 1,666 53,763 36,887 12,675 1,561 51,123 35,386 10,548 1,362 47,296 EN22 Landfill % 9 9 24 9.3 4 9 31 5.9 1 6 49 3.6 EN22 Recyclable % 16 16 49 17.5 19 18 40 19.5 22 20 23 21.7 EN22 Incinerated % 75 75 27 73.2 77 73 29 74.6 76 75 28 74.7 EN22 HIW volume collected tonne 192 118 35 345 2,160 162 42 2,364 2,208 124 70 2,402 EN24 TRANSPORTATION Rate of public transport % 45.62 35.71 na 41.89 45.17 36.77 na 42.08 45.30 36.60 na 42.10 EN29 use to and from the airport na = not applicable nd = not available. *(1) Amounts at 31 December 2011 do not include the potential increase in coverage rate for certain files. (2) Data verified by a third party (Apave). Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 67 Appendices GRI summary 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from decision-maker p. 1 1.2 Description of impacts, risks and opportunities p. 6-7, 10-11, 18-19, 22, 30, 38, 44, 46, 52, 64 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of Organisation Cover 2.2 Products and Services p. 2-5, 42-49 2.3 Operational Structure p. 5, 14, 16-18, 64 2.4 Headquarters 4e Back cover 2.5 Countries of operation p. 2, 4e Back cover 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4e Back cover 2.7 Markets p. 2, 4 2.8 Size p. 2, 3, 4, 5, 66 2.9 Major changes p. 7-9, 14, 15, 65 2.10 Awards received p. 15 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Period 2011 PROFILE OF REPORT 3.2 Latest report 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact person M. Didier Hamon, Environment and Sustainable Development Division 3.5 Process of deciding on content p. 62, 63 3.6 Scope of report p. 2-5, 65 3.7 Limits of scope p. 2-5, 65-67 SCOPE OF REPORT 3.8 Principles of communicating data p. 65 3.9 Measurement methods p. 65 3.10 Reformulations and consequences p. 65, 66 3.11 Major changes p. 18, 19, 66, 67 GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table of information location p. 68 VALIDATION BY THIRD PARTIES 3.13 Validation policy and practice p. 62-63, 65-68 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE 4.1 Governance structure p. 14 4.2 Chairman of the Board of Directors p. 64 4.3 Independence of the Board of Directors p. 64 4.4 Supervisory procedures p. 10, 11, 14, 18, 19, 64 GOVERNANCE 4.5 Scheme for executive compensation tied to performance p. 14, 64 4.6 Managing conflicts of interest p.14, 18 4.7 Qualifications of directors p. 64 4.8 Values, codes of conduct p. 17-19, 49 4.9 How to manage opportunities and risks p. 16, 18, 19 4.10 Performance evaluation by the Board of Directors p. 14, 64 4.11 Precautionary principle p. 18 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS 4.12 Charters, principles and other initiatives p. 6, 7, 10, 11, 15, 19, 25, 31, 36, 38, 40, 44, 45, 48, 49, 53, 54, 56, 57, 59, 60 4.13 Membership of associations p. 27, 33, 36, 53, 54, 55 4.14 List of stakeholder groups p. 10, 11 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 4.15 Selection of stakeholders for dialogue p. 10, 11, 62, 63 4.16 Dialogue (frequency, type ...) p. 10, 11 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement p. 10, 11, 62, 63 5. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS p. 64-67 Economic performance p. 2-8, 66 Environmental performance p. 28-41, 66 INFORMATION Employment, social relations and decent work p. 20, 21, 66 ON MANAGERIAL APPROACH Human rights p. 15 Society p. 50-61, 67 Product liability p. 42-49 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, version 3.1, have been implemented using Application B. This application level has been the subject of external verification by KPMG Audit. LEVELS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REPORT GUIDELINES OF 2006 C C+ B B+ A A+ MANDATORY Self-reported CHECKED CHECKED CHECKED BY A BY A BY A Checked by a third party THIRD THIRD THIRD OPTIONAL Checked by the GRI PARTY PARTY PARTY 68 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2011 A  bbreviations OHSAS: Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series Corporate governance, 8, 13-19 Customers, 1, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, Noise (measurement, soundproofing), 37, 52, 53, 60, and acronyms OIW: ordinary industrial waste PARAFE: fast border screening 17, 22, 23, 24, 38, 39, 42-48 Datagora, 54 61 Non-financial ratings, 9, 15, 16 ACA: Airport Carbon facility Dermagne report, 52 On-site companies, 4, 9, 10, 11, Accreditation PEB: noise exposure plan DGAC, 4, 30, 36, 37, 58, 61 41, 44, 48-49 ACI: Airports Council PGS: noise management plan Disability, 16, 25-27, 46, 49, 52, Orly International, 51, 53, 55 International PHMR: a disabled person or with 57, 59, 60 Orly International, 9, 51, 53 ACNUSA: Airport Noise Control reduced mobility Diversity, fight against Papa Charlie, 56, 58 Authority RSE: Corporate Social discrimination, 10, 14, 17, 22, Passengers, 2-4, 7, 10, 17, 18, ADIFE: Local initiative actions and Responsibility 25, 57 30, 33, 44-47 development SESAR: Single European Sky ATM Employment figures, 23, 25 Pesticides, 40 ADOR: Association for the Research Employment, 4, 9, 16, 17, Planèt’AIRport, 56-57 Economic Development SIEPOR: joint municipal research 21-27, 52, 54-50 Psychological risks, 23, 27 of Orly-Rungis consortium for Orly-Rungis Energy, renewable energy, 3, 4, Purchasing, 15, 17, 18, 26, 39, AFNOR: French standards STIF: Ile-de-France Transport 14, 17, 16-17, 29-34, 39 41, 44, 48-49, 54 association Trade Union Entre Voisins magazine, 60 Real estate, 17, 48 AFPA: National Association for TEP: tonnes oil equivalent Environment and Sustainable Retail, 6, 10, 34, 46-48 Adult Vocational Training TNSA: tax on airborne sound Development Centres, 10, 55, Risks, 9, 14-15, 18-19, 30-31, AIR: Association for Regional pollution 56-57, 60 38, 40, 49 Interest ZUS: disadvantaged area Environment, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15-17, Roissypole, 34, 48 AIRE: Atlantic Interoperability 19, 29-41, 48-49, 53, 55, 59, Schiphol Group, 6-7, 14, 34, 60 41, 48 Initiative to Reduce Emissions ANACT: National Agency for S ubject Environmental advisory committees, 37, 60 Seniors, 25 Service quality, 44, 45, 48 the Improvement of Working Conditions index Equal opportunities, gender Service University, 17, 23, 44-46 APU: Auxiliary Power Unit equality, 10, 14, 17, 21, 22, 24, SME, 4, 44, 49, 52, 54 (ACA (Airport Carbon ARD: Regional Development 26-27 Stakeholders, 9-11,15, 17, 19, Accreditation), 30, 36, 41 Agency Ethics, corruption, 11, 13, 17, 22, 30, 36, 52-53 ACNUSA, 37 Aspi Eurozone®: Advanced 18, 44, 49 Strategy, 6-7, 14 ADIFE, 56 Sustainable Performance Indices Filéo, 58 Subsidiaries, 5, 6, 13-15, 18, 22, AERO Skills, 56 (European Reference Index for First Stade, 56, 57 31, 39, 44, 49, 59 Aéropôle, 54 companies wishing to commit to Geothermal energy, 29, 30, 32 Succeeding together, 45 Aéroports de Paris Foundation, 5, corporate social responsibility), GIP, Roissy CDG job booster, 53, Suppliers, sub-contractors, 5, 11, 10, 17, 59 CCI: Chamber of Commerce and 55, 57 15, 22, 39, 44, 48-49 Aéroville, 48 Industry Global Compact, 15, 25, 48 Sustainable development week, AIR (Association) CCIP: Paris Chamber of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 41 Air France, 35, 36, 41 Commerce and Industry 15 TNSA, 61 Air quality, 37 CEEVO: Economic expansion GPEC, 22 Training, awareness, 13, 16-17, Airparif, 37 committee for the Val-d’Oise Grand Paris, 35, 52 19, 23, 25, 27, 31, 34, 51-57, Aspi Eurozone®, 2, 15 Region Grand Roissy, 52, 57 59, 60 Audit, 10, 14-16, 18-19, 30, CHSCT: Committee for Health, Grenelle Environment Plan, 6, 7, Transparence International France, 34, 49 Safety and Work conditions 9, 15, 29, 30-31, 37 13, 15, 19, 49 Authorities, 5, 9, 10, 50-61 CIES: Joint union employee Health and safety at work, quality Waste, 30, 33, 34, 39, 41 Biodiversity, 40 savings committee of life, 10, 25, 26-27, 29, 31, Water, 3, 4, 29, 30, 34, 38 Biomass, 29, 30, 32 CO2: carbon dioxide 40 Week for the employment of Certified management systems, COFRAC: French Accreditation HEQ and LEB building, 29-31, 34 people with disabilities, 25 17, 29, 31 Committee Hubstart Paris®, 9, 47, 53, 54 Civil society, local residents, 8-9, DGAC: French Civil Aviation Human resources, 9, 20-27 10, 17, 37, 41, 51-61 Authority Human rights, 9, 15, 17, 22 CO2, 3, 7, 9, 29, 30-32, 36, 41 FCPE: corporate mutual fund Indicators, 31, 44, 64-67 Cœur d’Orly, 48 GIP: public interest consortium Innovation, 17, 44, 47, 54 Collaborative Decision Making GRETA: Local educational Insertion, 24, 25, 49, 52, 56-57, (CDM), 36 organization 59-60 Comité Habitat, 56, 58 HIW: hazardous industrial waste Intercompany nurseries, 27, 58 Communication, information, Hub: interchange platform Internal control, 14, 16, 18-19 9-11, 14, 17, 18, 24, 26, ISO: International Standards Joint innovation, 24 30-31, 48, 52, 60-61 Organisation Key figures, 2-5 Company and inter-company MOCS: Microsoft Office Mobility and road safety week, 35 business commuting plan, 35 Communication Server Corporate agreements, 25-27 NOx: nitrous oxides Aéroports de Paris Limited company with capital of €296,881,806 291 boulevard Raspail 75675 Paris Cedex 14, France SIREN 552 016 626 RCS Paris – APE 52232 This airport is participating in Airport Carbon Accreditation Design and creation: ENERGOGRAD – Editor: Anne LOMBARD, Aéroports de Paris – Layout: Pascale MICHON – Computer graphics: Laurent RULLIER/comillus.com – Photo credits: © Aéroports de Paris with Éric ANCEL, Stéphane de BOURGIE, Sylvain CAMBON, Nicolas CHAVANCE, David DELAPORTE, Jean-Marc JOUANNEAUX, Jean-Pierre GABORIT, Grégoire KORGANOW, Michel LABELLE, Émile LUIDER / LA COMPANY, Mikael LAFONTAN et Olivier SEIGNETTE, Philippe STROPPA / STUDIO PONS, © AlcelVision Fotolia.com – Imprimerie Spéciale Aéroports de Paris. Tel: 00 33 (0)1 49 75 62 70 – Imprim’Vert® – Printed on PEFC-labelled paper.
