REPORT OF COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011-12 CENTRAL COALFIELDS LIMITED A CATEGORY-I, MINIRATNA COMPANY RANCHI, INDIA UN Global CompactCommunication on Progress Background: Central Coalfields Limited (CCL) is a pioneer company under Ministry of Coal, Government of India and is proud to be a member of Global Compact. The Company has emerged as a dominant domestic player in the primary energy sector and is committed to provide energy security to the country by attaining environmentally and socially sustainable growth through best practices from Mines to Market. The company is committed to promote social good for sustainability of business and industry. The company believes that it is its prime responsibility to uphold the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. The Company is poised to go a long way in the Energy sector of the Nation with thrust on overall development of society and well designed production enhancement programme. Overview of CSR: Making mining socially sustainable, CCL focuses on inclusive growth of community in its command area through a host of Corporate Social Responsibility measures. The Company has a spectacular turnaround a couple of years ago and has grown thereafter, from strength to strength by registering record production, productivity, profit and people care. The company emphasizes on triple bottom line i.e. People, Planet & Profit with people as its first principle. In order to be a Corporate trusted by all, CCL has formulated a CSR policy to articulate the corporate philosophy. With a view to make its CSR Policy sustainable, our activities are based on Core Competency, Community and Customer’s choice and thus there will be strong business dimension of CSR measures adding value to the bottom line. CSR strategy: Our CSR strategy has fourfold initiative as under CCL as Promoter: CCL taking up CSR activities on its own.  CCL as a Partner: CCL building up partnership with Voluntary Bodies, Autonomous Bodies, Statutory Agencies, State and Central Government Agencies, to take up Corporate Strategic Responsibility Projects on a sustainable basis.  CCL as Facilitator: CCL making contributions to various Socially Beneficial Projects in and around its command area, in the State of Jharkhand, and in Country at large.  CCL as a Consultant: CCL extending assistance in terms of technical expertise, managerial expertise etc. to welfare and developmental projects. The Welfare & Community Development department of the company oversees our CSR strategy and reviews progress made in this regard. We are continuously giving our impetus to monitor our progress. In addition, we have revised our CSR policy during the year 2010 extending the gamut for doing more CSR activities. The major CSR activities undertaken by CCL are given below: a) Adoption & development of model villages : . Under Adoption and development of model Village programme of CCL, CSR Scheme CCL has adopted two (2) nos. of villages in the nearby vicinities in Ranchi and one village named Zari , the native place of PVC Albert Ekka in the district of Gumla for their overall development. Rs. 50 lac has been provided for setting up a “SOLAR LIGHT GENERATING UNIT” at Zari. Village Health Camp at Zari Solar Power Plant at Zari The work undertaken in the villages during the year 2011-12 • No. of medical camps organized in Adopted Villages 25. • No. of Beneficiaries 2644 • No. of medical camps organized in Adopted Villages 24. • Amount spent on distribution of Medicines Rs. 1.65s Lac. • Infrastructural Development:  Installation of Hand pumps at Lupung Toli – 5.  Construction of 800 mts. PCC Road at Lupung Toli  Construction of 600 ft. drain at Simar Toli.  Construction of Community Hall at Simar Toli .  Construction of Toilets at Simar Toli , Madarsa – 2 Nos.  1 School Building & Comm. Centre at Lupung Toli 3 b) Adoption of Blind girl child: 11 nos. of visually challenged girl students of Brajkishore Netrahin Balaika Vidyalaya have been adopted for their education and health care. An amount of Rs.1.30 lac have been provided to the school for the year 2011-12. c) Promotion of girl child: • Adoption of Girl students of BPL families 05 Nos. • Amount spent for their health & education Rs. 1.20 Lac. • Health Check up : Name of Programme Beneficiary Girl child promotion programme 1856 . d) Promotion of education: PROMOTION OF EDUCATION:Specific emphasis being given for providing quality Education facilities among the children in CCL Command Areas in nearby villages. During the year 2011-12 infrastructural help has been provided to Twenty One (21) rural Schools in the Command Areas of CCL. e) Operation Jyoti: A programme to eradicate all cases of reversible blindness in the command areas of the company. 10461 persons have been benefited through this programme. f) CSR Clinic & CSR Ambulance: There are Fourteen (14) nos. of CSR Clinics opened in the Command Areas of the company. During the year 2011-12 for free Medical Treatment to BPL People. During the year 2011-12, 47756 persons have been benefited through these CSR Dispensaries CSR AMBULANCE: There are Nine (09) CSR Ambulance deployed in different areas of the company visited in the Command Areas of the company giving benefit to 22408 persons during the year 2011-12. g) Drinking Water: For provision of supply of drinking water 59 Nos. of work has been done in the form of installation of hand pumps, digging of wells, ponds, bore hole etc. h) Infrastructural Development:  ROADS: Construction/ repair of 17 Nos. of rural roads have been done during the year 2011-12. • SCHOOL BUILDING: Construction and Repairing works have been done in Seventy Eight (78) Rural Schools. Newly constructed School building & Community Centre at Lupung Toli COMMUNITY CENTRES: 20 Nos. of community centers has been constructed/repaired during the year. Caring and Sharing programme: Under this CSR Scheme, different institutions and schools of physically and visually challenged, differently-abled persons and Old Age Homes are frequently visited and consumable items for day-to-day use are provided to them. Apart from providing moral support to such persons by spending quality time with these persons, CCL is committed to bring hope to their lives. Honouring Human Rights: Central Coalfields Limited adheres to and follows the articles of Constitution of India wherein a great place has been covered for Human Rights. The company’s business is being run by abiding the statutes and legislation which are in line with International Labour Organization Convention and Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The company is committed to uphold the cause of Human Rights in all aspects of its business and to ensure that no one in the company indulges in any Human Right violation or is found guilty of human abuse in any manner. Congenial and safe atmosphere has been created by enforcing stringent rules which enables the employees to work in a positive atmosphere free from physical or psychological threat, abuse or sexual harassment. All legal and statutory obligations towards employees, customers, associates and society at large are also complied with. The company religiously works towards development of the society at large, giving emphasis on women empowerment, girl child promotion, support and help to physically challenged/differently-abled persons and care for old persons. This includes programmes aimed at ameliorating the condition of socially & economically down trodden and the weaker sections of the society. Labour Practice: Central Coalfields Limited respects the dignity of labour and ensures total freedom to its workforce with no discrimination whatsoever. It follows the extant labour legislations and rules framed by Govt. of I ndia as statutes. For effective recognition of labour-force and to safeguard their rights & to look after their wellbeing, the company has separate departments to deal with various activities related to Labour. The workforce of the company is represented by six no. of Trade Unions recognized by National Federation level and these Unions enter into long term wage settlement through harmonious collective bargaining process. To protect their rights, the company allows these Unions to express their views through their representatives at different forums and consultative committees. This provides opportunities for improvement of welfare measures for employees. The company is a Public Sector Unit (Government of India owned) and is regulated by the stipulations of Labour legislations and labour enactments of the country. As such, there is no scope of forced and compulsory labour in any form. The Company’s Policy has strong belief in ILO convention on Labour practices. The company policy doesn’t allow employment of any person below the age of 18 yrs. in any segment of its business process. Being a mining company, we are regulated by Mines Act and Mines Regulations as framed by Govt. of India and there is no scope of Child Labour. Contrary to this, children of the employees, children belonging to villagers of peripheral areas and children of weaker sections belonging to Below Poverty Line families are supported and encouraged by imparting better healthcare and educational facilities under our CSR schemes. We have strong belief on providing equal opportunities to our workforce irrespective of caste, creed or sex. We don’t practice any form of discrimination or show any biasness in the matters related to employment as well as growth of our employees within the organization. Employee’s Involvement & Empowerment In CCL, apart from various participative forums to meet the statutory regulations , the following forums have been especially created for improving workers’ participation in management: a) Unit Level Sl. Forum Purpose Constitution Periodicity 1 Industrial Resolve Project Head + HR Regular day to day Relation grievance Personnel + Union interaction as well Machinery Representatives as structured meeting 2 Unit To discuss Project Head + Quarterly Consultative matter of Required Committee importance & Departmental performance, Heads + HR productivity of Personnel + Union the unit Representatives 3 Pit Safety To discuss Project Head + Monthly Committee issue related to Required safety in mines Departmental Heads + HR Personnel + Union Representatives 4 Housing For allotment Project Head + HR As & When Committee of quarter Personnel + Union required Representatives 5 Welfare To discuss Project Head + HR As & When Committee welfare Personnel + Union required measures Representatives b) Area Level: Sl Forum Purpose Constitution Periodicity 1 Industrial Resolve General Manager + HR Regular day to Relation grievances Personnel + Union day interaction Machinery Representatives as well as structured meeting 2 Area To discuss General Manager + HR Quarterly Consultative matter of Personnel + Union Committee importance & Representatives performance, productivity of the Area 3 Area Safety To discuss General Manager + Quarterly Committee issues related to Departmental Heads safety in mines of Safety Deptt. + Statutory Personnel + Union Representatives 4 Welfare To discuss General Manager + HR As & When Committee welfare Personnel + Executives required measures from Civil Maintenance + Union Representatives 5 CD To discuss General Manager + HR As & When Committee matter of Personnel + Executives required community from Civil development Maintenance + Union (CD) Representatives + Representative of Local authority c) Corporate Level: Sl. Forum Purpose Constitution Periodicity 1 Joint To discuss matter CMD + D (P) + GM Quarterly Consultative of importance & (P&IR) + Required Committee performance, Deptt. Heads + Union productivity of Representatives the Company 2 Safety To discuss issues CMD + D(T)(O) + Quarterly Committee related to safety D(T)(P&P) + Deptt. in mines as well Head of Safety Deptt. + as that of Required Deptt. Heads + employees Union Representatives 3 Medical Matter related CMS/CMO + D(P) + Quarterly Advisory with medical Union Representatives Committee facilities given to employees & its dependents of the Company 4 Welfare Welfare measures CMD + D (P) + GM Quarterly Board of the Company (W&CD) + Required Committee Deptt. Heads + Union Representatives 5 Education Matters related to CMD + D (P) + GM Quarterly Sub educational (W&CD) + Required Committee facilities of the Deptt. Heads + Union Company Representatives 6 Employee Matters related to CMD + D (P) + Yearly Benevolent employee’s GM(W&CD) + Union Committee benevolent Representatives schemes 7 CD Community CMD + D (P) + GM Yearly Committee development (W&CD) + Required measures of the Deptt. Heads + Union Company Representatives Note: CMD: Chairman cum Managing Director; D(P) : Director (Personnel); D(T)(O): Director Technical Operations; D(T) (P&P): Director Technical Project & Planning; GM(W&CD): General Manager Welfare & Community Development; GM (P&IR): General Manager Personnel & Industrial Relations. Environment Control Measures in CCL: Being a mining company, CCL is well aware of the effects of mining to the environment. It accords high priority to ecological balance and pollution control. The Company has made major breakthrough by planned afforestation programmes and reclamation of degraded land. Continuous monitoring in respect of ambient air quality, water and noise is carried out at units and treated effluents are discharged which not only meet the statutory requirements but also exhibit continuous improvement trends. The major activities for environmental up-gradation in CCL are: a) Large scale tree plantation in and around the mining areas: The success in land reclamation of mines spoils and afforestation has been very significant and overwhelming in places like Ashoka, Piparwar etc. The mined out areas (or the de-coaled areas) is refilled with overburden at places where no mining is required in future. The OB fills and dumps are not very conducive to growth of plants, since these sites do not contain adequate plant nutrients. The dumped soil is improved in stages through modern techniques to bring back its fertility and the horticultural operations are carried out by adding nutrients, like organic, inorganic and bio-fertilizers. CCL has done bio-reclamation of degraded mined areas of more than 4560.34Ha (since 1992) of different types of land like OB dumps, subsided areas, mined out areas, colonies, avenues etc. The total plantation done in CCL since 1992 is 147.65 lakh. During last 7 years, the plantation done is more than 39.135 lakh. which itself is a positive indication of improvement in bio-diversity and environment management. Plantation in CCL during last 7 years: Plantation Year (No of Trees planted in lakhs) 2003 6.22 2004 6.03 2005 4.76 2006 5.16 2007 6.09 2008 5.45 2009 0.375 2010 1.00 2011 4.05 Avenue Plantation at Ashok OCP of CCL Block Plantation on Backfilled area of Piparwar OCP of CCL b) Development of water bodies / lagoons in mining areas for sedimentation of fines as well for improvement of aquatic life. Lagoon at Piparwar OCP of CCL Migratory bird finding shelter at Piparwar OCP in one of the hydro-reclaimed de-coaled quarry. c) Regular air, water and noise monitoring are being done to keep a check on the adverse parameters, if any: All the mines / washeries of CCL are being monitored on regular basis by Central Mine Planning and Design Institute Limited (CMPDIL), the monitoring agency. Every quarter there are about 175 Ambient Air Quality sampling, 185 water quality sampling and 150 noise survey being done by CMPDI. In case any parameter is reported beyond the permissible limit, immediate actions are taken by the areas/projects for mitigation. d) Remote Sensing Survey for analysis for land use improvement in large mines: The large producing mines are being monitored for land reclamation by Remote Sensing techniques by CMPDIL on annual basis. Bigger mines like Piparwar and Ashoka are being monitored since last 4 years and it can be seen from the analysis that the area of reclamation/afforestation has increased. The mines being monitored through Remote Sensing technique are Ashoka, Piparwar, KDH, Parej East and Rajrappa OCPs. e) Dust Suppression Provision for water sprinkling by 28 Kilo Litre capacity tankers in its open cast mines, haul roads and other places: For suppression of dust, total no of mobile water sprinklers in CCL are 44 of capacity 28 KL each and two of 60 KL each. Besides these there are 4 converted water sprinklers of 28 KL. In addition to these, the projects do water sprinkling activity by engaging contractual water tankers. For dust separation in CHPs, Feeder breakers, Coal transfer points, crushers etc. in mines and washeries, water spray system with suitable types of nozzles have been installed. Static Sprinkler at RCM siding of Piparwar Area of CCL f) Filling of abandoned mine voids by fly ash and reclamation thereafter: CCL has undertaken filling of some of its abandoned mine voids by fly ash from nearby thermal power plants like BTPS, CTPS, BPSCL, DLF etc. Thereafter, it is covered by top soil and plantation activities are carried out to make the site more green and conducive for birds to live. g) Controlled blasting in mines near colonies/ habitation: CCL is using NONEL type detonators for controlled blasting and minimum impact of dust and vibration. h) Provision of closed water recirculation arrangement in all coal washeries: The closed water recirculation system prevents the effluent discharge from the washeries. Besides this, arrangements of water sprinkling at coal transfer points, good housekeeping and plantation etc. are being done in the washeries for overall improvement of environment. i) Pollution control through effluent treatment plants/domestic treatment plants/oil grease traps etc.: There are 17 mines having ETPs (Oil & Grease Traps) and 4 mines are having Sewage Treatment Plants (STP). By regulating the discharge of effluent, pollution level is kept under control. STP at KDH OCP of CCL j) Rain Water harvesting at 5 mining areas of CCL for ecological balance: There are six mines equipped with Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) facilities. Rain water harvesting at Piparwar OCP of N K Coalfields Rain Water Harvesting Plant k) Water Treatment Plants in areas for providing clean drinking water: CCL has 12 water treatment plants spread over the mining area. There are 77 pressure filters plants and 75 deep boreholes for supply of clean domestic water to its employees. Ethics & Transparency in CCL: The Articles of Association of the company have given emphasis on the concepts of transparency, accountability and integrity. Accordingly, transparent policies and systems have been put in place to ensure ethical behavior of its employees. The company expects from its employees to behave in conformity with such policies. We have entered into Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Transparency International, India, in order to ensure greater transparency with scope of scrutiny of its designated activities by external independent monitors. The company is uploading all the high value tenders on its website. To ensure and drive transparency, new practices have been introduced/initiated in the form of e-auction of coal, e-procurement of store items, e-tendering and e-payment to eliminate any human interference. Also, the coal supplies to customers are now governed by legally enforceable Fuel Supply Agreements (FSAs). There is a strong Vigilance department in the company working as per the guidelines of Central Vigilance Commission, Govt. of India. This department monitors and takes corrective and preventive measures including disciplinary actions against erring employees who violate the policies, norms and practices of the company. This department periodically holds meeting with Central Vigilance Commission, Ministry of Coal & Coal India Limited to discuss critical issues. It also provides clarification of the guidelines framed by Central Vigilance Commission so that the operations are commenced as per the norm. -o-
