Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 About Lonza Lonza is one of the world's leading suppliers to the pharmaceutical, healthcare and life science industries. Products and services span its customers’ needs from research to final product manufacture. It is the global leader in the production and support of active pharmaceutical ingredients both chemically as well as biotechnologically. Biopharmaceuticals are one of the key growth drivers of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Lonza has strong capabilities in large and small molecules, peptides, amino acids and niche bioproducts which play an important role in the development of novel medicines and healthcare products. Lonza is also the world leader in microbial control providing innovative, chemistry-based and related solutions to destroy or to selectively inhibit the growth of harmful microorganisms. Its activities encompass the areas of water treatment, personal care, health and hygiene, industrial preservation, materials protection, and wood treatment. In addition, Lonza is a leader in cell-based research, endotoxin detection and cell therapy manufacturing. Furthermore, the company is a leading provider of value chemical and biotech ingredients to the nutrition and agro markets. Lonza is headquartered in Basel, Switzerland and is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange and secondary listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”). Statement of continued support from Rolf Soiron “There are good reasons why Corporate Social Responsibility is a fact of life in the business world of today. One way Lonza recognizes this is through membership of the UN Global Compact. The UN principles are not just something written on paper that we pay lip service to, but part of day-to-day life at Lonza, involving all our locations. Safety at work is the number-one priority. It is heartening to report that, after good progress in previous years, we were able to keep the accident rate in 2011 at a low level; it is currently 1.7 per million hours worked (lost-time injuries frequency rate).” Rolf Soiron, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO ad interim Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Principle Actions / Policies Reference Human Rights Principle 1: Business In our global policy “Code Of Conduct”, we have defined http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalshould support and that all employees are expected to know the law as it citizenship/standards/code-ofrespect the protection of applies to their sphere of responsibility; management is conduct.aspx internationally proclaimed expected to provide appropriate training and guidance, human rights; and … especially to respect human rights and employment rights. Principle 2: … make sure It is in manager’s responsibility to monitor the compliance; http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalthat they are not complicit all departments are regularly supervised by our Audit citizenship/standards/code-ofin human rights abuses. Services department. conduct.aspx Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Labour Principle 3: Business The Code of Conduct provides the basis for creating and http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalshould uphold the freedom maintaining the relationship of mutual trust which is citizenship/standards/code-ofof association and the essential to business success. It expresses explicitly that conduct.aspx effective recognition of the we consider fairness in our dealings with employees to be right to collective of paramount importance. It is our commitment to the bargaining; … corporate social and ethical responsibility, the respect for human rights and employment rights. Local management and human resources work closely together with employee representatives, work councils and unions in all countries and regions according to the specific laws and agreements. All existing contracts with unions are renewed on a regular basis in order to meet employee labor interests. Arch integration (following the acquisition of Arch Chemicals, Inc.) • Lonza is respecting all existing work-related agreements, existing union relations will be continued • All Arch legacy sites and countries in Europe will be integrated in the existing European Works Council. Principle 4: …the Our Code of Conduct is applied to all actions and activities http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalelimination of all forms of of Lonza in the pursuit of a high level of social citizenship/standards/code-offorced and compulsory responsibility and as such also crucial element against conduct.aspx labour; … forced and compulsory labour. Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Principle 5: …effective In our Code of Conduct, all managers are committed to act http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalabolition of child labour; in compliance with the law. In addition, our supplier policy citizenship/standards/code-ofand … is banning explicitly all forms of child labour at our conduct.aspx suppliers. Principle 6: … the Our Code of Conduct is explicitly banning any form of http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalelimination of discrimination; all managers are obliged to act accordingly. citizenship/standards/code-ofdiscrimination in respect of Lonza is not tolerating any discrimination, harassment or conduct.aspx employment and bullying on the basis of ethnicity, national origin, color, occupation. religion, creed, age, sex, disability or any similar characteristic. Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Environment Principle 7: Business We take on our responsibility in the area of environmental Corporate Citizenship website: should support a protection, health and safety, and towards our employees, http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalprecautionary approach to human society and the natural environment. The safety citizenship.aspx environmental challenges; and health of our employees, the well-being of our Standards: … stakeholders and the minimization of our impact on the http://www.lonza.com/aboutnatural environment remain a Group priority. The Group is lonza/globalcommitted to operations and practices, which prevent harm citizenship/standards.aspx to people and damage to environment or property. Our Sustainability: principles are laid down in the Group EHS policy; we http://www.lonza.com/aboutcommunicate each year in the Annual Report on lonza/globalsustainability and performance, and we listen and respond citizenship/sustainability.aspx to our stakeholders. Management: http://www.lonza.com/aboutAll our manufacturing processes are systematically lonza/globalassessed for their risks. Lonza applies the same risk citizenship/management.aspx assessment matrix worldwide, which incorporates EHS policy: http://www.lonza.com/aboutecological, economic and social aspects. lonza/globalcitizenship/management/policies.aspx EHS section of Annual Report: http://www.lonza.com/aboutlonza/investor-relations/financialreports.aspx Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Principle 8: …undertake Lonza facilities are member of the Responsible Care Sustainabilty homepage: initiatives to promote program in Switzerland and of SOCMA’s ChemStewards http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalgreater environment program in the US. At all facilities worldwide, Lonza citizenship/sustainability.aspx responsibility; and … promotes the cycle of continual improvement for environmental, health and safety issues Examples are initiatives like CoPE (energy savings), CoPE initiative: horseshoe crab conservation (endotoxin detection), MODA http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalgreen alternatives (paperless, efficient QC citizenship/management/climatemicroprocesses). change.aspx Principle 9: …encourage The development of the microreactor technology enables Microreactor technology: the development and Lonza to fulfill its Green Chemistry mission. As classical http://www.lonza.com/customdiffusion of manufacturing in the pharmaceutical industry currently manufacturing/chemicalenvironmentally friendly produces more than 25 kg of waste for every kilogram of manufacturing/advanced-chemicaltechnologies. product, dramatic changes were required in process synthesis-acs/continuous-flowsystems, technologies/microreactors-and-greenchemistry.aspx In 2003, Lonza began developing a more sustainable manufacturing platform using advanced continuous flow technologies. At the heart of the technology are MicroReactors, special processing instruments designed to create “Factories of the Future.” The results of such a transformation are more sustainable, greener, and economical processes for producing a wide Solar power: http://www.lonza.com/aboutrange of pharmaceuticals. lonza/globalcitizenship/management/climateOur solar power engagement in Germany and Singapore change.aspx helps develop and promote a fossil-free energy future. Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business Lonza has implemented a Code of Conduct containing http://www.lonza.com/about-lonza/globalshould work against amongst others rules on Corporate Social Responsibility, citizenship/standards/code-ofcorruption in all its forms, bribery, conflict of interest, antitrust, insider trading etc. conduct.aspx including extortion and bribery. Lonza’s suppliers are obliged to comply with Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct which deals amongst others with anti-corruption, anti-bribery. Lonza offers a Whistleblower Hotline which is operated by an external company All new Lonza employees have to mandatorily complete an online training appropriate to their role within the Lonza such as anti-corruption and anti-trust Lonza plans to implement a periodical refresher training
