A DRIVING FORCE BEHIND RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility 2012 CONTENTS 3 STATEMENT BY THE MANAGING PARTNER 4 VALUE CREATING SOLUTIONS THROUGH RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 5 CSR ORGANISATION 6 NEW COMPETENCIES 7 FOCUS ON SUPPLEMENTARY TRAINING 8 TALENT DEVELOPMENT – A PATH TO GROWTH 9 PRO BONO WORK 10 ACCESS TO EDUCATION IN ETHIOPIA 12 BUILDING GREEN 13 A WHISTLEBLOWER TREND 14 LAW IN CHINESE 16 LIFE LINE TO BUSINESSES IN DISTRESS 18 BECH-BRUUN HARD FACTS STATEMENT BY THE MANAGING PARTNER With this, our third CSR report, Bech-Bruun reaffirms its Twitter and Facebook, we have expanded the platforms commitment and support for sustainable development and for dialogue with our stakeholders. We also prioritised the UN Global Compact (UNGC) for the third consecutive supplementary professional development training for both year. Danish lawyers' representative body, the Association our employees and clients in 2011. Under the auspices of of Danish Law Firms, is now encouraging Danish law firms our in-house training programme, Bech-Bruun Academy, to join the UNGC, an initiative which pleases us as we now several hundred courses were held for our clients and are more to promote CSR and responsible development employees and we launched two new initiatives, our in the legal industry. Professional Development Day and our Summer Academy. 2011 was a busy and exciting year for Bech-Bruun. In connection with our focus on professional development, Business development was at the top of our agenda, with we are especially proud of the appointment of one of the optimisation of internal processes, knowledge-sharing, our internal lecturers, Knowledge Management Partner, sector focus and cross-border business activities being Lars Lindencrone Petersen, to adjunct professor at our key focus areas. the University of Aarhus. Moreover, in recognition of the connection between science and commercial practice, In September 2011, we were pleased to announce that we have, in collaboration with Copenhagen Business School a merger was pending between Bech-Bruun and Philip taken on CSR business PhD student and CSR advisor, Law Firm. At the beginning of 2012, we welcomed 85 new Morten Hove Henriksen, who is studying the link between colleagues from Philip Law Firm to Bech-Bruun, as well M&A and CSR. as one of Denmark’s most renowned and acknowledged environmental law specialists, Håkun Djurhuus, bringing Based on market trends, we have worked intensely to our total number of employees to 525. Prior to the merger, establish a number of sector teams. Our focus on specific great efforts were made by all to make the amalgamation sectors has the aim of interlinking law with the corporate of the two law firms as smooth as possible, and the inteworld. The implementation of this strategy also led to gration process will continue throughout 2012. We look the establishment of our Chinese Desk, headed by Chinese forward to sharing information on our initiatives and lawyer, Rachel Cao. Via our representative office in Shang­ experiences in connection with the merger of two cultures hai and the employment of several Chinese employees into one, in our next CSR report. based in Copenhagen, we advise Danish com­panies on the challenges facing them, and the opportunities available, Another key event in 2011 was the long-awaited opening in the Chinese market, as well as we advise Chinese clients of our school in Ethiopia, which was built in collaboration wishing to invest in Denmark. with Save the Children. Two of our colleagues attended the opening ceremony, which is described in further detail in this report. I hope that you will enjoy reading our CSR report. Moreover, in 2011, Bech-Bruun launched a new visual corporate identity via its new website. This enables us to interact with our clients to an even greater extent than before and to share knowledge with our clients and stakeholders. 2011 was, in addition, the year in which Bech-Bruun enteRandi Bach Poulsen red the realm of social media. With profiles on LinkedIn, Managing Partner CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 3 VALUE CREATING SOLUTIONS THROUGH RESPONSIBLE GROWTH Our CSR vision is to deliver value creating solutions CSR ORGANISATION through responsible growth. After our merger with Philip Law Firm, we have even more people to share For the purpose of integrating CSR into our organisathis knowledge. At the same time, we must ensure that tion and key business areas, we have established a cross our employees are in good health, that new colleagues organisational CSR committee consisting of members settle in well, and that the impact which we have on of Bech-Bruun's Executive Committee, Management the environment is reduced even more. Board, HR and Business Development & Communication Department. Members of the committee include We are still committed to delivering groundbreaking partners Monica Reib and Mette Klingsten, who are advisory services to our clients, who are our primary also responsible for ensuring that CSR is at the forefocus, and to building our organisation on a foundation front of the partners' minds. of decency, quality and respect. We strive to integrate CSR at the core of our management and business The committee is responsible for developing our overall strategy. Having worked with CSR for several years, CSR strategy and for coordinating our CSR efforts with Bech-Bruun is in the unique position of being able our stakeholders' insight and expectations. In this to establish a business based on socially responsible connection, CSR adviser Morten Hove Henriksen became development and to be a driving force behind responsi­ a member of the committee in 2011. bility in law firms. We participate in several external CSR committees for the purpose of staying up to date on the area. For example, Monica Reib, is a member of the Steering Committee of the CSR Network of the Confederation of Danish Industries. 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND CSR ORGANISATION MANAGING PARTNER HR AND BUSINESS CSR RELEVANT PRACTICE DEVELOPMENT & COMMITTEE GROUPS COMMUNICATION CSR ADVISER CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 5 NEW COMPETENCIES After ten years of intense specialisation, Bech-Bruun M&A transactions. Accordingly, we hope that is one of Denmark’s leading law firms, recognised for our collaboration with Morten Hove Henriksen its competencies and experience in almost all areas of will help set a standard for CSR in business business law. In line with market developments, we have transfers and build a bridge between theory ” chosen to expend resources on adapting our business and practice to our clients’ needs. In addition to our CSR adviser, Morten Hove Henriksen, we have taken on two Chinese Randi Bach Poulsen lawyers in Denmark. Managing Partner In particular, our collaboration with the Copenhagen We are seeing an increasing demand for services Business School on the employment of Morten Hove and solutions in the crossfield between CSR “hard Henriksen has caused us to reflect on our business law” and “soft law”, for example, S.99a of the Danish procedures and the services we offer our clients: Financial Statements Act, which obliges large Danish ” companies to account for their social responsibility Being one of the first law firms in Denmark initiatives, the public tender rules, which to an increasto sign the UN Global Compact, we have ing extent impose CSR requirements on the tenderer, worked intensively with CSR for several years more stringent rules on green marketing, and not least, – both within our own organisation and with CSR global anti-corruption rules, concerning anti-bribery as a separate practice area in itself. The market measures taken by businesses. contains many grey areas which are hard to naviThe corporate sector is, to an increasing extent, gate for the corporate sector, and we proactively proactive in terms of embracing voluntary measures assist them in handling the challenges they face which they opine will create precedent for future as regards, for example, corporate governance, legislation, while at the same time offering them a competitive edge. To meet this trend, it is key that green marketing, employee relations and antiwe think out of the box – also when taking on staff corruption. However, it remains the case, that with new competencies. only very few businesses request an actual CSR due diligence investigation in connection with 6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 FOCUS ON SUPPLEMENTARY TRAINING Since 2009, we have offered our clients the opportunity Bech-Bruun's Professional Development Day was of acquiring new knowledge, free of charge, together first held on 26 May 2011. Randi Bach Poulsen, manag­ with our employees via our in-house training proing partner, welcomed the participants and officially gramme, Academy Clients. In 2011, we held 33 courses opened the day by telling participants about her work for our clients, for which we received an average as part of the Danish Government’s Growth Forum. satiafactory score of 4.5 (on a scale of 1-5), a score After the opening, the participants attended lectures, which we intend to work diligently to maintain. which they had individually chosen. Most of the parti­ The high level of satisfaction among course particicipants had enrolled for the full-day programme and pants has resulted in an increased demand for our attended all the lectures scheduled. Others were, more in-house courses, among our non-client stakeholders. selective, covering their specific needs by only attenTherefore, in 2011, we launched our Professional ding the lectures of relevance to them. In this manner, Development Day, which is open to everyone working participants tailored their own training programmes with law. to meet their training needs and professional areas of interest. For many businesses, training and development are top priorities. However, in one's normal busy working day, Mette Klingsten, partner, gave a lecture on CSR in it may be difficult to find time to keep oneself up to relation to acquisition and joint venture investments. date. Via our Professional Development Day, we update The Professional Development Day was a success, participants on all topical legal issues of relevance and the participants and lecturers were energetic and to them. engaged. Henceforward, our Professional Development Day will be held on the last Thursday in May. 130 lawyers In 2011, we held have participated 219 courses for in Bech-Bruun’s our employees and Talent Development 33 courses for Programme our clients Having taken on our business PhD student in CSR, we now have two industrial PhD students at Bech-Bruun CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 7 TALENT DEVELOPMENT – A PATH TO GROWTH Since 2007, Bech-Bruun has undertaken a talent To kick-start the programme, our lawyers visit the development programme for more than 130 lawyers. Judge Business School at the University of Cambridge, The programme aims to develop and support the a unique and exclusive collaborative partner of Bechcompetencies of the individual lawyer, to ensure that Bruun. Through lectures and workshops, our lawyers the correct competencies are employed in the correct address topics such as management, strategy and circumstances. Now, five years later, it is time to review commercial acumen. The stay in Cambridge is followed our success, and we can only conclude that our talent up by a personal coaching process, management development programme has been a huge success for development and sparring sessions with colleagues. the individual lawyers concerned and for Bech-Bruun. Anne Buhl Bjelke, lawyer and now partner at Bech” Bruun, previously participated in the talent developThe talent development programme focuses ment programme: on areas often forgotten in our busy pro” fessional lives, but which are of key importance During the programme, the primary aim if one wishes to establish a solid business run by was to focus on one's own strengths talented and skilful people. During the programme, and exploit one's own abilities to the fullest. focus is placed on business development, client One comes out stronger professionally and relations, conflict management, networking and ” personally, which helps one boost one's self” social competencies confidence and realise one's potential Anne-Marie Sparre Avnsted Anne Buhl Bjelke HR Director Partner In the summer of 2012, 23 lawyers will participate in the programme. 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 Annually, our pro bono work is equivalent to approximately one full year's work for one of our lawyers PRO BONO WORK Pro bono work is a natural part of our business. By doing what we do best, we support organisations which would otherwise not have had the means to seek legal advice. Our pro bono programme helps us to make a huge difference in collaboration with a number of charitable organisations, which due to their dedication and drive, have a positive impact on our community. Our pro bono clients range from international NGOs, such as the WWF, to national initiatives, such as the Danish newspaper “Hus Forbi”, which is distributed by the homeless. In 2011, our largest project was our collaboration with Save the Children, Denmark, the aim of which was to ensure that children in Ethiopia receive education and training. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 9 ACCESS TO EDUCATION IN ETHIOPIA ” Education and knowledge are at the core of BechIt was a festive day for the villages, and Bruun’s business and forms the basis for our developmore than 250 children, adults, representament. We wish, therefore, to support education in tives of the local authorities and clergymen areas where it will make a difference. Save the Children, attended the opening of the new school. Music Denmark offered us the possibility of fulfilling our was played, people danced and sang thanksgiving wish to make a difference by way of their education songs and performed plays, and that day food ” programme. Today, we facilitate the opportunity for young people to exploit their potential, and thereby was served in generous amounts create a foundation for their development. Together Claus Barrett Christiansen with Save the Children, we have built two schools, the Partner first one in Angola, and the most recent one in Ethiopia. With its history of conflict and war, Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in Africa. Around 30 pct. of the population are illiterate, and hundreds of thousands of children do not attend school. Therefore, it was a very special day when, in September 2011, Claus Barrett Christiansen and Søren Nørbæk of Bech-Bruun arrived in Ethiopia to open the school built with our assistance. See the film from the opening ceremony here 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 In cooperation with Save the Children, Bech-Bruun has built two schools – one in Angola and one in Ethiopia Each year, Bech-Bruun participates in the World’s Best News campaign, by which we help further the UN’s 2015 goals together with, for example, seventy Danish development organisations The school has already become a meeting place for So far, thanks to Save the Children’s school project, the villages in the area, and adults have now become 4,995 children go to elementary school in Africa, and motivated to attend evening classes, when the children 1,550 young people, who did not previously go to school, are not at school. In the long term, we hope that the attend school today. At the same time, the support, new school will make school attendance more legitiin the form of teacher training, has helped improve mate, by convincing people that education and knowthe quality of education for 31,500 children. ” ledge are worth the effort. The new school has already improved the learning environment and has enhanced Save the Children has for many years the students' ability to concentrate. worked on a model for village-operated ” schools, which has ensured that thousands of The school gives us knowledge, and it children are able to attend school today. Bechis beautiful. Going to class in a building Bruun’s support has helped turn the project like that makes us happy. We are lucky to have into reality and it is a fine example of how a new such a nice school. The new school has a tiled school makes a difference for the children and ” floor. The old school had an earth floor. It was adults in the area and for their future dusty and filled with fleas, which made it hard ” to concentrate Mads B. Jørgensen Country Director, Save the Children, Ethiopia Adanech Masrecha Pupil at the school, 12 years old CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 11 BUILDING GREEN During the course of the past number of years, there The purpose of the certification scheme is to docuhas been an increased focus on sustainable building. ment sustainable buildings and thereby support the In particular the concept of “green building” has gained further development in this specific field. ground in the Danish property sector. Green building Bech-Bruun has experienced a growing interest in encompasses buildings which minimise the environ­ green building, and we envision a bright future for mental impact and remain resource efficient for this field. Therefore, it was natural for us to take part the lifespan of the building. in the project of leasing new premises for our office Sustainable buildings are often more expensive to in Aarhus, in the state-of-the-art, sustainable, comconstruct than ordinary buildings, due to the higher mercial building to be opened in the spring of 2014. costs of materials used. The building will be the first of its kind in Denmark to meet the 2015 requirements for low energy class However, the operating costs will often be lower since 1 buildings. the natural resources are used in the most efficient ” way and reused in the supply of electricity, water and We have strived to incorporate sustaina­heating. bility into all aspects of the building. The lower operating costs will, however, depend on Solar cell systems, low energy insulated glass the manner in which the tenants use energy. Therefore, and energy re-circulating ventilation systems it becomes relevant to include in the lease agreement etc., are incorporated to ensure minimum provisions concerning the manner in which energy environmental impact for the entire lifespan ” resources are employed, if the landlord is to ensure that the building will remain sustainable. of the building This is a new area of law in which we strive to employ Kim Risager our competencies to ensure that the leasing of green Architect buildings is as smooth a process as possible. The project will also create 300 new jobs during the Together with the Danish Green Building Council, construction period, and the building will accommodate we are working on developing and promoting a 500 workplaces when completed. Danish certification scheme for green buildings. 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 A WHISTLEBLOWER TREND ” In Denmark, whistleblower schemes have become We help prepare the documents required, order of the day in private as well as public businesses. such as whistleblower policies, information During the course of the past few years, an increasing notices to employees, data processing agree­ments number of businesses have implemented voluntary and reports to the Danish Data Protection Agency, whistleblower schemes, whereby internal processes etc. Furthermore, we assist businesses in handling are established with a view to uncovering and informing the reports received, for instance, by way of a ” the management of unacceptable, unethical or directly illegal occurences within the business. telephone hotline, available 24 hours a day The management of any business prefers to learn Mette Klingsten about irregularities within the organisation from Partner internal sources, rather than to read about them on In Denmark, as opposed to the US, there is no the front pages of newspapers. Staff must be satisfied legal obligation on listed businesses to establish a that a whistleblower scheme will treat their complaint whistleblower scheme. The Committee on Corporate confidentially and seriously and protect them against Governance in Denmark recommends, however, in its reprisals. Recommendations for Corporate Governance 2010 Birgitte Toxværd, Senior Associate, who has in-depth that the supreme governing body of a business decides experience in setting up whistleblower schemes underwhether a whistleblower scheme is to be established scores that a decisive criterion for success is that with a view to facilitating proper and confidential employees are involved in the establishment of such reporting of serious offences or suspicion of such schemes by way of joint consultative committees etc. offences. and that the business communicates with the emploBech-Bruun has entered into a unique collaboration yees on a continuous basis, following the implementaon whistleblower schemes with Human Time, whereby tion of the scheme. Human Time supplies a web-based reporting system A whistleblower scheme should support the business's and Bech-Bruun renders legal advisory services in code of conduct or other guidelines to be observed connection with the establishment of the whistleblower by employees and business partners in connection scheme and the receipt of reports. with their work. Mette Klingsten, Partner, has assisted several businesses in establishing whistleblower schemes: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 13 LAW IN CHINESE China's twelfth five-year plan attaches great imporOther challenges may easily arise when two business tance to growth within areas in which Danish businesses cultures meet, and commercial law, in particular, is have a strong footing globally, for example, sustainable a field in which problems may easily arise and where energy and technologies which improve the standard a legal and cultural interpreter is required: ” of living among the population. In addition, Danish businesses reflect some of the best examples with The Chinese consider law to be a difficult respect to corporate governance and anti-corruption. field to understand. Traditionally, an agree­ In response to the developments in the global market, ment in China does not come in the form of Bech-Bruun launched its Chinese Desk and opened an actual contract, but is based on a personal a representative office in Shanghai in January 2011. relationship. Therefore, the standard view in China An increasing number of our clients do business or have is that contracts may be amended and adjusted business partners in China and more consider setting with time. Problems easily arise in this regard, up in China. as a contract in the Western world is a binding Having helped several Chinese businesses achieve agree­ment which is not necessarily readily ” a successful start in Denmark, Jing jing Su explains: changeable ” At the moment, many Chinese investors Rachel Cao Head of Chinese Desk are very interested in the European market, and Denmark, in particular has a lot to offer in this According to Rachel Cao, a problem often seen in regard. We receive many inquiries from Chinese China is that written rules are not always complied businesses which consider Denmark to be a role with. Most Chinese are aware of the rules. The chalmodel with respect to the creation of an inno­vative lenge is that they do not understand the meaning and ” business rationale behind them and, therefore, do not understand why it is important to comply with such rules. Jing jing Su In her capacity as Head of Chinese Desk, she expends Junior Associate 14 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 much effort on explaining the rationale behind the law, lish anti-corruption policies, which take into account in order to avoid any future misunderstandings. the consequences of policy violations in respect of employees, suppliers, agents and other business partShe helps businesses speak the same language, thereby ners. Bech-Bruun has developed an anti-corruption facilitating cooperation. As a liaison, she takes the best programme, which is offered to businesses with experiences from each country and conveys best employees in vulnerable areas. practice in international cooperation. According to Søren Meisling, one should not feel The experience of partner and member of our Chinese intimidated by the challenges posed by the Chinese Desk, Søren Meisling, is also that it is not always easy market since the payoff may also be significant. to unite Danish and Chinese business culture and that Thorough preparation and the employment of all the it is important to keep one's eyes and ears open to help available are necessary. Success in China greatly ensure that nobody's toes get stepped on. He explains depends on establishing and mobilising a network. that it is almost impossible to avoid being confronted ” with challenges of corruption, bribery or facilitation Experience indicates that the most payments in the Chinese market. In most cases, it comes down to culture, and it is important for a important thing in China is to have a business to consider such issues and lay down a clear good network. Contacts must be established with strategy as to how such problems should be dealt with, parties who may be able to assist you and whom before entering a market where gifts and dinners are you also may be able to assist in the future. Many a natural part of doing business. Most commercial businesses underestimate the value of a solid ” transactions in China are completed over dinner, as this network which cannot be built overnight is how it is traditionally done in China. This is considered an expression of respect and is part of building a Søren Meisling relationship between the parties. Partner Many businesses have difficulty determining a strategy to fight bribery or other forms of corruption. Moreover, it may appear to be an insurmountable task to estabIn cooperation with the Association of Danish Law Firms, Lars Lindencrone Petersen, Knowledge Management Partner, has developed an e-learning course free of charge, dealing with the new code of conduct applicable to lawyers Bech-Bruun Bech-Bruun's developed its own Conflict and Ethics anti-corruption Committee deals programme in 2011 with and decides conflicting of interest CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 15 LIFE LINE TO BUSINESSES IN DISTRESS The financial crisis has resulted in several empty shops One of the victims of the financial crisis is the cultural and businesses on the verge of closure. Bankruptcy is centre of Copenhagen, DGI-byen, which was declared not only a negative experience for the parties involved, insolvent in 2011 and faced closure. DGI-byen describes who often have dedicated their lives to the business, itself as A place buzzing with activity. A place of great but it also has serious consequences for stakeholders diversity, where people meet. A place where involvement and the surrounding community. and responsibility creates successful meetings, conferences, parties and events . Despite the fact that the financial crisis is improving, it will probably take several years before the reperPartner, Ole Borch was appointed administrator of cussions disappear, and Danish businesses must DBI-byen and resolved to find a solution to save the still prepare to navigate in unsafe waters. The crisis competitive parts of the business and to guarantee has been hard on many businesses, and for several creditors' rights. The restructuring proceedings aimed businesses the only way out has been to file for to retain Copenhagen's cultural and sporting landmark bankruptcy. Especially small and medium-sized busiand at the same time ensure that investors were paid nesses have been challenged. as large a dividend as possible. 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 ” When attempts are made to save a business, stakes are unbelievably high – not just for the owners, but also for those who in some way are related to the business – everyone from employees and their families to customers and ” business partners Ole Borch Partner Following complicated negotiations, a solution was adopted late 2011. The outcome of the restructuring proceedings was a modernisation of the activities of DGI-byen, as well as a financially sound business, which can play an important social role in the future. The outcome also resulted in the payout of a much larger dividend to creditors than they would have received in the event of DGI-byen's bankruptcy. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 17 BECH-BRUUN HARD FACTS* * Prior to the merger with Philip Law Firm as at 1 January 2012 Fee-earners and other staff Total amount 60 91 52 9 of fee-earners Total amount 0 20 40 60 80 100 % 60 91 52 9 of fee-earners Partners Associates Junior Associates Other fee-earners 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Partners Associates Junior Associates Other fee-earners Total amount 212 222 of staff 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Total amount 212 222 of staff Fee-earners Other staff 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Fee-earners Other staff In total Distribution between 59 women and men in % 41 Junior Associates 56 44 In total 59 41 Associates 39 61 Junior Associates 56 44 Partners 12 88 Associates 39 61 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Partners 12 88 Women Men 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Women Men Average age 36 Average length of service 7.2 Courses for Courses offered our employees to clients 219 33 Employee Client satisfaction satisfaction ** Satisfaction ** ** 4.2 4.5 is measured on a scale from 1-5 where 5 is the highest 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 PRO BONO Examples of our pro bono partners Environment 2008 2009 2010 2011 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,044,548 984,918 950,096 945,094 Heating consumption (mWh) 800 953 1,243 932 Water consumption (m3) 3,165 3,573 4,050 3,254 Combustible waste (t) 91.56 81.68 80.80 80.01 Recyclable material (t) 14.54 15.87 14.23 35.68*** *** During the preparatory phase of the merger with Philip Law Firm, our archives were tidied up, which resulted in a larger amount of paper being recycled than in previous years. 9.5% 17.2% Lower electricity More recycling consumption 12.6% Less combustible waste CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2012 19 OUR OFFICES Copenhagen Shanghai Langelinie Allé 35 Representative Office 2100 Copenhagen Suite 2630 26/F, Denmark New Town Center Building 83 Loushanguan Road Aarhus Shanghai Frue Kirkeplads 4 China 8100 Aarhus C Denmark T +86 (21) 31 33 26 00 T +45 72 27 00 00 F +45 72 27 00 27 E info@bechbruun.com www.bechbruun.com Our employees Agnete Nordentoft, Agnete Hansted, Alberte Steen, Alexander Schultz, Alexander May Christiansen, Alexander Troeltzsch Larsen, Alice Háfjall Balle, Allan Grotkær, Allan Gabriel Zandberg, Amalie Meldgaard, Amalie Frederikke Stender, Amanda Solberg Lauridsen, Anders Rubinstein, Anders Hermansen, Anders Østergaard, Anders Schulz, Anders Hagstrøm, Anders Birkenfeldt, Anders Birkelund Nielsen, Anders Flygge Juul, Anders Hans Boserup, Anders Hauge Gløde, Anders Kjærsgaard Dybro, Anders Lyager Kaae, Anders Oreby Hansen, Andreas Antoniades, Andreas Hammer, Andreas Lorensen, Andreas Andersen-Mølgaard, Andreas Damgaard, Staur, Anette Kejser, Anette Heltoft, Anette Kjær, Anika Donaldson, Anita Størseth Madsen, Anja Heisig Schwartz, Anna Hygum Clausen, Anna Meldgaard Petersen, Ann-Britt Nedergaard, Anne Juul, Anne Ralbjerg, Anne Friis, Anne Melgaard, Anne Bergholt Sommer, Anne Buhl Bjelke, Anne Bøgh Johansen, Anne Kaas Hammer, Anne Malling Hansen, Anne Marie Gade, Anne Mette Seest, Anne Sofie Møller Nielsen, Anne Sophie K. Vilsbøll, Anne-Marie Sparre Avnsted, Anne-Sophie Søgaard, Annette Frehr Carstensen, Arly Carlquist, Arne Riis, Asbjørn Andersen, Asta Tenna Hansen, Babak Eftekhari, Benedikte Bolvig Lund, Benete Benned Jensen, Bettina Movang, Birgit Nielsen, Birgit Nielsen, Birgitte Toxværd, Birgitte Hollenbach, Birgitte Germann Skytte, Bjarke Vejby, Bjarke Noesgaard, Bjarne Skovsborg Hansen, Bjørn Wittrup, Bodil From, Bolette Bligaard, Camilla Christiansen, Camilla Andersen, Camilla Fabech-Larsen, Camilla Gade Birkeholm, Camilla Jorch Green, Camilla Kristensen Ejiofor, Camilla Skovsbo Clausen, Camilla Søgaard Madsen, Carina Vallys, Carina Gøthche Knudtzon, Caroline Jul, Caroline Maibohm Lyck, Carsten Pedersen, Carsten Pals, Carsten Ceutz, Casper Holse, Casper Vahr Hansen, Cathrine Bondo Rasmussen, Cecilie Bisgaard-Frantzen, Cecilie Rust, Cecilie Marie Hybert, Cecilie Mejer Hjelm, Celine Harild, Charlotte Heidtmann, Charlotte Fornø, Charlotte Frederiksen, Charlotte Bach Larsen, Charlotte Dunk Ullmann, Charlotte Elisa Maksi, Christian Kruse-Madsen, Christian Nielsen, Christian Rjeily, Christian Skovgaard, Christian Bennet Rosenbæk, Christian Bonde Pedersen, Christian Demant Nordentoft, Christian Noes Nielsen, Christina Hornbek, Christina Klint, Christina Vesterholm, Christina Nilsson, Christina Greger, Christina Frederiksen, Christina Hage, Christina Steen, Christina Arlofelt Holmgaard, Christina Bruhn Wegeberg, Christine Hjortshøj, Christoffer Ring, Christoffer Nepper, Christoffer Rokkedal, Christoffer Lambert-Züberlein, Christoffer Sillesthoved Nikolajsen, Ciara Damgaard, Clara Greve Brett, Claus Barrett Christiansen, Claus Berner Nielsen, Claus Hilligsø Bak, Claus Aagaard Nielsen, David Møller, Dennis Bæckmann Rasmussen, Diana Maj Jensen, Diana Thalund Nielsen, Ditte Lassen-Kahlke, Dorthe Vind, Dorthe Larsen, Eivind Einersen, Elisabeth Wagner Birkeholm, Elsebeth Søltoft, Emil Alexander Lykke Petersen, Emilie Marley Siemssen, Eric Korre Horten, Erik Malberg, Esben Cordes, Eva Kruse, Eva Nestler Jensen, Eve Alfonso, Evy Nielsen, Frederik Foged, Frederik Green Møller, Giovanni Fico, Gitte Barber, Gitte Kjærsgaard, Gitte Brogaard Døi, Gitte Skovsgaard Christensen, Hanne Mølbeck, Hanne Friis Christensen, Heidi Bardtrum, Helle Riber, Helle Lindkvist, Helle Binderup, Helle Kviesgaard Pedersen, Helle Pilegaard Johansen, Henning Hansen, Henriette Agerbo, Henrik Valdorf-Hansen, Henrik Ydell, Håkun Djurhuus, Ida Polley, Inge Stanley, Inge Kirstine Skou, Inge Nyhøj Sørensen, Inger Turner, Jacob Hjortshøj, Jacob Brandt, Jacob C. Jørgensen, Jacob Girke Nordlander, Jacob Schall Holberg, Jakob Østervang, Jakob Kristensen, Jakob Busch, Jane Bjerregaard, Jane Honoré Jepsen, Janie C. Nielsen, Jannie Jul Lindegaard, Jarl Hildebrand, Jeanette Nyby, Jeanette Holm Frøsig, Jeanette Klitgaard Sørensen, Jeanette Lillie Edlich, Jeannette Kühl, Jeannette Skjoldager, Jeannie Wulff, Jennie Dai, Jens Auken, Jens Jerslev, Jens Hjortskov, Jens Chr. Hesse Rasmussen, Jeppe Bredahl Nielsen, Jes Anker Mikkelsen, Jesper Kaltoft, Jesper Rasmussen, Jesper Rothe, Jesper Bøge Pedersen, Jesper Lauge Johannesen, Jesper Smedegaard Madsen, Jesper T. Michaelsen, Jesper-Max Larsen, Jette Andersen, Jette Rasch, Jette Clavel, Jette Rohde Pedersen, Jette Schelderup Nielsen, Jielan Shen, Jing jing Su, Joakim Wischmann, Joan Hanne Nielsen, Johan Weihe, Johan Ingerslev, Johan Hartmann Stæger, Johanne Kiørboe, Johannes Grove Nielsen, John Thordrup, Jonas Crumlin-Clausen, Jonas Leed, Josefine Schiøtt, Josephine ToftJørgensen, Josephine Kjøller, Julie Jensen, Julie Lange, Julie Mosdal Kristensen, Jørgen Dreyer Hemmsen, Jørgen Hauschildt, Karin Nielsen, Karin Møller Andersen, Karina Amtkjær Christensen, Karl Stephensen, Kaspar Bastian, Kasper Friis-Hansen, Kathrine Dahl, Katja Nyborg Mikkelsen, Katrine Billeskov, Katrine Lyngby, Katrine Bundgaard, Kia Borch-Hansen, Kim Nielsen, Kim Bundgaard Leen, Kirstine Wiencke, Klaus Ewald Madsen, Kristian Raun Larsen, Kristian Steen Kirk, Kristin Jonasson, Kristine Lorentzen, Lars Kristensen, Lars Terp, Lars Kjær, Lars Lindencrone Petersen, Lars Svenning Andersen, Lasse Grimstrup, Laura Juul Madsen, Laura Røge Christensen, Lea Kolmos, Lena Bruhn, Lene Aagaard, Lene Schack, Lene B. Håkansson, Lene B. Wilsborg, Lillabeth Vilhelm Nielsen, Lina Wendt, Lina Funda Solakli, Linda Zürek, Linda á Dunga Brøndum, Linda Iversen, Line Lohmann, Line Bjerre, Line Lykkegaard, Line Bruun Iversen, Linnea Clara Klingberg-Jensen, Lisa Reinholt, Lisa Andersen, Lisa Webster, Lisbet Andersen, Lisbeth Kaastrup Steffensen, Lise Grothen, Lise Trane-Møller, Lise Blauenfeldt, Liselotte Egholm, Lone Kirkbøl, Lone Hagel, Lotte Schandorph, Lotte Buch Holst, Lotte Reibel Boesen, Louise Mühlbach, Louise Stenderup, Louise Bøtcher Bomholtz, Louise Dyrup Jensen, Louise Hallstrøm Abildgaard, Louise Harbo Schmidt, Louise Lundsby Wessel, Luca Storni, Lykke Foldager Ove, Mads Krarup, Mads Clausen, Mads Rossen Jakobsen, Mai Havskjær, Mai-Britt Bruun, Maj Blach, Maj Brit Boye Jensen, Maj-Britt Klemp, Maj-Britt Johansen, Majse Bergan Lund, Malene Frost Larsen, Marc West, Maria Barfoed, Maria Elisabeth Pedersen, Maria Kathina Petersen, Marianne Jensen, Marianne Dahlkilde, Marianne Højmark, Marianne Gade, Marianne Frederiksen, Marianne Almann, Marie Albæk Jacobsen, Marie Cathrine Klee, Marie Dam Danielsen, Marie Vixø Smith, Marielouise Øjerson Kjær, Mark Gall, Martha Laszlofi Hansen, Martin Riber Povlsen, Masja Blicher Bomholt, Mathias Krarup, Merethe Brandt Kastberg, Mette Rasmussen, Mette Blomsterberg, Mette Hougaard, Mette Johnsen, Mette Klingsten, Mette Just Jakobsen, Mette Højberg, Mette Høgh Jerslev, Mette Kroer, Mette Eisenhardt, Mette Saro Milthers, Mette Thing Jensen, Michael Serring, Michael Honoré, Michael Serup, Michael Hansen, Michael Mejer, Michael Møller Nielsen, Mikael Boldt Christensen, Mikkel Andersen, Mikkel Anker Heegaard, Mikkel Friis Rossa, Mikkel Hesselholt Munck, Mirja Kiel, Mogens Gaarden, Mogens Dyhr Vestergaard, Monica Reib, Monica Bengtsen, Morten Ulrich, Morten Krogsgaard, Morten Bang Olin, Morten Torp, Morten Toft, Morten Munch, Morten West, Morten Bruun-Larsen, Morten Hove Henriksen, Morten Moltke Nygaard, Morten Risby Hansen, Nanna Maria Posselt, Natascha Lyngsøe Davidsen, Nicolai Als, Nicolai Lyng Als, Niels Kornerup, Niels Kristian Friis Juhl, Niels M. Andersen, Nina Grunow, Nina Larsen Jensen, Nina Tange Dahl, Ninna Suhr Poulsen, Nis Marinus Dommergaard, Ole Nørgaard, Ole Borch, Ole Eske Bruun, Patrick Torstensson, Pedram Moghaddam, Peer B. Petersen, Per Hemmer, Per Speyer Mellemgaard, Pernille Hansen, Pernille Lykke Jepsen, Pernille Nyholm Gaarskjær, Peter Damsholt Langsted, Peter Hjorth Larsen, Peter Ingemann Bentsen, Peter M. Andersen, Peter Niemann Thøgersen, Peter Riis Jensen, Peter Stig Jakobsen, Peter-Andreas Bodilsen, Pia Just, Pia Bech Aarslev, Pierre Martin Ellegaard Adolfsen, Poul Erik Lytken, Rachel Cao, Randi Eyde, Randi Bach Poulsen, Rania Kassis, Rasmus Tønnies, Rasmus Bendixen, Rasmus Taarnhøj, Rasmus Riisbro, Rasmus Drachmann Kolding, Rasmus Paus Torp, Rebecca Fries Jessen, Regina M. Andersen, René Agut Frydshou, Richard Sand, Rikke Harrekilde, Rikke Blomsterberg, Rikke Lindberg, Rikke Brantlov, Rikke Alsø, Rune Richelsen, Sandra Maas, Sandro Ratkovic, Sangita Worsaae, Sarah Weber, Sebastian Jørgensen, Sebastian Christmas Poulsen, Seyran Melissa Özcan, Shanta Rye-Munkbak, Sidsel Marie Kristensen, Signe Hastrup Holst, Signe Morgenstjerne, Silja Reschke, Simon Cavling, Simon Milthers, Simon Olsen, Simon Lagrelius, Simon Evers Kalsmose-Hjelmborg, Simone Bille Høst, Sissel Bay, Sofie Wegeberg, Sofie Holm Risør, Sofie Dehlholm Holst, Solveig Johansen, Steen Halmind, Steen Jensen, Steen Rode, Stefan Winquist, Stefan Munch Gotfredsen, Steffen Hebsgaard Muff, Stephan Christophersen, Stephanie Berling Dalgaard, Steven Rahbek Andersen, Stig Bigaard, Stine Horn, Stine Møller Boye, Susan Højgaard, Susanne Jangmark, Susanne Nielsen, Susanne Skriver, Susanne Nielsen, Susanne Stougaard, Susanne Friis Hansen, Susanne Nolsøe Petersen, Suzana Andersen, Sven Frode Frølund, Svend Paludan-Müller, Sys Rovsing, Søren Meisling, Søren Tonnesen, Søren Nørbæk, Søren Knud Wolff, Tanja Truloff, Tanja Warschow, Tejs Dyrvig Ernst, Terkel Linderoth, Thea Hassel Hansen, Theis Kristensen, Thit Ejstrup-Christensen, Thomas Gjøl-Trønning, Thomas Stampe, Thomas Park, Thomas Frøbert, Thomas Bøgedal Kristiansen, Thomas Christian Thune, Thomas Melchior Fischer, Thomas Schønbeck Borchardt, Thomas Thordal Sevelsted, Timm Braun, Tina Bührmann, Tina Buur Johnsen, Tina Øster Larsen, Tine Barlebo Rasmussen, Tine Lundin Jacobsen, Tine Marie Bach, Tobias Hansen, Tonni Poulsen, Tony Lund-Burmeister, Torben Schøn, Trine Hasselbalch, Trine Damsgaard Vissing, Troels Tuxen, Tue Rønholt Hansen, Tue Trier Bing, Ulla Petersen, Ulla Hammer Mattesen, Ulrik Holsted-Sandgreen, Vibeke de Oliveira, Victoria Maria Ljunggren, Viktoria Egsgaard, Vivi Navndrup Schwaner, Vivian Ellemand, William Sejr-Sørensen UN Global Compact A Summary ACTIVITIES, OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should supThrough our Code of Conduct, Bech-Bruun supports and respects the proport and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and, among others, tection of internationally participated in the UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit in 2010 to show proclaimed human rights; our support. Furthermore, each year, we participate in the World’s Best and News campaign, which aims to spread the message that the efforts against poverty make a difference. 2. make sure that they are Bech-Bruun is actively helping to prevent the abuse of human rights. In not complicit in human cooperation with Save the Children, we have among a number of activities rights abuses built two schools in Angola and Ethiopia for the purpose of ensuring the right to education. Our Knowledge Management Partner Lars Lindencrone Petersen has participated in the preparation of the new code of conduct of lawyers, which, among other things, addresses human rights in a Danish context based on UN's and EU's international conventions. Through our extensive pro bono activities, we support organisations which would not otherwise be able to seek advice. LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should upBech-Bruun supports and upholds the freedom of association and the right hold the freedom of assoto collective bargaining for all its employees. ciation and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all Bech-Bruun supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory forms of forced and comlabour. pulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of Bech-Bruun supports the abolition of child labour. With our school in Ethichild labour; and opia, we have created a gathering point for the local community and now witness an acceptance of school attendance, also among the adult population which now wants to go to school. 6. the elimination of disBech-Bruun supports diversity and the elimination of discrimination. For crimination in respect of many years now, we have taken on an equal number of female and male employment and occupalawyers, and Bech-Bruun has as its special focus area the aim of increastion. ing the number of women in management and especially at the partner level. Randi Bach Poulsen, Managing Partner, has been appointed ambassador of the ambassador corps network, Ambassadørkorpset, under the Confederation of Danish Industry (DI) aimed to boost the number of women in management and as such leads the way in our organisation In 2011, we have worked with diversity across practice groups in industry teams. THE ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should supBech-Bruun supports and advocates a reduction of our own impact and of port a precautionary apthe impact of our surroundings on the environment. We encourage all our proach to environmental employees to care for the environment and to help increase our daily focus challenges; on recycling, energy consumption etc. Through our pro bono work, we also support environmental organisations, such as Hold Danmark Rent (Keep Denmark Clean). 8. undertake initiatives to Since 2008, we have reduced our amount of waste by 12.6% and our elecpromote greater environtricity consumption by 9.5%. We continuously seek to replace machinery, mental responsibility; and lighting bulbs etc. by energy friendly and environmentally friendly solutions. Through our supplier policy, we strive to promote environmentally sustainable procurement practices. Our new office in Aarhus, ready in the spring of 2014, is the first building in Denmark to comply with the energy rating 1 requirements. 9. encourage the develBech-Bruun’s team working with energy, climate and the environment has opment and diffusion of grown considerably in the last years. Every day, more than 20 lawyers environmentally friendly assist companies in promoting environmentally friendly technology. technologies. Moreover, through our participation in Danish Green Building Council, we strive to develop and promote a new Danish certification scheme aimed to document sustainable construction work and thereby support any further development in this specific area. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should Bech-Bruun supports and complies by the code of conduct for lawyers, and work against corruption in we have introduced internal procedures for conflict of interest and money all its forms, including laundering control of all incoming calls. Our internal ethics and conflicts extortion and bribery. committee reviews all cases involving a potential conflict of interest. Also, in association with the Association of Danish Law Firms, our Knowledge Management Partner Lars Lindencrone Petersen has developed a free elearning course addressing new rules. In 2011, we also developed an anti-corruption programme, through which companies are offered training of their employees as well as a company check-up. Furthermore, we help companies implement whistleblower schemes, and through our Compliance Programme, we help companies abide by applicable law and other codes of conduct.
