Sustainability Report 2010 Expansion for Sustainability Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 1 Sustainability Report Milestones The Course of KPC Sustainability Report (3.2) SDR 2003 SDR 2004 SDR 2005 SDR 2006 SDR 2007 SDR 2008 SDR 2009 GRI 2002 GRI 2002 GRI 2002 GRI 2003 (G3) GRI 2006 (G3) GRI 2006 (G3) GRI 2006 (G3) Level 1 Level 1 Level 2 Level 2 Level 2 Level 2 MMS Final Score 33% Score 45% Score 82,5% Score 91% Score 93% Version Level 2 Score 93% Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 2 | Contents | 02 Sustainable Development Performance Summary 03 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 07 About This Report 11 Company Profile 19 Our Commitment to Achieve the Goal of Sustainable Development 23 Sustainability Management 29 Management of Human Resources 39 Our Commitment for Occupational Health and Safety (K3, Keselamatan dan Kesehatan Kerja). 45 Our Contribution to the National Economy 53 Our Commitment to the Environment 75 Our Commitment to Community Empowerment 82 Assurance Statement 84 Index GRI 1 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainable Development Performance Summary Fields Run Program Achieved 1. Oriented investment, operasional efficiency. 1. Increase of income, profit, and contribution 2. Implementation of Contract & Contractor to the country. Management Supply, Supplier Community Meeting 2. Increase of work relationship quality and Contract Performance Evaluation. and increase of local supplier. Economics 3. Mining activity increase. 3. Increase of contribution to the regional 4. Quality control and responsible marketing economy. communication 4. Customers’ satisfaction, sale contract extension and no customers’ privacy violation 1. Fulfillment and assessment of accredited 1. Extension of environmental management environmental management standard certificate ISO 14001: 2004 2. Increase and management of resettlement activities 2. Smooth relocation and good mining land Environment 3. Good post-mining land management increment for product increase 4. Periodic environmental indicator monitoring 3. Biodiversity conservation 4. Gas emission under BML and waste 1. Quality and balanced recruitment 1. Competent and dedicated HR in a 2. Continual human resources training, remuneration balanced composition according to performance 2. Increase of HR competence, motivation, Human Resource 3. Benefit program for employee and performance Development 3. Low turn-over, conducive work atmo sphere 1. Fulfillment and assessment of OHS management 1. Extension of OHS management standard standard certificate OHSAS 18001:2007. Occupational 2. Training and OHS implementation monitoring 2. Reducing the level of lost time injury Health and 3. Health check for employees and their families frequency rates (LTIFR) Safety 3. Reducing the level of employees’ absence due to sickness 1. Program planning involving stakeholders 1. Implementation of community develop 2. Program covers economic, social, and ment program runs well environmental aspects 2. Increase of community welfare due to 3. Sufficient fund provisioning development of regional economic Community 4. External communication program potential Development 3. Implementation of program is in accor dance with the plan 4. Relationship with surrounding community becomes harmonious 2 KPC n Sustainability Report2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Ikhtisar Kinerja Komitmen Kami untuk Pembangunan Sambutan Mencapai Tujuan Tata Kelola Berkelanjutan Chief Executive Officer TENTANG LAPORAN INI PROFIL PERUSAHAAN Pembangunan Berkelanjutan Keberlanjutan Chief Executive Officer’s Statement “We deliver this Sustainability Report to provide a deep, transparent, and balanced description on our efforts that we undertake and the performance that we achieve in giving economic and social contributions to the country and the surrounding community, including the company’s participation in overcoming the impact of global warming through responsible environmental management.” Respected stakeholders, We run a business of mining and trading one of the nonrenewable fossil fuels, i.e. coal. Like a mining company in Up until 2010, PT. Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) has made the general, our mining operations include removing the top Sustainability Report for the eighth time. We make this soil and then the overburden, taking the coal seam and report by referring to the international standard reporting then returning the overburden and top soil followed by system, i.e. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Mining revegetation. Our operations are done in a planned way and Metal Sector Supplement RG Version 3.0/MMSS Final and pay attention to activities of good mining practice. Version (1.1) In addition, we are very concerned with environmental management efforts before and after the mine to Through this international standard report, we want to minimize the impact of our operations. provide a deep, transparent, and balanced description on our efforts that we undertake and the performance that The global warming impact that nowadays commonly we achieve in giving an economic and social contribution take place is the extreme weather change on a global to the country and the surrounding community, including scale. For Indonesia, including our mining area, the the company’s participation in overcoming the impact extreme weather change which has a major impact is the of global warming through responsible environmental continual rainfall during the year 2010, with unforecasted management. Through this report, we want to give a real intensity. As for subtropic regions, the extreme picture of our seriousness and commitment to participate weather causes snow storms, winter time change, and in making efforts for solving the impacts of global thunderstorms with high rates of rainfall. warming which affect the social life around the globe. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 3 Main Risk, Challenge, and Business Opportunity (1.2) In line with our business expansion, we have improved Climatic conditions indirectly affect rainfall in excess the main infrastructure as well as supporting facilities, of our plans thus affecting the achievement of our including the addition of equipment. We have processed production in that year because the performance of the required permits, including presenting AMDAL production equipment was not optimal. Although not (Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, Analysis of significantly affecting the Company’s financial condition, the Environmental Impacts) revision to the authorized it is a challenge both in terms of operational aspects of stakeholders. As a form of our commitment to keep production and safety aspects. To answer the challenges expanding the business and keep paying attention to of these conditions, we improved and optimized the conservation, we have endeavoured to increase the operational aspects and implemented drainage systems operational ability of all our staff. that supported the mining operations. We implement the management of human resources The direct impact of the climate change that we felt and well, implement the program of improving the human the increase of the world community inconvenience had resource competence directionally and instill awareness made us more determined to show our commitment on the importance of environmental conservation. To and participation in reducing the negative impact of the ensure quality environmental management, we facilitate climate change. As a means of showing our concern on internationally applied environmental management the wider impact of global warming, we had launched system auditing that we run. We have succeeded in Program Hemat Energi (Energy Saving Program) through maintaining the environmental management system electricity saving on 8 September 2010. th certificate ISO 14001: 2004 until 2013, which we aim at increasing the effectivity of the environmental The program was a form of our concern and real support management activities. to the program of reducing global warming impact and climate change. Besides aiming at reducing the use of We have prepared the mining plan and post-mining land electricity for irrelevant use, the electricity saving program maintenance carefully, prepared revegetation plants, also aimed at reducing the use of fossil fuel for generating conserved endemic biota, and maintained revegetation electricity. (EC2) Besides electricity saving, we designed areas well in cooperation with independent parties. We and implemented the initiative for integrated operational are also consistently preserving the facilities of orangutan system improvement, human resource competence conservation which we sometimes find on the mining development and business expansion which cared for area to be then returned to their natural habitat. environmental conservation. We monitor and manage emission and waste levels Expanding business, Conserving the Environment on the whole mining area and affected area regularly. In the reporting year, we had mined 39.3 million tons We maintain all parameters of environment indicators of coal, slightly less than the previous year’s production. in order to keep them within the established quality Such product volume achievement was caused by standard limits. The monitoring and managing involves continuous rain as a form of climate change impact, competent independent parties. As a result, we always affecting the productivity of production equipment. We fulfill the requirements of the water processing standard, had endeavoured to overcome the production obstacles emission as well as effluent and B3 waste processing. and started to prepare for the following year’s production plan. We did all those efforts to conserve the ecosystem biodiversity as much as possible as the condition prior We keep trying to operate efficiently, so that our sales and to the mining. We targeted to achieve the level of more profits increase. Hence we are still able to contribute to positive PROPER, on regional, provincial, and national the country, in the form of the increase of royalties and levels. taxes which we pay and also help improve the livelihoods of the surrounding community. To anticipate the increase of coal demand from the international market post-crisis, we plan to increase the capacity of production to 70 million tons per year in the next years. 4 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Realizing Competent Human Resources with All such programs of community development show Occupational Health and Safety Awareness our support for the Millenium Development Goals and To support the plan for business expansion, we prepared Global Compact program. For such support, we were human resources (HR) carefully. We supplied planned awarded MDGs’ Award by the United Nation for MDGs training to improve our HR competence, and gave Asia Pacific and from the Coordinating Minister of People remuneration relevant to performed performance. As HR Welfare Sectors of the Republic of Indonesia (Menko is a partner and the backbone of the company’s growth, Kesra Republik Indonesia). Besides that, we also received we pay great attention to the health and safety of the the KSN Award 2010 for the category of Economic and work place. To support the implementation of OHS, we Partnership Empowerment Sector as well as the Mutual have provided sufficient work safety kits and conducted Business Group Sector. special training on OHS, followed by company employees as well as contractors. Improvement of the Implementation of Sustainable Business Management Principles To support the implementation of the program and To support sustainable business growth in this reporting increase the OHS standard, we implement the accredited year, we commenced the process of reviewing the OHS system from OHSAS 18001: 2007 as well as facilitate company vision and mission statement. We undertake its implementation evaluation by independent parties. this review because the company organization keeps We have gained again an extension of the certificate growing significantly while the business environment until 2013. We are also thankful for the increase of the has also changed greatly during the last few years. The employees’ awareness regarding the importance of establishment and statement of the new Company Vision implementing OHS procedures which resulted in the and Mission reflects a reformation and improvement spirit decrease of the frequency of incidents leading to LTIFR. that we continuously maintain in order to persistently We are targeting zero accidents in all our operational succeed in facing the challenge of the global business activities. To reach that target, we involve all components environment which keeps changing dynamically. of employees and contractors in implementing OHS through the OHS Committee which runs effectively. The restatement of the Company Vision and Mission also marks our determination to keep improving the quality Developing Community Life of the implementation of good management which we We showed our commitment to develop community believe will increasingly ensure a long term growth along life around the operational activities through the with the fulfillment of all stakeholders’ interests. implementation of a directed community development program. In order that the program gains optimum Closing impact, we involved local stakeholders, such as the Finally, allow us to express our gratefulness to the community leaders and the regional government in stakeholders for the support the sustainability of our designing, determining and carrying out the community business. We also invite suggestions and constructive development program. Thus we expect the community’s criticism for the betterment of the Sustainability awareness that the program belong to them also; hence, Development Report which we will constantly improve. they are also responsible for its successful implementation. Thank you. We formulated the community development program into various specific programs according to the level of the local community needs, including programs in the fields of: education, public facility development, economic activity, religious and moral activities, health, Endang Ruchijat natural disaster aids and nature conservation. To support Chief Executive Officer the implementation of the programs, we allocated some substantial funds from our earnings. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 5 | Vision & Mission | Company Vision To be a reputable Indonesian coal producer to fulfill the world’s need which gives optimum value for all stakeholders. Company Mission l Maintain culture which prioritizes health, safety and environment in all actions l Maintain good company management and promote the company as a good citizen l Provide learning environment to achieve superiority and increase prosperity l Optimize values for all stakeholders l Organize management practice and best operation to produce high quality yields and performance consistently 6 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 | About This Report | The goal of this report is to transparently communicate our economic, environmental, and social commitment and performance to the stakeholders and the community. Through this report, we hope that the stakeholders can gain a clearer and more transparent description about all the sustainable development activities that we undertake. 08 Goal of the Report 08 Scope and Limit of the Report Contents 08 Approach and Contents of the Report 09 Data Measurement Techniques 09 Period and Guidelines of the Report 09 Significant Changes 09 GRI Index 09 Assurance Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 7 09 Contact Person We adopt the principles of Accuracy, Completeness, and Reliability to present information in this report. Through internal and external auditing process that we have carried out, we guarantee that the three principles have been applied in this report. To improve the quality of this report, we have 11 contributors who have obtained the certificate of CSRS (Certified Sustainability Reporting Specialist) and 1 contributor who has both CSRS and CSRA (Certified Sustainability Reporting Assessor) certificates. We intend to to send several staff to obtain such certificates by participating in relevant training. Scope and Limits of the Report Contents (3.7) Approach and Contents of the Report (3.11.3.5) This report reports all aspects of the operational This sustainability report still emphasizes on reporting performances within the KPC mining areas and the the program performance in achieving sustainable changes that took place during the year 2010, covering development and the participation of the stakeholders sustainable development, the financial condition and the in the development. The process of the making and products. However, the environmental performance of approach to the reporting system that we undertake are the company contractors is not reported yet in this report. described in the following two diagrams: Provision of Data Report Writing GRI Indicator Report Editing Checking for Accuracy KPC Sustainability Report Final Editing KPC Objectives Quarterly & Targets Report Montly Report Internal Auditing Internal External External (Limited) (Stakeholder) Final Draft Scale of Issues related to KPC Operation Approach to Reporting System External Auditing Final Report 8 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Meanwhile, the contents of the report include: (3.11; GRI Index (3.12) 3.6): To facilitate the readers in understanding the fulfilled l The economic, social, and environmental and reported observance by the company, we enlist the performances as required in GRI indicators. The GRI G3 index established in this report in red numbers in report of this year presents all indicators in the GRI brackets on every relevant page. The compilation of the standard. fulfillment of all required provisions in the relevant GRI l The changes taking place during the period of 1 st index is presented on page 84-86 of this Report. January – 31st December, 2010. l Operational activities as required in the GRI standard. Assurance (3.13) l Operational activities which are in accordance with To ensure the accuracy of data that we present in this legal regulations or other legal stipulations. report, the company has conducted assurance done by l Additional indicators in the GRI standard. a competent third party. According to the checking by the independent third party, i.e. Mazars, this report has Data Measurement Techniques (3.9) fulfilled the implementation standard of GRI with the We applied data measurement relevant to the fields that level of A+. we are reporting and relevant to the general norms. We present the information in the report according to the Contact Person (3.4) principles of materiality, i.e. presenting information which Any request, suggestion, or comment for this report can can affect the decision making for the stakeholders, be addressed to: as well as the information having important impact on the company’s economic, social, and environmental External Affairs & Sustainable Development performances. PT.Kaltim Prima Coal M2 Building, Mine Site Period and guidelines of the report Sangatta, Kutai Timur, Kalimantan Timur This report is the eighth sustainable report made by the Indonesia company since 2003. The report covers the period from Telp. 62 549 52 1451 1 January – 31 December, 2010 and made in reference st st Fax. 62 549 52 1701 to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Mining and Metal Sector Supplement RG Version 3.0/MMSS Final Version (3.1, 3.2, 3.3). Significant Changes (3.10, 3.11) There is no significant change regarding the structure, accounting principles and data measurement methods compared to the previous year’s report. Likewise, there is no significant change regarding the business structure, ownership structure, and organizational structure during the reporting period. (2.9) This makes the reporting basis undergo no changes and does not affect the comparability principles. (3.8) Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 9 10 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 | Company Profile | “We operate in Kutai, East Kalimantan, exploiting an area of more than 90,000 ha, producing three types of quality coal with the total resources of more than 4.5 billion tons which we market in both foreign and domestic markets.” 12 PT Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) at a glance Share Ownership Company Address 12 Business Field and Product Summary 13 Company’s Operational Area 14 Organizational Structure 15 Awards and Certificates Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 11 Kaltim Prima Coal (KPC) at a glance KPC, hereinafter referred to as the Company, was previously owned by British Petroleum International Ltd (BP) and Conzinc Rio Tinto of Australia Ltd (Rio Tinto). Through an acquisition process on 70% of shares according to the Notary Deed No 3 dated 18th October, 2005, the company is currently under the ownership of PT. Bumi Resources Tbk as the major owner. Besides that, according to the Notary Deed No. 34 dated 4th May 2007, 30% of the share is owned by Tata Mauritius Ltd. The Company was established in 1982, according to the Business Field and Product Summary Notary Deed No 28 dated 9 March, 1982, and obtained th The Company’s business field is mining and distributing legalization by the Minister of Justice of the Republic coal to the industrial consumers within as well as outside of Indonesia as per Decree No. Y.A.5/208/25 dated 16 th of the country. All operational activities are done in March, 1982. The legalization was announced in the Indonesia. (2.5, 2.7), (2.2) Official Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia dated 30th July 1982 No. 61 Addendum No 967. (2.6) The Company’s coal production is classified into several classes according to their quality, namely Prima, Pinang, Acording to Work Contract of Coal Mining Exploitation and Melawan. Prima coal is the highest class with high (PKP2B, Perjanjian Kontrak Karya Pengusahaan quality. The next is Pinang, which is also of several Pertambangan Batubara) signed on 8th April, 1982, specifications according to their heat value. And the third the Government gave permission to the Company to type is Melawan coal whose heat value is below Pinang undertake exploration, production, and marketing of and Prima. coal from the area of agreement until 2021. The area of agreement covers an area of 90,938 ha in the Regency of Prima coal is one of the high quality coals traded in the Kutai Timur, Province of Kalimantan Timur. international market. This coal is bitumen coal which easily vapourizes (volatile) with high heat, very low content of Share Ownership (2.6) ash, moderate content of sulphur, and relatively low total Share Ownership of the Company per 31st December moisture. Prima coal is also one of glowing coals with 2010. high content of vitrinite. 5% 9,5 % 9,5 % 30,0 % 13,6 % 32,4 % The Following is an Overview of the Coal Qualification Produced by the Company. (PR3) Prima Pinang Melawan Calorific Value (kcal/kg) PT. Sitrade Coal Sangatta Holding Limited Bhira Investments Limited Kalimantan Coal Limited Gross Air Dried Basis (gad) 7,000 5850-6550 5650 PT. Bumi Resources Kutai Timur Sejahtera Gross As Rec’d (gar) 6,650 5500-6150 5200 Total Moisture % as received 11.0 15.0-21.0 23.0 Moisture % adb 6.0 9.5-16.0 16.5 Company Address (2.4),(3.4,(2.1) Volatile Matter % adb 41.0 38.0-40.0 38.5 PT.Kaltim Prima Coal Ash % adb 6.0 6.0 5.0 Mine Site Gedung M1, Sangatta 75611 Total Sulphur % adb 0.60 0.60 0.20-0.40 Kabupaten Kutai Timur, Kalimantan Timur, INDONESIA Handgrove Grindability Index 46 45 42 12 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Pinang coal is similar to Prima coal, but it has higher Company are: Pit Bendili, Pit J, Big AB, and Inul KWest. moisture level and lower heat value. As for Melawan coal, As for the pits operated by mining contractors these it is sub-bitumen coal which is very clean with very low are: Pit A Bengalon Area by PT.Darma Henwa; Pit Pelikan, content of sulphur and ash. Prima and Melawan coals Kangguru, Pit Kancil and Pit Pelikan South Small by are produced in the Sangatta pit, while Pinang coal is PT.Pama Persada; Pit Melawan, Belut, Beruang, Mustahil, produced in the Sangatta pit as well as in Bengalon. Khayal and Pit Peri by PT.Thiess. The Company has never cooperated with artisanal and small scale mining (ASM). Company’s Operational Area (MM8) According to the Mining Exploration Work Contract (PKP2B, Perjanjian Karya Pengusahaan Pertambangan) The Following is an Overview of the Company’s No. J2/Ji.D4/16/82 signed on 8th April, 1982, the Company Economic Scale: (2.8) is allowed to explore, produce, and market coal in an area 2010 2009 of 90,938 ha (D4KW 96PB0363) until 2021 in the Regency of Kutai Timur, Province of Kalimantan Timur, Indonesia, Number of employees 5.206 4.973 with the maps of operational regions as follows. (MM1) Total net sales (US million) 3.009,4 2.158,8 Quantity of sold product (tons) 40.005.839 38.758.082 The Company’s activity phase is production operation based on the Decree on Production Contraction No. 940.K/20.01/DJP/1999 dated 24th December 1989. The Company runs mining operational activities independently. Among the operational pits run by the Company’s Operational Area Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 13 14 Organization Structure (2.3) PT Kaltim Prima Coal KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Awards and Certification 2010 (2.10) Field of Environment n The First Runner Up of the 2nd Tambang Award for the category of Best Mining Company in Environmental Compliance – May 2010 n Provincial PROPER Hijau for PT. KPC Site Sangatta – June 2010 n Aditama Award for Mining Environment Management from the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources Directorate General of Mineral, Coal, and Biothermal – September 2010 Field of Work Health and Safety n Pratama Award of Keselamatan Tambang (Mine Safety) 2010 from the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources Directorate General of Mineral, Coal, and Biothermal n Award of P2-HIV and AIDS at Workplace Program from the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration of the Republic of Indonesia – November 2010 n Award for aids and active participation in handling the tsunawi disaster in Mentawai and Gunung Merapi 2010 from the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources – December 2010 n Award from the Governer of Kalimantan Timur for the participation in sending KPC rescue team in evacuating the victims of natural disaster in Padang. The award was received in 2010. Field of Community Development n KSN Award Silver 2010 for the Category of Mutual Business Group, Sub-cathegory of Handcraft Program” Haviera Group” from the Social Minister of the Republic of Indonesia September 2010 n KSN Award Silver 2010 for the Category of Economic Empowerment and Partnership of the Excellent Product Program of UKM, Sub-category of Plus-value “Handcrafts of Reusable Plastic Waste” from the Social Minister of the Republic of Indonesia September 2010 n CSR Best Practice for MDGs’ Category Gold from the Coordinating Minister for People’s Welfare– October 2010 n Award for the commitment in achieving Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) Goal 4: Reduce Child Mortality from Metro TV and United Nation for MDGs in Asia Pacific – December 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 15 n Runner Up One, Best Sustainability Report 2009 in the 6th Indonesian Sustainability Reporting Award 2010 – December 2010 Field of Human Resources n First Winner of Selection of Bipartite Cooperational Institution (Lembaga Kerja Sama, LKS) at the Regency Level of Kutai Timur n First Winner of Selection of Best Employee at the Regency Level of Kutai Timur n Third Winner of Selection of the Best Company in Industrial Relationship Maintenance at the Regency Level of Kutai Timur n Second Winner of Best Female Employee Supervisor at the Provincial Level of Kalimantan Timur Certification (4.12) ISO – 14001:2004 4th Sept ’10 – 24th Sept ‘13 Field of Environment from SGS OHSAS 18001:2007 27 Dec ’10 – 27 Dec ‘13 th th Field of K3 from SGS 16 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Management of Stakeholders We have a K3L (Occupational Health, Safety and Environment) and Sustainable Development policy signed by the President Director and reviewed annually. The policy contains the commitment of the Company to implement sustainable development with the aim of creating local community’s independence and increasing the community’s life quality. We try to involve the stakeholders in the Company’s Care Communication Forum), Uplift International, PUPUK operational activities. Through the involvement, we (Perkumpulan Untuk Peningkatan Usaha Kecil, Forum continuously try to meet the latest needs of the stakeholders for Small Business Improvement) Bandung, BKMM (Balai by making changes and program adaptations and running Kesehatan Mata Masyarakat, Center for Community Optical the activities towards better directions. We cooperate Health), and PJI (Prestasi Junior Indonesia, Indonesian with different approaches according to the needs of the Junior Achievements). We also cooperate with International Company and the stakeholders. Donor Institutions in regional development with the Ford Foundation, British Council, Unicef, World Bank, We interact wIth the stakeholders so that every related International Chamber of Commerce, and AusAID. party understands the economic, social, and environmental problems which affect the mining process. We keep trying We maintain good relationship with all elements of to maintain the interaction through various ways, as will be Government (regency, provincial, and national), i.e. described below. Pusat Penelitian dan Pengembangan Gizi dan Makanan Departemen Kesehatan Republik Indonesia (Research We interact with the local community (religious leaders/ Center for Nutrition and Food Development, Department of community leaders/youth) through social mapping, socioHealth of the Republic of Indonesia), Subdit Pemberantasan economic and environmental impact study, consultation Penyakit Menular Departemen Kesehatan Republik forum, and local manpower development. With local Indonesia (Sub Directorate for Contagious Disease businesses, we keep cooperating through training program Eradication, Department of Health of the Republic of activities, business consultation with KADIN (Chamber Indonesia), consultation with related departments in the of Commerce and Industry), HIPMI (Indonesian Young Regency and Provincial Governments, related departments Entrepreneurs Association) and local contractors. such as ESDM (Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources) and KLH (Ministry of the Environment). Similar cooperation With academicians, we interact through pioneering is also maintained with contractors/suppliers in the tender cooperation with: Department of Anaestetiology and and contract process implementation, performance review Reanimation of FK UNAIR, research/study, seminar/ with custodians, OHS identification, auditing of ISO 14001, scientific discussion, consultation with University 17 August OHSAS 18001, consultations and discussions. 1945 Samarinda, Mulawarman University, ITB (Institute of Technology, Bandung), UGM (University of Gadja Mada We maintain the customers’ satisfaction through the Yogyakarta), IPB (Bogor Agricultural University) ANU activities of site visits for Request for Proposal/RFP, coal (Australian National University), BALITKA (Balai Penelitian requirements, tender process, and marketing analysis. Tanaman Kelapa, Research Center for Coconut Plantation), To maintain a good relationship with the employees, the STPMD, STIPER (Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Pertanian, Agricultural Company runs the activities of performance evaluation, Academy) Sangatta, and Art Polytechnic Yogyakarta. We GCG socialization, ISO 14001 communication, safety, OHSAS support the activities of research institutions in research 18001, social and sport activities, educational and health and consultation in the fields of agricultural development programs, and consultation with labour unions. As for the with Balitjestro (Indonesian Citrus and Subtropical Fruits investors, we invite them to have a site visit and conduct Research Institute), Puslit Koka (coffee and cocoa research roadshows in the customers’ countries. center), Balitro (Balai Penelitian Tanaman Obat dan Aroma, Center for Herbs and Aromatic Research). We establish communication activity forums with the stakeholders according to the groups affecting and affected With NGOs (local, national, and international), we maintain by the company’s activities. We realize the important role interaction through: community development, medical of the stakeholders’ involvement on the continuity of the services such as with PMI (Palang Merah Indonesia, Company’s operations. Various formal and informal forums Indonesian Red Cross), Pusdakota (Center of Urban have been organized so that the Company’s vision and Community Empowerment), Indonesian Business Link, GTZ, mission in sustainable community development reach their Wawasan, Interplast Australia and New Zealand, PILI (Pusat targets. The various forums that we have organized are Informasi Lingkungan Indonesia, Indonesian Environmental given in the following table. (4.15) Information Center), TNC (The Nature Conservacy), FKPL (Forum Komunikasi Peduli Lingkungan, Environmental Sustainability Sustainability Report Report 2010 2010 n KPC n KPC 1717 Table of Involvement of the Company’s Stakeholders (4.4; 4.14; 4.16; 4.17) No Stakeholders Communication Approach Frequency Result Local, religious, and Participative, Every 3 Silaturahmi (goodwill), CSR program 1 community leaders around the mine religious leader and community months or as necessary sosialization, local manpower, sosialization about water leader forums management at the mine Regency Government Partnership Team Every 4 months Comdev 2010 program formulation, or as necessary activity implementation mechanism formulation, system monitoring, evaluation and reporting, sustainable 2 development program arrangement, and a series of cooperations with regency government departments to aid the implementation of the planned programs National Government Informal meeting As necessary National government approvals 3 for permits Perpu (regulations as replacement for law) discussion Mining contractors KPC-Contractor Bimonthly Apprenticeship program 4 HRCR (Human Community Resources & Standard Recruitment Procedure Relations) Forum Community development program Synergy 5 Labour Union PKB discussion Biennially Housing allowance changes, meal allowances, and employment period Customers Forum Coal Trans Annually Obtaining latest information about 6 world coal and selling activities 18 KPC n Sustainability Report2010 Sustainability Report 2010 | Our Commitment to Achieve the Goal of Sustainable Development | “We utilize non-renewable natural resources by applying accredited mining operations systems to ensure long term business sustainability”. 20 Sustainable Development Strategy and Approach 21 Sustainable Improvement 22 Sustainable Development Liability Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 19 Sustainable Development Strategy and Approach (4.11,SO1) The motto ‘More Than Mining’ has become a source of our inspiration in implementing the Company’s sustainable community development program which covers post-mining activity. This motto has also been a source of inspiration for the implementation of activity approach in the fields of economic, social, and environmental done by the Company. Our mining operations are not only directed toward world’s demand, but also actively is carrying out the utilizing non-renewable natural resources, but also social responsibility in conserving the environment and making efforts on environmental mitigation and improving the local economic independence. improving renewable resources by maintaining good relationship with stakeholders. We do it by trying to As real evidence of carrying out our social responsibility improve the community’s skill and social institutions program, we initiate programs supporting the local and government, besides encouraging a better business economic independence which is in accordance with the climate and work culture for the community around the closing program of the mine. Through the implementation Company’s mining operations areas. of a directed program, the community is expected to be more independent and not dependent on mining alone. The high dependence of the Kutai Timur community on Therefore, the local economic development concept the coal mining sector is a problem that we have been is directed to the principle of partnership, community concerned with. This makes the effort to achieve the participation, and empowerment. Company’s vision “Becoming the Indonesian reputable coal producer which gives optimum values for all stakeholders” not only on producing coal to fulfill the 20 KPC n Sustainability Report2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Improvement Project Cycle 4 No Projects Achievements 1 Fuel Efficency Stage 2 Reduction of Fuel Ratio as much as 11 % 2 Drill and Blast at CMD (Contract Mining Division) Stage 2 Reduction of PF from 0.34 to 0.32 3 Drill and Blast at MOD (Mining Operations Division) Stage 2 Reduction PF from 0.38 to 0.32 4 Grader PA Improvement Project was continued to Cycle 5 with saving potential of USD 0.9 million Dozer PA Improvement Reduction of waiting lowboy, waiting labor, warranty, 5 accidents, and technical problems with saving potential of USD 1 million Electricity Energy Conservation Awareness of energy savings for employees and 6 reduction of electricity waste as much as 500,084 kWh in 2010 (EN 5; EN 6) Dual Career Ladder Stage 2 Process and preparation for selection of 50 operators 7 and mechanics to become master operator and master mechanic Financial Manual Project SOP Internal Payment Process and SOP External 8 Payment Process Reduction of Store 38 Transactions Reduction of transactions at Store 38 as much as USD 9 820,000 Optimalization of Crusher 6 Crusher 6 average rate increase from 2200 to 2500 10 TPH 11 Improve Facility and Tooling at Tyreshop Cleaner workplaces and the better tool settings 12 Cleanliness of Muster Area Pit J MOD Cleaner and tidier Muster Area Sustainable Improvement divisions, and 8 Company contractors. The improvement Through the Business & Performance Improvement projects conducted since 2008 have so far been able Division (BPID), we have reintroduced improvement to save expenses of $172 million and also produced 42 projects in 2010. Cycle 3 which started in 2009 ended in SOPs (Standard Operating Procedures) and 8 awareness February 2010, while Cycle 4 ended at the end of 2010. materials. Besides finishing Cycle 3 and Cycle 4, BPID also We will continue the improvement projects by rolling reassembled the previous cycle projects and conducted Cycle 5 in 2011. To commence this Cycle 5, Business Sustainability Audits for Cycles 1–3. We did this to ensure Performance. Improvement Division (BPID) and that the improvement initiative could be carried on the champion which is the division representative continuously. responsible for monitoring and directing the business improvement have carried out the project selection that We have accomplished 38 projects up to 2010. we will organize in Cycle 5. The projects are divided into 4 cycles involving 270 employees directly, 3,000 employees indirectly, 10 Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 21 Sustainable Development Liability Company management is in accordance with the In accordance with the Company’s mangement company regulations. principles, we have organizations which are responsible t Finance Division, besides maintaining the Company’s for carrying out sustainability principles, namely: financial condition, it also carries out annual risk t External Affairs & Sustainable Development analysis to anticipate every activity in each division Division, responsible for carrying out the mandate runs according to the economic principles. The of the implementation of the Company’s policy in monitoring of the economic performance is also sustainable community development. carried out through financial auditing every four t Health Safety, Environment and Security (HSES) months and governance auditing which is reviewed Division, responsible for maintaining the performance every year. of environment, occupational health and safety t Supply Chain Development Division, organizing the as well as security in the Company environment. availability of goods and services locally, regionally, Besides that, it also responsible for maintaining the nationally and internationally. It also includes the mining operations are carried out according to the analysis of the Company’s business activities in order standards stipulated in environmental legislation as to match with the annual achievement targets in well as AMDAL requirements and also ensuring that mining production, as well as expenditure for both the environment around the mine is not damaged. operational purposes in the internal Company t Human Resources (HR) Division, maintaining that the environment and community development. 22 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 | Sustainability Management | (4.1,4.4,SO6) “The implementation of good management, the provision of a clear vision and mission, and the completeness of regulations which are known, understood, and applied by all strata of staff ensure the business continuity.” 24 Management Structure 25 Company Management 25 Executive committee 25 Basic Policy of Management 26 Guidelines of the Conduct and Culture of the Company Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 23 We have operational management and organization strategies in the fields of economic, social, and the environment to secure the Company from violations committed by employees resulting in work accidents, conflicts of interest, and also to maintain the performance of the Company in the fields of environment and social. In the document of the Company’s policy for sustainable development, it is clear how we will carry out the vision and mission for all three strategies. The framework that we adopt to fulfill the good The compostion of the Board of Commissioners during company management and organization includes legal the reporting year is as follows: compliance, a sustainable development policy, good corporate governance and a code of conduct (employee Commissioner President : Ari Saptari Hudaja ethics), annual target planning and its parameters, Commissioner : Kenneth Patrick Farrell procedures, guidelines and instruments, auditing and Commissioner : Raden Ajeng Sri inspection, risk management, training and awareness, Dharmayanti assignments, annual performance reviews, management Commissioner : Prasad Raghava Menon reviews, acknowledgement and awards. Commissioner : Banmali Agrawala To carry out the commitment, we have an organization Board of Directors structure which matches each responsibility in the fields The Company’s Board of Directors consists of four of economic, social, and environmental. Besides that, Directors headed by a President Director, each one we also have a reasonably clear system to monitor the responsible for their own field. The compostion of the mining operations activities which fulfills the three fields Board of Directors is as follows: mentioned above, and the process of decision making by the management which refers to the framework of President Director : Nalinkant Amratlal Rathod reference mentioned above. Director : Evan William Ball Director : Robert Bismarka Kurniawan Management Structure (4.1) Director : Sowmyan Ramakhrisnan Director : Minesh Shri Krishna Dave General Meeting of Shareholders General Meeting of Shareholders (GMS) is the highest Monthly Board Meetings (4.10) agency which has the authority, according to the The Company holds the meetings of the Board of Directors stipulation of the statutes and the laws. GMS is a place and Board of Commissioners once a month to review the for the shareholders to act equally in important decision Company’s performance in the fields of economic, social, making dealing with the investment that they have and environment to compare them with the planning. deposited in the Company. Through the GMS, the This meeting is also to discuss proposals outside the shareholders can utilize their rights and give their opinions business plan. and votes to make important decisions equally. (4.4) The planning is prepared by inviting suggestions from all Board of Commissioners divisions of the Company. At present, the annual business In accordance with the Limited Corporation Act No. plan has become the basis to compare the Company’s 42/2007, the Company implements a two board system on performance every month. the peak management level, i.e a Board of Commissioners responsible for supervising the compliance of the Company with all relevant regulations in Indonesia and a Board of Directors responsible for carrying out the operational duties. However, the company does not have Independent Commissioners. (4.2, 4.3) 24 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Election and Evaluation of the Board of An executive meeting is also held by the Contract Commissioners and Directors Committee consisting of CEO, COO, CFO, GM SCD, GM The election of the Board of Directors and Board of ESD, GM Finance and Supply Manager specifically to Commissioners is determined in the General Meeting discuss strategic project tenders conducted by the of Stakeholders (GMS). Generally, the qualification for Company. the election of the Board of Directors and the Board of Commissioners is seniority, educational background, and work experience. Basic Policy of Management The evaluation of the performance of Board of Directors Risk Control and Board of Commissioners is carried out in the General Since 30th April 2008, we have implemented Enterprise Meeting of Stakeholders (GMS) by looking at the Company’s Risk Management with the aim that the Company performance in the fields of economic, social, environment, can identify and manage risk by developing a reliable and occupational health and safety (4.10). To improve management and supervision system. It is done by the competence in deciding strategic aspects, the instilling coordinated and harmonious risk management Company conducts training periodically on the concepts activities, followed by the formulation of specific plans to of the balance of social, economic, and environmental handle significant risk. development (triple bottom line) to the peak management members. (4.7) Compensation and remuneration given One part of Enterprise Risk Management which has been to the Commissioners, Directors and other members of done is ‘fraud risk assessment’ in cash management, Senior Management depend greatly on the result of the procurement and supply chain to identify the practices performance achievement evaluation. (4.5). leading to corruption. In 2010, the fraud risk assessment involved departments responsible external relations, Company Management land management/compensation and community Our mining operations are supported by a management development. (SO2) team consisting of competent professionals in their respective fields and having work experience of more Besides that, we also routinely conduct Risk Assessment than ten years. (RA) in the divisions of: Mining Operation Division (MOD), Supply Chain Division (SCD), Marketing, Finance, Executive Committee (4.9) Mining Service Division (MSD), Accounting and Tax, and All Company GMs have regular meetings led by CEO Processing and Infrastructure Division (PID). The result fortnightly in the Executive Committee (Exco) meeting of this RA activity are the Risk Register, Risk Map, dan forum. The meeting discusses all aspects related to the Mitigation Plan. mining operational activities including planning, the status at the time, policy and other important matters for Internal Supervision and Control decision making or policy making for the future. Through For evaluation on the effectivity of risk management this meeting forum we also evaluate all Company’s process, the Company’s controlling and management performance in the aspects of economic, environment are conducted by the internal auditing division and social, review the legal compliance, determining which gives assurance service and independent and the risks that must be addressed, and take advantage of objective consultation to provide added value and opportunities that can be achieved. help management in achieving its targets through a systematic and directed approach. The activity of our Besides this meeting, we regularly conduct weekly internal auditor always refers to International Standards meetings to discuss and solve the problems closely for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing issued by related to the production activities and led by COO. This Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), including the fulfillment meeting discusses problems listed in the mining division, of Internal Auditing Code of Ethics which is also issued mining support, coal processing, expansion projects, by IIA. labour matters, and external issues dealing with land acquisition, and also with the government or community institutions. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 25 Relating to the action of corruption, for the year 2010, no (Asosiasi Pengusaha Indonesia, Indonesian Entrepreneur action of corruption which was done by the Company’s Association), and forum Multi Stakeholder Corporate employees was discovered. (SO4) Social Responsible (MSH-CSR). Besides that, the Company is also an active member of Corporate Forum on Conflict of Interest (4.6) Community Development (CFCD), Indonesia Business To avoid conflicts of interest in a transaction which Link (IBL), Forum Reklamasi Lahan Bekas Tambang can cause loss for the Company, we have established a (FRLBT, Ex Mining Land Reclamation Forum ), Indonesian preventive policy for transactions containing conflicts of Mining Association (IMA), PERHAPI (Perhimpunan interest with the following summary: Ahli Pertambangan Indonesia, Indonesian Mining n Every individual of the Company is not allowed to Professionals Association), and Asosiasi Pertambangan utilize important and confidential information for Batubara Indonesia (APBI, Indonesian Coal Mining personal interest or for other parties which can lead Association). (4.13, SO5) to the Company’s loss. n Every individual of the Company who is involved in the decision making for a transaction which potentially Guidelines of the Conduct and Culture contains a conflict of interest is not allowed to take of the Company part in the whole stages of the transaction decision making. Conduct Guidelines n There should not be family ties among members of We support and implement Good Corporate Governance the Board of Commissioners and Board of Directors (GCG) through the implementation of Conduct to avoid transactions containing conflicts of interest. Guidelines as is done by all other subsidiaries of PT. BUMI n The employees who have blood or marriage relations Resources Tbk. The Conduct Guidelines outline the main which can lead to conflicts of interest are not allowed values and conduct norms as the basis for the Company to work in the same department, both as a KPC to run its business. The conduct guidelines are divided employee and as a contractor/consultant. into four ethic fields: ethics related to employees; ethics related to environmental and community relationship; Political Affiliation (SO6) ethics related to customers, suppliers, and competitors; We recognize the right of every employee to channel their and ethics related to stakeholders. All suppliers and political aspirations. However, we firmly forbid the use contractors working with the Company are also obliged of the Company’s assets or giving donations in any form to follow the Conduct Guidelines. (4.6,HR1) to any political party beyond the legal stipulation. We also forbid coercion to other individual of employees to The Conduct Guidelines Committee is responsible for channel their political aspirations to certain political party. the supervision and implementation of the Conduct Guidelines in the circles of PT. Bumi Resources and all its Public Policy subsidiaries. (4.8) The members of the committee are We are still an active participant of UNGC (United Nations representatives of PT.Bumi Resources Tbk., PT.Arutmin Global Compact) in 2010. This shows our involvement in Indonesia and PT.KPC with the term of service of 2 years the global issues. More than that, we still give support and may be reelected for maximum of another period or to MDGs (Millenium Development Goals) by organizing as necessary. social responsibility programs. To become a partner of the government and the community, we participate In 2010, we formed an Auditing Committee through in making public policies through existing public the Decree of Board of Commissioners No. L.136/ organizations as members and/or managers. BOC-COM2.8/VI/10 dated 1st June, 2010. The Auditing Committee is formed not only to maximize the effectivity The organizations in which we are involved are: KONI of the supervisional function of the KPC Board of (Komite Olah Raga Nasional Indonesia, Indonesian Commissioners related to internal control function, risk National Sports Committee), Komite Nasional Pemuda control, and legal compliance, but it is also to improve Indonesia (KNPI, Indonesian National Youth Committee), the effectiveness and communication quality with the Kamar Dagang dan Industri (KADIN, Commerce and internal and external auditors within their duty and Industry Chamber), BUN (Bakrie Untuk Negeri), APINDO responsibility scopes. 26 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 The supervision of the Conduct Guidelines implementation in the socialization are those who were absent during is conducted through Speak Up System, managed by an the socialization due to being sick, business travel, leave, independent third party. The Speak Up System facilitates the absent with permission or other reasons. To facilitate employees and external parties to report violations against the socialization, we posted Speak Up System posters at the Conduct Guidelines in a structured, independent and strategic places so that the employees know the system. confidential way. Every report on the Conduct Guidelines (HR3; SO3) violation involving either employees or senior management will be followed up by investigation based on the lodged Company Culture report. Sanctions against the offender will be determined Beside the Conduct Guidelines, we also have company according to the stipulation of the Company’s regulation. cultures, namely, working with full integrity, prioritizing excellence, acting professionally, prioritizing safety and Through this Speak Up System, the report lodger will also environment as well as adhering to the law and regulations. receive follow-up status of the violation that they report. The Rejection against corruption, collusion, and nepotism and performance of Speak Up System is evaluated and reported avoiding conflict of interests are also among the characters every month to the Internal Auditing Division, Board of which are instilled in the Company’s values. We have never Directors and Board of Commissioners through the BUMI committed any actions which are in nature of being antiAuditing Committee. Since March 2009–April 2010, ther competitive, anti-trust, and monopolistic. We also avoid have been 11 reports lodged through the Speak Up System. giving any donations to political parties as a means of avoiding conflict of interests. (SO7) The socialization of the Conduct Guidelines and Speak Up System was done by the Conduct Guidelines Committee We refer to the GCG mascot, namely, Mr SPIRIT to and each business unit gradually to the operative facilitate easy understanding for the employees about the personnel level. (4.8) We have carried out socialization to Company’s values and ethics. This mascot symbolizes a high 4,450 employees or 89.48 % of the total 4,973 Company’s commitment regarding Semangat, Profesional, Independen, employees. The employees who have not participated Rajin, Integritas and Tanggung Jawab (Enthusiastic, Professional, Independent, Diligent and Responsible). The Speak Up System facilitates the employees and external parties to report violations against the Conduct Guidelines in a structured, independent and confidential way. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 27 28 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 | Management of Human Resources | “We manage our human resources wisely, maintain a transparent and qualified recruitment process to bring in competent prospective human resources, provide directed and integrated training, and offer benefits that are equal to their contribution as well as create a healthy, comfortable and conducive working environment to ensure sustainable development.” 30 Our Human Resources 30 HRCR Forum & HR Network 31 Training and Development 33 Career Opportunities 33 Employee Performance Appraisal 33 Employee Retention Program 34 Employee Benefits 36 Quality Recruitment Process 36 Scholarship Programs for Employee’s Family 36 Commitment to the Enforcement of Human Rights Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 29 Our Human Resources (LA1; LA13) HRCR Forum & HR Network In 2010, the company employes 5,206 employees, We established this forum with our subcontractors in consisting of 5,196 Indonesian employees and 10 foreign 2004. The establishment of this forum was based on the employees. Based on employee status, for Indonesian similarity in issues concerning the coordination of the employees, 4,803 of them have permanent status and company and its contractors involving labor, industrial 393 are on contract, while all the foreign employees relations and community development. The meeting of are on contract. This number is higher compared to the this forum is held every two months to discuss matters year before which was only 4,973 people. The significant agreed upon by members of the meeting. increase in the number of employees is needed to support the work plan and increase in the amount of The HR network forum is not only held with subcontractors production. We do not hire part-time workers. but also with other mining companies known as the Big4, namely KPC, FMI, INCO and NNT to accommodate all The distribution of employees according to work location, matters around labor. level of education, employment status and gender is as follows. Employee Distribution Based on Sex and Age Group Employee Distibution Based on Work Location Total 4849 Lokasi Ekspatriat Indonesia Total 357 Sangatta 10 5.129 Samarinda 4 Balikpapan 6 Jakarta 26 93.14% 6.86% Bengalon 31 Age Group Total 10 5.196 < 20 22 0.42% Source: HR Division 20 30 1669 32.06% 31 40 1848 35.50% Employee Distribution Based on Level of Position 41 50 1356 26.05% Level of Position Indonesia Ekspatriat Total 51 55 287 5.51% Director 1 1 2 > 50 24 0.46% CEO/CFO/COO 2 1 3 Source: HR Division General Manager 12 3 15 Manager/Advisor 54 2 56 Employee Distibution Based on Place fo Admittance Superintendent/Advisor 149 3 152 Place of Admittance Ekspatriat Indonesia Supervisor/Specialist 844 844 Sangatta 0 3883 Leading Hand/Officer 434 434 Samarinda 0 247 Operator/ Mechanic 3.102 3.102 Balikpapan 0 391 Assistant 598 598 Jakarta 0 541 TOTAL: 5.196 10 5.206 Luar Negeri 10 0 Source: HR Division Lain-lain 0 134 Source: HR Division 30 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Fostering Industrial Relations (4.4) to socialize the company policy or rule. Particularly for We build industrial relations based on existing labor points of change in the Work Partnership Agreement, the regulations. Besides being bound individually through company will socialize them to all employees. individual work agreement, the company and its employees also bind themselves to a Work Partnership Labor Union (LA4; HR5) Agreement (PKB) which is an agreement between the According to the constitution, we recognize the existence representatives of the employer and representatives of of the Labor Union (SP/SB) including their involvement the employees through the existing Labor Union. in discussing the Work Partnership Agreement equally as stated in existing regulations. We have also founded The Work Partnership Agreement in effect at the the Bipartite Cooperation Council (LKS Lembaga Kerja moment is PKB period 2009–2011 which was signed by Sama Bipartit) since 31 January 2005 with organizers representatives from management and the organizer of and members consisting of representatives from the labor union and authorized by the Directorate General the management and the Labor Union (SP/SB), each of Industrial Relations and Workers Social Security of the providing 10 representatives. Department of Manpower and Transmigration on 22 May 2009 in Jakarta. The Work Partnership Agreement (PKB) Right now, we are fostering 6 (six) labor unions, namely: period July 2009 – June 2011 became a legal umbrella Korps Pegawai Pertambangan Batubara (KORPPRA), that contains employees’ rights and responsibilities Serikat Pekerja Kimia Energi dan Pertambangan (SPaccording to their work status. Several points of change KEP), Federasi Pertambangan dan Energi Serikat Buruh were also registered in the new PKB, such as: meal Sejahtera Indonesia (FPE-SBSI), Persaudaraan Pekerja allowance, housing allowance, gratuities, death benefits Muslim Indonesia (PPMI), Serikat Pekerja Keadilan (SPK), and several adjustments regarding labor regulation. The dan Serikat Pekerja Mining Support Division (SP-MSD) rights and responsibilities of all company employees, with the following list of membership: including the managerial level, are provided for in the Work Partnership Agreement. List of Labor Union and Number of Members The PKB period 2009–2011 team consists of 22 members, Labor Union Number of Members (People) comprising of 9 representatives of management and 13 KORPPRA 1,348 representatives from SP/SB. Other matters that have not SP-KEP 1,199 been elaborated in detail in the PKB is explicitly explained SBSI 859 in the Human Resource Policy (KSDM), the Staff Handbook, PPMI 264 the Code of Ethics, the Corporate Governance, and other operational procedures. SPK 660 SP-MSD 136 Procedures and notifications related to the company’s Non Union 740 operational changes are also provided for in article 13.2 TOTAL EMPLOYEE 5,206 PKB where it is mentioned that every plan to change Source: HR Division matters significantly related to operations will be preceded with a notice to all employees at least 7 (seven) From that table, it is shown that the number of employees days before. Concerning employee lay-offs, the company who have joined in labor unions is 4,466 people or 85% from formulated a discussion and agreement regarding a 3 the total number of overall employees, while 775 (15%) month compensation (PKB Pasal 75) (LA5) employees are not in any of the unions. Through the labor union, employees can articulate their opinion, give their Program Socialization suggestions on improvements for provisions or programs All forms of policy or program change is communicated to the company management either written or orally. The to employees accordingly. Regular communication is also labor union will gather these opinions and then deliver done to top level staff, administration and the whole staff them to the management through a special meeting. (4.4) Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 31 Employee Consultation Service realize that to be worldclass players, we need human We provide consultation for employees at any time either resources who are competent, tough, professional and by the supervisor in each workplace or by the HR staff have high ethical standards in performing every activity. to any employee who feels that they need such service. We provide training and development in order to Regularly, the supervisor of each workplace also provides coaching and counseling to his/her subordinates as Employee Turnover Based on needed. Consultation material is not only limited to work Place of Admittance related issues but sometimes it can be about employee’s Jakarta 45 0,86% personal problems. Surabaya 2 0,04% Makassar 2 0,04% EmployeeTurnover Rate (LA2; LA5) Balikpapan 12 0,23% The total number of employees that quit or were laidSamarinda 7 0,13% off from the company throughout 2010 was 127 people Bontang 0 0% because of various reasons such as reaching the age Sangatta 59 1.13% of retirement, resignation, severe infringement, health Total 127 2,44% reason and other reasons. For employees who submitted Sumber: HR Division their resignation, based on UU 13 on employment and existing PKB, the letter of resignation should be handed Employee Turnover Based on Age in to their supervisor at least 1 month before. Most of the 18-24 13 0,25% employees who resigned do so because they got better 25-30 31 0,60% benefits and positions in their new workplace, besides 31-35 10 0,19% other reasons such as school or family matters. Detailed 36-40 8 0,15% data on employee turnover for 2010 are as follows: 41-45 13 0,25% 46-50 5 0,10% 51-55 38 0,73% Up to 56 9 0,17% Employee Turnover Based on Sex Total 127 2,44% 2,19% Sumber: HR Division 0,25% enhance and refresh employees’ knowledge and skill. During 2010, we administered various training programs 13 for employees amounting to 411,666 training hours. 114 To develop the ability of fresh graduates, we carry out a Graduate Development Program/GDP. Participants of this program receive various managerial and technical Total 127 training and undergo a rotation in various areas relevant to their expertise. The period for each employee rotation 2,44% program is presented in the following table. Sumber: HR Division Beside personal development, we also provide education, training, counseling, preventive action and follow-up Training and Development action related to occupational health and safety as the As a form of the company’s fulfillment on social company’s preventive effort to protect employees from responsibility to its employees, we are committed to work accidents. (LA8) continue developing our human resources to be able to compete and survive in the world of business that changes so fast, especially in the mining industry. We 32 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Company Employee Training Year 2010 (LA10) Training Category 1st Quarter 2st Quarter 3st Quarter 4st Quarter Total Hours General 8.984 2.217 410 918 12.529 Management 18.156 9.802 22.602 5.692 56.252 HSE 32.829 31.504 46.288 40.705 151.326 Operation 40.591 25.684 20.227 15.100 101.601 Maintenance 27.685 17.954 16.325 21.915 83.879 Engineering 2.408 1.960 791 920 6.079 Total Training Hours 130.653 89.121 106.643 85.250 411.666 Average Training Hour per Employee 79 Sumber: HR Division Retirement Preparation Period Training (LA11) knowledge. Employees who possess the qualification We administered a training program for employees, and suitable for a certain job may apply and follow a series of their spouses, who are in their Retirement Preparation tests through an internal selection. Job vacancies are open Period (MPP) so that they can prepare themselves and announced through the company’s internal media as physically and mentally to face their retirement and to well as through external media such as newspapers. provide them with psychological consultation as well as the skills and knowledge on managing health and Employee Performance Appraisal (LA12) nutrition, maintaining a harmonious family relationship, All company employees receive their performance and managing their finances. This training is also aimed appraisal every year. This employee performance to provide practical knowledge on entrepreneurship appraisal is done at the end of each trimester for nonfollowed with a one-day visit to observe, share insights staff employees and annually for staff employees. The and experience with the company’s retired employees result of this performance appraisal is used as a basis for who have started or have been successful in building determining the company policy and decision regarding their own business as entrepreneurs. the management of human resources, such as: n Training and development (managerial and Career Opportunities technical) We give equal opportunities to every employee to have a n Career planning career in line with their field of expertise, qualification and n Remuneration and other policies concerning employees. Rotation Area of Mining Engineering Fresh Graduates Rotation Area of Mining Estimated Employee Retention Program Mining Engineering Fresh Graduate Duration To appreciate employee contribution and performance Pit Technical 9 months in order to motivate good employees to keep giving their Long Term Planning 6 months best in contributing, we implemented several of these Drilling and Blasting 6 months initiatives: Rehabilitation Project 3 months n Development of functional career through Dual Career Ladder program. Dispatch/Reporting 4 months Coal Technical 4 months Contract Mining 4 months Sumber: HR Division Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 33 n Providing various training that support employees to apply work safety procedures either for themselves, to work effectively such as Fundamental Leadership, their colleagues and their work environment. This benefit Disciplinary Action Training, Reliable Operator & is given for achievement of safe work hours without Mechanical Training and HR for Non-HR Professionals. incidents that causes loss of work hours. Giving out the n Developing a competency system that enables safety voucher to qualified employees or contractor the implementation of competency-based human workers is supervised directly by Company supervisors resources in KPC. with the same amount of bonus points. n Providing a soft loan program for the ownership of vehicles for employees at certain levels. We determine employee remuneration based on their n Providing a soft loan program for the ownership of performance, the company performance, and a waging residence outside the company’s operational area. survey through “salary survey” with similar companies that is conducted every year, either with the help from Employee Benefits (4.5; EC3; LA3) consultants or by comparing directly with mining We have increased the employee benefit expenses in company in the same class (benchmarking). The better 2010 to USD 126.7 million from USD 90.07 million in 2009. the company performance, the higher the remuneration Those funds are allocated for paying employee salary, that employees will receive, based on the performance bonus, work leave, meal allowance, religious holiday and the level of responsibility. allowance (THR), medication, accommodation, housing, rotated work allowance, pension plan, retirement plan, The minimum wage for East Kutai District Sector (UMSK) and other fringe benefits for employees. in 2010 for the mining sector was Rp. 1,480,000.(one million four hundred and eighty thousand Rupiah), We always calculate employee compensation based while the minimum wage that we give our employee on their competence and performance. The higher the is Rp. 1,752,000.(one million seven hundred and fiftycompetence and performance of employees, the higher two thousand Rupiah) or 18% higher than the UMSK. the amount of compensation that they will receive. Compared to the district minimum wage which is Besides that, one of the benefits that demand employee Rp. 1,080,000.(one million and eighty thousand involvement and is the interest of all parties in the Rupiahs), it means we are giving salary that is 62% company is the “Safety Voucher”. This benefit works as higher. Meanwhile, if we compare our salary with the an incentive, a reminder and a driver for all employees minimum wage of East Kalimantan Province which is Company gives equal opportunities to every employee to have a career in line with their field of expertise, qualification and knowledge. 34 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 All employees have the same rights without differentiating their gender in terms of occupying a certain position in the company. Rp. 1,002,000.(one million and two thousand Rupiahs), Rp. 75,000.(PKB, article 41) in cash. Other than that, the then it means we have been giving our employees salary company also gives a religious holiday allowance (THRK) that is 75% higher. That amount of minimum wage has as much as 150% from the basic wage plus a sum of Rp. increased 8.9% compared to the year before which is 1,500,000.(one million five hundred thousand Rupiahs) Rp. 1,637,000.(one million six hundred and thirty seven which is paid at least 15 (fifteen) days before Idul Fitri thousand Rupiahs). (EC5) holiday. For employees that have reached the retirement age, Leave Fares is given to permanent employees and we will give a retirement benefit as provided in the their rightful dependent, while employees with a company’s retirement plan regulation, each in the form contract status will only be given Leave Fares for of regular dues for employees who were hired before themselves. Funeral support is given in the amount of 1 July 2005 of which is managed by KPC Retirement Rp. 4,000,000.(four million Rupiahs) if an employee Funds while for employees who were hired after 1 July or his/her dependent dies. For safety, effectivity and 2005, their benefit is managed by a third party which is a efficiency of time and fuel, we also provide buses to insurance company. (EC3) pick up and take employees to and from work, even for employees’ children, the company provides transport Besides, a pension plan, employees who have reached to take them to and from the company school. (EN7; normal retirement age will also be given a gratuity, travel EN29) cost to return to their place of hire or a maximum of a travel fare to Jakarta by ship along with their spouse, and Considering the limitation in the capacity of the school severance money the amount of 2 times of basic wage managed by the company, some employees’ children for those with a work period of less than 5 years, 3 times have to go to the public schools around the location of of basic wage for those with work period between 5 to the company’s operations. As a form of the company’s 10 years, and 4 times of basic wage for those with work concern regarding that matter, the company provides period over 10 years. educational support for employees’ children who are going to schools outside the company school. Details Another that employees can have is a 16-day annual on the amount of support is shown in the following leave. The company also gives an Annual Leave Premium table: as much as 225% from the basic wage plus a sum of Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 35 Education Assistance for Employee Children Scholarship Programs for Employee’s Family Level of Education Aid per Year This scholarship program for employees’ children has been administered since 2003, particularly given to Elemantary School Rp. 1.000.000,employees’ children who are already in higher education. This program is routinely opened every year. Students Junior High School Rp. 1.250.000,who are qualified and have passed the selection will Senior High School Rp. 1.500.000,receive a scholarship of Rp. 6,000,000./ semester for a maximum of 8 semesters. Eniversity Rp. 3.250.000,Up to this moment, we have given scholarships to 102 Quality Recruitment Process employees’ children. At the beginning of the program, We go through various ways in looking for and selecting this scholarship was given to 11 students per year, but high competence prospective employees. The method since 2009 we have increased the number to 19 students we usually apply is by posting advertisements in the per year. Scholarships are given to employees’ children media, working together with universities’ career centers, studying in the country and overseas. and using the service of head hunters. Other methods that we have applied to attract potential We created this program to motivate employees’ children people are: to be achievers besides being a form of our appreciation n Provide the opportunity for practical work (KP) and for the performance and contribution given by our final assignments (TA) to students from relevant employees. majors as the company business. n Give scholarships to students from majors related Commitment to the Enforcement of Human Rights to the company business who are achievers, to We constantly uphold human rights in every aspectof complete their education. the Company’s operations. According to the 1945 n Working together with several well-known Constitution, Article 28, we give the freedom of assembly universities to detect prospective best graduates. and association to all employees to form some labor Griya Prima Lestari, one of housings provided by company for its employees. 36 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Prima School, one of school provided by company for employees’ children. unions within the company as a means to communicate selection process on quality, competence and experience and articulate their opinion. of candidates so that female employees receive the same benefits as the male employees. Consequently, All employees have the same rights without differentiating until the end of 2010 there were no incidents caused by their gender in terms of safety, health and the environment, discriminative actions in the company. Differences in the career opportunity, training and development, rotation basic salary is merely present due to the difference in their and change, occupying a certain position in the company, period of employment and calculation of performance as well as benefits from the company. between the male and female employees. (LA14) Contractors and suppliers who are involved in a Child Labor (HR6) partnership with the Company are obliged to conform In recruiting employees, we consistently hold on to to the regulations on employment and safety standards, existing employment regulations, including the one health and the surroundings in the company. This is regarding the minimum age of future employees. In stated in every clause in the Work Partnership Agreement running our business, we have never employed workers contract between the contractor or supplier with the under the age of 18 years. Company regulations stress company so that the rights of employees from those that the minimum age for a candidate that can be partner companies are also protected. accepted as employee is 18 years old. Discrimination Acts (HR4) Forced Labor (HR7) As a world-class mining company operator, we do not Since the start of our operations, we have never forced discriminate employees according to their religion, work on any employee. The work roster that we go ethnic group, race or sex. We base our employee by always refers to existing employment regulations Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 37 and is agreed upon between the management and by the regional police that teaches points on human representative from the employees, including when rights in its curriculum. (HR3) As many as 422 people we employ workers outside their normal working hour or 99 % from the 428 members of the security unit in (overtime). It goes as well with the assignment of task to Marga Sukses Sejahtera, Nawakara Perkasa Nusantara workers we put health and safety forward. Employees and Global Arrow has joined the basic security education have the right to reject orders from their supervisors (DIKSAR). This number has increased compared to the if it violates a certain procedure or endangers their one last year which was 98%. (HR8) safety. Respect for Indigenous People’s Rights (HR9) Security Practices We always respect the rights of indigenous people so Starting in April 2010, the company’s security area during the reporting period, there were no incidents was divided into 3 areas by appointing 3 independent or violence from the Company towards people around security service bodies or BUJP (Badan Usaha Jasa the Company’s mining operation. We foster a good Pengamanan) as security providers. All members of the relationship through various community programs company’s security unit are required to enroll in a basic oriented to bring prosperity for people around the security unit education (DIKSAR Satpam) administered mine. Company gives support for cultural events held by indigenous people, such as this Lomplai ceremony. 38 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 | Our Commitment on Occupational Health and Safety [ K3 ] | (LA8) “We implement accredited international standards on occupational health and safety, perform assessment on its implementation periodically, maintain the health of workers, equip workers with good procedures and equipment followed up with regular training to create an environment that is healthy and free from work accidents.” 40 OHS Coordinator 40 Health, Safety, and Environmental Management System 41 HSE Forum 41 Work Incidents 43 OHS Training 44 Occupational Health Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 39 We are committed to always maintain the health and safety of our employees. For that reason, we impose various rules to achieve that goal. We identify 11 types of work that possess fatal risk, as well as review standards, work implementation directions, audit criteria and work training based on OHSAS 18001. Then we implement the standard rule on occupational safety known as the “Golden Rules” since the last few years. OHS Coordinator C-A) effectively and efficiently . This system is reviewed To ensure the implementation of OHS rules, a number of and renewed periodically along with the company’s employees are in charge of handling matters regarding activities. the occupational health and safety of employees daily. There are 515 employees (OHS coordinators and OHS We use various standards in the accredited system officials) or 2.4% from the total of 21,683 company of ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 in the HSEMS. Besides and contractor employees who are involved in this referring to those two standards, the implementation task. Beside that, there are 118 company employees and monitor of the HSEMS program is done through who act as occupational safety and health supervisors auditing and inspecting in order to achieve continuous scattered in every operational divison and department. improvement. OHS handling is also part of the responsibility of the line management staff. (LA6) HSE Forum Various aspects of occupational health and safety Health, Safety and Environmental Management are discussed routinely in various meetings both in System / HSEMS the company and in the contractor. Meetings with We develop a HSEMS System as a guide in managing all employees are generally held weekly with the guide issues related to the management of health, work safety from each supervisor, especially in the divisional and and the environment. This system is a step up from operational departmental level. Safety coordinators in the Prima Nirbhaya Occupational Health and Safety all divisions or departments work actively in preparing Management System by combining Environment the topic, subject or messages, procedures and Management System into it. This system is built by regulations on occupational health and safety in those applying the principles of planning, implementing, forums. checking and review (Plan-Do-Check-Action / P-D40 KPC n Sustainability Report2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Health and occupational aspects are also discussed in 0.45. This number showed a decrease compared to the various routine meeting forums of the supervisors and frequency rate in 2009 which was 0.56, the decreasing heads. Operational divisions such as Mining Operations, trend of LTIFR, is shown in the following graph. Mining Support and Processing & Infrastructure also hold monthly meetings that involve department During the reporting year, from the 19 incidents that managers, contractors and safety coordinators. At the resulted in loss of time (LTI), 4 of them happened to company level, periodic safcon (safety coordinator) company employees while 15 of them happened to meetings are held by involving KPC General Managers, contractor employees. The cause of those accidents Managers and OHS Practitioners as well as Contractor vary, where 26% (5 from 19 incidents) are related to Managers and OHS Practitioners. shortcuts and/or violation of safety procedures / regulations. Meanwhile, the frequency rate of incidents Work Incidents (LA7) that resulted to injuries that did not cause LTI was 2.4 The performance of occupational health and safety per 1,000,000 work hours. throughout 2010 is tainted by a fatal accident that occurred on 22 July 2010, that happened to a supervisor During 2010, the company has done 85 times from one of KPC’s contractors. we have taken various measurement of compliance rates on the Fatality anticipative steps to prevent the recurrence of that Prevention Element requirement, conducted by the fatal incident. Audit Division on Company Occupational Safety, which was the same as the number of measurements With that incident, during the reporting period, the done in 2009. Mining Operations Division recorded the frequency of fatalities that caused the loss in work hour (LTIFR) Besides that, a considerable increase also happened was 0.21 for 1 million work hours, this rate is below the to the Prinasa (Behavioral Observation Program) targeted number of 0.45 LTIFR per 1 one million work conducted by the management and OHS practitioners. hours. The Prinasa recorded during 2010 was 13.4% From the 21,919 Prinasa in 2009, there was an increase above the target, and 82.4% of the Prinasa focused on to 28,257 in 2010, which is 10.9% above the target Fatality Prevention Element, which is believed to have for 2010 which is 25,191. The focus of Prinasa that is contributed highly in reducing the rate of accidents related to the fatality prevention element, in 2010 was that cause severe injury or fatality. 22,516 or 80% from the total Prinasa conducted. At the company level, the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) was 0.32 (2010) per 1,000,000 work hours or 29% below the maximum limit set for 2010 which is Graph of Fatality Recurrence Level (LTIFR) (LA7) Data Source: Occupational Health and Safety Department Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 41 Chief Mine Technical Officer, GM HSES, and OHS Manager give persentation in Safcon Meeting.W OHS Training Preparedness & Response. Besides that, we have processed Serious occupational fatalities or those resulting to loss of the procurement of 2 units of ICAO standard (International time has urged the company to continue administering Civil Aviation Organization) fire trucks, of which one unit various training programs related to the management will be received in mid-May 2011, and the other in August of occupational health and safety. This is done to help 2011. employees and their families in preventing the occurrence of fatalities. The types of training that we administered The number of HSE training participants during 2010 are: HSE Induction, Job Safety Analysis, Human reached 61,680 employees (65.6% from the total number Element (Fatigue Management for Employees), Fatigue of participants in all training programs), with the number Management for Spouses, Change Management, Accident of training hours of 151,427 (36.8 % from the total hours of Investigation (Basic and Advanced), Safety Risk Assessment, all training). The comparison of the number of HSE training Safety Inspection, CPR (Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation), from 2000 to 2010 with all types of training that we have First Aid, Conducting Safety Talks, Awareness for Working given is shown in the following graph. During that time at Heights, Working Near Water, Electrical Safety and period it is shown that the company’s commitment on Confined Space, Escort Training, Working at Height for OHS training for its employees is very high. (LA8) Workers, Fire Extinguisher, Fire Warden, Prinasa, Prinutama, Socialization on HIV/AIDS Handling in the work place and In order to gain the support from all KPC employees for all Towards Health Program. OHS programs, various important matter related to OHS is stated in the Prima Perkasa Work Partnership Agreement Besides training, we also made various efforts in between the management of the company and the labor campaigning health and safety such as: giving out daily union. (LA9) safety messages through Radio GWP 100.2 FM, Safe and Healthy Residents Bulletin, Safety Alert, OHS Banners, Occupational Health competitions (painting, writing and photography), To prevent the rise of certain diseases caused by the work seminars in commemorating the National OHS Month environment and employees’ lifestyle, we have organized 2010 and many more. several programs, such as: monitoring of potential health hazards in the work place such as noise, ash level, lighting, Starting in 2010 until June 2011, the Emergency ventilation, heatstroke, poisonous gas level, vibration in Preparedness & Response Section has worked with heavy equipment and being healthy program. Beside BASARNAS (national search and rescue organisation) that, we provide counseling and training on fatigue to give training to 42 personnel of KPC’s Emergency management for spouses of shift workers. (LA8) 42 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 In the reporting year, through the Department of Rights and Responsibilities Occupational Health and Safety, we provide counseling The company and its employees are obliged to and training on hearing care program particularly for comply to existing laws and government regulations company and contractor employees working in noisy on occupational health and safety. Before signing a areas. KPC also gives counseling on the revention and employment contract, the company will ask employee treatment of HIV/AIDS in the workplace. Food Hygiene candidates to go through a pre-work medical checkinspection in the company cafeteria and the school up in the company’s health facility or an appointed cafeteria is also done to control food quality. hospital. The company also administers periodical health examination based on government regulations We also held 4 Safcon Meetings that involved the and the standard for each type of work. Employees General Managers, Managers and HSE practitioners have to go through medical check-up regularly. both from the company and the contractors. Some of the points discussed in this meeting are information The whole management line is obliged to disseminate on HSE, the development of HSE and many others. The the Regulations and Procedures regarding Safcon Meeting is held to ensure that the management Occupational Health and Safety (K3, standard rules and and HSE practitioners from the company and its partner procedures. Violation on OHS rules is a serious violation contractors receive important information on HSE. on the company’s rules hence will be charged with disciplinary action according to the details stated in The company participates in dealing with victims of the existing Golden Rules and the Disciplinary Action the natural disaster that hit Indonesia in 2010. We sent Guidelines. a Rescue Team to Mentawai on 29 October 2010 and to Yogyakarta on 5 November 2010. Health Services The company provides a health facility in the form of Employee Occupational Health and Safety a clinic for employees and their families around the We always prioritize health and safety aspects for all company’s operations. Besides that, we also created a employees in running mining operations. Besides having it partnership with providers of medical services that have governed particularly in the company’s safety regulations, a good reputation in Sangatta, Bontang, Samarinda, the matters related to health and safety are also stated Balikpapan and Jakarta. We do not discriminate clearly in the Work Partnership Agreement which is an employee status in terms of health benefits. agreement between the management and employee representatives. Those matters are elaborated as follows. Number of all Training Participants Number of all Training Hours 2006-2010 (000 participants) 2006-2010 (000 hours) Number of HSE Training Participants Number of HSE Training Hours 2006-2010 (000 participants) 94,3 2006-2010 (000 hours) 461 412 77,9 71,7 327 295 248 58,5 56,9 61,8 151 41,3 41,1 114 115 33,6 102 104 30,7 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Data Source: Occupational Health, and Safety Department Data source: Occupational Health and Safety Department Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 43 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) Illness in the Workplace Tight implementation of occupational health and Employees who get sick in the the workplace are safety rules will be meaningless if it is not followed by directly taken to the company clinic which is close to providing appropriate personal protection equipment the company’s operational location and is managed (PPE). To give protection for employees in doing their professionally. Employees who need more intensive job, we provide protective equipment according to care from special doctors will be sent to a place where OHS standards. All employees must use and take good such help is available. Employees who cannot return to care of the safety equipment that we have provided. work in their previous positions due to their illness will This safety equipment must be used by employees and be placed in a position/work that does not go against must not be abused or transferred to unrightful people. the limitations that the doctor has set. Regulations An employee has the right to object doing work that on sick leave or extensive sick leave go into effect for does not meet the company’s occupational health and employees who cannot return to work due to their safety requirements, including if the required PPE tools illness. are not available. The company can decide to lay-off employees because Handling of Workplace Accidents of health reasons after a doctor has decided that the All employees must report every workplace accident particular employee can no longer return to work. Laythat they experience to their supervisor, likewise, the off caused by health reasons is still subject to rules, supervisors are also obliged to and responsible for particularly ones regarding the rights that employee is reporting every workplace accident that has occurred entitled to. in their area of responsibility. Safety officials, including the company doctor, must assist in collecting the necessary data so that officials from the benefits section can make a report to the employment office, PT. JAMSOSTEK, and Group Life Insurance in less than 48 hours. Company sent rescue team to give assistants for Mount Merapi eruption’s victims in Jogjakarta. 44 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 | Our Contribution to the National Economy | “We realize investments measured and planned in order to increase production volume, maintain product quality and customer satisfaction to guarantee an incerase in marketing and give positive contributions to the country, community around the mine area as well as other stakeholders.” 48 Contribution to the Country 48 Contribution to the Economy around the Mine Area 49 Relationship with the Suppliers and Contractors 51 Product and Service Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 45 To support the company’s operational activities, we have invested USD 56.1 million in 2010. Those funds are used to develop the infrastructure of mine areas as well as other supporting facilities, purchase heavy equipment and many more. Through that investment effort, improvement in the mining pattern and operational efficiency, we have been able to increase the company’s economic performance as seen in the following table. Contribution to the Country (EC9) Contribution on the Economy Around the Mine As seen in the previous table, our role in ecconomic Area (EC9) development in Indonesia is not limited to our CSR The role of our mining company on East Kutai economy activities. In 2010, we have paid the company’s coal is still very prominent. Based on East Kutai BPS data for royalty amounting to USD 376.25 million, while the tax 2010, the contribution of mining sector to Regional reached USD 271.39 million. This considerable amount Gross Domestic Product (PDRB) reached 85.83 %. is made possible by the governments’ participation Besides that, with the addition of employees, the in providing exceptional service for the company’s economy around the mining area has indirectly operation, including the exemption to pay export tax received positive contributions. Referring to the result commencing on 13 September 2006 for us and other of CSSR study in 2007, every Rp. 1 million of employee companies joined in the first generation of PKP2B. wage and salary from the company, the income in East Kutai will be created up to Rp 2.42 million Rupiahs. Although the contribution and the royalty increased every This fact is also supported by a survey conducted by year as shown in the following graph, we have never University of 17 August 1945 (UNTAG) in 2008 which received direct financial assistance from the government, concluded that the average income of respondents both the regional government and the central government, living around mining areas reach Rp. 2,880,603 / in running our mining activities. (EC4) month. Table of Economic Value Distribution Summary (USD million) (EC1) Economic Performance 2010 Economic Value Generated (USD million) Revenue 3,009,398 Operating Costs Costs of Sales 1,940.22 Operating Expenses 403,29 Other Expenses 33.08 46 KPC n SSustainability Report Sustainability Report 2010 2010 We also give indirect contribution to the economy of been supported by local, national even foreign East Kutai by increasing the purchase of local products contractors and suppliers. The funds that we have and services in East Kutai, in East Kalimantan even spent on purchasing goods during 2010 was USD on the national scale. The development of goods 926,037,610.06, while for the use of services we have and services purchases in 2010 is presented in the spent USD 259,082,020.23. That amount is based following graph. on the value of award/external commitment not based on the invoices paid in 2010. The amount of procurement in 2010 has included the value of Relationship with Suppliers and Contractors procurement calculated with the Vendor Held Stock During the reporting period, our operations have system. Production, Sales, and Coal Royalty per Year 376 349 310 229 190 147 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Data Source: Data from KPC Business Analyst Purchase of Goods and Services Years 2009 and 2010 Local East Kutai 3% Local East Kalimantan 8% Local East Kutai 3% Imported Imported 22% 39% 2009 2010 National 54% National Local East Kalimantan 67% 4% Lokal Kutim Local East Kalimantan National Imported Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 47 We are very responsible for the contractors and competent contractors based on the set specifications, monitor them to see to it that they work effectively affordable and free from incidents, and meet the to reduce commecial, technical and OHS risk. We company requirements in terms of HSE, technical and have created a Contract and Contractor Management commercial aspects. System which we abbreviate as CMS (Contract and Contractor Management System) to be one of the All company contractors, including the investment in ways to reduce those risks. The goal of this system is building Overland Conveyor 2 (OLC 2) and power plant, to ensure that all work being contracted is done by must meet the requirements stated in the CMS. Several Number of Suppliers of Goods and Services per Region Year 2009 and 2010 388 330 238 252 230 214 155 133 Local East Kutim Local East Kalimantan National Foreign 2009 2010 Composition of Supplier In the Procurement of Goods Year 2009 and 2010 Amount in USD Increase Region 2009 2010 Local Eastl Kutim 6,679,335.34 7,588,650.01 14% Local East Kalimantan 16,693,462.66 38,278,638.50 129% Domestic National 428,230,798.34 636,686,056.30 49% Sub Total 451,605,605.34 682,555,354.81 51% Foreign 358,616,442.43 243,482,255.25 -32% Total 810,222,047.77 926,037,610.06 Composition of Supplier In the Procurement of Services Year 2009 and 2010 Region Amount in USD Increase 2009 2010 Local Eastl Kutim 23,339,944.42 33,534,270.53 44% Local East Kalimantan 22,510,508.22 50,615,120.15 125% Domestic National 76,516,538.13 157,998,629.56 106% Sub Total 122,368,999.77 242,150,030.23 98% Foreign 11,649,047.21 16,934,467.75 45% Total 134,018,046.98 259,082,020.23 Source: Data from KPC Supply Department 48 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 requirements related to human rights aspects are also We are committed to continue to develop, improve stated, including the requirement to draw-up a work and empower the local economy and increase the agreement for every contractor, enlisting contractor participation of communities around the mine to take employees in the membership of Jamsostek, stating part in supplying reliable demand of goods and services. the minimum wage for employees along with the This initiative is realized through the establishment of salary component, and several other requirements. In the Local Business Development (LBD) subsection in the future, we will stress more on human rights aspect the Department of Supply in 2007. Besides that, we in selecting contractors. (HR1) continue to make the effort to continue the purchase migration program from overseas to domestic supplier Besides that, we are also committed to uphold and from the national scope to local scope of East the principle of mutual trust with the suppliers. All Kalimantan even East Kutai. This migration opportunity contractors and suppliers sign a code of ethics and is continued to be attempted in order to help increase general contract requirement including the clause the national and local economy. Those attempts are a on human rights. The signing must be done by the form of our effort in developing the economy which highest leader of the organization and they must can lead to prosperity. (EC6) comply to everything that has been put down in the document. We apply safety standards and not employ We invite suppliers/contractors in the procurement underage children as governed by existing law in of goods and services to maintain credibility, fairness, creating a partnership with the suppliers and business and trust from suppliers of goods and services, based partners. (HR2) on the SOP (Standard Operation Procedures) of the Department of Supply. However, for dire emergency, To get information and feedback from suppliers, we end users can appoint a supplier/contractor directly hold a Supplier Communication Meeting. This meeting by completing a waive to tender document with the is intended to inform recent company development, knowledge of the division head and the approval including long-term and short-term plans of activity. from the Chief Executive Officer so long as the value We conduct supplier visit to discuss the service level, is under USD 500,000.00. A contract value of over performance, and supply chain. During the supplier USD 500,000.00 must be approved by the President visit ini, we also gather complaints and input for further Director. improvement. Besides that, we have also planned an HR audit that Product and Service (PR2, PR3) will be commenced in 2011. The HR audit is performed on company contactors due to CMS to see the Responsibility for the Product implementation of human rights aspect such as the As part of the company’s commitment in producing fulfillment of UMSK, Jamsostek, work hours, leave, and a safe product, monitoring product quality is a very other matters regulated by the law. important component in the planning, executing, monitoring and controlling the process of mining, coal For service contractors under the supervision of CMS supplying and transporting. (Contract and Contractor Management System), we have applied CPE (Contract Performance Evaluation) We apply accreditted health and safety standards so routinely as a form of contractor performance that overall production, loading even the transporting evaluation based on KPI (Key Performance Indicator). process by means of heavy equipment or the conveyor belt does not result in health disorders for field workers In 2010, SCD made an advance by conducting a oneor surrounding communities. To minimalize the impact on-one meeting to see how far the code of ethics was of ashes during the process of loading, unloading or implemented at the contractor level. This meeting is transporting, we regularly spray water to areas that held between the Supply Manager and the head of the need it. contractor involved. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 49 The Quality Control Team monitors that process for 24 hours to guarantee the quality of the product, Diagram of the Company Coal Quality including to see to it that the whole production Examination: process is performed according to occupational health l Bore Core Quality Data Geological Model l In Situ Quality & Quantity and safety standards. The result of monitoring and assessment is used as an evaluation consideration to l Mine Plant improve the performance of the production process. Pit Designs l Quality & Design Cut Offs for (PR1) Saleable Coal l As Mined Quality & Quantity During the reporting year, there were no complaints Rom Model l Production Schedules from customers regarding the negative impact of using our product. This indicates the satisfaction l Selective Mining Practices Mining l Clean Coal Production of our customer. Besides that, the increase in the intensity of customers who continue to extend l Crushed Coal Quality & Quantity their purchase contract shows that our product Product Caol l Sampled & Tested on Hourly Basis l Quality Control feedback to is safe for use. This form of customer trust is the Mining Operations fruit of our continuous effort in maintaining the Stockpile Management Pactices Stockpiling +Blend l l Blend to meet Contractual OHSAS 18001 certification: 2007 in occupational Specifications health and safety and ISO 14001: 2004 in the l Property Blended Product Coal environmental field. Because our product is coal, l Independent Inspection Company Loading to Vessel l Sampling & Testing we do not have special packaging for our product. l Draught Survey (PR5, EN27) l Certificates of Analysis & Weight Quality Control The Management of Coal Quality is part of our overall even a capsize coal ship loader, lower shipping operations. Some of the targets that we have set for cost compared to other coal producers, and implementing coal quality management include: Indonesia’s strategic location help to ensure n Optimization of production and order schedule customer satisfaction. Quality assurance and n Optimization of resources, and abundant resources allows us to have different n Ensuring that all shipments to customers are customer portfolios for long-term contracts. according to the specification. Therefore, we are acclaimed to be one of the reliable coal suppliers with a competitive price. Because our product is coal, we do not have special We pay attention to after-sales service through: labeling on our product. However, consumers receive n Organizing coal quality and quantity management information about the product as they requested. n Technical support that support customers. Our During the reporting year, there were no violations Coal Technology Department provides technical in providing product information. This is possible assistance for our final customers in dealing with because our marketing sends sample products to and burning coal as well as actively communicate our buyers and independent parties as required in with consumers to ensure the quality of our coal. the sales contract. We also send samples to globally (MM11) reputable surveyors to ensure the reliability and accuracy of the examination results of product quality. (PR4) Customer Satisfaction Most of our customers are power plants. We possess products and quality that is suitable with all designs of electrical power plants around the world. Nearby is an international class loading dock with adequate capacity to accommodate 50 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Product Marketing (2.7) Sales Based on Purchaser Type Our total sales for coal in 2010 was 40,005,839 tons, General Industry Stell Mill 2% consisting of 55% of Pinang coal, 44% Melawan while 6% the rest is Prima coal. Trading Company 24% Coal Sales 2010 by Product Power Generators 68% 22,023,926 17,642,451 55% Marketing Communication Program (PR6) 44% Our marketing team, actively communicates and visits consumers as needed so we can foster good relationship with our consumers or prospective consumers. The communication is made through 339,462 e-mail, facsimile, telephone and invitation to our 1% location. For long-term consumers, we perform Melawan Pinang Prima renegotiation process for price every year. The majority of our sales in 2010 was for consumers We continue to make the effort to fulfill every clause in Japan, China, Indonesia, Taiwan, the Phillipines stated in the coal sales contract regarding the quality, and several other countries; the complete table is as promptness in shipping, load volume even consumer follows: privacy. Consequently, during the reporting year, there were no violations or penalties and financial fines Meanwhile, based on the sector of users, 68% of our regarding marketing communication, inappropriate coal sales volume in 2010 was for power plants, 24% product advertising, or violations in sales contracts for trading companies, 6% for steel manufacture and that we have done. (PR7) the remaining 2% for other sectors. As you can see in the following graph. Coal Sales By Region (2.7) No Sales Region Coal Sales 2009 2010 1 Jepang 8.132.604 ton 9.647.727 ton 2 Eropa 2.951.503 ton 2.649.288 ton 3 Taiwan 4.763.369 ton 2.502.348 ton 4 India 3.210.078 ton 1.429.556 ton 5 Indonesia 3.419.350 ton 3.949.200 ton 6 Korea 2.161.408 ton 1.123.164 ton 7 Cina 8.092.209 ton 9.266.432 ton 8 Malaysia 1.587.204 ton 2.239.364 ton 9 Thailand 458.900 ton 689.974 ton 10 Filipina 950.475 ton 2.448.023 ton 11 Hong Kong 1.829.792 ton 2.051.587 ton 12 USA 116.436 ton 13 Italia 1.084.754 ton 2.009.176 ton Total 38.758.082 ton 40.005.839 ton Data Source: Business Analyst Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 51 Land praparation process for reclamation in ex-mine area. We often attend workshops and conferences as targets and the transport of overburden. Besides that, participant even as speaker to support the effort to it has also influenced the productivity of production market our products around the world. We always equipment because it cannot operate optimally in attend the Coaltrans event and meeting which is held a condition of high level of rainfall compared to last several times in a year. In 2010, we attended Coaltrans year’s condition. The decrease in coal production China, Coaltrans Asia, Coaltrans Australia, and Coaltrans target affected the income from sales. Europe. Most of our sales are established using the Free on Board (FOB) method, Cost and Freight (CNF/CFR), Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF), through several Delivered ex Ship (DES). We have set up a system to Consumer Privacy Safeguards (PR8, PR9) protect consumer privacy, Up to this moment, there have been no complaints from consumers regarding the violation of consumer such as implementing privacy. We have set up a system to protect consumer the ‘Confidentiality privacy, such as implementing the ‘Confidentiality Agreement’ clause in the Agreement’ clause in the sales contract master with our customers. Up to now there has been no violations sales contract master regarding those agreements. with our customers. Up to now there has been no Financial Implications of Climate Change (EC2) violations regarding those Climate change as the impact of global warming did not directly affect the company’s finance but has agreements. influenced the attempt to achieve coal production 52 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 | Our Commiment to the Environment | (EN26) “We prove our commitment to the conservation of the environment by applying accredited environmental management standards, conduct the assessment of its application periodically and allocate an adequate budget to design, execute and monitor a post mining revegetation program to ensure the conservation of biodiversity, restoration of the ecosystem and the environment from the negative impact of mining operations”. 54 Commitment to the Environment 54 Environmental Policy 56 Environmental Management Organization 56 Training in Environmental Field 56 Land Provision and Monitoring 57 Post-Mining Plan 58 Land Clearing and Ex-Mine Area Reclamation Plan 62 Environmental Monitoring and Follow Up 66 Biodiversity Management in Reclamation Areas 68 Management of Air Quality and Air Emission Monitoring 71 Costs and Awards for Environmental Management and Conservation 73 Text Box : Our Mining Process Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 53 Land praparation process for reclamation in ex-mine area. Commitment to the Environment The Management of the Company then sets up the As a form of commitment to continuously renew improvement plan of environmental management the performance of K3L (Occupational Health, on every indicator parameter for the following year. Safety and Environment) system, we determine, Thus, the environmental performance will continue to monitor and improve the targeted parameter of the be improved from year to year to achieve maximum environmental management performance indicator. compliance so that the environmental impact can be This environmental management performance controlled. (4.12) indicator is determined every year based on the assessment on important impacts from mining activity Environmental Policy as well as existing environmental regulations. Those The Environmental Policy which is an affirmation of the indicators include the achievement of ex-mine area company’s commitment on environmental management rehabilitaion activities, water quality, air quality, and was established on 1 December 1998. The policy was the management of waste and hydrocarbon. then perfected along with the fulfillment of obligations required in the ISO 14001 standard. The current policy To measure the environmental performance we have includes the management of Occupational Health, Safety conducted monitoring (both internally and externally and Environment (K3L), sustainable development and by an accredited laboratory) on the parameters of water security, signed by the President Director of the Company quality, air quality, reclamation target achievement, on 1 September 2010. and management of waste and hydrocabon. The environmental parameter being monitored and the The mining activity causes changes to the landscape frequency of its monitoring refers to RKL and RPL as so the management and reclamation of biodiversity well as existing government regulations. becomes an important matter. Therefore, we emphasize the commitment to maintain biodiversity and restore Evaluation on the achieved target that elaborates ex-mining areas to be stable, safe and productive areas the level of compliance of regulations is done every in the environmental policy statement. Our company’s year in the management review forum as one of environmental policy is formulated in the following the requirements of the ISO-14001:2004 standard. document. 54 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 55 Environmental Management Organization Land Provision and Monitoring (MM7) Structurally, the environmental management is The provision of land for mine activity is a very performed by the Environment Department under important step. If land cannot be provided in time, the Health, Safety, Environment & Security Division. mining activities will be disrupted. The expansion However, in terms of responsiblity, the management of of mine operations is started with the process of the environment lies within each division. According providing land by undergoing a land release process to the Ministry Decree, Kepmen 555.K/26/M.PE/1995-1, from authorization and/or work by communities then functionally the one in charge of the enactment within the concession area, as mandated in the PKP2B and compliance of K3L (Occupational Health, Safety (coal mining contract agreement) and Law Number 11 and Environment) is the Chief Mine Technical Officer. Year 1967 on mining principles. Training in Environmental Field The land release process is conducted by concensus To increase employees’ knowledge and skill, we according to the SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) of have developed several in-house environmental land release to obtain agreement on the compensation training programs. This training includes: ISO 14001 through the settlement of land disputes or through Environmental Management System, management legal processes as necessary in cases where concensus of waste and hydrocarbon, and Rehabilitation or government mediation cannot be reached. Specifications. As many as 441 people have participated in this training during 2010, with the Throughout 2010, we have released 5,462.01 ha of following breakdown: 20 people participated in the land from the targeted amount of 6,177 ha, which is SML ISO 14001 training, 381 people participated in the smaller than in 2009 which was 8,327.08 ha. This is waste and hydrocarbon management training, and 40 because most of the land that has to be released is people participated in the Rehabilitation Specification productive community land so the bargaining process training. The statute to provide and develop the need became more difficult. However, during the reporting for training for every position holder in a company was year there were no land disputes with local inhabitants stated in MSE 2.03 (Selection, Training, Competency & regarding the land release process that we have Authorisation). conducted. (MM6) 56 KPC n Sustainability Report2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Monitoring of the land that we have released is done by competent authorized officials such as the police and the security guards. This routine monitoring is intended to prevent conflicts and claims from arising regarding the land in the future. This monitoring activity is also intended to allow early detection of unpermitted mining (PETI). Monitoring of the land that we have released is done because of active involvement from communities, by competent authorized officials such as the police local government, and the regional government and the security guards. This routine monitoring is through the foundation of constructive reciprocal intended to prevent conflicts and claims from arising communication established by the Segading regarding the land in the future. This monitoring Resettlement Communication Office. Through this activity is also intended to allow early detection of office, all related parties can access information and unpermitted mining (PETI). solve together every problem that arise regarding the process of establishing the Segading Resettlement. According to AMDAL documents for 70 million Mtpa in 2010 regarding the Segading Resettlement, The progress achieved by the Segading Resettlement the company was given the task of managing program in 2010 the foundation of determining the the impact of mining activities on the people of target for Segading Resettlement in 2011. For 2011, Segading as the indigenous people that need to be we have set the target to complete the construction relocated to a new settlement. We then organized of physical infrastructure in the Segading Resettlement a work group in charge of the execution of the location as a primary target. So, in the same year, Segading Resettlement program according to the process of relocation and mobilization can be Memo Ref.M006/ESD/IV/09. This step is in line with performed gradually. (MM5,MM9) the formal decision of the Chief of Keraitan village numbered 049/KD/KRT/IV/2009 regarding the Post-Mining Plan (MM2,MM10) Village and Chief of the Sub-district of Bengalon According to the sustainable development principle, Relocation Request numbered 100/41/KB-V/2009 mine closure activity attempts to be able to ensure on Village Relocation. the sustainability of people’s lives around the mining location and the sustainability of the development During 2010, Segading Resettlement has recorded of East Kutai region. Therefore, mine closure is quite a few positive and satisfactory advances. The planned most carefully by integrating it in every most important achievement is the establishment of mining activity stage and involving stakeholders. Our Segading Resettlement program and the resettlement mining operation is located in one area which is in location done formally by the Government of East East Kutai so all post-mining activity planning and Kutai District based on Decree of Bupati of East impementation is concentrated in that particular Kutai Number 140/K.855/2010 that provided the region. legal foundation for us to accelerate the Segading Resettlement program. In order to construct a Mine Closure Plan, we conducted a special study in collaboration with After that, we conducted several comparative studies a team of researchers from the Center for Forest that involved the Segading people which included Research and Development Department of Forestry economic and culture aspects. In 2010, we presented and Nature Conservation. The study began in the the results of the comparative studies on Segading fourth quarter 2008 to the first quarter 2009, with people, particularly in agribusiness, agroforestry and the goal of designing a spatial structure which has the instances of Cultural Village management. post-mining vegetation in the form of zoning and designing the restoration of vegetation in each The progress and positive results of Segading zone to improve the function and benefits of the Resettlement during 2010 is made possible ecosystem. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 57 The post-mining program we have performed in 2010 The backfillling for overburden was done in the mine includes: pit and outside the mine pit. During 2010 there was n continuing the research cooperation to determine 153,606 kbcm of overburden that we backfilled in the zoning implementation in the field that is divided mine pit from the planned amount of 212,938 kbcm into five (5) zones, namely: protected zone, (72% from planned). The following is a table showing supporting zone, biodiversity conservation zone, the status of land use until the end of 2010. tourism zone and utility zone. The research is conducted by a research team from the Forest and Use of Land for KPC Mining Activity Natural Conservation Research and Development Center of the Forestry Department. In September No Area Size (ha) 2010, the Puslitbanghut team have conducted a 1. Concession Area (ha) 90,938.00 field survey to identify the characteristics of the 2. Disturbed Area (ha) 15,565.59 existing reclamation area as a consideration in 3. Infrastructure Area (ha) 358.37 setting up the criteria and indicator of every zone 4. Reclamation Area (ha) 4,009.13 to be the reference for post mining rehabilitation. Source: Reclamation data, PT.KPC Environmental Department n utilizing the North Sangatta pond as a water tourism object of interest. Some of the activities The reclamation of ex-mine area in Sangatta and that we have done until the end of 2010 are: Bengalon during 2010 reached a total of 501.7 ha building a look out, a playground, a camping from the planned amount of 501 ha. The plants we ground and an indoor soccer (futsal) field. used for land reclamation are local and non local n continuing with the integrated cattle farming plants, fruit trees and tropical rainforest plants (PESAT) program in the ex-mine area in D2 (Dipterocarpaceae). The cultivation of plants in the Murung. This program also provided the model reclamation area during 2010 covered 562.96 ha of and learning facilities for integrated farming that land, consisting of reclamation plants (local, noncombines social, economic and environmental local, fruit and Dipterocarpaceae plants), as well as issues so that it can be a place to learn for the special commodity plants such as rubber and oil community, including an internship for those who palm. are interested in learning about cattle farming. We used a Hydroseeder to spray the slopes with Several other things that we continue to do in a mixture of seed, fertilizer, emulsifier, adhesive order to go through with the post-mining program and compost to form a stable slope and prevent include: reclamation, environmental monitoring, erosion. Reclamation by means of spraying using the land rehabilitation, remediation of toxic material, hydroseeder reached a total area of 48.61 ha during dismantling mining facilities and community 2010. empowerment programs. Environmental Monitoring and Follow-up Land Clearing and Ex-Mine Area Reclamation Plan We monitored the environmental performance (EN11, MM1,MM3) internally to measure the achievement of The size of the land clearing area for mining activities, environmental objectives and targets that include the covering of overburden and the construction of monitoring key parameters on the fulfillment of the sedimentation pond during 2010 was 1,215.33 ha, environmental benchmarking, audits, inspections which is lower that the planned amount of 1,688.6 ha. and visual observation. The procedure for monitoring At the time the land is cleared, the top soil layer is is regulated in the MSE 3.01 HSE performance lifted by using dozers and excavators. The top soil is measurement and monitoring. Meanwhile the then transported to the reclamation area or piled frequency and location of monitoring regarding the temporarily in the soil stockpile area. The volume of key parameters is regulated in the AMDAL document. top soil that we have transported for the reclamation Monitoring in the form of audits and inspections of the Sangatta mine during 2010 was 14,574 kbcm, is done with reference to ERA (Environmental Risk and from Bengalon mine it was 1,090 kbcm. Assessment) list. 58 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Since 2007 we have commenced an integrated audit certification from SGS on 24 September 2004. The program on the management of hydrocarbon and second certification was issued on 24 September waste referring to the Environmental Management 2007 and is valid untill 23 September 2010. On 24–26 System of ISO 14001. Since the middle of 2009 until August 2010, we facilitated the Recertification Audit the end of the second trimester of 2010, we have of ISO 14001standard performed by the SGS external completed the integrated audit program of 43 work auditor. The audit result explained that there were units (workshops). Verification on the action plan of no nonconformity, either major or minor ones on audit findings was sent by each workshop since the environmental management by the company. We fourth trimester of 2010. then obtained the extension of the ISO 14001:2004 certificate which is valid from 24 September 2010 until During the fourth trimester of 2010, we have conducted 24 September 2013. the verification of 20 workshops. In case we find nonconformity in the monitoring activity regarding To follow-up the result of the assessment done by the system, procedure and benchmark, we will issue the State Ministry of Environment regarding pH that a CPAR (Corrective/Preventive Action Request). exceeds the benchmark, we have reviewed and Rules regarding its issue and cycle of completion is evaluated the technical aspects of mining and the determined in MSE 3.2 Investigation, Nonconformity, mechanisme of acidic mine water management. We Corrective Action & Preventive Action. did this to ensure that the method we applied can handle problems and increase the efficiency of overall Besides that, we facilitate the audit performed by water quality management. the independent party regarding the administration of EMS ISO 14001 certification. We obtained the Water quality test is conducted to ensure the quality of the water meets the standard benchmark. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 59 Material Usage lighting towers, dozers, graders and other supporting The volume of overburden removal the company equipment. The supporting equipment we use is: has done in 2010 is 460,278 Kbcm from the planned 6 units of crushers and some ponds that we have production of 484,384 Kbcm, due to the delay in the constructed for water management in Bengkirai, arrival of new production equipment, limitation of Kepodang, Melaway, Panorama, Rasamalah and South production equipment and lack of support equipment. Dyke Multipurpose Spillway. Changes in the mining area caused by erosion and geotechnical factors also affected production. We also needed several types of material in the mining Another factor that influences production is rainfall operation consisting of: explosives, material for coal which in 2010 was quite high, above the estimated washing, and lubricants for heavy equipment such as level. (MM3) those listed in the following table. The lower level of overburden removal volume Energy Use realized this year influenced the realization of coal To supply the energy requirement, we operate 2 production that resulted to 39,302 kt from the PLTU (steam generated power plant) units each with planned production of 45,879 kt. Other factors that a capacity of 5MW as the main power generator, and influenced the realization of coal production in 2010 several supporting diesel generators as a back-up in include: limitations in coal transportation equipment, case the use of electricity is higher than the power differences of actual coal condition, burnt coal, or supplied by the PLTU. The overal electricity production unidentified washouts besides the blockades that in 2010 was 107,430 MWh. The electricity is used to fulfill occurred in the coal transport line heading to the the need of the whole KPC mine operation in Sangatta harbor, especially in the Bengalon area. which include the processing and washing of coal, transporting coal from the mine to the ship, and power To support mining operations, we have added the whole office and housing. several items of equipment both moving and non moving such as vehicles (trucks), small capacity excavators (PC750, PC300, PC200), lighting plant and Material Consumption for Mining Operation Year 2010 (EN1) No Type of Material Use Unit Amount 2008 2009 2010 1. Ammonium Nitrate Explosive Ton 91.081 119.844 150.120 2. Magnetite Coal washing Ton 620 1.460 1.432 3. Flocculant Coal washing Ton 25,8 61,2 37,9 4. Lime Coal washing Ton 195 325 243 5 Lime Acid water calcification Ton 1.036 2.787 2.513 6. Lubricating oil Lubricant kL 4.157 5.128 5.360 Source : Ellipse System, PT.KPC Supply Department Direct and Indirect Energy Comsumption Year 2009-2010 (EN3) No Energy Source Electricity Production (MWh) Fuel Consumption Type of 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Fuel 1. Electricity PLTU KPC 60.931,2 68.736 67.070 37.686 (ton) 42.553,5 (ton) 42.278,5 (ton) Coal 2. Electricity Generator 36.298,8 33.261,1 40.360 9.924,5 (kL) 9.040,5(kL) 14.883,9 (kL) Diesel 3. Electricity PLN Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Source: data of PLTU and Generator electricity production, PT.KPC Coal Terminal OLC & Power Department 60 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Kenaikan konsumsi solar untuk produksi listrik dari genset dipengaruhi oleh kebutuhan listrik bagi kegiatan ekspansi Perusahaan untuk meningkatkan produksi batubara. Kami berencana membangun PLTU berkapasitas 3x18 MW untuk menggantikan penggunaan genset dan menurunkan konsumsi solar. Another source of energy that we use beside electricity building up the OLC from Melawan to the crusher in is gasoline (diesel and pertamax) to fuel operational order to increase efficiency and suppress the use of equipment and vehicles for the company and our diesel in trucks. (EN5,EN6, EN7) contractors (light vehicle, heavy equipment in the mines, employee buses, etc.). The fuel consumption Regarding the consumption of diesel and oil that for 2010 is presented in the following table. is quite high, we have the procedure and a team to overcome any spills of diesel or oil (oil spill response Fuel Consumption Year 2008–2010 (EN4) team) so that the process of handling spills can be done No Type Fuel Consumption (L) immediately. As an addition, in every maintenance 2008 2009 2010 garage, we have provided the “oil spill kit” as an 1. Diesel 530,255,451 518,468,664 710,428,749 emergency kit in case of spills. 2. Pertamax 607,711 564,557 744,729 Source: Ellipse System, PT.KPC Supply Department During 2010 there have been five hydrocarbon (diesel and oil) spills in the garage area, the gas stations and in The increase in the consumption of diesel for electricity the mine area with an estimated total of spill reaching production was influenced by the electricity demand + 9,187 liters. However, those spills can be isolated and for the company’s expansion activity to increase coal cleaned up so that there were no spill that got out of production. We plan to build a steam generated power the mine area. (EN23) plant (PLTU) with the capacity of 3x18 MW to replace the use of generators and reduce the consumption of Water Requirements for Production and Drinking diesel. The need for clean water and drinking water is obtained from river water and drill wells that we process in the The fuel efficiency program has been implemented water processing installation or WTP (Water Treatment since 2008 but the rise in the number of vehicles and Plant). The amount of water produced and used during the number of operators as well as the increase in 2008–2010 is as follows. (EN8,EN9) the size of operation area has urged us to review this program so that the efficiency target can be achieved. Clean water and drinking water used in the office of PT. The heavy equipment we focus on in implementing Thiess comes from the MSW02 pond in Melawan mine this program is the OB transport truck and the shovel area that has been processed beforehand. During in MOD Division. Besides that, we performed several 2010, the clean water produced and consumed was new actions such as issuing a new SOP on the start13,965 m3. up after blasting and after rainfall; review the optimal range match factor regarding the choice to turn off For the purpose of water conservation, the process of the shovel during breaks or to turn off trucks when coal washing in the CPP is done by using water from there are more trucks operating than is needed; and sedimentation ponds by means of recycling. Spraying installing special lights in trucks to monitor whether or the road in the mines and CPP area is also done by not operators actually turn off the truck engine during using water from sedimentation ponds. We do not standby. use surface water or water from rivers so there is no impact in terms of pollution, drop in ground water Through those steps, we hope to save consumption of level or reduction in the volume of water source. diesel up to 32.74 million liters. Besides that, we started (EN9) Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 61 Water Production and Consumption Year 2008-2010 No Decription Volume(m3) 2008 2009 2010 1. Drawing Out Surface And Ground Water (As Raw Water) Sangatta River Water (taken at Papa Charlie) 2,420,330 2,478,422 2,486,887 Surface Water And Tanjung Bara Drill Well 517,424 619,189 621,856 Total Raw Water Drawn Out 2,937,754 3,097,611 3,108,743 2. Total Processed Raw Water (Pre Treatment) 2,200,056 2,478,422 2,486,877 3. Water Treatment Processing (WTP) WTP Swarga Bara 1,651,110 1,762,181 1,670,456 WTP Tanjung Bara 434,846 438,860 469,326 Total Water Production 2,085,956 2,201,041 2,139,782 4. Total Water Consumption 1,997,365 2,102,992 2,200,312 Source: data of clean water production, PT.KPC Infrastructure Department Biodiversity Management in Reclamation Areas with the size of 22 ha as an arboretum area. Until the (EN12, EN13,EN14,EN25,MM2) end of 2010 there were 110 species of plants that have We realize that open mining will cause change in been planted in the arboretum location, consisting the initial face of the environment, including the of local (original) plants, non local plants, fruit, and extinction of biodiversity. To maintain biodiversity, we Dipterocarpaceae. have propagated local and rare plants in a 3 ha nursery in Tango Delta area which we will plant later in the To ensure the implementation of biodiversity reclamation area. management, we have established an SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) for managing biodiversity. Besides that, we work together with the seed The scope of the SOP is to manage flora and fauna suppliers, particularly for local plant seeds in aspects from several activity stages, namely: preBengalon, Koperasi Mitra Tani Bengalon, as part of cutting flora and fauna survey (to identify the our effort to empower the community. We perform diversity of flora and fauna that can be the basis reclamation in 3 stages: planting cover plant species in preparing the types of seedlings), cultivating, to reduce erosion, planting fast growing plant planting, maintaining, monitoring, and evaluating species to form a canopy, and planting tropical the progress of reclamation in ex-mine reclamation rainforest species. areas. To maintain the biodiversity of flora, we have planted around 30 types of plants in every Besides those efforts, especially since 2006, we have reclamation location. decided on an ex-mine reclamation area in D2 Surya Water for Coal Washing Process by Recycling (EN,EN10) Discharge Discharge of Discharge of Operating Volume Recycled water/ of water water flowing water being tim of water Coal coal Year going into out to the sedirecycled recycled being tonnage the wash mentation pond washed (m3/hr) (m3/hr) (m3/hr) % m3 (ton) (m3/ton) 2007 280 210 89.1 51.5 % 401,924,73 1,081,679 0.372 2008 280 210 89.1 51.5 % 401,924,73 1,130,642 0.356 2009 280 210 89.1 58.1 % 453,433,53 1,130,124 0.401 2010 280 210 89.1 54.4 % 424,557,38 1,151,369 0.369 Source: data of CPP washing water, PT.KPC Coal Processing Plant Department (calculation of inflowing water debit used pump capacity approach; calculation of outflowing water to ponds and being recycled using a flow meter). 62 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 The monitoring of flora and fauna was done by the company’s reclamation area at a certain level of Environmental Department following the monitoring age to find out whether the condition of the area is scheduled that is divided into 2 groups: Initial unbalanced, recovered or complete. Monitoring (for plants aged 1, 3, 9, and 12 months), and Long Term Monitoring (for plants aged 3, 6, 9, One of the areas that we monitored in 2010 was and 12 years). Besides knowing the progress of the Taman Payau, with the monitoring result falling reclamation area, the result of monitoring also provides under the category of recovered with a score of 81.57. information on the types of flora that can grow and Which means that if the area does not experience any spread well in the reclamation area and the types of meaningful disturbance, it can undergo good natural fauna that comes to merely drop by or stay and breed succession because the component of the stance there. was completely present at the moment of the age monitoring. In the next analysis, we also calculated the Shannon Index of what can be found in the reclamation area. Fauna monitoring in 2010 was done to inventorize The Shannon Index shows the level of diversity in type the Orangutan as a protected endangered species both among types and the number of each type and by using the nest inventory method. This activity was its domination. Monitoring during 2010 was for the done with the PPHT Unmul (Mulawarman University) initial monitoring that we did in 46 locations according Samarinda team in organizing the program of to the age of plants. The result, the average number of Best Management Practises for the conservation plants was 396 per hectare with an average diversity of Orangutan in the mining reclamation area. The index of 1.01. conclusion of this activity is that the Orangutan uses the vegetation resources in the mining reclamation The long term monitoring was done in 4 plot levels: area as its source of food and trees as nest, this is n Understory: to see the coverage of land surface by shown by the many nests and scratches in the tree vegetation trunks in the reclamation area. n Tree Height: to look for natural seedlings n Subplot: to see the stance with a diameter of less We also conduct a survey of biodiversity in the area than 20 cm of waters (rivers) that are affected by mining activities n Primary Plot: for trees with a diameter of less than every two years. Monitoring of aquatic biota in all 20 cm. rivers and creeks in Sangatta and Bengalon affected by mining activities in 2009 was conducted by consultants The data obtained is then compared with the standard from the University Mulawarman, Samarinda, and they which is the average condition of the stance in the will be back in 2011. Foto Sustainability 2010 n KPC Report 2010 Sustainability Report 63 Considering it is endemic, we tried our best to relocate Orangutan found in mining locations to a safer location. We conducted the relocation together with the local Natural Resource Conservation Institute and BOSF (Balikpapan Orangutan Survival Foundation), a foundation of Orangutan savers located in SambojaBalikpapan. Orangutan Relocation (EN15) of sedimentation ponds by excavating the sediment Orangutan is an typical Kalimantan species listed in using a dredge, improving the capacity of the ponds the IUCN Red List categorized as “endangered”, which and digging new ponds. We monitor every outflow we occasionally encounter in the mining activity regularly to make sure that the water quality is always area. Considering it is endemic, we tried our best to up to the standard benchmark. Sediment excavation relocate Orangutan found in mining locations to a during 2010 was done by 3 dredges: LP068, LP125 dan safer location. LP139. We conducted the relocation together with the According to the RKTTL KPC 2010 and along with local Natural Resource Conservation Institute and the expansion of mining area, during 2010 we BOSF (Balikpapan Orangutan Survival Foundation), a have completed the construction of several new foundation of Orangutan savers located in Sambojasedimentation ponds and some are allowed to be used Balikpapan. To support the relocation program, we as compliant point of waste disposal, namely: have a temporary shelter for the Orangutan before it n Panorama Pond, located at the upper side of is returned to the wild. There was no relocation during Sisi Danau pond, was completed in the second this reporting year. trimester of 2010. The pond was constructed to reduce the load of sediment in Sisi Danau pond. In June 2010, we got a visit from the OCSP (Orangutan n Melawai Pond, located at the lower end of Kedapat Conservation Services Program) that is working pond, was completed at the end of June 2010. together with Mulawarman University from Samarinda, n Sipadan pond, constructed in the Thiess mine area to conduct a survey on the population of Orangutan in June 2010, to contain the flow from Khayal Pit. in Pinang Dome conservation area and several other n Rasamala sedimentation pond, was completed locations in the company’s mining area. at the beginning of the fourth trimester of 2010, intended to contain the sediment from Pelikan Water Quality Management (EN25) North Pit area. We have proposed this pond to We manage the water quality from the outflow of the Environmental Agency (BLH) of East Kutai to be the mining activities through the periodic maintenance compliant point of liquid waste disposal. 64 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 n Bengkirai pond, located at the lower end of Sipadan Determining the compliant point of water quality was pond in Melawan mine area was completed at the permitted by the Regent (Bupati) of East Kutai. During beginning of the fourth trimester of 2010. This 2010, KPC has obtained several permits from the Regent pond was also proposed to the Environmental of East Kutai to dispose of liquid waste in reference to the Agency (BLH) of East Kutai to be the organizing following: point of liquid waste disposal. n Decree of the Regent of East Kutai no. 658.31/K.722/2010 n Spillway South Dike (Lockpond 4) in J Pit is dated 2 August 2010, which is the extension of liquid intended to improve the quality of water in Keny J waste disposal permit 2009, for 8 locations in Sangatta, pond. namely: Lower Melaso, WQ06 (Kedapat pond), WQ27D n Kepodang pond, was completed in the fourth (Volvo pond), WQ33 (Sisi Danau pond), AB 103, Keny trimester of 2010 and is intended to contain the J, WQ19, and Pewe (Pelikan West pond); as well as 3 sediment from Inul Pit area. This pond is proposed locations in Bengalon, namely: NWD02, New Pond and to the Environmental Agency (BLH) of East Kutai to Kelawitan ponds. be an organizing point of liquid water disposal. n Decree of the Regent of East Kutai no. 660.5/K.718/2010 n Apokayan pond, at the upper end of New Pond dated 29 July 2010 for 4 locations, namely: Meruya, Bengalon, was completed in October 2010. This Mahoni, Meranti, and Sipadan ponds. pond was also proposed to the Environmental n Decree of the Regent of East Kutai no. Agency (BLH) of East Kutai to be an organizing 660.1/K.885/2010 dated 25 October 2010 for 2 point of liquid waste disposal. locations, namely Melawai and Tiung. n Seroja pond, which is still under construction in Water outflow from the sedimentation ponds directly the fourth trimester of 2010 is intended to contain flows to public waters (river and sea) as stated in the the water flow from SWD2 Dump in A Pit Bengalon. following table. (EN21) Disposal Point of Mine Water Outflow Compliance Point Year 2009 Compliance Point Year 2010 Receiving Water Way Sangatta Location 1 Lower Melaso 1 Lower Melaso Sangatta River 2 WQ06 2 WQ06 Sangatta River 3 WQ27D 3 WQ27D Sangatta River 4 WQ33 4 WQ33 Sangatta River 5 AB 103 5 AB 103 Bengalon River 6 Keny J 6 Keny J Kenyamukan River 7 WQ19 7 WQ19 Tanjung Bara Sea 8 Pewe (Pelikan West) 8 Pewe (Pelikan West) Bengalon River 9 Meruya Sangatta River 10 Mahoni Sangatta River 11 Meranti Bengalon River 12 Sipadan Bengalon River 13 Melawai (Kedapat replacement) Sangatta River 14 Tiung Bengalon River Bengalon Location 1 NWD02 1 NWD02 Lembak River 2 New Pond 2 New Pond Lembak River 3 Kelawitan 3 Kelawitan Lembak River Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 65 Acid Rock Water Management (MM3) Air Quality Management and Air Emission The management of acid rock water is done by Monitoring (EN16,EN17,EN20) calcification both manually and by means of semiautomatic equipment and a Neutra-Mill, in several Emission Quality Management sedimentation ponds in Sangatta and Bengalon mine Considering our activity does not involve an extraction areas. Manual calcification in Sangatta mine area is process, the main impact of our product on the done in Pelikan and Khayal Pits to improve the water environment is soft dust particles that follow operation quality in those areas which will then flow to Lower activities starting from the mining process, loading, Melaso pond in Tango Delta pond to maintain the transporting by means of massive vehicles, and water quality that flows to Sisi Danau pond. unloading in the harbor. Management of air quality that arises from those mining activities is performed in We also perform manual calcification in the several ways, namely: spraying mine roads continuously; sedimentation ponds in Bengalon (in the inlet of planting trees in operational areas; applying a dust Kelawitan pond, inlet of NWD2 pond and inlet of New suppression system in coal processing plant (CPP) Pond pond) and calcification using semi automatic location as well as the loading and unloading areas equipment (in the outlet of Kelawitan pond and by using water and a chemical substance vinasol; and outlet of New Pond pond) to maintain water quality. obliging employees to use masks. Calcification by using a static Neutra-Mill is performed in Keny J pond in J Pit continuously during 2010. In Monitoring of ambient air quality is performed once the sedimentation ponds in Bengalon, a Neutra-Mill is every six months in community residential areas in also operated alternately in Kelawitan and Apokayan Sangatta and Bengalon. As a result, the air emission ponds. during 2010 met the standard in the benchmark. (EN29) Classification and sorting of overburden is done Results of air emission obervation from the chimneys of according to the potential of acid rock formation, the PLTU and generators also met the standard in the namely: by geochemical NAG (Net Acid Generation) benchmark during 2010. PLTU and generators are our main analysis performed in KPC’s Environmental Laboratory. source of energy used to supply electricity, therefore they We performed the geochemical NAG analysis on are the major sources of emission. Beside the PLTU, we also sample rocks from exploration areas (diamond core operate an insinerator to demolish waste contaminated or geology drill chips), blast holes, and final dump. by hydrocarbon (filters and wipes) and clinical waste. The Throughout 2010 we have performed the NAG analysis result of air emission monitor from the insinerator chimney on 92,073 rock samples. also met the standard in the benchmark during 2010, as shown in the following table, which shows the amount of NOx, SOx, CO gas emission and other particles that were under the benchmark.(EN20) Calcification by using a static Neutra-Mill is performed in Keny J pond in J Pit continuously during 2010. In the sedimentation ponds in Bengalon, a Neutra-Mill is also operated alternately in Kelawitan and Apokayan ponds. 66 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Measurement Result of PLTU Chimney Emission Year 2010 Parameter Unit BML Men LH PLTU 1 Chimney PLTU 2 Chimney 21/2008 Min Max Min Max Sulfur dioxide (SO2) (mg/m3) 750 43 131 24 118 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) (mg/m ) 3 850 54 115 48 103 Total Particles (mg/m3) 150 30.7 47.8 21.8 38.6 Opacity (%) 20 15 15 10 15 Source: data of Sucofindo measurement result Measurement Result of Generator Chimney Emission Year 2010 Parameter Satuan BML TB 1 TB 2 TB 3 CPP1 CPP2 CPP3 (Unit) Men LH Generator Generator Generator Generator Generator Generator 21/2008 Min Max Min Max Min Max Carbon monoxide (CO) (mg/m3) 600 32 172 75 106 60 61 49 54 78 Sulfur dioxide (SO2) (mg/m3) 800 15 40 14 61 20 67 30 21 20 Nitrogen oxide (NOx) (mg/m3) 1000 215 640 552 621 257 614 138 80 22 Total particle (mg/m )3 150 30.4 63.2 41.6 61.4 31.6 67.5 31.4 21.8 31.7 Opacity (%) 20 10 15 10 20 10 15 15 10 20 Source: data of Sucofindo measurement result Measurement Result of Incinerator Chimney Emission Year 2010 Parameter Unit BML Kep. Filter Waste Medical Waste Ka. Bapedal Min Max Min Max 03/1995 Particle (mg/m3) 50 9.82 27.48 6.22 32.55 SO2 (mg/m3) 250 2 20 3 24 NO2 (mg/m ) 3 300 79 89 72 159 HF (mg/m3) 10 <0.1 <0.1 CO (mg/m3) 100 2 5 3 7 HCl (mg/m3) 70 <3 <3 CH4 (mg/m3) 35 <1 <1 As (mg/m3) 1 <0.001 <0.001 Cd (mg/m3) 0,2 <0.005 <0.005 Cr (mg/m3) 1 <0.005 <0.005 Pb (mg/m ) 3 5 <0.01 <0.01 Hg (mg/m3) 0,2 <0.001 <0.001 Tl (mg/m3) 0,2 <0.02 <0.02 Opacity (%) 10 5 5 Efficiency (%) 99.9 99.9 Gas Velocity m/sec 6.8 14.8 6.8 15.3 CO2 % 3.6 48.0 4.6 7.1 Gas Temperature oC 92 129 97 141 Air Pressure mmHg 758 758 Source: data of Sucofindo measurement result Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 67 Carbon Emission Management (EN18, EN19) EH4500 trucks; while ones that have qualified Tier 2 The use of various operational equipment and power standard are 3 units of Komatsu PC300 excavators, 1 generators with fossil fuel by our company has unit Komatsu PC750 excavator, 4 units of Dozer D10T resulted in a number of carbon emissions. Based on and 6 units of Komatsu Wheel Dozer WD600-3. the data of fossil fuel usage during 2010, we estimated the total carbon emission from operational activities to To improve the condition of the environment and be 2,057,854.46 equivalent tons CO2, according to the reduce the amount of carbon dioxide gas emission following table (EN16, EN17): from the mine area, we conducted reclamation which Table. Fuel, Unit, Consumption, Conversion Bahan Bakar Unit Konsumsi Konversi Emisi Co2 (ton eq) GasolinePertamax Kiloliter 744.7 2,3247 1,731.27 Diesel for Operational Cehicles Kiloliter 710,428.7 2,6681 1,895,494.95 Diesel for Generator Kiloliter 14,883 2,6681 39,711.73 Coal Ton 42,278.5 2,86 120,916.51 Total Emission 2,057,854.46 To reduce the impact of gas emission from operational will be continued to revegetation. The vegetation can equipment or vehicles, we constantly perfom periodical create a relatively stable condition, prevent erosion maintenance to ensure the performance of the and in the end will improve the overall condition of combustion process in the equipment. Besides that, in ex-mine land. Besides that, the vegetation will be able the procurement of new equipment (particularly trucks to absorb carbon from the air. and other heavy equipment), we have used Tier 1 and Tier 2 of the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) The vegetation’s ability to absorb carbon is closely emission standard. Several units/equipment that have related to its own growth so by knowing the growth by gone through the commissioning process and have counting its biomass, the amount of carbon absorbed qualified Tier 1 emission standard are 10 units of Euclid by the vegetation can be estimated. By using the Table of Carbon Absorption Year 2010 Reclamation Age (yr) Area Biomass Production Total biomass Carbon absorption (ha) (ton/ha) (ton) (ton) <2 1146.68 3.48 3991.24 1,382.56 3 439.58 13.25 5824.42 2,017.58 4 230.00 20.18 4641.72 1,607.89 5 248.08 25.56 6340.38 2,196.31 6 161.20 29.95 4828.04 1,672.43 7 171.37 33.66 5769.13 1,998.43 8 255.62 36.88 9427.79 3,265.79 9 293.35 39.72 11651.84 4,036.20 10 341.90 42.26 14448.18 5,004.85 11 318.30 44.55 14181.82 4,912.58 12 190.20 46.65 8873.09 3,073.64 13 195.80 48.58 9511.94 3,294.94 14 64.03 50.37 3224.90 1,117.11 15 39.10 52.03 2034.28 704.68 TOTAL 4.095.21 36,284.97 68 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 formula to calculate biomass and average carbon The compost produced is used as a mixture for a content (34.64%), the amount of carbon absorbed planting medium, used in both pots and reclamation in the reclamation area is shown in the following areas. Paper waste from offices is also used as mulch table. that we mix with other materials such as seed, fertilizer and a binding agent to be sprayed onto slopes by Besides carbon emission (greenhouse gas/GHG), using the Hydroseeder. our operations indirectly produce ozone depleting substances/ODS. These gas emissions come from the Besides paper waste, used cardboard and plastic from use of air cooling devices such as air conditioners both in offices and garages are also collected and processed. offices and in vehicles at the time of repair. The amount Used cardboard and plastic are collected by the of ODS emission is considered immaterial. (EN19) Cooperative supported by the ESD Division of PT. KPC. Used cardboard and plastic that have been collected Solid Waste Management and Processing (EN22, are sent to the recycling companies in Balikpapan and MM3) Surabaya to be processed. During 2010, we have sent General waste (garbage) that comes from residences 6,712 kg of used cardboard and 4,197 kg plastic waste. and the company’s industrial area is thrown into the landfill in Hatari East dumping area. Meanwhile the Used tyres from heavy equipment (trucks) are used to paper waste from the offices is collected and processed make drainage systems (drop structure) in reclamation into compost. The composting process is done in the areas. During 2010 as many as 2,028 used truck tyres company’s nursery. Besides paper, compost material (type 777, 785, 789) have been used in Mentari pond, also comes from wet waste from the kitchen in Panel 4 Dump, Panel 8 Dump, Prima Dam Pit J, Rawa employees’ mess. Indah Pit J, Bengkirai Pond, Kedapat Pond, Belut Amount of Managed B3 Waste B3 Year 2010 No Category Type of Waste Unit Amount Generator Process 1 B3 Used oil Liter 9.253.922,47 Utilized internally + sent to 3rd party 2 B3 Hydrocarbon Contaminated item Ton 605,01 incinerated + sent to 3rd party 3 B3 Oil Filters Ton 418,75 incinerated + sent to 3rd party 4 B3 Hydraulic Fluid Hoses Ton 396,22 sent to 3rd party 5 B3 Used Batteries Ton 139,17 sent to 3rd party 6 B3 Used Grease Ton 76,67 sent to 3rd party 7 B3 Hydrogen peroxide waste Ton 7,91 sent to 3rd party 8 B3 Incinerator ash Ton 9,92 sent to 3rd party 9 B3 Oily mud M3 501,58 Bioremediation 10 B3 Coal ash Ton 8.485,00 Utilized 11 B3 Medical waste Ton 4,01 Incinerated 12 B3 Used toner Ton 0,22 sent to 3rd party 13 B3 Chemical waste Ton 25,15 sent to 3rd party 14 Non B3 General waste M3 17.002,60 Sent to landfill Source: PT.KPC waste balance Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 69 Stockpile, Melawai Pond, Bendili Panel 3 Stage I & II, According to the obtained permit, Decree of Bupati and Sawit Road Stage II & III. of East Kutai No. 658.31/K.33/2010 dated 25 January 2010, fly ash and bottom ash coming from the residue Thus, various of our operations have been using of PLTU combustion is collected in a storage area in recycled materials such as used oil to a mixture of the Tanjung Bara Coal Ash Stockpile. This coal ash is explosives (ANFO), household waste for composting then used internally in accordance to the permit to use which we use as organic fertilizer in the area of coal ash obtained through the Decree of State Ministry reclamation and other uses such as we described in of Environment No. 37 Year 2010 dated 22 February the description above. Whereas other solid waste 2010, replacing the previous permit, No. 403 Year 2007 that we can not use such as paper, used batteries and which has expired. plastic materials, we send it to a competent company recycler. (EN2) During 2010, we have used as much as 3,840 tons of fly ash as a material for Eco Road. Besides that, as much Toxic waste (B3) from the company’s operations as 2 tons of fly ash was also used as a compound for is managed according to existing government concrete in the harbor for the Sea Wall BLF Project. So regulations and permits. B3 waste that we send to third the total fly ash that we have used throughout 2010 is parties is intended to be processed further according 3,842 tons. to the permit set by the Ministry of Environment and the Environment Agency of East Kutai. We process hydrocarbon contaminated solid waste in two ways, that is some is processed by means The third party referred to before is a B3 waste of incineration and some is sent to a third party processor in Indonesia that is permitted by the Ministry (permitted processor). Processing by incineration is of Environment to process some types of waste or all done by using the incinerator in Sangatta North Dump, sorts of toxic (B3) waste. We do not send B3 waste in accordance with the permit obtained through the overseas. The following is a list of B3 waste that we Decree of State Ministry of Environment No. 789 Year have managed during 2010. (EN24) 2008, which was then renewed by a new permit No. 276 Year 2010 dated 25 October 2010. According to Used oil from the operational activity of the the permit, B3 waste that’s permitted to be incinerated company and its contractor in Sangatta area, is hydrocarbon contaminated filters and wipes and except for Thiess, is used as a supporting material medical waste from the company clinic. Ash from the for explosives (ANFO-Emulsion), according to the incineration is then sent to permitted processor. permit for utilization of used oil obtained through the Decree of the State Ministry of Environment Oil contaminated soil from all garages, particularly the No.185 Year 2010 dated 11 August 2010, replacing ones coming from interceptors (traps) is processed by the previous permit which has expired, No. 560 means of bioremediation using petrophylic bacteria. Year 2008. The processing of oil contaminated soil is done in the BTU (Biological Treatment Unit) area in Sangatta Based on the permit, the composition of used oil North Dump, in accordance with the permit obtained to new diesel is 80:20. During 2010, used oil waste through the Decree of State Ministry of Environment from KPC and its contractors, both in Sangatta and No. 184 Year 2010 dated 11 August 2010, replacing Bengalon was 9,253,922.47 liters. From that amount permit No. 318 Year 2006. 2,549,500 liters (28%) is used as a compound for explosives. The rest, which is 6,704,422.47 liters (72%) was sent to a permitted waste processor. (EN2) 70 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Cost and Awards for Managing and Awards for the Management and Conservation of Conserving the Environment the Environment Performance of Environmental Management in the Total Cost of Managing the Environment (EN30) the company is also audited by the government both The total cost that we have incurred for the the central government (Ministry of Environment environmental management and monitoring program and Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources) and throughout 2010 is as follows: the regional government (Environmental Agency of Total Cost of Environmental Management No Description Cost (USD) Environmental Management a. Land Organization (soil transport, drainage building) 11,630,659 b. Water quality management: • Sediment excavation 454,193 1 • Acid water prevention and handling 1,152,959 • Construction of new ponds and increasing the capacity of ponds 3,228,912 c. Reforestation (germinating, supplying seedlings, planting, maintaining plants) 1,995,312 d. Sustaining the rehabilitation force 16,212,422 e. Managing hydrocarbon and B3 waste 243,724 Environmental monitoring (procurement of monitoring equipment, sampling 2 (water, air, rock), laboratory analysis) 763,728 Miscellaneous a. Employee training, biodiversity program, etc) 855,405 3 b. Commemoration of Environment Day 6,413 c. Recertification of ISO14001 28,000 TOTAL 36,571,726 Data Source: Financing report, KPC Accounting Department We show our commitment in improving and East Kalimantan Province and East Kutai District). As a managing the environment continuously through result, in August 2010, we received an award from the the fulfilment of all standards and benchmarks set Governor of East Kalimantan based on the Coal PROPER by the government based on the results of air and Assessment for the period of 2009/2010, namely the water quality monitoring as well as the achievment in Green Certificate for Sangatta site and Gold Certificate reclamation land targets. Consequently, during 2010, for Bengalon site. In September 2010, we also got we have avoided administrative penalties regarding the “Aditama Award” for mining environmental the nonconformance of standards or fines resulting management from the Ministry of Energy and Mineral from nonconformance of environmental management Resources, Directorate General of Mineral, Coal and performance. This is the form of commitment in Geothermal. fulfilling environmental policy that we will continue to do in every step of the company’s operation. (SO8, EN28) Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 71 OUR MINING PROCESS In general, the company’s mining operation is divided production yield. In this stage, the amount of topsoil into 3 stages, namely: mining preparation, mining, and to be moved is calculated, planning for rehabiltitation post mining. The Preparation Stage of mining is begun areas is made and the amount of mining equipment with exploration survey activities. Exploration activities required is also calculated. Then we go into the next include site mapping, measuring the geological stage, the mining or production stage. structure, measurement of geological structures, taking core samples, exploration drilling, geophysical Production Stage is started with the felling and logging and estimating deposits. After that, geological cutting of trees as well as the moving of topsoil after modelling is done by using mining software (Minex identification and documentation of flora and fauna Software 4.1-G) to make deposit calculations followed that inhabited the area is made. Several species of by drawing-up a mining plan. In 2010, the company important plants are collected to be used as the is also in the transition process of changing to a new seedlings needed for the rehabilitation activity later. mine software, Minex Software 6. The top soil is transferred to the storage location that has been prepared or is used directly for the The next step is to make a more detailed deposit rehabilitation of permanent stockpile areas. After the calculation by involving economic analysis using Minex tree cutting step and the moving of top soil, drilling Software version 4.1-G used to design pits, overburden and blasting of overburden is performed. piles, mine roads and optimal drainage systems to plan the mining stage that can provide a description of overburden volume to be moved and the coal 72 KPC n Sustainability Report2010 Sustainability Report 2010 The overburden that has been blasted is then the coal stockpile location in Tanjung Bara harbor (Coal loaded by shovels and backhoes and transported by terminal). Along with the increase in production, coal trucks to be piled in the planned stockpile locations. transport is also performed by means of coal trucking Overburden that contains acid/PAF (Potential Acid from the coal stockpile in the CPP to the coal stockpile Forming) is piled separately from soil that does not in the Port stockpile in limited amounts. Ready-tocontain acid/NAF (Non Acid Forming) in the planned be-sold coal is then loaded into ships to be sent to location. Overburden categorized as NAF is piled in customers. a permanent stockpile location and is temporarily rehabilitated while the one categorized as PAF is After the mining process is completed, we perform piled into a temporary stockpile location. This process reclamation on ex-mining areas. As our form of is performed by using electronic control system responsibility to the environment, we have a (Dispatch system). rehabilitation program that is intended to restore the land to a safe, stable and productive state. Rehabilitation After the overburden is lifted, the revealed coal is is performed gradually. The Rehabilitation Program mined by using special coal loaders. The coal is then includes planning, placing overburden, final forming, transported by trucks and head directly to the crushing placing the top soil, constructing water drainage area or piled temporarily in the coal stockpile according facilities, planting, sustaining, and monitoring. to the quality of coal. In the crusher location, the coal is crushed into the defined size then it is continued on to be washed if the coal is dirty. Coal that has been reduced in size and is ready to be sold is then transported by means of a belt conveyor heading to Flowchart of PT. Kaltim Prima Coal Operations Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC SustainabilityReport 73 What They Say Mugiyono Rantau Pulung Inhabitant Saving Time to The Field I feel helped with the existence of this drinking water aid. All this time, I had to boil water before going to the field. Now, not anymore, for this water is ready to drink. The price is low while the quality is high. Most importantly, I am sure, this water’s sanitation is more guaranteed. Dani Chairperson of IPAB Sekerat Management The Pipe Straight to Home All this time, we had water with lime content. Now, thanks to KPC’s management, it contains no more lime, and is even save to drink. What’s more important, villagers don’t have to go to the river any more. M. Yunus Vice Chairman of BPD Sepaso Induk Hopefully Household Industries Will be Reactivated We hope the cooperation for the electricity problem solution in Bengalon can keep continuing, because during the alternating KPC donates a genset to the people of Bengalon with the total blackouts, household industries have been disturbed. Almost 80% capacity of 1.3 MW divided at 3 of household industries use electricity from PLN. The alternatstages (365 KVA, 455 KVA, and 500 KVA. It satisfies the electricity ing blackout disturbs everything. Thanks to KPC’s assistance, we needs of 1,278 households at see the positives and hope for the continuity so that household Bengalon. industries can be reactivated. Murhan Traditional Head of Sepaso Timur Village People Once Emotional People were once emotional because the genset promised by KPC KPC donates a genset with the did not come for a time. We thought, what’s up with this assistance, capacity of 2 X 150 KVA which can accommodate the electricity why does it take so long? While the loss due to the blackout was not needs of 450 households in Rantau minor, because all household industries depend on the electricity Pulung at present. from PLN. But, gratefully, now one set has been installed. We thank KPC for the concern to solve the electricity crisis in Bengalon. 74 74KPC n KPC Sustainability ReportReport n Sustainability 2010 2010 | Our Commitment to Community Empowerment | “We encourage the growth of the community potential, motivate independence and facilitate their welfare improvement through the implementation of the seven fields of community empowerment programs.” 74 Waht They Say 76 Vision, mission, and social responsibility commitment 76 MSH-CSR Forum 77 Complaints Handling and External Communication 77 Sustainability Community 75 2010 n KPC Program Empowerment Report Vision, mission, and social responsibility aim to help accelerate the community independence at commitment the village level to face the post-mining era, especially The Company’s plan to increase its production to 70 in fulfilling basic needs, improving environmental million tons/year has been approved through the quality, and developing their economic base on Decree of Regent of Kutai Timur No. 660.5/K.205/2010. renewed resources. To support the production increase in 2010, we have carried out a series of expansion projects while Multi Stakeholder for Corporate Social keeping the implementation of the principles of Responsibility (MSH-CSR) Forum good mining practice as evidence of the Company’s We are one of this forum’s member and active in commitment. In line with government’s regulations, implementing community development program. the production increase is supplemented with AMDAL This forum was formed by the Regent of Kutai (Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan, Analysis on Timur in 2006 through the Decree of Regent No. the Impact on the Environment) study with the aim 71/02.188.45/HK/III/2006. Through this forum, we of reducing the negative impacts and optimizing the maximize the method of managing the community positive impacts. development fund allocation of USD 1.5 million out of all community development funds every year. The Through the Vision and Mission of the External management of this forum is coupled with the routine Affairs and Sustainable Development Ðivision, we meeting of the Company and the forum secretariat are making efforts for improving the quality of the members, to do, among others, program planning, community’s lives affected directly or indirectly by the program implementation, and program monitoring mining activities. The negative and positive impacts and evaluation. Through this forum we give input in in the social aspect has become the basis for various the form of policies, work procedures and maximum community development programs that we organize. program or project control. In the implementation of the programs, we also refer to the principle Triple Bottom Line, i.e. economic, Monthly monitoring is carried out by MSH-CSR Forum social, and environment. to see how far the implementation of th program has been. This mechanism also provides direction for the We outline the vision and mission through seven Company to ensure that the funding allocation has community empowerment programs with the main been utilized appropriately. Community Development Vision and Mission External Affairs and Sustainable Development Division PT Kaltim Prima Coal VISION To become a partner in sustainable development and improve community’s quality of life MISSION -1 MISSION -2 MISSION -3 Create a harmonious Encourage the growth of local Maintain community relationship with stakeholder economy that is mutually order by conserving based on the principle of trust beneficial towards an nature and culture and respect independent and prosperous Strengthening Developing Community Education and Developing Improving Conservation Government’s Agribusiness Health Training KUKM Infrastructure of Nature and and Community’s Capacity 76 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Complaints Handling and External Communication The composition of complaints consists of 90.9 % social In accordance with the mandate of AMDAL 2010, the conflict, the rest are related to environmental issues. community’s complaints due to the mining activities The complaints were conveyed through collective should be well managed. The monitoring over the demands accompanied by threats of demonstrations community’s critical complaints is done through and blockades, all of which could be settled. The low community feedback system, covering the issues percentage of environmental issues is a positive indicator of environment, threats against production, natural that the management and monitoring mechanisms of disasters, social conflicts, requests/demands, and press the environmental issues in 2010 have been effective. coverings. This system is carried out according to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) ESDMS/DOC/SOP/ Community Empowerment Program ESD/CFS/002 as technical implementation guidelines. Partnership Towards Independence is the spirit which is always manifested in all community empowerment All the 11 complaints in 2010 as can be seen above have programs that we organize, so that the involvement and been properly managed and all ended with a closed participation of the community are an essential part in status. The number of complaints decreased significantly all processes of community empowerment activities. The to 31.25% lower than the number in 2009. The complaints independence of the community which is directly affected under the social conflict category still hold the biggest by the Company’s activities is encouraged by maximizing portion. Compared to 2009, there was an increase of all available potency through the above 7 program fields. disturbances/blockades in 2010: 3 in Sangatta and 4 in Jumlah Keluhan Bengalon. This is dueUmpan Balik of Masyarakat to the increase TahunBesides 2009-2010 the community’s local (village) and regional (sub-regency expectation on the production increase plan. (MM4) and regency) issues, the community empowerment 18 Number of Complaints based on Community Feedback 2009–2010 16 16 14 2009 Jumlah Keluhan 2010 12 11 10 2009 2010 8 6 4 4 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 Ja Fe M Ap M Ju Ju Au Se Oc No De Ja nu br ar ril ay ne ly pt to ve ce nu ar ua ch gu y ry st em be m m be ar y be r be r r r Frequency of Complaints Based on Criteria 2009-2010 10 10 2 2 1 1 1 Air Water Blasting Noise Natural Social Impact Disaster Conflict 2009 2010 Source: Data from Department of Community Empowerment Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 77 program also addresses various national and believe that the availability of adequate infrastructure international issues as a reference in developing synergy can improve the local economy development as well as with the development direction of the Government of strengthen the government and community capacity. Kutai Timur Regency. Gerdabangagri (Gerakan Daerah Pembangunan Agribisnis, I Regional Movement for We encourage the involvement of local contractors in the Agribusiness Development), Kutim Cemerlang (Bright infrastructure development according to their capacity. Kutai Timur), Swasembada Daging Nasional (National In organizing the work involving local contractors, we Meat Self-Fulfillment) 2014, National Food Endurance, try to implement a side-by-side approach towards Act of the Republic Indonesia No. 18/2008 on Waste technical skill improvement and awareness about Management, support the Millenium Development safe ways of working that we have applied through Goals and Global Compact. (4.12) supervision of the work quality and supervision on the work system which values the workers’ health and The areas that we prioritize are the areas around the safety. We do this to improve the skill, competitiveness mine, covering the Sub-Regencies of Sangatta Utara, and economical value of the local contractors’ capacity. Sangatta Selatan, Bengalon and Rantau Pulung. The community aspirations in the four sub-regencies are The development of various basic infrastructure which derived through various mechanisms of formal as well we have accomplished including the construction as informal communications with the stakeholders. of the Prima bridge connecting Rantau Pulung and However, the assistance for public facilities and Sangatta; a road in Sepaso Timur, Bengalon, a length institutional and community capacity improvement are of 1,850 m; connecting the road of SP3-SP4 at Rantau also given to the other sub-regencies in the Regency of Pulung and M. Yusuf Street at Bengalon, 800 m in Kuati Timur, although in smaller proportions compared length. We also build other infrastructures, including to the amount and value given to the four subthe facility of clean water processing and provisioning, regencies around the mining circle. in cooperation with PDAM or independently. We also cooperate with various institutions, such as The location of clean water provisionings are in Rantau universities, research centers, NGOs, and other international Pulung, Bengalon and Sangatta so that they can fulfill donor institutions in planning, implementing, monitoring the needs of no fewer than 6,467 household in Rantau and evaluating the activities to obtain optimum and Makmur, Sangatta Selatan, Sekerat, Sangatta Utara and objective results. Here we will describe the summary of the Bengalon. Besides that, we also built various other implementation of the seven programs for Community facilities, such as: worship places, school buildings, Empowerment that we have carried out. village offices, social facilities, and other public facilities, both in the four sub-regencies and other subCommunity Infrastructure Development (EC8) regencies in the region of Kutai Timur Regency. We assisted the implementation of the infrastructure improvement programs by building various adequate Apart from the community infrastructure improvement, infrastructure facilities especially for the community at we also completed the development of RSUD (Regional four sub-regencies around our mine, i.e. Sangatta Utara, General Hospital) stage 2 and the maintenance of Sangatta Selatan, Bengalon dan Rantau Pulung. We Soekarno Hatta Street. A significant main support from Construction of Prima bridge connecting Rantau Pulung and Sangatta. Roadwork at Sepaso Timur, Bengalon. This construction of 1.850 m-long burtu (one layer of asphalt) specification road was done with the local community. 78 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 KPC CEO, Endang Ruchijat, got a flower from one of patient of smile and Hope Program. the Company to the community around the mine in n Infectious disease prevention program, such as 2010 was electricity support at Bengalon Sub-Regency HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Dengue Fever. (1.3 MW), Rantau Pulung (2 x 150 KVA), and Sangatta n Health counselling for the community and (1.3 MW and 265 KVA). improvement in health and nutrition for toddlers and school children. We carried out all infrastructure development so that n Health and medical aids, such as cleft lip surgery, the community around the mining areas could utilize treatment of burns, mass circumcision, and free adequate facilities, meet the needs for clean water and medication. maintain the quality of their health so that they could n Blood donations involving employees and the improve their productive activities in turn. Company’s contractors. Besides the infrastructure improvement, we also Education and Training for the Community supported religious activities by improving the To improve the competency and capability of the employees’ quality in terms of religious life. We have community around the mine, we carried out various improved some worship facilities, among others: programs of education and training, covering: Al Kautsar, Al Ikhlas, Baiturrahman, An Nur, Al Falah n Scholarships for study at Junior High School, Senior Mosques; Oukumene and Katolik Churches; and the High School, S1, S2 and S3 levels. temple at Bumi Etam as a worship place for Hindu n Entrepreneurship education for students and followers. We also aided the celebration of religious community health improvement as a means of the festivals of the respective religions by giving facilities, Company’s participation in the Competency Test donations, and permits to leave work during the days for Vocational High School. of celebration established by the government. n Teacher training and incentives for teachers who teach at remote schools. Community Health Improvement n Training for operators and mechanics. We have various programs for community health improvement as a form of the Company’s participation Besides participating in the community competency in supporting the programs for the eradication of improvement through education and training, we also infectious diseases, improvement of nutrition and provided job vacancies to accommodate available quality of public health as well as the improvement local labour according to the qualification of our of community health care awareness. Some of the activities. This shows our commitment and care for the programs that we carried out, include: human resources development in Kutai Timur. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 79 Rice and durian harvest at Rantau Pulung attended by Vice Regent of Kutai Timur Winners of Kampung Bersemi (Spring Village) competition receive the three-wheel and Camat (Head of Sub-Regency) of Rantau Pulung motorcycle key from Vice Regent of Kutai Timur. Since 2005, we recruited our new employees by Development of Cooperative, Small and Medium referring to the decree of the Department of Manpower Scale Enterprises (KUKM) (SO1) of Kutai Timur Regency No. 562/973-PLK/Disnaker/ We support the effort of developing Cooperatives and VII/2005 which regulated the recruitment system SMEs (KUKM, Koperasi, Usaha Kecil dan Menengah) based on “Scoring System”. The candidate with the through the implementation of various relevant highest score will be prioritized to continue to the next programs, covering: selection process, followed by the next scores. (EC7) n Training, side-by-side guidance and development of UKM businessmen. We carried out the recruitment program for mechanic n The implementation of the program AKU BISA (I trainees in 2010, while recruitment for operator trainees CAN), i.e. empowerment of drop out local youth for 2011 needs was done in December 2010. Specifically through basic skill training. for the mechanic trainees, we provided training for n The empowerment of local contractors through one year. Participants with high achievement received local contractors’ participation in infrastructure placement to work at the Company. development followed by the implementation of security standards and competency improvement The number of mechanic trainees up to 2010 is 302 trainees. training. Out of this number, 77 were from the mechanic trainee program 2007 and 2008, and they have become Company’s Agribusiness Development (SO1) employees, while the rest 111 were from mechanic trainee We also encourage the growth of the local community’s program 2010 and still under the training program. agribusiness with products such as oranges, cocoa, Scores Based on Birthplace and Education RING Location Score Brithplace Primary School Junior School High School RING I SANGATTA DAN BENGALON 40 30 15 15 RING II KUTAI TIMUR 30 20 10 10 RING III KALIMANTAN TIMUR 20 10 5 5 RING IV OUTSIDE KALIMANTAN TIMUR 10 5 0 0 Source: Decree of the Department of Manpower of Kutai Timur Regency No. 562/973-PLK/Disnaker/VII/2005 Number of Local Labor for Operator and Mechanic Trainees NO Name program 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total number Number of local having been trained labor who have worked at KPC 1 Operator trainee 200 0 279 403 0 882 882 2 Mechanic trainee 0 62 129 0 111 302 77 Total 1.122 959 Note: Mechanic trainee program started in 2008 80 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 nilam (patchouli oil), durian, vegetables, sago, rice etc. through the program of Gerdabangagri (Regional government agribusiness and industry development movement). Through this program, we support the effort of improving knowledge, skill for post-harvest processing and expansion of the marketing of agricultural and plantation products of the program’s participants, which included 2,882 families. Farewell of scholarship recipients to STPMD-APMD Yogyakarta Increase the Capability of the Village and Community Through the program of Desa Mandiri (Independent Village), we conducted side-by-side mentoring in 11 villages in Bengalon Sub-Regency in the making of the Village’s Medium-Term Development Planning (RKPDes). Through this program, we hope that all participating villages as well as the regional government and other third parties have a common reference in developing the villages. Nature and Cultural Conservation Program We organize several programs in increasing the village community’s participation to maintain nature conservation and develop local cultural diversity. Some of the programs that we organize include: n Gerak Bersemi (Clean, Healthy and Independent Community Movement) and Kampung Bersemi (village integrated waste management) Program. Through this program, we support the communityKPC employees participate in the competency test for Vocational High School (SMK) to improve the quality of graduates of SMK in Kutai Timur based waste management, so that household waste can be recycled and utilized with the 3R (Reduce, Re-use and Recycle) principle which gives economic benefit.. n BPPUTK (Bumi Pelatihan dan Percontohan Usaha Tani Konservasi, Conservational Agrobusiness Training and Demonstration Plot) Program. Through this program we also support the provision of education/ecotourism facilities, i.e. in terms of the management of waste, energy from biogas, fertilizer and pesticide etc. which is environmentfriendly for students and surrounding community 111 people participated in the Company’s mechanic trainee program 2010 aiming at increasing environmental awareness, so that the community has a place for learning, and protected forest by providing lodging facilities teaching, as well as relaxing. for tourists and researchers at Wehea Protected n Forest Conservation at Kutai National Park and Forest to develop the ecotourism business and Wehea Protected Forest increase community visits and awareness of the We support the existence of the conservation park forest and its conservation. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 81 Independent Assurance Statement Report No. 1011/BD/0103/JK To the management of PT Kaltim Prima Coal Scope of Assurance We were engaged by PT Kaltim Prima Coal (‘KPC’) to We provided Type 2 assurance engagement under AA1000AS provide assurance in respect to its Sustainable Development (2008). This involved an assessment of KPC’s adherence to Report 2010 (‘the Report’). The assurance has been carried the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) out by a multi-disciplined assurance team with a broad range and an assessment on the accuracy and quality of specified of skills and depth of experience, thus providing a high level sustainability performance information contained within the of competency for the assurance engagement. Report, as well as an assessment of the application level of the GRI G3.0 & Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, Version Independence 3.0/MMSS Final Version. Apart from offering comments during the draft process, Responsibility we were not involved in the preparation of any key part of the Report and carried out all assurance undertakings with KPC is responsible for all information and claims contained in independence and autonomy. We did not provide any services the Report, including established sustainability management to KPC during 2010 that could conflict with the independence targets, performance management, data collection and of assurance engagement. report preparation, etc. Our responsibility in performing this engagement is to the management of KPC only for Assurance Standards the purposes of verifying its statements relating to its sustainability, more particularly as described in the agreed We conducted our work in accordance with ISAE3000 scope. Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of relation to the agreed scope. Historical Financial Information’ issued by the International Auditing and Accounting Standards Board. In addition, we Methodology have also planned and carried out our work in accordance with AA1000AS (2008) ‘AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)’, We have assessed several assertions and specified data sets issued by AccountAbility. included in the report and the systems and processes used to manage and report these using the following methods: Level of assurance and criteria used. • Reviewed report, internal policies, documentation, Our evidence-gathering procedures have been designed management and information systems to obtain a limited level of assurance based on ISAE3000 • Carried out interviews with staff involved in and a moderate level of assurance engagement as set out sustainability-related management and reporting. in AA1000AS (2008) in order to provide confidence to • Followed data trails to initial aggregated source and readers by reducing risks or errors to a very low but not checked sample data to a greater depth during the zero. Moreover, we have confirmed that the Report has been engagement process. prepared according to the GRI G3.0 & Sector Supplement and the Application Level requirements. The AA1000 Limitations AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness has also been used as criteria Our scope of work was limited to a review of the accuracy to evaluate the Report. and reliability of specified data and interviews with data providers, persons in charge of data collection and processing, as well as persons in charge of sustainability performancerelated information, and did not include any on-site validation of the mining site. 82 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Conclusions n Responsiveness GRI reporting An assessment has been made as to whether KPC We have reviewed the GRI indicators referenced in the Report demonstrates that it responds to its stakeholders and is to determine that have been either partially or fully applied, accountable to them. and concluded that the report meets GRI G3.0’s requirement for application level A (A+ with this assurance engagement). KPC was found to be responsive to key stakeholder concerns and expectations. This was achieved through AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) the organization's allocation of resources to stakeholder engagement, the timeliness and accessibility of reported Findings and conclusions concerning adherence to the information, and the types of communication mechanisms AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality regularly employed. However, the Standard Operating and Responsiveness include: Procedure on stakeholder engagement could be further formalized in order to achieve a better response to KPC’s n Inclusivity key stakeholder concerns and expectations. An assessment has been made to determine whether Reliability of Sustainability Performance Information KPC has included all key stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has sustainability. come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data of We believe KPC demonstrates a strong commitment the Report has been materially misstated. to stakeholder inclusivity. KPC has effective systems in place for key stakeholders to participate in the All key assurance findings are included herein, and detailed development of the organization's response in the context observations and follow-up recommendations have been of sustainability. This is demonstrated, for instance, submitted to KPC management in a separate report. by conducting a needs assessment procedure on the community development program. Jakarta, October 2011 n Materiality An assessment has been made as to whether KPC has included in the Report the material information required by its stakeholders in order for them to be able to make James Kallman informed judgments, decisions and actions. President Director We found KPC has a strong process in place to determine material issues. Key material issues were adequately Mazars is an international, integrated and independent organization, reported and were found to provide balanced information specializing in audit and assurance, accountancy, tax, legal and about KPC’s sustainability performance. A range of advisory services. Mazars can rely on the skills of 13,000 professionals internal stakeholders are involved in KPC’s materiality in the 61 countries that make up its integrated partnership in Europe, determination process. However, we recommend that Africa, the Middle East, Asia Pacific, North America, Latin America KPC continues to conduct materiality testing on a regular and the Caribbean, whilst in Indonesia is served by PT Mazars, one basis in future reports. of the leading sustainability assurance providers. Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 83 GRI Cross Reference (3.12) Index Description Halaman Index Description Page 1. STRATEGY AND ANALISIS Economic, Environmental, Social Values 4.8 26,27 CEO statement 1.1 3 Performance Monitoring Procedures 4.9 25 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 1.2 4 Board of Directors’ Evaluation 4.10 24,25 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INTIATIVES Name of the Organization 2.1 12 Precautionary Approach 4.11 20 Primary Brand and Services 2.2 12 Principles Endorsed 4.12 16,54,78 Operational Structure 2.3 14 Memberships 4.13 26 Location of Headquarters 2.4 12 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Countries of Operation 2.5 12 Stakeholders Engaged 4.14 18 Nature of ownership and legal form 2.6 12 Identify Stakeholders 4.15 17 Markets Served 2.7 12,51 Stakeholders Engagement 4.16 18 Scale of Organization 2.8 13 Engagement Results 4.17 18 Significant Changes 2.9 9 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND ECONOMIC Awards Received 2.10 15-16 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 3. REPORT PARAMETERS ECONOMIC: DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT REPORT PROFILE APPROACH Reporting Period 3.1 9 Disclosure on Economic Previous Report 3.2 9 Management Approach Reporting Cycle 3.3 9 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Contact Point 3.4 9,12 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE REPORT SCOPE AMD LIMITS Economic Value Generated EC1 46 Report Content 3.5 8 Climate Change Financial Risk EC2 4,52 Boundary of the Report 3.6 9 Benefit Program Coverage EC3 34,35 Limitations of Report Scope 3.7 8 Government Financial Assistance EC4 46 Basis for Reporting 3.8 9 ASPECT : MARKET PRESENCE Measurement, Calculations 3.9 9 Entry Wage Ratios EC5 35 Description 3.10 9 Local Supplier Use EC6 49 Changes from Previous Reports 3.11 8,9 Local Hiring EC7 80 GRI CONTENT INDEX ASPECT : INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS TABEL IDENTIFYING LOCATION OF STANDARD DISCLOSURES Local Investment Impact EC8 78 Report Disclosures 3.12 9, 84-86 Indirect Economic Impacts EC9 46 ASSURENCES 6. ENVIRONMENTAL Assurance Practices 3.13 9,82-83 ENVIRONMENTAL: DISCLOSURE ON 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT MANAGEMENT APPROACH GOVERNANCE Disclosure on Environmental Management Approach Structure, Committees 4.1 23, 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Chair/CEO Separation 4.2 24 ASPECT : MATERIALS Independent Members 4.3 24 Materials Used EN1 60 Recommendation Mechanism to Recycled Input Used EN2 62,70 Management 4.4 18,23,24,31 ASPECT : ENERGY Compensation and Performance Linkages 4.5 25,34 Direct Energy Used EN3 60 Conflicts of Interest 4.6 26 Indirect Energy Used EN4 61 Board Qualifications 4.7 25 Energy Saving EN5 61 84 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Index Description Page Index Description Page Saved Product Energy EN6 61 Notice Period LA5 31,32 Usage Reduction of ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Indirect Energy EN7 35,61 OHS Committees LA6 40 ASPECT: WATER Injury Fatality Rates LA7 41 Water Withdrawal EN8 61 Serious Disease Initiatives LA8 33,39,42 Water Sources Affected EN9 61 Trade Union OHS LA9 42 Water Reuse EN10 62 ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Average Hours Training LA10 33 Biodiversity Land EN11 58 Skills Management Program LA11 33 Impact on Biodiversity EN12 62 Formal Reviews LA12 33 Habitat Restoration EN13 62 ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL Biodiversity Strategy EN14 62 OPPORTUNITY Endangered Species EN15 64 Diversity Indicators LA13 30 ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE Male/Female Salary Ratios LA14 37 Indirect, Direct Greenhouse Gas EN16 66,68 8. HUMAN RIGHTS Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas EN17 66,68 HUMAN RIGHTS : DISCLOSURE ON Greenhouse Gas Reduction EN18 68 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Ozone Depleting Emission EN19 68,69 Human Rights TPTM NOx, SOx, Other EN20 66 HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Water Discharge EN21 65 ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Total Waste EN22 69 Investment in accordance with Human Rights HR1 26,49 Significant Spills EN23 61 Supplier Screening HR2 49 Hazardous Waste EN24 70 Human Rights Training Time HR3 27,38 Water Discharge Impact EN25 62 ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Discrimination Incidents HR4 37 Mitigate Product Impact EN26 53 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND Reclaim Product Sold EN27 50 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ASPECT: COMPLIANCE Collective Bargaining Risk HR5 31 Environment Law NonASPECT: UNDER AGE/ Compliance EN28 71 CHILD LABOR ASPECT: TRANSPORTATION Child Labor Risk HR6 37 Significant Environmental impacts originating ASPECT: FORCED LABOR from transportation EN29 35,66 Forced Labor Risk HR7 37 ASPECT: OVERALL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES Environment Protection Expenditure EN30 71 Security Training HR8 38 7. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS LABOR PRACTICES AND Indigenous Rights Violations HR9 38 DECENT WORK : PTPM 9. Social PTPM Labor Practice SOCIAL : DISCLOSURE ON LABOR PRACTICES MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND DECENT WORK PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Community TPTM ASPECT: LABOR SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Total Workforce LA1 30 ASPECT: SOCIETY Employee Turnover LA2 32 Impacts on Society SO1 20,80 Employee Allowances LA3 34 ASPECT: CORRUPTION ASPECT : LABOR/ Corruption Risk SO2 25 MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Anti-Corruption Training SO3 27 Collective Bargaining Coverage LA4 31 Corruption Response SO4 26 Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 85 Index Description Page Index Description Page ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY Number of activities performed Public Policy and Lobbying SO5 26 or occurring near native community territorries Political Contributions SO6 23,26 and the percentage of activities or ASPECT : ANTI MONOPOLY BEHAVIOUR areas where there is official Monopoly Litigation S07 27 treaty with indigenous people. MM 5 57 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE ASPECT: COMMUNITY Non-Compliance Legal Fines SO8 71 Number and description of disputes related to land 10. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY usage, local community rights and PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY : DISCLOSURE ON indigenous rights MM 6 56 MANAGEMENT APPROACH Explanation on the mechanism Product Responsibility TPTM used to overcome disputes related to PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS land usage, local community rights ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY and indigenous rights, Product Safety Assessment PR1 50 and the results. MM 7 56 Product Health and Safety ASPECT: ARTISANAL AND SMALL SCALE MINING Non-Compliance PR2 49 The Company’s Involvement in ASM ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING (Artisanal and Small-scale Mining) MM 8 13 Product Info Labeling PR3 49 ASPECT: RESETTLEMENT Labeling Non-Compliance PR4 50 Location of resettlement, number of families Customer Satisfaction PR5 50 and how it influences their lives MM 9 57 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATION ASPECT: CLOSURE PLAN Marketing Communication Programs PR6 51 Number and percentage of Marketing Communication operation area with closure plan. MM 10 57 Non-Compliance PR7 51 ASPECT: RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS PRODUCT ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Program and its advances that are Customer Privacy Breach PR8 52 related to responsibility towards product. MM 11 50 Agreement Breach PR9 52 11. MINE AND METAL SECTOR ADDITIONAL INDICATOR FOR MINE AND METAL SECTOR ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Amount of Land (owned or rented, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. MM 1 13,58 Amount and percentage of whole area requiring biodiversity management plan based on certain criteria and area amount (percentage) with the planning. MM 2 57,62 ASPECT: EMISSION, EFFLUENT, AND WASTE Amount of overburden, rocks, tailing, and sedimentation along with related risk. MM 3 58,60,69 ASPECT: WORKER/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Amount of strikes and activity stops lasting more than one week. MM 4 77 ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS 86 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 ABBREVIATION LIST Abbreviantion Information Abbreviantion Information AMDAL Analisis mengenai dampak lingkungan KONI Komite Olah raga Nasional Indonesia APBI Asosiasi Pertambangan Batubara Indonesia KORPPRA Korps Pegawai Pertambangan Batubara APINDO Asosiasi Pengusaha Indonesia KPI Key Performace Indicator B3 Bahan Berbahaya dan Beracun KSDM Kebijaksanaan Sumber Daya Manusia BALITKA Balai Penelitian Tanaman Kelapa LBD Local Business Development Balitro Balai Penelitian Tanaman Obat dan Aromatik LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate BKMM Balai Kesehatan Mata Masyarakat MDG Millenium development goals BLH Badan Lingkungan Hidup MOD Mining Operation Division BML Baku mutu lingkungan MSD Mining Service Division BOSF Balikpapan Orangutan Survival Foundation MSH-CSR Multi Stakeholder for Corporate Social BPID Business & Performance Improvement Division Responsible BPPUTK Bumi Pelatihan dan Percontohan Usaha Tani NAF Non Acid Forming Konservasi NNT Newmont Nusa Tenggara BTU Biological Treatment Unit OB Over burden BUN Bakrie Untuk Negeri OCSP Orangutan Conservation Services Program CFCD Corporate Forum on Community Development ODS ozon depleting substances CIF Cost, Insurance and Freight OLC 2 Overland Conveyor 2 CMD Contract Mining Division PAF Potential Acid Forming CMS Contract and Contractor Management System PDRB Pendapatan Domestik Regional Bruto CNF/CFR Cost and Freight PERHAPI Perhimpunan Ahli Pertambangan Indonesia CPAR Corrective/Preventive Action Request PESAT Peternakan Sapi Terpadu CPE Contract Performance Evaluation PETI Penambangan tanpa izin CPP Coal Processing Plant PID Processing and Infrastructure Division CPR Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation PILI Pusat Informasi Lingkungan Indonesia CSRA Certified Sustainability Reporting Asseror PJI Prestasi Junior Indonesia CSRS Certified Sustainability Reporting Specialist PKB Perjanjian Kerja Bersama DES Delivered ex Ship PKP2B Perjanjian Kontrak Karya Pengusahaan DIKSAR Pendidikan Dasar Pertambangan Batubara EPA Environmental Protection Agency PLTU Pusat Listrik Tenaga Uap ESDM Energi dan Sumber Daya Mineral PPMI Persaudaraan Pekerja Muslim Indonesia Exco Executive Committee Prinasa Program Observasi Perilaku FKPL Forum Komunitas Peduli Lingkungan PUPUK Perkumpulan Untuk Peningkatan Usaha Kecil FOB Free on Board RFP Request for Proposal FPE-SBSI Federasi Pertambangan dan Energi Serikat RKL Rencana Kelola Lingkungan Buruh Sejahtera Indonesia RKPDes Rencana Kerja Pembangunan Desa FRLBT Forum Reklamasi Lahan Bekas Tambang RPJMDes Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menengah GDP Graduate Development Program Desa Gerdabangri Gerakan Daerah Pembanguan Agribisnis RPL Rencana Pantau Lingkungan GRI Global Reporting Initiatives RUPS Rapat Umum Pemegang Saham HRCR Human Resources & Community Relations SCD Supply Chain Division HSE Health, Safety and Environment SDM Sumberdaya manusia HSEMS Health, Safety and Environment Management SOP Standard Operating Procedure System SPK Serikat Pekerja Keadilan IBL Indonesia Business Link SP-KEP Serikat Pekerja Kimia Energi dan Pertambangan ICAO International Civil Aviation Organization SP-MSD Serikat Pekerja Mining Support Division IIA Institute of Internal Auditors STIPER Sekolah Tinggi Ilmu Pertanian IMA Indonesian Mining Association STPMD Sekolah Tinggi Pembangunan Masyarakat Desa IUCN International Union for The Conservation of THRK Tunjangan Hari Raya Keagamaan Nature and Natural Resources TNC The Nature Conservacy K3 Kesehatan dan Kecelakaan Kerja TPA Tempat Pembuangan Akhir K3L Kesehatan, Keselamatan Kerja dan Lingkungan TPH Ton per Hour KADIN Kamar Dagang dan Industri UMSK Upah Minimum Sektor Kabupaten Kutai Timur KLH Kementrian Negara Lingkungan Hidup WTP Water Treatment Plant KNPI Komite Nasional Pemuda Indonesia Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC SustainabilityReport 87 Feedback PT. Kaltim Prima Coal Sustainability Report 2010 Thank you for your willingness to read our sustainability report this year. We value your attention and appreciation of our report. To improve our service and for the development of future sustainability reports, we humbly ask that you fill in the following questionnaire and send it back to us. We are looking forward to your thoughts, opinion, suggestions and criticism. Statement 1. This report provides useful information on the policy, impact and implementation of PT. Kaltim Prima Coal in the fields of economics, environment, and social within the context of sustainable development. SS S RR TS STS 2. This report provides a description and summary on the performance of PT. Kaltim Prima Coal that is in line with the effort to achieve a sustainable development. SS S RR TS STS 3. This report is easy to understand. SS S RR TS STS 4. Information in this report is quite sufficient. SS S RR TS STS 5. This report is appropriate/accountable SS S RR TS STS SS S RR TS STS Strongly Agree Agree Undecided Disagree Strongly Disagree 88 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 6. Information that is useful is : a. b. c. 7. Information that is less useful is: a. b. c. 8. Suggestions about the content, design, layout, etc. are: a. b. c. 9. Information that can be added is: a. b. c. Your Profile Name : Age and Sex : Instution/Company : Type of institution/company Government Industry Media NGO Community Other Thank you for your willingness to take the time to fill out this feedback sheet. We kindly request that you send this back to us. External Affairs & Sustainable Development PT. Kaltim Prima Coal M2 Building, Mine Site Sangatta, Kutai Timur, East Kalimantan Indonesia Telp. 62 549 52 1451 • Fax. 62 549 52 1701 Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 89 CONTRIBUTORS SUSTAINABility REPORT 2010 PT. KALTIM PRIMA COAL PUBLISHED BY : PT. Kaltim Prima Coal PATRON : Endang Ruchijat, Chief Executive Officer ADVISORS : KPC EXECUTIVES, R. Utoro (Chief Operating Officer); Ashok Mitra (Chief Financial Officer); Frank Sinatra (Mining Operation); Shane Bennett (Mining Development); M. Sumali (Processing & Infrastructure); Richard Schloss (Mining Support); Pratikto (Supply Chain); Herlan Siagian (Marketing); Yulianti Subian (Finance); Khudori (Human Resources); Imanuel Manege (Health, Safety & Environment); M. Rudy (Contract Mining); Dasril (Business & Performance Improvement); Bartley Hopkins (Expansion Project) EDITORIAL : Huseinsyah Akma, GM External Affairs & Sustainable Development ACCOUNTABILITY : Louise G. Pessireron, Manager Project Management & Evaluation Ricky Santana, Specialist Reporting and Data Management CONTRIBUTORS : Satya Putra (Man. Business Analyst), Rio Supin (Man. Accounting and Tax), Wijayono Sarosa (Manager Community Empowerment), Danny K. Wardhana (Supt. Project Monitoring and Control), Wawan Setiawan (Supt. Community Support), Nurul Karim (Supt. Agribusiness and Conservation), Genta Gantina (Supt. Local Business Development), Yuliana Datu Bua (Supt. Community Health and Education), Nadira Defy (Supv. Project Admin), Denny Riezki Pratama (GDP Community Empowerment), Beryanti Aritya Putri (Specialist External Liaison), Kusuma Sari (Supt. HSE Technical Affair), Rusdiansyah (Field officer), Andriyanto Soehadji (Supv. Project Admin), Silvester Pantur (Officer Media Publication), Muhammad Yusuf (PME Consultant), Juli Transtuti (Supt.Financial Reporting) Hendy Ferdian (Senior Business Analyst), Yulia Rusmawati (Senior Business Analyst), Djoko Soelistiono (Supt. Export Marketing), Jamik Yulianto (Specialist Marketing Administration), Adi Margusano (Purchasing Supt. Mining, Coal Convey & Support), Hadi Sumarno (Supv. Purchasing), Haryadi Wardhono (Man. Occupational Health and Safety), Ricky Manurung (Spec. Safety Training and Statistic), Candra Nugraha (Manager Environmental), Elistyandari (Supt. Environmental Permit and Reporting), Ike Yulianti (Specialist Environmental), Posman Sirait (Man. Learning and Development Service), Suriadi (Supt. Employee Communication), Bangun Nuswanto (Supt. HR Strategic Plan), Shauman Shaladin (Supt. Mine Contol Dispatch), Tanzilullah (Supt. Coordination and Cost Control), Welen (Supt. Reporting & Analysis), Hetti Savitri (Mine Engineer), Anton Suprajogi (Man. Procurement Expansion Project). DESIGN/LAYOUT : Sandi Yusandi CONTRIBUTORS FOTO : Ricky Santana, Alnahwan, Kris Pranoto, Toni Siagian, Silvester Pantur, Salman Okbah, Didik Fotunadi INTERNAL AUDITOR : Tim Internal Auditor KPC TRANSLATION : Peter Markey, PT PMI (Penulis Maju Indonesia) ASSUROR : PT. Mazars PRINTED BY : Subur Printing WAKAROROS A unique painting of Dayak Basap, a tribe from East Kutai. It is also called “Sitting Banyan Tree”. This painting represents flowered trees or creeping roots whose flowers will attract bees because of their plentiful flower essence, so it will result into abundant honey. 90 KPC n Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 91 External Affairs & Sustainable Development PT. Kaltim Prima Coal M2 Building, Mine Site Sangatta, Kutai Timur, Kalimantan Timur Indonesia Telp. 62 549 52 1451 Fax. 62 549 52 1701 Sustainability Report 2010 n KPC 92
