02 TABLE OF CONTENTS CONTENT 03 Our Values QR CODE Business Sense • Responsibility • Family Tree • Top Performance • Toy Fun 06 Our Performance 14 16 Our Business • Growth • Message from Joint Managing Directors OUR VALUES IN PLAY 08 A Toy Journey 22 31 Stakeholders • Industry Challenges • Sustainability Priorities On these pages use your Smart Phone 10 Creativity and Design to scan the QR code to view short Idea Development • Design Collaboration • films about TOP-TOY Customised Concepts • Certification • Safety 12 We Buy Lots of Toys Sourcing • Supply Chain Complexities • Licenses • Traffic Light Concept WEB 15 How Toys are Made 08 09 10 Industry Challenges • Factory Compliance • Country Focus • Audits • Zero Tolerance • Excessive Overtime 15 18 20 18 Toys on the Move Shipping • Business Planning • Transportation Packaging • Health and Safety 24 31 36 20 We Sell Lots of Toys Customer Service • Competition • Marketing • Work Environment On these pages we make references to TOP-TOY.com/sustainability where 22 Safe Toys you can find more information on our European Toy Safety Directive • Quality Control • Industry Challenges • Recalls sustainability work 26 Toys in Play Insights into TOP-TOY’s Play Value • Recycling Toys • Retail Packaging • Charity • Inspiration from Children 2011/2012 Sustainability and Financial Performance 28 30 Looking to the Future Priorities • Opportunities and Risks • Goals and Progress We are the TOP-TOY Group Family Ownership • Organisational Setup • Business Units • Employees 32 TOP-TOY History Foundation • Retail Chain • Presence in Asia • Wholesale Reader’s Guide Welcome to TOP-TOY’s annual report 2011/2012. building blocks of the TOP-TOY culture, and we believe This report is intended for our internal and external that they create the foundation for a business strategy that stakeholders to learn more about our sustainability and is both sustainable and financially sound. financial performance in the past year. The report takes a value chain perspective of our business With the report, we would like to provide the reader with and we take the reader through a journey from the design a transparent account of the issues important to our of the toy and all the way to children’s playrooms. Along business, including the achievements we have made so the way, we have added cases from employees to show far, the challenges we face and the goals we are working how everybody in the TOP-TOY family contributes on this towards. journey. In this year’s report, we are focusing on our core values and The report is supported by additional information online. how we as TOP-TOY employees live these values through Look out for the web icon and QR codes throughout the our daily work. We see our core values as important report. OUR VALUES IN PLAY 03 OUR VALUES OUR VALUES 04 OUR VALUES 05 Our core values are at the very heart of our company and originate from being family operated for TOP-TOY – A Value Based Company three generations. Our values are what keeps us together and makes us strong. In addition, they help us secure our market position, act responsibly and perform our best. Family Tree “Values do not make a difference if just words written on paper – values can only benefit our company and society when they are TOP-TOY is a family owned company serving consumers who are also families. reflected in our everyday actions” We are loyal and honest to each other and towards our customers, and we want to secure long term sustainability rather than short term gains to benefit future generations. We want to bring joy to children and families through selling good Business Sense.pdf 1 24/11/2010 9:45 AM quality products creating fun and memorable moments. We encourage people to work together rather than being ‘lonely riders’, and to share the same goals even though we work in different countries and time zones. At the same time we want to have happy employees, who perform their best at work, and go home to their families after a day’s work in good spirits. Business Sense Business Sense is about giving good service to our retail and wholesale customers C M by offering the right quality product at the right time and at the right price. We want satisfied customers who would like to do business with us again and again, Y CM MY CY CMY K Top Performance.pdf 1 24/11/2010 10:28 AM and we strive to build long-term relationships with our business partners to ensure profitability for both them and us. We are open to new business opportunities and always look for a good deal. Business Sense is about being a good tradesperson, but also taking responsibility, as we do not want to do business at any price. Top Performance Second and Third Generation of the Gjørup Family – Peter Gjørup, Bjarne Gjørup, Henrik Gjørup and Lars Gjørup We strive to be top performers by always trying to improve ourselves and the way we work, by taking positive action and interacting with colleagues and customers Keeping Our Values in Play which is being rolled out across the organisation. The in a professional manner. We target high quality in all our work efforts and go Shared values are at the core of our business. The programme focuses on how to improve teamwork, TOP-TOY values were officially formulated in 2008, but commitment and responsibility of each employee. C the extra mile for our retail and wholesale customers. We want to ‘do better than M Y CM MY CY CMY K Responsibility.pdf 1 24/11/2010 10:37 AM yesterday’ and we do this by actively listening to feedback and suggestions for they have always been part of our company. Our values are improvement from relevant stakeholders. Top performance is about making the embedded in the TOP-TOY culture and continue to play an Adapting to Change right decisions and implementing them, whilst not being afraid to raise concerns important role in defining our work behaviour. Creating value is also about looking for new opportunities and make changes if needed. and preparing our business for the future. This includes Family Ties optimising our sales channels, building our brands and Responsibility For nearly 50 years TOP-TOY has been a truly familystrengthening our market position. Although TOP-TOY minded company. Henrik and Bjarne Gjørup worked has grown from a small enterprise to becoming a global Responsibility means we take ownership for what we do because we are closely to develop the business after their father, the late operation, the company’s foundation still rests on solid accountable. We take responsibility for our actions throughout the value chain Børge Rasmussen, and extraordinary family ties have lead business sense. regardless of whether you are a customer, a colleague or a supplier. This for example TOP-TOY to where we are now. C M Y CM MY CY CMY K relates to the quality and safety of our products, to the working conditions on the Responsibility in Everything We Do Toy Fun.pdf 1 24/11/2010 10:16 AM factory floor and to being transparent in communicating the dilemmas faced in our Today the company is managed by the family’s third It is important for us to conduct our business in a way that daily work. We want to share our knowledge internally and externally to seek the generation, Lars and Peter Gjørup, who were appointed is socially, environmentally and financially responsible, and best possible solutions and we want to take responsibility for our most important Joint Managing Directors in 2009. Henrik and Bjarne now for this reason it made good sense to become a signatory stakeholders – the children playing with our products. Toy Fun serve as Joint Chairmen of the Board. of the UN Global Compact in 2009. We fully support the ten principles and strive to integrate them in our daily Working for a toy company entails working for and understanding children. Having Our Most Important Asset – People work, for example when it comes to working with our fun is a big part of most children’s lives, and for them it is natural to experiment and At TOP-TOY we focus on people – both customers and suppliers on improving factory conditions and transferring try new things. In our daily work we want to create an environment where ‘fun’ is a C M Y CM employees. Staff in our retail and wholesale business offer knowledge. In a family owned business it is possible to high levels of service to ensure every customer has a good work with a longer time horizon which makes it easier to MY CY CMY K driver for the work we are doing. We are devoted to bring smiles to the faces of our customers and colleagues by encouraging and appreciating each other. We aim to experience. do the right things. create a good work environment, and in that way have a positive effect on people’s well-being as well as their performance. We also invest in giving employees the right tools in order We focus our efforts on issues material to our business, and to ensure job satisfaction and high performance. We by keeping our core values at the forefront of our activities, believe that only by having engaged employees we can we can make a positive impact on both our business and create lasting value for TOP-TOY. We work with employee to society. engagement through our Employeeship programme, OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 06 OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE 07 TOP-TOY sells toys and other products for children across the Nordic countries and Germany. We Message from Joint Managing Directors strive to conduct our business in a manner that creates both financial and sustainability value. This financial year our performance has been influenced by a difficult business environment in Europe. “The European business environment is going through difficult times, and this development has also had an impact on TOP-TOY’s performance in the past year. Considering the soft market demand in many of our markets and our investments for future development, we are however REVENUE IN RETAIL AND WHOLESALE Our Business satisfied with the financial result. And we must not forget that we have also made some TOP-TOY is one of the largest toys businesses 2010/11 2011/12 Growth noteworthy accomplishments” in the Northern European market. Throughout Retail 3,224 3,297 2.3% the financial year we employed 6,544 people A Glance at 2011/12 • We have decided, by the end of 2012, to close down (equal to 2,358 full-time positions). We operate Wholesale 714 742 3.9% This year’s after tax profit was 106 million DKK, compared our Toy Club business in Denmark, which distributes in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland, to 128 million DKK in 2010/2011. The result is negatively impulse toys to supermarkets using small delivery Other 16 5 Germany and Hong Kong. TOP-TOY runs a retail influenced by rising purchase prices and general margin vans. Also, we will end the distribution of licensed business which includes the well-known BR and Group 3,954 4,044 2.3% pressure. confectionary products during 2012/2013. Both TOYS“R”US chains and a wholesale business, decisions are based on our future outlook of the NOTE: Other includes rental income, exchange rate NORSTAR. adjustments etc. Although our same-store sales in most markets have been businesses and desire to increase focus on other areas. flat or slightly declining, we saw the following highlights We are convinced that the continued success REVENUE in our retail business: Staying Committed to Sustainability of our business can only be achieved by We also made a number of achievements related to Billion DKK staying true to our core values, which includes • Our total revenue grew from 3.2 billion DKK in sustainability. This includes investments in our employees, 4 business sense, responsibility, family tree, top 3 2010/2011 to 3.3 billion DKK in 2011/2012. as well as continued implementation of our supplier performance and toy fun. 2 • This year our BR webshops are included in the full evaluation programme covering factory compliance and 1 period. We are pleased to see strong growth in the product safety across all TOP-TOY’s buying locations. In 0 2007/08 Modest Growth in 2011/12 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 webshop traffic, revenue and very high customer 2011/12 we finalised the development of our new Code In the past year, we have experienced growth in satisfaction. of Conduct, which will be implemented in the coming total revenue for both our retail and wholesale • We invested in TOYS“R”US webshops that we opened financial year. These activities form part of our continued PROFIT business. However, our performance has been shortly after the end of the fiscal year, which we expect support for the UN Global Compact. influenced by macro-economic developments, Million DKK will contribute to future growth. especially the Euro crisis that has negatively 160 • We increased the number of stores to 297 by opening Looking Ahead 120 influenced consumer confidence in most of our two TOYS“R”US stores and eleven BR stores in our Considering the current economic climate; in the coming 80 markets, and we have therefore not seen the existing markets, but also closed two BR stores. year, TOP-TOY will work towards adapting our organisation 40 growth that we had expected. 0 2007/08 to increase focus on margin improvement, permanent 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 In our wholesale business, important developments include: cost reduction and activities to support our sales. At the same time, we will make investments in strategic areas to • Comparable revenue increased from 714 million DKK in ensure long-term profitability and continued growth. GROUP KEY FIGURES AND FINANCIAL RATIOS 2010/2011 to 742 million DKK in 2011/2012. • We aligned the name of our wholesale activities and 5 years’ key figures in 1,000 DKK 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 now use the NORSTAR name across all markets. Revenue 3,025,739 2,935,150 3,593,130 3,954,110 4,044,431 • We completed the reorganisation of NORSTAR to EBITDA 316,222 262,959 362,718 311,352 268,231 optimise the sales organisation and expect a continued growth in distributing highly respected brands of EBIT 238,064 181,167 273,574 216,608 169,686 quality toys as well as licensed products. Peter Gjørup and Lars Gjørup Profit for the year 144,726 99,300 162,708 128,223 105,716 Balance sheet total 2,228,689 2,100,632 2,769,513 2,891,484 2,804,243 Equity 963,771 1,029,985 1,180,534 1,265,851 1,362,976 Employees and stores Number of employees (based on full-time positions) 1,792 1,805 2,128 2,261 2,358 Number of stores 262 266 274 286 297 Key financial ratios Operating margin 7.9 % 6.2 % 7.6 % 5.5 % 4.2 % Return on invested capital 12.4 % 8.8 % 12.2 % 8.3 % 6.3 % Equity ratio 43.2 % 49.0 % 42.6 % 43.8 % 48.6 % OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 08 A TOY JOURNEY A TOY JOURNEY 09 Our products go on a long journey before reaching children’s playrooms, and we must consider how We Address Industry Challenges we maximise sustainability and financial value in each step of the journey. Doing so is not always easy, but we believe that we can better strike this balance by listening to our stakeholders, addressing The majority of the world’s toys are manufactured in TOP-TOY has a strong presence in the Nordic market, specific industry challenges, and setting strategic priorities. Asia, predominantly in China. Sourcing from countries but we are a small player in the global toys industry as that have different ways of doing business may entail we contribute to less than 1% of the global market. This certain challenges when it comes to quality standards, is not an excuse to take less responsibility, but we have factory working conditions, environmental concerns and to acknowledge that we cannot solve all challenges CREATIVITY corruption. single-handedly. AND DESIGN TOYS ON THE MOVE TOP-TOY develops TOP-TOY takes people, planet fun, educational and profit into consideration The seasonal nature of our industry also poses challenges We therefore collaborate with industry peers, for example and safe toys when transporting toys due to fluctuations in demand where Christmas puts a through the International Council of Toys Industry (ICTI) around the world lot of pressure on everybody across the value chain. The Care Process that has established a common compliance fact that the industry is increasingly driven by fashion and system to address human and labour rights issues. changing consumer trends adds to this pressure. Industry Challenges WE SELL LOTS OF TOYS – RETAIL TOP-TOY offers a good work environment and great WE BUY LOTS OF TOYS customer service in our BR TOP-TOY only purchases and TOYS“R”US stores products from qualified SAFE TOYS suppliers and factories TOP-TOY ensures that children can safely play with toys TOYS IN PLAY purchased from us TOP-TOY contributes to creating happy childhood memories WE SELL LOTS OF HOW TOYS ARE MADE TOYS – WHOLESALE TOP-TOY requires that factories TOP-TOY is a trustworthy we source from respect human business partner for our and labour rights wholesale customers We Listen to Our Stakeholders We Set Sustainability Priorities It is essential to us that we listen to our stakeholders, who and used to guide us in which concerns to tackle first when As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, we are committed • We are continuing the systematic implementation of include children and their parents, employees, suppliers doing business. The top priorities for our stakeholders are to supporting human and labour rights, the environment our supplier evaluation programme which means we and licensors, business partners, regulators, NGOs, industry product safety and quality, human and labour rights, work and anti-corruption in our business operations. Identifying now have a uniform approach to suppliers across all our peers, local communities, media and shareholders. environment and open and honest communication. issues that concern our stakeholders and which have an buying locations. impact on TOP-TOY’s business help us set strategic priorities • We want to further invest in product safety and we We believe that monitoring and actively engaging with We plan to conduct a new materiality assessment during for our sustainability work. Our strategic priorities include: therefore continue working towards having zero recalls our stakeholders enables us to better understand societal the financial year 2012/2013 to make sure that we keep up and influencing our suppliers to raise the bar for product dynamics and identify material sustainability issues. to date, so that we can better align TOP-TOY’s own interests • We want to strengthen compliance and corporate safety. with those of our stakeholders. governance by rolling out our new Code of Conduct • We work towards finding more environmentally friendly Our previous materiality assessment was conducted in and supporting policies across the organisation. With packaging options and increasing the amount of November 2010, which included interviews with key the Code, we want to promote an organisational culture wooden products sourced from sustainably harvested stakeholders as well as a business impact analysis. The based on personal responsibility and accountability. forests. assessment provided us with a gross list of potential material issues which subsequently have been evaluated Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Priorities OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 10 CREATIVITY AND DESIGN 11 Working Together as One Global Family CREATIVITY AND DESIGN “We always work very hard to support We believe that toys can enrich children’s lives. It is therefore a top priority for us to offer a product each other and show that kind of family range in both our retail and wholesale business which contributes positively to children’s well-being and development. We want to create fun and happy childhood memories. responsibility towards one another” We work closely with licensors such as Disney Meeting Our Consumers’ Demands and Lucasfilm in the design phase to ensure we In TOP-TOY, it is not just about designing new products – it can offer products with popular characters that is also about making sure that our existing product ranges children recognise and like. keep up to date and meet consumer demands. Here, the creative process may involve expanding product offerings Design in the World of Toys and designing new colour palettes, logos and packaging, Although we design some of our own products, so that we can offer products that are among the best in the majority of products we sell are designed the market. and innovated by others. We therefore collaborate with our suppliers to buy a One example is our FOOD‘N’FUN brand, which for more combination of products, where some are than ten years has offered play food and kitchen utensils Hong Kong Office – Katherine Yu and Richard Crosbie selected for their educational value, such as for children aged 2-6 years. However, the look of the brand shape sorters and memory games. Others are was outdated and the name and logo only featured cut and Getting Boys into the Kitchen chosen based on current trends and popularity, play food although the product offering had expanded For all design and development – whether it is developing or simply because they are fun to play with. beyond this. new products or revitalising existing ones – it is important to consider play patterns, gender roles and educational TOP-TOY Tailor-made A Good Business Case value since “It is through play that children learn their role Some of the products we source from our A thorough business case was developed by the Product as little citizens”, as pointed out by Richard. Fostering Creativity suppliers are concepts that we then customise Management team in our Hong Kong office, then Richard The beauty of designing a toy is that it brings out and adapt into TOP-TOY’s own brands to fit our Crosbie, Creative Development Manager, and Katherine This also needs to be taken into account when designing our “inner child”, since we have to be innovative markets in Northern Europe. Such examples Yu, Senior Graphic Designer, were brought in to revitalise new product packaging. Therefore, in addition to and creative in the process. What begins as an include BELLINO, KIDS-WOOD, PLAY2LEARN and the brand. developing overall packaging design, icons and logo for idea develops into a concept that is then tested, HAPPY HOUSE. the new HAPPY HOUSE brand, Katherine also oversaw manufactured, distributed and finally purchased Richard states, “The products had outgrown the brand and the photo shooting of the children to be displayed on by our customers. For our own brand products we can influence we realised that we needed an actual house to fit in all the the retail packaging. “We have become more aware of the choice of material, and we are focusing on products – this was how we came up with the new HAPPY the way we are portraying children and when designing In this process, we often work closely with phasing-in wood from sustainably harvested HOUSE brand name”. new product packaging of this kind, it is important for our suppliers to constantly come up with forests for our wooden products. Today we us that children of both genders are equally displayed in new ideas and develop the right products. purchase 176 different wooden products play”, she says. Good examples of this are our FLEXI-TRAX and through our buying office in Hong Kong, out of KIDS-WOOD products. which 108 are our own brands. 76% of these are Success through Working Together either FSC certified or rubber wood. The case illustrates how brand revitalisation requires close ® Children’s Lifestyle Products collaboration between our Product Development team TOP-TOY also designs a variety of textiles for Fun and Safety Hand in Hand and Graphic Design team, and both Katherine and Richard e ha us ppy ho children, such as sleeping bags, towels and bed Safety is thought into the very first phase of agree that working together is a fundamental part of linen. We have established a Textile Competence product design and development, as well as running a successful project. Centre to develop a variety of licensed lifestyle when we purchase products designed by our products for children. suppliers. Other teams have also been involved in the process. “We have been working closely with the Product Management We are working towards having all textiles we All TOP-TOY’s products must, as a minimum, and Purchasing teams to find new products that fit the design Oeko-Tex certified. This ensures that no comply with applicable laws and regulations HAPPY HOUSE brand and with the Quality Assurance team products contain harmful substances. Today such as the European Toy Safety Directive. We to ensure product safety”, Katherine explains. “In addition, 45% of all textiles we design and manufacture are want parents to feel assured that all products suppliers have been involved to make sure the packaging Oeko-Tex certified. they purchase through our retail and wholesale has the right shape to display our products in the best businesses are safe for their children with possible way when they reach our stores”. regards to chemical and mechanical safety. Wooden Products OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 12 WE BUY LOTS OF TOYS 13 WE BUY LOTS OF TOYS SUPPLIERS AND FACTORIES WITH ORDERS PLACED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR Purchasing the right toys is an essential part of our business. When we have decided on a great product that we want to sell in our retail or wholesale businesses, we start the purchasing process. Supplier anchorship Asia Europe This is a complex process that includes many different stakeholders and challenges. 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2011/12 Number of suppliers 254 261 228 273 anchored suppliers. Our own brands are Number of factories 468 472 414 303 * managed by Product Managers in Hong Kong New factories N/A 67 88 56 and Aarhus. * 70% of our suppliers have submitted factory information as part of the roll out of our factory compliance programme. A Complex Supply Chain There are many players in the toy world, Making the Right Choice Traffic Light Concept Ensures Compliance including major brand manufacturers, small and The fact is, if a supplier holds the exclusive In TOP-TOY, we have established a “Traffic Light medium sized suppliers, factories, wholesalers, right to a popular license, it can be difficult to Concept” that we use when we initiate any retailers, and licensors. TOP-TOY does not own “simply choose another supplier” if unhappy relationship with a supplier and as a condition any factories, and therefore works closely with with their factory conditions. This may put of continued supplier collaboration. We have our suppliers who develop and manufacture TOP-TOY in a dilemma because if no other structured this into three areas of compliance the products we choose to purchase. A supplier can provide the exact same product, that need to have a “green light” before any supplier may own its own factories or work on then TOP-TOY’s decision may be limited to either product can be purchased. a contracted basis with a factory. For our own buy their product or not. However, in such a brands we often work with suppliers directly situation TOP-TOY will usually engage with the The green lights are not listed in order of priority, owning the factory. supplier to make improvements so that the but all lights must be green before an order can factory can live up to our requirements. be issued with a supplier. At the same time, the manufacturing Sourcing Starts with a Supplier environment in China, where up to 70% of Our suppliers are our business partners – it would be impossible to source products successfully the world’s toys are assembled, is constantly changing with factories being opened and The Added Value of Responsibility without good, trusted, and long-term supplier closed or transferred to new owners or relations. The day to day relationship with our addresses. “We want to be a responsible supplier to our wholesale and retail customers. We want to suppliers is managed by our Product Managers, who are responsible for the selection of Regardless of the setup, the requirements we protect the reputation of BR, TOYS“R”US and our wholesale customers” products. demand of our suppliers are the same. Having Balancing Our Margins an office in Hong Kong is therefore a great Working with responsibility comes naturally for the Each Product Manager has his or her own area advantage for TOP-TOY, since we have local Product Management team in Aarhus. “We want to make of expertise and responsibility. Those based people employed who work directly with our sure that our wholesale and retail customers trust that in our Hong Kong Office handle our Asian suppliers and factories, and keep track on what we are doing our best to be a responsible supplier”, says anchored suppliers, and the ones working from is happening. Product Manager Karina Østergaard. our European Offices (Copenhagen, Aarhus and Hamburg) are responsible for the European World of Licenses Product Manager Jakob Andersen says, “There is however Many toys come with a license which adds a down-side to working with responsibility in the supply even more complexity to the supply chain. chain, as it has an effect on our price margins. This is TOP-TOY may hold the license to produce certain TOP-TOY LICENSORS not always appreciated by our customers. Of course products and other times it may be the supplier Product Management Team in Aarhus – Jesper Sejra Faurschou, production costs go up with using good suppliers and who holds the license. Karina Østergaard and Jakob Andersen factories, which can sometimes put us at a competitive disadvantage, but then again, it is something we should As an example, in 2011, TOP-TOY developed Following Requirements be proud of as it strengthens our position”. a FLEXI-TRAX Cars 2 product based on the SUPPLIERS Disney movie. Here we had to seek out licensor Jesper Sejra Faurschou is Product Manager for TOP-TOY and his job includes screening suppliers and working with Karina adds, “Many of our suppliers have actually worked approval from Disney, which included approval licensor requirements. “Different licensors have different with sustainability for many years, and we want to of concept and design of the final product, requirements and this has to be carefully respected when acknowledge the work they are doing”. safety approval, and approval of the factory we had chosen for the manufacturing. The supplier choosing suppliers, we have to consider both our own FACTORIES owns the factory and was heavily involved requirements and the licensor’s requirements”, Jesper throughout the process. explains. OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 14 WE BUY LOTS OF TOYS 15 HOW TOYS ARE MADE The first green light is Legal Compliance – anchored suppliers, and we are now working QR CODE where we need to have a contractual agreement systematically with this concept across all our The products that we sell through our retail and wholesale businesses are manufactured in around in place with the supplier. buying locations. 700 factories across 30 countries. Even though we do not own any factories, and therefore cannot have full control of what goes on at the factory floor, we still work hard to ensure that they comply to The second green light is the Product Quality We see clear benefits from this project our Factory Compliance Standards. Compliance – where we need to ensure that because we ensure a uniform approach to the products we source from the supplier meet supplier evaluation and obtain a much better or exceed EU regulations, local legislation and understanding of the conditions throughout our Industry Challenges See Product TOP-TOY’s own safety and quality requirements. supply chain. It is a valuable learning experience TOP-TOY faces many challenges when Manager, to roll out the Traffic Light Concept, especially purchasing products in countries such as China. Hanne Hilstroem, The third green light is Factory Compliance in relation to factory compliance. This is because The most common problems we see in factories visit a supplier in – where we require all factories used for a significant part of the manufacturing takes relate to payment of wages, excessive overtime China, looking manufacturing products that we buy live up to place in high risk countries in Asia, and even if and poor health and safety conditions. for new exciting TOP-TOY’s Factory Compliance Standards. a supplier is European anchored, it is likely that products. the product is manufactured in Asia. In the global toys industry, TOP-TOY is a small Current Priorities player which makes it difficult to raise the bar for Our Hong Kong Office has been working with The roll out has commitment from all levels of factory compliance on our own. This is why we product quality and factory compliance for the company and by working together as a team, take an active role in the ICTI Care Process, where many years. At the beginning of 2012, we we have come far in the process. This means by we on an industry level work with our peers to kicked-off an extensive project to start working the end of 2013, the Traffic Light Concept will be improve working conditions in factories. with the Traffic Light Concept for our European fully implemented across TOP-TOY. Factory Compliance Standards All our suppliers must, as a part of their contractual agreement, follow our Factory Compliance Standards, where they Combining Business Sense and Responsibility acknowledge that the factories they use for Any factory located in a high risk country that manufacturing our products, as a minimum, manufactures products for us must have a social meet our factory compliance requirements. audit performed at their factory every twelve “The roll out of the Traffic Light Concept has added a new task to our daily interaction with our Our Factory Compliance Standards are based months. The majority of factories are audited suppliers, but it also means that we have developed a clear position towards what we expect on core ILO Conventions, the ten principles of according to one of the following auditing and from them” the UN Global Compact, and the ICTI Code of certification schemes: Business Practices. TOP-TOY’s Product Managers are responsible for all • ICTI Care Process daily communication with the suppliers, and this Focusing Our Efforts • Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000) means combining business sense with responsibility. To use our resources where we have the greatest • Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Product Manager Anders Pedersen explains, “We have impact, we focus on factories located in high risk to plan well ahead, negotiate deals, collect product test countries based on the UN Human Development TOP-TOY can also choose to conduct our own documentation, and convince suppliers to be transparent Index. These factories face most human and audits. In 2011/12 we conducted 87 audits, of in their supply chains”. labour rights challenges and by concentrating which 64 were announced and 23 unannounced. our efforts here, we can influence factories to Support from Senior Management make significant improvements. If an audit reveals non-compliance issues, we will The Traffic Light Concept was introduced for our European work with the supplier and factory to develop a anchored suppliers in 2012. It requires a lot of work to GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF FACTORIES corrective action plan to improve the conditions ensure effective implementation of a new concept, but as USED BY TOP-TOY in the factory. Product Management Team in Copenhagen – Anders Pedersen, Lars-Bo Jøhl and Pia Rosenbek Product Coordinator Pia Rosenbek says, “It helps that we have a clear position on what we require from our suppliers, China Zero Tolerance Scandinavia 81% We have defined a number of non-compliance A New Role and that this is supported by senior management”. 3% Lars-Bo Jøhl has been with TOP-TOY for 19 years, and in his issues referred to as Zero Tolerance violations. Other If we find that a factory violates one or more of current role as Product Manager he has witnessed many Having support from senior management is essential 2% changes over the years, “Today, our role is not only to buy when suppliers challenge the need to provide TOP-TOY these, we will not conduct business with this Asia the right products at the right time, but also to make sure with our requested information. This is also the case when (excluding China) factory as long as the violations are not being 3% Europe the suppliers use the right factories”. we need to make firm decisions on whether we continue (excluding Scandinavia) corrected. 11% a business relationship or not with a supplier. NOTE: Status June 30, 2012. Factory Compliance OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 16 HOW TOYS ARE MADE HOW TOYS ARE MADE 17 On the Factory Floor It is always the factory’s responsibility to make QR CODE corrective actions. TOP-TOY can support and FACTORY CERTIFICATION FOR FACTORIES WITH SUPPLIER ANCHORSHIP IN EUROPE give guidance, but cannot force the factory “The real reward in the job as a Factory Auditor is when you see a factory making progress. In Not Audited to change. Therefore if a factory will not make 39% ICTI that sense, you have contributed to a positive impact on people’s lives” changes, TOP-TOY will have to terminate the 11% business relationship, whereas factories working SA8000 2% seriously to make corrective actions and Our Eyes and Ears in the Factories white, and for us it is therefore central that the suppliers continuous improvements, can be approved to Low Risk Country BSCI Benjamin Ho, Peter Chan and Kim Yeung are our people on and factories are transparent. In that way, we can build 31% 14% See Social manufacture products for TOP-TOY. the ground in China, all of them with extensive auditing long-term relationships and ensure improvements on the Compliance Other Standards TOP-TOY Audited experience. They are our eyes and ears in the factories factory floor”. Examples of Zero Tolerance violations: 2% 1% when it comes to improving working conditions. Manager, Wydy Ling, The Factories Should Want to Work with Us • Use of child or forced labour NOTE: Factories identified as part of the roll out of the However, one team alone cannot drive the process Sustainability Coordinator Christoffer Falkman, who inspect a factory factory compliance programme. Approx. 70% of all in China. • Discrimination of workers suppliers have submitted factory information. forward. “For us it is important that factory compliance is handles factory compliance for our European anchored • Ban of trade unions and collective bargaining not only linked to our team, but also to other teams within suppliers, explains, “We are quite a small player in the • Lack of payment for regular working hours FACTORY CERTIFICATION FOR FACTORIES TOP-TOY”, says Peter, Factory Compliance Officer. global toys industry, and therefore it can be difficult for • Serious neglect for health and safety WITH SUPPLIER ANCHORSHIP IN ASIA Benjamin, our Senior Auditor adds, “When we request us to put pressure on the factories. If a factory does not factories to make improvements, we need to communicate want to make the required improvements, we cannot force Not Audited However, the most common reason for factory 1% ICTI as a unified company, so there is a clear connection them and you can say that it is the factories who choose to termination is if a factory refuses to show us 76% between a potential business opportunity and making end the business relationship, though we will do our best Low Risk Country true and accurate documents, such as records 6% improvements”. to get them to make the necessary changes”. of working hours and payments, or refuses our Other Standards 6% auditors to access the entire factory premises. Factory Approvals The Reward TOP-TOY Audited An important step when purchasing is the approval Kim is in no doubt what the most rewarding part of the job 8% In TOP-TOY we believe in transparency, and we BSCI SA8000 process, where we review factory documentation and is. “It is when you come out to the factory and interview would rather know the reality in a factory, so 3% 0% conduct factory audits. Only after a factory has been the workers, and you can feel that they trust you. In a way that improvements can be made, than to be approved will TOP-TOY place orders with the factory. you can say that we have the same mission in terms of presented with records that on paper meet the improving working conditions on the factory floor”. Kim legal requirements, but does not reflect reality. Workers come to the factories, and many want The challenge however is that there is not always a clear also adds, “This is truly the best part of the job – that you In that way we can work together towards to make as much money as possible during cut as Wydy Ling, our Social Compliance Manager explains, may be able to make a difference for other people”. improvements. their employment, so they can support their “What is happening in the factories is not always black and families. The problem arises when factories Excessive Factory Overtime require workers to work extremely high – an Industry Challenge overtime hours without proper compensation. One of the most common and complex This is also connected to the industry’s high challenges facing the industry in China is degree of seasonality where buyers expect excessive overtime. The majority of people who factories to deliver goods with short lead times. work in factories are migrant workers, who have TOP-TOY acknowledges this dilemma, and we moved from remote rural areas to the cities are adapting our business planning schedules to where the factories are located – today migrant offer longer lead times, but it is also important to workers count for 150 million people in China. strike a balance between setting requirements for reducing overtime with the reality on the ground. RESULTS OF TOP-TOY AUDITS STATUS OF FACTORIES AUDITED BY TOP-TOY 2010/11 2011/12 2010/11 2011/12 Total number of audits Total number of 134 87 83 64 conducted by TOP-TOY factories audited TOP-TOY requirements Number of factories 0 0 41 39 are met at time of audit approved Improvements required Number of factories 91 57 4 2 after audit pending for final decision Failed – Zero Tolerance Number of factories 43 30 38 23 Factory Compliance Team – Kim Yeung, Wydy Ling, Christoffer Falkman, Benjamin Ho and Peter Chan violations not approved OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 18 TOYS ON THE MOVE 19 Caring for Planet and People TOYS ON THE MOVE “We have changed the pallet wrapping material to a new type of foil which is more Making sure that our products are transported from the factories all the way to our customers is no environmentally friendly and longer lasting” child’s play. It requires careful planning, environmental considerations as well as constant care for the health and safety of our employees. Caring for the Environment “We care a lot about waste handling and recycling when it comes to for example plastic and cardboard”, says Klaus. from Asia need to be planned around a year He also refers to other initiatives that include new pallet ahead whereas products manufactured in wrapping foil and a LED lighting project in one of the Europe can be planned with a few months’ warehouse halls. By switching to LED lighting, TOP-TOY delivery time. expects to reduce our CO2 emissions by 400 tons annually. The seasonal nature of the industry presents Less Heavy Lifting challenges to factories and their workers The distribution centre runs night and day and everybody because peak workloads may lead to excessive feels a great responsibility to look out for each other’s use of overtime. To reduce this, we have over well-being. Heidi points out that “We have a challenge the last couple of years improved our business in regards to heavy goods – we need to be efficient and Distribution Center in Copenhagen – Heidi Hannecke and Klaus Ipsen planning and forecasting processes. In doing so, perform, particularly during the Christmas peak season we ensure timely delivery of our products and Operating a Distribution Centre – but we must also look after our people”. To minimise create longer lead time to the benefit of the TOP-TOY operates a 60,000 m2 distribution centre in heavy lifting, TOP-TOY has bought new special vacuum factories, which is good business sense. Copenhagen where Heidi Hannecke and Klaus Ipsen work tube lifters for items such as trampolines and pools. We are as Assistant and Team Manager. Here, different initiatives also testing special slip sheets to protect employees when We Recycle Transportation Packaging are running to address environmental and safety-related unloading containers. Cardboard wrapping is necessary to ensure issues. that products are not damaged during Getting Toys from A to B transportation. In our distribution centres and The majority of the products we sell are retail stores, we collaborate with municipal manufactured in Asia. This entails a significant services to recycle as much transportation amount of transportation, which is costly and cardboard as possible. Currently, we are also How Slip Sheets Make a Difference has a climate impact. We strive to transport researching more environmentally friendly our toys in the most efficient way with respect packaging options, to reduce our footprint in for the bottom line and the environment, we this area for the future. “Slip sheets make business sense since they make unloading more efficient. Also, we show therefore try our best to avoid airfreight. responsibility towards people handling our containers because we minimise heavy lifting” Safety Comes First In Asia, products are loaded into containers and Ensuring the health and safety of employees Challenges with Lifting go on a five week journey by ship to Europe. working in our distribution centers is a key Most of our existing suppliers do not have a tradition of From the harbour, the toys travel by truck to concern, and we continuously work to make using pallets in containers because manual loading of our distribution centres in Copenhagen or improvements. One example is our new vacuum goods is cheaper than investing in a forklift truck. However, Aarhus. Products purchased from European tube lifters designed for handling heavy items in this poses challenges with lifting when loading and based suppliers are mainly transported by truck our bulk area. This is expected to relieve us from unloading the containers. Therefore TOP-TOY has initiated from warehouses in Europe to our distribution approx. 800 tons of lifting annually. Another a special slip sheet project, led by Shipping Manager Alice centres. Here we make sure that all retail and example is working with slip sheets in our Chiu. wholesale deliveries are distributed to our stores containers to avoid having to load and unload and wholesale customers. containers manually. Costs versus Benefits In February 2012, six suppliers packed their goods on slip Currently we are testing an alternative approach Current Priorities sheets which arrived in nine containers in our distribution where we ship containers directly to TOYS“R”US We acknowledge there are health and safety centre in Copenhagen. “To handle slip sheets, we had to Hong Kong Office – Alice Chiu stores instead of via our distribution centres. challenges across our entire value chain. invest in a new forklift truck with push-pull device, but This is a way to reduce both our CO2 emissions However, we have chosen to prioritise our the benefits outweigh the costs as they make unloading invest in equipment to handle slip sheets, but in the future and logistics costs. health and safety efforts specifically around the processes more efficient and minimise manual lifting”, TOP-TOY wants to develop a long term partnership with workers in the manufacturing factories and our Alice explains. selected suppliers and use slip sheets as standard practice. Smart Business Planning own employees. “We will continue testing in the coming year and then Timing is essential in our business. For example, Looking to the Future scale the project as much as possible. It is definitely the we have to make sure that toys are delivered in However, there are also challenges with introducing slip way forward”, says Alice. time for Christmas. Products that are imported Health and Safety sheets. For example, it is difficult to convince suppliers to OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 20 WE SELL LOTS OF TOYS 21 Our Commitment to Satisfied Customers WE SELL LOTS OF TOYS “We want customers to feel safe with our products and to We sell our products through our BR and TOYS“R”US retail stores, and NORSTAR, our wholesale unit. get the best possible service – basically we want to meet and No matter who our customer is, we always strive to conduct our business in the most ethical manner and deliver the best possible service. exceed customers’ expectations” We Sell Fun Our retail employees make sure Employees in all relevant functions receive customers – both adults and children antitrust compliance training, and we maintain – get a good shopping experience. strict information firewalls between our retail Valentina Ayres Cea, Assisting and wholesale business units. Store Manager in TOYS“R”US in TOYS“R”US Assistant Store Manager Kristiansand, Norway finds there is – Valentina Ayres Cea, Norway Fair Play in Marketing something special about working the way we do things. One example As children are vulnerable and impressionable in a toy store, “This is a place where is the Situational Leadership course consumers, we always strive to conduct families shop and we let the children where Store Managers learn about our marketing in a responsible way and in play with our products. In that way we leadership roles and how to motivate compliance with applicable regulations and give them a good experience and the different types of employees. This best practices. We only use advertising toy fun already starts in the store”. creates happy employees who can messages that accurately portray the features provide good service and therefore of our products, and we avoid any misleading Improving Everyday create happy customers”, Daniel statements. Daniel Abild is Store Manager in our explains. “We are very proud of our BR store in Mikkeli, Finland and to service culture which we continue to If we are subject to complaints, we always him, training plays an important role develop”. seek to remedy and collaborate with relevant in ensuring high levels of customer authorities. This was the case when we were service and employee commitment, Top-Quality Customer Service found guilty of portraying stereotype gender BR Store Manager – Daniel Abild, Finland “We have training to help us improve In our retail stores, we want people to enjoy roles by the Swedish Advertising Ombudsman their visit, and be greeted with a smile from in 2012. Here we initiated a dialogue and our employees. We take pride in offering great since then have taken steps to improve our service, and all our employees go through advertising so that we show more gender Having the Right Sales Pitch Service Management training. In our wholesale neutral representations of children at play. business, we want customers to see us as a professional supplier of quality products for Promoting a Good Work Environment “We want to work as a trusted supplier towards our customers children. In our workplace we do not want it to be all – and secure a good return of investment” work and no play. On the contrary, we believe Fair Play in Competition that having fun is the best way to ensure Business Sense is Key feels he has a strong card on hand Due to the setup of TOP-TOY, customers of our employee motivation, well-being and retention. The Key Account Managers at in making customers understand wholesale business may also be competitors We have worked systematically with employee NORSTAR are responsible for the that we are a responsible player in to our retail business. It is therefore important engagement for a number of years and continue sales of our products to wholesale the Nordic market. “It is a very good for us that our wholesale customers see us as to broaden it out across the entire organisation. customers. “In my job as Key Account tool to be able to refer to our work a trustworthy business partner that competes Manager, there are several aspects with sustainability in a sales pitch. fairly in all markets where we operate. Retail employees constitute the majority of our that I have to take into consideration; This creates trust in NORSTAR”, he workforce, and it is important for us to ensure this includes marketing the products, explains. REVENUE IN MILLION DKK (EXCLUDING VAT) 2011/12 everyone’s well-being, including health and setting the right prices, and actually Denmark Sweden Norway Finland Germany Iceland Total safety. We adhere to local labour laws, as a just using plain common sense”, says Over the last years the business minimum, and we strive for zero remarks when Stefan Munge. environment has changed, and BR 689 581 337 139 86 N/A 1,832 authorities carry out workplace inspections. today more customers pay attention TOYS“R”US 473 464 360 116 N/A 52 1,465 In addition, we have a number of different Sustainability Creates Trust to sustainability, but of course “The NORSTAR 220 173 163 186 N/A N/A 742 initiatives to promote a good work environment Stefan has been with the company prime focus for our customers is to in all our stores depending on the country of since 2010. When working to get a good and fair price”, Stefan operation. maximise sales opportunities, he explains. EMPLOYEES CALCULATED IN FULL-TIME POSITIONS Denmark Sweden Norway Finland Germany Iceland Total One thing is clear however, “You BR 504 324 180 90 78 N/A 1,176 never become too old to play with the TOYS“R”US 196 143 111 48 N/A 24 522 newest scooter!” Key Account Manager – Stefan Munge Health and Safety OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR A TOY JOURNEY VALUES IN PLAY 22 SAFE TOYS 23 The European Toy Safety Directive SAFE TOYS The European Toy Safety Directive Obligations of a Manufacturer Product safety is a key concern for our stakeholders and is also a key priority for TOP-TOY. We want to The new European Toy Safety Directive entered into force When producing toys for the EU market, the manufacturer make sure that our customers can trust our toys, be it parents and their children shopping in our retail in July 2011. The most significant changes compared to the must draw up technical documentation including results stores or via our wholesale business. previous toy safety regulation within the EU are increased of chemical, physical and mechanical testing and product requirements for documentation of toy safety, increased safety assessments. chemical requirements and a clear division of obligations Oeko-Tex certification, and today 45% of between manufacturers, importers and distributors. Obligations of an Importer all textiles we design and manufacture are Before bringing toys into the EU, the importer must ensure Oeko-Tex certified. The Toy Safety Directive is one of the first directives that appropriate testing for product safety has been developed by the EU under the New Legislative Framework. carried out by the manufacturer and that the toys have Keeping an Eye on our Products The objective of this framework is to strengthen product been labelled according to the EU toy safety requirements. We believe it is good business sense to work safety implementation in the EU and ensure greater closely with our suppliers to make sure products consistency between different product types. Obligations of a Distributor meet all safety requirements. Therefore all When making toys available on the EU market, the our products purchased from Asian anchored We expect the New Legislative Framework will be used distributor must verify that the toys have been labelled suppliers are inspected before shipment. It is to standardise the approach to product safety and the according to the EU toy safety requirements and provide better for all parties involved to eliminate any division of obligations for other product categories in the the required instructions and safety information. potential safety breaches as early in the process future, including product categories in our assortment as possible. such as textiles. In 2011/12, TOP-TOY conducted in-depth TOP-TOY: Manufacturer obligations TOP-TOY: Importer obligations TOP-TOY: Distributor obligations assessments of 477 new TOP-TOY branded Supplier: No obligations Supplier: Manufacturer obligations Supplier: Manufacturer obligations products prior to production, and conducted 110 process inspections during the actual When TOP-TOY holds the role as When TOP-TOY holds the role as When TOP-TOY holds the role as A Game Changer production. manufacturer, we are responsible for importer, we require a Declaration distributor, we request both a QR CODE The new European Toy Safety Directive, ensuring the appropriate technical of Conformity, confirming that the Declaration of Conformity and that entered into force in July 2011, has In addition, we put a lot of effort into quality documentation. This applies to supplier meets the requirements appropriate test reports. Here we significantly changed the toys industry, since it control after completion of production and prior our own brand products, which of the Toy Safety Directive. We also go beyond the Toy Safety Directive requires higher toy safety standards and more to delivery. In 2011/12, our Quality Assurance are marketed in the EU under require appropriate test reports requirements, and some suppliers documentation than previously. In addition, the team made 715 visits to 323 different factories our trademarks. For many of our from our suppliers, for example test would therefore decline to submit directive will introduce increased requirements and conducted 3,779 in-factory product suppliers producing TOP-TOY’s reports for chemical compliance. test reports. If a supplier will not for assessments of chemical substances in July inspections. We also perform in-house product own brand products, the Toy Safety provide test reports, we evaluate 2013, and significantly more chemicals will be inspections counting for 1,459 inspections in Directive represents a new mind-set the supplier’s history of toy safety See Quality banned to use. 2011/12. and we work closely with them to compliance, and based on this Assurance ensure that they understand what is evaluation, decide whether or not Manager, TOP-TOY supports high toy safety standards and We also verified that 1,599 new products were required. to place an order. Clarence Wong and his team believes that sensible legal requirements are correctly marked according to European and test for product necessary to ensure an accountable industry. Nordic legal standards, as well as we assessed safety. We have been working systematically with toy documentation to verifiy that the products had Su safety since 1992, when we established our passed the relevant safety measurement tests. Supplier p ha plie buying office in Hong Kong. Being close to the has no le a r s legal en gal factories which produce large quantities of our When the new Toy Safety Directive was entity w tity toys is an advantage to better control product introduced we started a process of ensuring that within theithin safety and quality. all existing products met the new requirements. EU the EU During 2011/12 we have assessed and verified Play it Safe that more than 8,000 products are in compliance Products Products Even though the Toy Safety Directive only with the new Toy Safety Directive by requesting TOP-TOY TOP-TOY focuses on toys, we ensure that all categories relevant documentation from the supplier. Own brand buys from buys within of products we purchase are safe and meet products outside the EU the EU legal requirements. We want to play it safe It is our philosophy that if anything has gone and have decided to broaden the scope for wrong in production, it is better to stop selected product categories and apply similar non-compliant products in the factories rather requirements for safety documentation as in the than consumers experiencing products not FACTORIES Toy Safety Directive. This for example includes meeting safety and quality expectations. textiles where we increasingly request for OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR AVALUES IN PLAY TOY JOURNEY 24 SAFE TOYS SAFE TOYS 25 Product Safety in Action We Support Suppliers to Meet Requirements meeting the new requirements. Nevertheless it A challenge we face is that not all industry is also a challenge, since not all stakeholders in players have the same level of quality control the industry are equally engaged in the process “We feel a great responsibility to make sure that children do not get hurt when playing with our processes, and therefore have difficulty meeting and prepared to invest the resources required. toys – and the same responsibility to guard the reputation of our company” the Toy Safety Directive requirements. It is important to keep focusing on toy safety, TOP-TOY works toward transferring knowledge since the core of our business is to provide Product Safety is a Good Investment scooter had passed the tests, but we discovered a raw to our Asian suppliers. In May 2012, we children with safe toys, which can give them TOP-TOY has a dedicated Quality Assurance (QA) team material defect after it was reported that a child had an conducted supplier seminars in Hong Kong, good play experiences. For this reason TOP-TOY who ensures that all products are safe and comply with accident when the steering bar broke off”, says Britt. The focusing on the new increased requirements will continue to work with toy safety in meeting regulations, as well as TOP-TOY’s internal guidelines. QA team immediately initiated an investigation where they for chemical substances. In doing so, we ensure and exceeding the legislation. Clarence Wong manages the QA team in Hong Kong, tested the product in-house and contacted the authorities that our suppliers can continue to deliver and he emphasises, “Investing in toy safety is costly, but as well as the supplier. their products to us after July 2013. A total of definitely worth it because you cannot put a price on 59 suppliers participated in the seminars. children’s safety”. “The process was challenging because when the supplier started to test the scooter they were testing a different Never Compromise Safety Trust in Toys batch of the scooters, which had no defects”, Jon explains. We never compromise on safety or quality, and Clarence works together with his colleagues Jon Vastrup, However, upon realising the problem, they took it very we always work to improve product standards Product Safety Manager and Britt Eriksen, Product Safety seriously, and the scooter was recalled in all our markets. so that we meet our customers’ expectations. Engineer, who are based in Denmark. “It is no secret that “Our supplier appreciated our professionalism and our fast Although our goal is to have zero recalls, we our industry suffers from low trust due to scandals years action was noted in our responsibility to our customers”, unfortunately still have to recall products from back. It takes a long time to build up a good reputation, says Clarence. time to time in case of non-compliance. This is but only minutes to break it down, which is why we put a conducted in a transparent way and in close lot of efforts into ensuring that products are safe before we Collaboration is Key collaboration with suppliers, licensors and buy them”, says Jon. The QA team agrees that handling product safety requires relevant authorities. great teamwork when working on different continents and However, despite our continuous efforts, it is sometimes across the entire organisation. Never Compromise Quality still necessary to recall a product. “When it comes to If we receive many claims on a product from children’s safety, we do not take any chances and our “We have close contact with Product Managers and retail or wholesale customers, we will share this customers can trust us to handle recalls in a professional collaborate on how to find the best products”, Britt points information with key suppliers, and by doing so, way”, Britt states. out. “We also have a good dialogue with our Service team we make sure that our next delivery of a given and our colleagues in the stores who report back to us product is improved. How We Handle a Recall about customer concerns. In that way, we keep our finger The QA team points to the case of the Atlanta VX Shark on the pulse”, Jon adds. An Opportunity and a Challenge Scooter, which was recalled in September 2011. “The TOP-TOY sees the new European Toy Safety Directive as an opportunity for the entire toys industry to improve safety standards, and we have over the years invested a lot of resources in Product Safety and Recalls OVERVIEW OF PUBLIC RECALLS OF PRODUCTS SOLD BY TOP-TOY DURING 2011/12 PRODUCT YEAR ISSUE INFORMANT Rummikub 2012 Phthalates in textile print Internal control Hair-ee Sportz Magno-Z 2012 Loose magnets Authorities, Denmark Animal Globus 2011 Electrical safety issue Authorities, Sweden Atlanta VX Shark Scooter 2011 Broken steering column Internal control FIVE YEARS’ OVERVIEW OF PUBLIC RECALLS OF PRODUCTS SOLD BY TOP-TOY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 TOP-TOY public recalls 0 0 5 3 2 Product Safety Team – Jon Vastrup, Britt Nørager Eriksen and Clarence Wong OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 26 TOYS IN PLAY 27 “The best part about playing is when you play “It is fun to play with toys TOYS IN PLAY with your friends” with lots of small figures because Alexander, 6 years I can swap them with my friends The best toy ever is one that is played with. Children need to develop and play with one another and their toys. The fundamental success criteria for our business are to bring smiles to children’s faces and at school” create good childhood memories. Sigrid, 7 years “I prefer to play with heroes Retail Packaging The products we sell and customers take and bad guys. Then they fight and home are wrapped in a retail packaging. There the bad guys go to jail” are several reasons why product packaging Sverre, 4 years is important. It provides legally required information to the customer, as well as protects the product during transportation. As a company we have to strike a balance between taking environmental considerations on one hand, and on the other, ensuring there is enough packaging to protect the toys and to have proper displays in the stores. However, we have an increased focus on reducing the amount of retail packaging. Giving to Charity Not all children are equally fortunate and Creating Value TOP-TOY wants to give less fortunate children TOP-TOY invests a lot of time and effort in the possibility to develop and play. For this choosing the right products from the right reason TOP-TOY has chosen to support the suppliers and to promote them in the right way. work of the SOS Children’s Villages in Nanchang, Parents should be assured that their children are China. safe when playing with our products – and they should feel free to play along with them. The Since our sponsor agreement was initiated in most important part of a toy’s life is when it is 2009, we have donated approx. 7,900,000 DKK played with and create value for our customers. to the SOS Children’s Villages. This has been possible with the help of our customers buying Bringing New Life to Toys our SOS plush dogs in our BR stores, where half When a toy has played out its role, there are of the sale price of the dogs is given to the SOS many ways to give it new life. It can be saved for nostalgic reasons, or even better – given to Children’s Villages. Inspiration from Children younger children in the family or to charity – The reason for supporting orphans and either way will give the toy a chance to provide vulnerable children in China is that many Our most important stakeholders are the children happy memories to more children. children are left on their own, when their parents “I think it is fun when I can playing with our toys. In everything we do, we strive to travel to the cities to work in the factories. watch a movie about toys and then enrich children’s lives and the smiles on their faces are When the toy’s life finally comes to an end, we As a responsible company we would like to play with the toys afterwards” our reward. highly recommend that customers recycle the participate in countering the negative effects product at proper recycling facilities, and sort the of workers’ migration, due to the fact that we Gustav, 8 years Parents, teachers, and child specialists all argue that different materials according to the instructions. source the majority of our products in China. play is of key importance for children’s well-being and This is especially important with regards to development – and we believe toys can add great electronic products containing batteries, as value to this. But what do children actually say about it? these can cause severe environmental damage. Many different types of toys contain small “I would like a toy which is We have gathered quotes from children about toys and batteries, and unfortunately these often end up also a pet. Like an electronic one play. At the end of the day, it is from their thoughts, in household waste. ideas and expressions that we get the best feedback – and then you can teach it tricks” simply because children are experts in toys and play. Anna, 9 years OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 28 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE LOOKING TO THE FUTURE 29 SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND PROGRESS ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN TOP-TOY has a reputation for being a responsible company and we are devoted to working with sustainability issues throughout our value chain, such as product safety and factory compliance. However, CHAPTER GOALS PROGRESS we also acknowledge there is more work to be done and we will continue to make improvements. • New Have all textiles we design and manufacture • Today 45% of all textiles we design and manufacture are Oeko-Tex certified. Product Responsibility Oeko-Tex certified. See Page 10 Setting Priorities We are proud of the reporting we have done Creativity We want to work strategically with sustainability until now, and in September 2012 we were and Design • Establish a baseline for current quantities of certified • Today 76% of our own brand wooden products are either FSC certified or rubber wood. Environment and wood used in our wooden products. We will expand the baseline to cover all wooden products. See Page 10 by integrating social and environmental awarded by the Danish Association of Chartered • Set future targets for quantity of certified wood for • We will establish targets during 2012/13. Climate Change considerations into our operations. Our Accountants (FSR) for last year’s annual report. our wooden products. sustainability work must be guided by the TOP-TOY won the category “best emerging nature of our business and the markets in report” which is given to a company that is • Roll out our supplier evaluation programme “Traffic • Implementation in progress and expected to be completed by 2013. which we operate to create long term value. It relatively new in sustainability reporting, but We Buy Supplier Light Concept” (covering legal, product quality and See Page 12-14 is important for us to be in continuous dialogue has come a long way already. Lots of Toys Evaluation factory compliance) to all TOP-TOY buying locations. with our stakeholders in the process. Opportunities and Risks In the coming years, our main strategic priorities Working with sustainability offers many • All factories meet our Factory Compliance Standards • Today factories used by Hong Kong anchored suppliers meet our Factory Compliance How Toys Factory by end of 2013. Standards. For factories used by European anchored suppliers, we are in the process will be to: benefits, including cost savings, risk reduction of implementing our Factory Compliance Standards. are Made Compliance and strengthening of our brand. However, • New Develop positions on child labour, forced • In progress and expected to be finalised by 2013. See Page 15-16 • Strengthen compliance and corporate we acknowledge there are risks associated labour and overtime. governance. with this work. When we openly address our • Continue the systematic implementation of challenges, we may be subject to criticism. Also, • New Evaluate new Direct to Store concept. • Test in progress. See Page 18 Environment and • Establish a baseline for energy consumption across • Ongoing pilot project with LED lighting in distribution centre in Copenhagen. our supplier evaluation programme. when looking deeper into our supply chain, we Climate Change TOP-TOY. See Page 19 • Further invest in product safety. might find things we are not happy with and, • Find more environmentally friendly when collecting data on progress, good results Toys on packaging options. may not arrive as quickly as we had hoped. the Move • New Reduce manual lifting in distribution centres. • New vacuum tube lifters introduced for handling heavy items in distribution centre in Nevertheless, we see this as an opportunity for Copenhagen. See Page 18 Employees • Slip sheet pilot project carried out to protect employees when loading and unloading Furthermore, we work towards becoming more continuous improvement. containers. Testing expected to continue in 2012/13. See Page 19 data driven to increase transparency. Integrating Sustainability into Our Strategy Competition • Train employees in antitrust issues. • Procedure in place to assess the need for training of all new employees. Training conducted by Legal Department. See Page 20 We Sell Lots of Toys “In TOP-TOY, sustainability and financial Employees • Continue implementing employee engagement • All office staff as well as store managers and assisting store managers participate in programme (Employeeship) across TOP-TOY. annual employee engagement programme (Employeeship). See Page 20 value creation are not mutually exclusive – we believe they must go hand in hand” • New Train suppliers in European Toy Safety • 59 suppliers trained in 2012. See Page 24 Product Directive. Safe Toys Responsibility • New Have zero recalls. • Ongoing Quality Assurance inspection of products. See Page 22 Making Sustainability a Strategic Priority When Lars and Peter Gjørup were appointed as Joint Environment and • Find alternative, more environmentally friendly • Research project conducted and work streams to be further defined. Managing Directors of TOP-TOY in 2009, they decided to Toys in Play packaging options. See Page 26 Climate Change make sustainability one of their strategic priorities. “As a family owned company, we have always focused Lars Gjørup, Peter Gjørup and Liselotte Carlsen • Improve our reporting performance and report on • Ongoing relevant and critical issues. on being a good corporate citizen. We therefore agreed Reporting • Collect data systematically allowing for increased • Data protocols to be developed during 2012/13 for future data collection. that it would make good business sense to work more Liselotte reports directly to Peter for efficient decision transparency. See Page 28 systematically with sustainability and also communicate making and also to ensure senior management is always about it externally”, says Peter. up to date with TOP-TOY’s sustainability work. • Increase sustainability information on our • Information is now available on websites and will be updated ongoing. Communication communication platforms, TOP-TOY, NORSTAR, BR See Page 8 Business-Model Driven Local and Global Focus Cross-Cutting and Stakeholder and TOYS“R”US websites. Liselotte Carlsen joined as Group Sustainability Manager The Sustainability Department is located in our Areas • New Conduct materiality assessment every • We expect to conduct a new materiality assessment during 2012/13. Engagement in 2010, and has since been the key driver behind headquarters in Denmark. “We want our Sustainability second year. TOP-TOY’s sustainability work. “In order to create value, it Department to be close to the markets that we operate in, is important that we align our sustainability work with our to be able to better engage with our stakeholders”, Lars • Develop a Code of Conduct and supporting policies. • Code of Conduct finalised and implementation plan established for 2012/13. Compliance business model and operational context. In this way, we points out. “However, we still keep a global focus because The Code of Conduct will be publically available in 2013. and Corporate • Develop a whistle-blower system to uncover any • Decision has been made to evaluate the need for a whistle-blower system. can prioritise our efforts and find out where we can have the team works closely with for example our Factory Governance unethical behaviour in TOP-TOY. the greatest impact”, she explains. Compliance and Quality Assurance teams in Hong Kong”. OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 30 WE ARE THE TOP-TOY GROUP WE ARE THE TOP-TOY GROUP 31 TOP-TOY operates 49 stores under the We also own and operate two distribution TOP-TOY is a family owned and operated business that sells toys and other products to children. We TOYS“R”US banner in Denmark, Sweden, centres in Denmark. They serve all retail stores QR CODE are the largest toy trading company in the Nordic region. Our retail and wholesale business cover six Norway, Finland and Iceland under a license and wholesale customers in six countries. countries where we supply a diverse range of products to children of all ages. agreement. Our TOYS“R”US stores offer a larger scale shopping experience and a wider selection The TOP-TOY Family of products than our BR stores. In 2012, we also Our family tree is characterised by dedicated Family Run for Three Generations To support the sales organisation, we have opened TOYS“R”US webshops in Denmark, employees who work in retail stores, the We are proud of being a family business with a number of support functions, such as IT, Sweden, Norway and Finland. wholesale sales force, administrative offices and nearly fifty years of serving customers. Today Finance, HR and Communications, which service distribution centres across seven countries. See Managing Lars and Peter Gjørup are the third generation our business units. We also have governance As part of our BR banner we operate Club Director, of the Gjørup family leading the company. functions, such as Sustainability and Legal, BR. Club BR offers children and their parents During the financial year 2011/12, TOP-TOY Lars Gjørup which provide advisory service to management. good deals, fun newsletters and the possibility employed 6,544 people (equal to 2,358 explain the We are a Sales Organisation to participate in competitions. Club BR has full-time positions). The majority of our workforce vision for TOP-TOY group level operations are managed Our Retail Business Unit – BR and TOYS“R”US over 1,600,000 members across all the countries consists of retail employees. During Christmas, TOP-TOY. from our headquarters located near BR is a well-established retail chain of 248 stores where BR operates stores. the toy industry’s peak season, we naturally Copenhagen with support operations based in located in prime shopping locations across need to hire a large number of extra people to Aarhus, Hong Kong and Hamburg. Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Faroe Our retail business unit is organised around service all our customers. Therefore, 78% of our Islands and Northern Germany. We also have BR regional and national management, who are employees work part time or hold temporary Our core business is divided into three webshops that complement our physical stores supported by head office regarding planning contracts. This is an attractive option for many business units: Retail, Wholesale and Supply to in Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland. and execution of sales and marketing activities, students, as they can gain work experience maximise the potential of our sales channels, as well as management of dynamic product alongside their studies. More than half of while ensuring there are information firewalls assortments to effectively utilise retail space. TOP-TOY’s employees are under 25 years old and between our retail and wholesale activities. 68% are women. Our Wholesale Business Unit – NORSTAR In 2012, we changed the name of our wholesale Demographic Data business unit (formerly K.E. Mathiasen) to NORSTAR, which was already the trading name Organisational Setup in TOP-TOY for our Finnish and Norwegian markets. NORSTAR is headquartered in Aarhus and was GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES added to the TOP-TOY Group in 2009. NORSTAR services a wide range of retail channels (approx. Denmark Hong Kong 49% 4,500 outlets) through local sales operations 4% and showrooms in Denmark, Sweden, Norway Germany and Finland. 4% Iceland 1% Sweden SUPPORT GOVERNANCE NORSTAR is a branded product distributor 22% FUNCTIONS FUNCTIONS and among others, is the exclusive wholesale Finland Norway distributor of Mattel toys in the Nordic region. 7% 13% In addition to toys, NORSTAR also sells licensed lifestyle products for children such as apparel, NOTE: All numbers are based on full-time positions. home textiles and melamine. TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT Our Supply Business Unit SUPPLY RETAIL WHOLESALE This business unit manages all product suppliers BR BUSINESS BUSINESS BUSINESS and licensors of products which are sold by our 50% TOYS“R”US 22% UNIT UNIT UNIT retail or wholesale business units. The supply business unit plans, supports and executes timely product deliveries from TOP-TOY’s suppliers worldwide to our stores, Administration Distribution Centres wholesale customers and consumers. In 8% 20% addition, the business unit is responsible for product selection, product development, NOTE: Administration includes sales personnel in NORSTAR. marketing, license management and quality All numbers are based on full-time positions. assurance. These activities are mainly carried out in Denmark and Hong Kong. OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 32 TOP-TOY HISTORY TOP-TOY HISTORY 33 TOP-TOY HISTORY 34 The TOP-TOY journey started in a Danish provincial town in the 1950s, and today we operate 248 BR stores across the Nordic countries and in Germany, as well as 49 TOYS“R”US stores in the Nordic region. In addition, we run a wholesale operation across the Nordic countries. Join us on a trip down memory lane. From Local Newsagent to Toy Store Becoming a Retail Chain Establishing a Presence in Asia A Large Player in the Nordic NUMBER OF BR STORES OVER TIME NUMBER OF TOYS“R”US STORES OVER TIME In 1950 a newsagent was established in Roskilde Since then BR continued to grow, opening many In 1992, TOP-TOY established a buying office Today, we are one of the largest toy businesses – a town near Copenhagen in Denmark. Børge new stores. In addition, a new sales concept was in Hong Kong. The purpose was to be closer to in Northern Europe, operating 297 toy stores NUMBER NUMBER OF STORES OF STORES Rasmussen, a man of both initiative and vision, introduced in 1987 when we opened our first many of our main suppliers and factories and under the retail banners BR and TOYS“R”US 250 50 was the owner of the store, which would become SUPERLEG store. ensure a higher quality for the products we and servicing approx. 4,500 outlets through our 45 a major toy company in the future. distribute and sell in the Northern European wholesale business. 200 40 35 In 1990, the company TOP-TOY A/S was formed market. 150 30 During the 1950s, the range of products grew as the corporate body for all business activities. In total, we engage 6,544 employees 25 100 20 constantly and toys entered the shelves during Venturing into Wholesale Business (corresponding to approx. 2,358 full-time 15 Christmas. In 1963, Bjarne and Henrik Gjørup, During the mid-nineties, an agreement was – NORSTAR positions), divided over stores and offices in 50 10 5 sons of Børge Rasmussen, joined the company signed with TOYS“R”US to convert our existing In 2009, TOP-TOY acquired K.E. Mathiasen, now Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland, 0 0 and it was decided to turn the newsagent into a SUPERLEG stores to TOYS“R”US, and to open NORSTAR, the largest distributor of toys and Germany and Hong Kong and have an overall 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 19 63 65 67 69 71 73 75 77 79 81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 1987 1989 1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 specialised toy store. At the same time, the store new TOYS“R”US stores across Scandinavia. licensed products for children in the Nordic annual turnover of around 4 billion DKK. Since 20 20 20 20 20 20 2099 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 YEAR YEAR was renamed “BR” after Børge Rasmussen. region. Similarly to TOP-TOY, the business was a 2009, Peter and Lars Gjørup, sons of Bjarne DENMARK SWEDEN NORWAY FINLAND GERMANY DENMARK SWEDEN NORWAY FINLAND ICELAND family owned company with a long history. Gjørup, took over as third generation Managing Directors. NOTE: We also have one BR franchise store on the Faroe Islands and NOTE: We also have webshops in Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland. webshops in Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland. 1950s 1963 1987 1989 1990 1991 1992 1996 1999 2000 2003 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Acquisition of Edwis BR webshops open TOYS“R”US TOP-TOY First (Norwegian toy retailer) in Denmark, Sweden, webshops open buying office BR store and conversion of stores Norway and Finland in Denmark, First TOYS“R”US Newsagent in First established opens in into BR First combined Sweden, Norway store opens in Roskilde in Denmark BR store in Hong Kong Finland Financial and and Finland Norway opens in First Sustainability First SUPERLEG Sweden TOYS“R”US Report is store established store opens K.E. Mathiasen A/S published in Denmark in Iceland becomes BSCI Strategic alliance K.E. Mathiasen First participant SUPERLEG K.E. Mathiasen A/S Peter and Lars Gjørup for Nordic region A Toy Journey changes name to BR store Insights into TOP-TOY’s Sustainability and Financial Performance 2010/2011 stores acquires Norstar in appointed as Joint between Mattel NORSTAR in all Newsagent transformed opens in converted to Norway and Finland Managing Directors and TOP-TOY countries into toy store and Norway renamed “BR” after TOYS“R”US Acquisition Børge Rasmussen of Salzmann The BR logo (North German Internal launch K.E. Mathiasen A/S Takeover of existing is modified toy retailer) of TOP-TOY acquires Leksam TOYS“R”US stores (“Fætter BR”) and conversion Code of Conduct in Sweden First TOYS“R”US First Second combined in Sweden of stores into BR TOP-TOY signs up to store opens in Sustainability Financial and Finland the UN Global Compact Report is Sustainability published Report is published CODE of CONDUCT The TOP-TOY way – Promoting a culture of responsibility 2012 TOP-TOY A/S TOP-TOY signs K.E. Mathiasen A/S formed to operate Acquisition of Stor & Liten up to the ICTI Sustainability Report established BR and SUPERLEG (Swedish toy retailer) Care Process and conversion TOP-TOY A/S acquires of stores into BR K.E. Mathiasen 2009/10 OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY OUR VALUES IN PLAY 35 TOP-TOY HISTORY For more information on our sustainability work contact our Sustainability Department at sustainability@top-toy.com or visit our website 541-492 Printed matter TOP-TOY.com/sustainability Passing on the TOP-TOY Culture “TOP-TOY has been on quite a journey and although we have grown significantly, we have still managed to preserve that special family feeling” The TOP-TOY Family “Regardless of which job function you have, it is important Whether you have been in the company for decades or just to remind everyone that we are here to sell toys and other stepped through the doorway, all employees are part of products for children – that is our mission”, Bruno points the TOP-TOY family. To better understand what this means, out. we asked two employees to describe the TOP-TOY culture. Mette has not yet had the chance to work in one of the Welcoming New Family Members stores, but she is looking forward to it, “I think it will Bruno Boysen, HR Manager, has been with TOP-TOY for be an eye-opener and I look forward to get a better TOP-TOY TOP-TOY Hong Kong NORSTAR more than 30 years. Today he is responsible for carrying out understanding of what goes on in the store. I am sure this Roskildevej 16, 4030 Tune 11/F, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road Sintrupvej 12, 8220 Brabrand introduction courses for new employees. “When meeting experience will benefit my work when I get back to the Denmark Wanchai, Hong Kong Denmark new employees, I always tell them my job is not to tell office”, Mette explains. Tel +45 4616 3656 Tel +852 3143 8888 Tel +45 8944 2200 you what to do, that is your manager’s responsibility. My www.top-toy.com www.top-toy.com www.norstar.eu task is to introduce you to the TOP-TOY family, our culture Fun is Serious Business and give you a sense of the formal and informal rules that Both Bruno and Mette emphasise TOP-TOY’s relaxed guide our organisation”, he says. atmosphere when describing what is unique about the company, “I noticed that TOP-TOY has a very informal work One of our new employees, who recently took part culture, for example, during lunch, you can sit at the same in Bruno’s introduction is Mette Helbo, who works as table as the Managing Director who is very interested to Methodology and Reporting Framework Accountant. She describes her first meeting with TOP-TOY, hear about what you are currently working on”, Mette “The company has a special family spirit and when you remarks. Scope and Reporting Framework Legal Notices start, you feel this right away”. This report focuses on our financial and sustainability Throughout this report references are made to the Finally, it is important to keep in mind that an essential part performance during the financial year covering July 1, TOP-TOY Group, which means TOP-TOY Holding A/S and Keeping our Mission in Mind of TOP-TOY culture is connected to the idea of having fun 2011 to June 30, 2012. its subsidiaries: TOP-TOY A/S, TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd., As part of the introduction, the majority of new office staff in our daily work, as Bruno puts it, “We need to be better NORSTAR A/S and TOP-TOY Ejendomme A/S. spend a number of days working in one of our retail stores. than yesterday, but we should not forget to have fun while The report lives up to the criteria of the UN Global doing it – we are a toy company after all!” Compact, including the commitment to issue an annual TOP-TOY is a registered trademark of TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Communication on Progress (COP) report. In addition, Ltd. KIDS-WOOD, FLEXI-TRAX, BELLINO, PLAY2LEARN, the report lives up to the legal requirement for Danish ATLANTA, FOOD‘N’FUN, HAPPY HOUSE and CLUB BR companies to disclose how they work with sustainability. are registered trademarks of TOP-TOY A/S. DANSPIL is a registered trademark of NORSTAR A/S. TOP-TOY looks towards the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework for inspiration, but we do not work consistently TOYS“R”US, the TOYS“R”US & Star design are registered with GRI as yet. trademarks of Geoffrey, LLC. TOP-TOY A/S is a licensee of Geoffrey, LLC. Data This report is based on quantitative and qualitative data All other marks referred to in this report are the property of collected from internal systems and key persons across the their respective owners. organisation. Some photographs in this report combine separate Statements and data have been verified for correctness images of actual TOP-TOY employees to depict virtual by responsible managers to ensure the report reflects TOP-TOY teams. accurately on TOP-TOY’s performance. To the best of TOP-TOY’s knowledge, the data presented is accurate and reflects TOP-TOY’s progress. We continuously work towards improving our data collection and verification systems, and to become more data driven. GRI-table Copenhagen Office – Mette Helbo and Bruno Boysen © 2012. TOP-TOY Holding A/S. OUR VALUES IN PLAY
