United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 Contents 1 A Message from our President and Chief Executive Officer 2 Carlson Values 3 A History of Responsible Business 4 Section I: Human Rights 6 Section II: Labor 8 Section III: Environment 11 Section IV: Anti-Corruption 12 Section V: Partnerships 22 About This Report Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 A Message from our President and Chief Executive Officer July 2012 The United Nations Global Compact is an expression of how There is much work to do. Notably, there are too we care for each other and our goals for our collective future. many people for whom the doors of opportunity and employment have not swung open to match their From Minneapolis to Dallas, Paris, Brussels, Singapore, and ambitions for a better life. New Delhi, our people are seeking to live the principles of the Compact in a powerful way. Carlson is a global business leader and it is our hope that by sharing this report, we can inspire others to act in their While we have accomplished much since our last report, we own communities. When the principles expressed in the aspire to accomplish more. Our commitment to Responsible United Nations Global Compact come to life, it reminds us Business and to the Principles of the UN Global Compact all that tomorrow can be a better place. is very real. We continue to invest in the people and the programs that expand our capacity to act. We are inspired and guided by the Carlson Credo. The Carlson Credo Whatever you do, do with Integrity. Hubert Joly Wherever you go, go as a Leader. Whomever you serve, serve with Caring. Whenever you dream, dream with your All. And, never, ever give up. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 1 Carlson Values Integrity Employing the highest ethical standards, demonstrating honesty, respect and open communication. Innovation Approaching new challenges with diversity of thought, creativity, resourcefulness and agility, and reacting quickly and effectively to provide innovative solutions. Customer focus Dedicating ourselves to delivering experiences that delight our customers. Empowerment Encouraging our people to take initiative and do what is right. Accountability Delivering on our performance commitments and taking repsonsibility for our actions and our own situation. Responsibility Ensuring that our actions deliver returns for our stakeholders while ensuring benefits to our employees, customers, owners, business partners and suppliers, as well as the environment and the communities in which we operate. C-factor Daring to be different in a fun and rewarding way. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 2 A History of Responsible Business By conducting ourselves according to our values, we get great satisfaction while giving our guests and customers the assurance that they’ve chosen the right partner with whom to do business. Enriching our communities, serving our guests, treading more lightly on the planet, empowering our employees, doing what’s right…that’s Responsible Business at Carlson. 1989 Introduced our first environmental policy 2009 Attained our first corporate office Green Globe Certification 1991 Initiated support of the Adoption Exchange 2009 Began support of the MASSIVEGOOD global healthcare through Carlson Wagonlit Travel initiative through Carlson Wagonlit Travel 1996 Became a founding member of International 2009 Announced support for the Big BrothersHotels Environment Initiative Big Sisters mentoring program 1999 Co-founded the World Childhood Foundation 2009 Received “Best Collaboration Award” from the Ethical 2001 Established a Code of Business Corporation’s Responsible Business Awards Conduct and Ethics Policy 2010 Partnered with Share Our Strength through T.G.I. Friday’s 2003 Published our first Responsible Business Handbook 2010 Signed the United Nations Global Compact 2003 Celebrated our first annual Responsible 2010 The Rezidor Hotel Group in Europe, Middle East and Business Action Month Africa (EMEA) was recognized by the Ethisphere Institute 2004 Signed the Code of Conduct for the as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies Protection of Children from Sexual 2010 Marilyn Carlson Nelson awarded the “Business Exploitation in Travel and Tourism Leader’s Award” by the United Nations for the 2004 Engaged our hotels in our first Hotel “End Human Trafficking Now” initiative Environmental Action Month 2011 The Rezidor Hotel Group in Europe, Middle East and Africa 2004 Received the “Worldwide Hospitality (EMEA) was recognized for the second time by the Ethisphere Award for Environmental Protection” Institute as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies 2006 Named, for the first time, as one of the 2011 Named one of the “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality” “Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality” by The Human Rights Campaign (2006–2011) 2007 Began support of the Make-A-Wish 2011 The Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group was honored by The Protection Foundation through T.G.I Friday’s Project at John Hopkins University School of Advanced 2007 Pioneered the opportunity of carbon International Studies with the 2011 Human Rights Award offsetting for members of Club CarlsonSM 2011 Named one of two “100 Best Adoption-Friendly 2008 Required employees to take part in Workplaces” hotel and travel companies in America Responsible Business training by the Dave Thomas Foundation (2007–2011) 2008 Endorsed a global comprehensive 2011 Named one of the “100 Best Companies for Working Mothers” by climate change policy Working Mother magazine (2001–2004, 2006, 2007, 2009–2011) 2008 Initiated the “12 Days of Giving” 2011 Named one of “The Best Companies for Hourly Workers” by Working Mother magazine Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 3 Section I: Human Rights Guiding Policies and Practices Principle 1: • Business Conduct and Ethics Policy Businesses should support • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and respect the protection • Supplier Code of Conduct of internationally proclaimed • Prevention of Discrimination and Harassment Policy human rights. • Living & Leading Responsible Business (Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) • End Child Prostitution, Child Pornography and Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes (ECPAT) Principle 2: Policy Guidelines and Code of Conduct Businesses should make • Responsible Business Handbook (Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) sure they are not complicit • Responsible Business Action Month in human rights abuses. • Protection of Children and Development of People Carlson is a global hospitality and travel company a violation of the law is not at issue. Our Supplier Code of headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S.A. In 2012, we Conduct asks the same of our suppliers. We ask employees decided to go to market and do business with our Brusselsand suppliers to understand the essence and spirit of our based partner, The Rezidor Hotel Group and create Carlson policy so that our actions are ethical. In addition, we work Rezidor Hotel Group. Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group includes to ensure that employees understand our Prevention of more than 1,300 hotels in operation and development, including Discrimination and Harassment Policy. Radisson Blu, Radisson® Park Plaza®; Park Inn by Radisson, Country Inns & Suites By CarlsonSM and Hotel Missoni; Carlson Managers from 450 Country Inns Restaurants includes more than 900 T.G.I. Friday’s® restaurants; & Suites hotels attended one of and Carlson has a majority stake in Carlson Wagonlit Travel®, 12 regional Responsible Business the global leader in business travel management. training sessions last year. Operating in more than 150 countries and territories and At Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, Americas, we offer with more than 170,000 people working under our brands, Responsible Business training programs, which include Living we have an important leadership role to play in supporting Responsible Business, designed for hotel employees, and and respecting human rights. We have established clear Leading Responsible Business, available for hotel managers. policies and programs for the conduct of our employees and These Responsible Business training programs are designed suppliers. Our Business Conduct and Ethics Policy and our to introduce the concepts and building blocks of working Code of Business Conduct and Ethics begin with compliance and managing in a responsible manner. These programs also with the laws in the countries in which we operate. The Code include training as part of our ongoing commitment to the and Policy require more than just compliance with laws; they ECPAT Code of Conduct to protect children against sexual set out the expectations for ethical behavior even when exploitation in Travel and Tourism. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 4 Protection of Children and Development of People Campaign, made blankets for needy children, conducted a We use many means to protect and enhance human rights, food drive and other activities to benefit the community. including but not limited to our core business activities, strategic social investment and philanthropy, advocacy Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group and public policy engagement, and partnerships. Carlson Last year, more than 75 percent of our hotels in the Asia co-founded the World Childhood Foundation, which funds Pacific region participated through various activities projects aimed at improving living conditions for children who including blood drives, tree plantings and fundraising efforts live in unsafe situations and gives them a chance for a brighter to benefit World Childhood Foundation and other charities in future. Current projects include art therapy for sexually local communities. Employees of the Radisson Aruba Beach exploited children, drop-in centers for HIV-positive young Resort helped beautify their community by participating in a people, and summer trips for children living in orphanages. beach clean up day while employees at the Radisson Hotel Flamingos in Mexico City adopted a street. Employees at Responsible Business Action Month and Values Day the Country Inns & Suites in Findlay, Ohio, hosted a chicken Conducting business responsibly is a vibrant part of the dinner to raise money for the World Childhood Foundation, Carlson culture and we have a number of ways to talk an organization co-founded by Carlson. about our values on a recurring basis. For example, each September, we celebrate Responsible Business Action Carlson Restaurants Month by encouraging employees to get involved in In the U.S., T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants recognize Hunger community activities. As part of the month’s activities, Action Month as part of Responsible Business Action Carlson celebrated its first, company-wide Values Day where Month. T.G.I. Friday’s has partnered with Feeding America, employees took time out of the day to reflect on and discuss and in 2011 about half of our company-owned restaurants the company values, and explore what more they could be participated by having team members volunteer at local doing to bring the values to life for guests, travelers, partners food banks, donated food to a food bank event or hosted and employees. We believe that by engaging employees in a food bank at a restaurant for a Hunger Action Month this effort we can produce a positive result around the world. event. T.G.I. Friday’s support resulted in more than 1,200 volunteer hours donated by team members. Carlson As part of the “Together We Can” Carlson Community Carlson Wagonlit Travel Giving Campaign in Minneapolis, at Carlson World The vast majority of CWT’s 19,000 global employees Headquarters, employees joined together to build a single participated in an event on Values Day. The events varied family home for Habitat for Humanity. More than 300 widely reflectinfv the national and cultural diversity that employee volunteers donated more than 2,500 hours to make up CWT. Employees took time to review the values construct the Carlson-sponsored build. Employees also in open discussion and make suggestions on the way raised more than USD 271,500 for the Community Giving they are brought to life on a daily basis. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 5 Section II: Labor Guiding Policies and Practices Principle 3: • Business Conduct and Ethics Policy Businesses should uphold the • Supplier Code of Conduct freedom of association and • Diversity and Inclusion Policy the effective recognition of the • Prevention of Discrimination and Harassment Policy right to collective bargaining. • Living & Leading Responsible Business (Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) • End Child Prostitution, Child Pornography and Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes (ECPAT) Principle 4: Policy Guidelines and Code of Conduct Businesses should uphold • Responsible Business Handbook (Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) the elimination of all forms of • Safety and Security forced and compulsory labor. • Employee Engagement and Development Principle 5: By operating in accordance with local laws and regulations and is an equal opportunity employer that respects all Businesses should uphold the and by adhering to the Carlson Code of Business Conduct facets of diversity, including ethnic origin, gender, age, effective abolition of child labor. and Ethics, as well as to the Carlson Supplier Code of sexual orientation and work/life experience. Carlson has Conduct, we strengthen local communities by providing operated for more than 14 years the Carlson Business Principle 6: employment to men and women around the world. Carlson Conduct and Ethics Hotline to encourage employees Businesses should uphold the does not participate in or condone practices that breach globally to voice concerns about potentially unethical, elimination of discrimination International Declarations covering these principles. In illegal or questionable business practices. in respect of employment fact, we believe that our presence can be a powerful and and occupation. positive influence. Child or forced labor is not acceptable, The Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group has a safety and security and we ensure this through training, observing local hiring program designed to protect guests and employees policies and careful monitoring. while maintaining and enhancing guest and employee satisfaction. One of the foundations of the program is Carlson values and supports diversity in its workforce as Employee Safety. We encourage employees to report a critical element of our success and competitiveness in dangers or aberrations and take immediate action to the global marketplace. We strive to create a culturally rich prevent injury or damage. We also provide training for work environment that mirrors the customers who place Living & Leading Responsible Business, as well as to their trust in our brands. We are committed to respecting ensure a deep understanding of the ECPAT Code of and appreciating each individual’s uniqueness, talents, Conduct. The website rezidorethics.com was launched skills, background and experiences, and we reinforce this in 2008 by Rezidor. This is an independently-managed commitment through our Prevention of Discrimination and website that enables Rezidor employees to raise concerns Harassment Policy. Carlson is committed to attracting, about potential breaches of ethics. developing, rewarding and retaining a diverse workforce Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 6 T.G.I. Friday’s is committed to diversity, inclusion and a safe As one of Carlson Wagonlit Travel’s global six core values work environment for its employees. Carlson Restaurants’ for employees, diversity – and by extension, inclusiveness Open Door Policy provides employees with a safe and – are central to how CWT and our employees conduct anonymous means of addressing any concerns, complaints our business every day. This guiding principle includes or violations without fear of repercussion or action. “fostering respect and a team spirit in the workplace; Employees can elevate their concerns via 1-800-FRIDAYS embracing, and leveraging the multicultural essence or through an email address provided to team members. of the company and providing equal opportunities to talented individuals.” T.G.I. Friday’s also believes in supporting Minority and Women Owned Enterprises (MWBEs). In 2011, the company For example in the U.S., to ensure diversity and invested seven percent of its total restaurant expenditures inclusion is a foundational part of CWT’s culture; in 2007 for U.S. company-owned units with MWBEs. the organization established the CWT Diversity and Inclusion Council, composed of more than 20 volunteers T.G.I. Friday’s also has its own foundation, Friday’s Have A representing many levels and functions throughout the Heart Fund (Have a Heart), which supports team members organization. The Council is organized into subteams in need of financial help after experiencing a tragedy such working on a number of initiatives including diversity as natural disaster, serious accident, major injury, house mentoring, supplier diversity, employee resource groups, fire or unexpected death of a child or spouse. The strength internal training and participation in local cultural events. of Have a Heart is our team members. More than 13,000 team members donate to the fund through bi-weekly payroll contributions which account for 65 percent of Have a Heart’s annual revenue. In 2011, Have a Heart distributed more than USD 620,000 to team members in need. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 7 Section III: Environment Guiding Policies and Practices Principle 7: • Business Conduct and Ethics Policy Businesses should support • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics a precautionary approach to • Supplier Code of Conduct environmental challenges. • Living & Leading Responsible Business (Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) • Responsible Business Handbook (Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) Principle 8: Businesses should undertake In 2011, we continued to reduce our environmental impact number of organizations, including the U.K. Government’s initiatives to promote greater through a wide variety of measures including energy Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for environmental responsibility. saving programs, partnerships with business partners our sustainability performance, and developed a suite of and waste reductions efforts. Because our business units sustainable solutions to assist our clients in achieving their Principle 9: operate across multiple industries and a wide variety of sustainability objectives. Businesses should encourage different locations, our efforts vary widely in accordance the development and with local practice and regulations. CWT U.K. has once again demonstrated its commitment diffusion of environmentally to responsible business by retaining its category A rating friendly technologies. Carlson Wagonlit Travel (CWT) works with clients and with Achilles Verify, an accreditation which evaluates travelers to reduce the carbon footprint of travel. As and monitors sustainable procurement and improving its a supplier of business services to other companies, accreditation score to an average value of 96 percent we help our customers address their environmental across categories. In 2010, CWT received the certification, impacts by making available to them information which reduces risk in the supply chain and supports buyerthat can inform their travel decisions and aid in their supplier communities in many industry sectors. reduction of their carbon footprint. Since September 2011, T.G.I. Friday’s Since 2011, CWT is the first (and only) travel provider in power in the U.K. has been certified as the Netherlands that operates on a completely carbon‘Green’ from renewable sources. neutral basis. The company has implemented a range of internal environmental measures and participates in T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants across the globe have been environmental programs that offset the remainder of the focused on reducing environmental impact. In the U.K., company’s carbon emissions. we reduced electric and gas consumption on a per guest basis by more than 25 percent over the past three years. In the U.K., CWT’s commitment to sustainability has We did this by introducing “smart” electric and gas meters, grown organically. Over the last three years we have push on/auto off water faucets, low-flow toilets and new introduced an Environmental Management System and generation broilers, refrigerators, freezers and dishwashers. achieved ISO 14001 accreditation, been recognized by a Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 8 In 2009, just four percent of the waste from our U.K. We are also partnering with our vendors to reduce our restaurants was recycled and diverted from the landfill. We environmental footprint. Performance Food Group (PFG), currently recycle 88 percent of our waste and by the end our largest distributor of food, non-alcoholic beverages, of 2012, we will have installed enough composting capacity and supplies, has worked with us to reduce the carbon in our system to divert nearly 98 percent of all of our waste footprint resulting from the distribution of goods to our from the landfill. U.S. restaurants. PFG has taken several steps ranging from reducing diesel fuel consumption to adding new In the U. S., T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants have been engaged technologies to the company’s trucks in order to reduce in a number of environmental initiatives over the years to miles traveled and increase the miles per gallon of the reduce electricity and water usage and reduce the amount trucks on the road. These actions have saved more than of waste shipped to landfills. From 2010 to 2011, our U.S. 649,000 diesel gallons per year. company-owned restaurants reduced electricity usage by 1.7 percent. As a result, T.G.I. Friday’s is actively reinvigorating By the end of 2011, PFG replaced approximately 25 percent its energy management program. More than half of our of its fleet with new tractors that helped achieve an average company-owned restaurants are engaged in a formal one mile per gallon increase in fuel economy over their recycling program with an outside vendor. This program older fleet vehicles. Additionally, since 2006, the company is yielding positive results and we are looking at ways to has been working to replace refrigeration units on trailers expand this program. In 2011, we recycled more than 3.3 with advanced units that are more fuel efficient on the road million kg of cardboard and over 100,000 kg of aluminum, and electric hybrids that can be plugged in when parked. plastic and other mixed recyclables. Working with PFG, we donate food from their distribution We continue to make improvements in restaurant designs centers that we are unable to use. In 2011, this program to reduce energy consumption. For example, we improved resulted in more than USD 200,000 in food donations to the efficiency of lighting systems, eliminated high energyfamilies in need and avoided sending that food to landfills. consuming exterior neon lighting, integrated higher efficiency water heaters and HVAC units, and utilized more Working with Coca-Cola, T.G.I. Friday’s in the U.S. reduced effective exhaust hood designs in our kitchens. the number of containers carrying the syrup needed for its soft drink machines. In 2011, we eliminated more than Through our partnership with EcoLab and the implementation 27,000 containers by switching to High Yield Concentrate of their APEX Dishwashing System in 2011, our U.S. Syrup. In addition to the packaging reduction, 30 truckloads restaurants reduced the number of racks of dishes washed of deliveries were eliminated from the roads resulting in by five percent resulting in a reduction of 3.3 million gallons of reduced emissions and fuel usage. water, 1.7 million KwH of electricity, 106,274 therms of natural gas, 32,188 pounds of waste and 209 total tons of carbon. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 9 The Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group strives to reduce the energy consumption of our properties by installing energy efficient lighting, motion sensors, and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) controls in existing hotels. These efforts, combined with environmental guidelines for newbuilds and major renovations, have led to impressive energy usage performance. Our hotels in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) showed leadership in environmental efforts through a number of major initiatives: • During 2011, we achieved 100 percent LED signage for new hotels and major renovations, 94 percent of our hotel rooms are equipped with energy efficient lighting and 69 percent of public spaces in the hotels have energy efficient lighting. • In 2011, the hotels maintained their energy performance even with an increase in the total number of guest nights. Guest nights increased seven percent and overall energy usage per guest night decreased by four percent. Water consumption was also reduced, in part due to expanded use of water conserving fixtures and continuous efforts to involve guests in towel and sheet replacement programs. • Solid waste is generated by many activities in our hotels including food preparation, consumption of prepackaged items, guest waste and cleaning. We seek to reduce and recycle waste as much as possible and to reduce the waste that goes to landfill or incineration. By the end of 2011, 91 percent of the hotels had a dedicated waste sorting area and 75 percent had waste sorting directly on housekeeping carts resulting in recycling 89 percent of total waste. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 10 Section IV: Anti-Corruption Carlson Responsible Business Policy & Practice Principle 10: • Business Conduct and Ethics Policy Businesses should work against • Antitrust and Competitive Practices Policy corruption in all its forms, • Supplier Code of Ethics including extortion and bribery. • Internal Audit Charter • Technical Security Policy • Responsible Business Handbook (Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) We implemented a Code of Business Conduct and vendors, intermediaries, or any majority-owned or Ethics, an Antitrust and Competitive Practices Policy and controlled affiliates, including joint ventures. a Supplier Code of Ethics. These Codes and Policy set forth our legal and ethical standards and keep us working No employee shall be involved, directly or indirectly, toward a common goal…to behave ethically and in in making, offering, fulfilling a request for, authorizing, accordance with applicable laws. allowing or facilitating the payment of bribes (involving money or anything else of value) to a government official Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics requires to obtain or retain business for the company or secure any employees to comply with applicable laws and other improper advantage. regulations where we do business, including but not limited to, competition laws, franchising laws, anti-bribery As an example of our longstanding commitment to ethical laws, employee health and safety regulations, labor laws, behavior, Carlson has operated globally for more than 14 data protection/privacy laws, government contracting years the Carlson Business Conduct and Ethics Hotline to laws, non-discrimination and anti-harassment laws and encourage employees to voice concerns about potentially money-laundering laws. unethical, illegal or questionable business practices. Similarly, the website rezidorethics.com was launched We have zero tolerance of bribery and any act which in 2008 by Rezidor. This is an independently-managed would enable corruption of government or governmental website that enables Rezidor employees to raise concerns officials. Employees must comply with the U.S. Foreign about potential breaches of ethics. Also, T.G.I. Friday’s Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). All persons conducting employees can elevate their concerns via 1-800-FRIDAYS business on behalf of the company, or for the benefit of or through an email address provided to all team the company, must act in a manner consistent with our members. Similarly, Carlson Wagonlit Travel employees commitment to doing business with integrity, including can report concerns through a CWT hotline. by avoiding corruption of any kind. This policy extends to our domestic and foreign operations, including operations conducted by subsidiaries, consultants, agents, advisors, Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 11 Section V: Partnerships We seek out and develop partnerships with nonprovided to those in need. The project resulted in more governmental organizations (NGO); industry groups across than 2,000 pounds of food being donated between our business units and others. Our partnerships together June and September of 2011. with our strategies to align our business operations with the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact constitute •C  arlson employees in Minneapolis raised USD 275,000, our efforts to fulfill the development objectives of the and with matching and other donations from Carlson, United Nations. Through these partnerships, Carlson is more than USD 680,000 overall was raised for the United able to expand the breadth and depth of our Responsible Way in 2011. In addition, employees donated their time on Business efforts. Our efforts address many of the UN’s many projects, including preparing food for the homeless Millennium Development Goals. and assembling dental health packets for children. Millennium Development Goal 1: Millennium Development Goal 2: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Achieve universal primary education • More than 170,000 people work under Carlson brands • Carlson has supported primary education by partnering in more than 150 countries and territories around the with Big Brothers Big Sisters of the Greater Twin Cities world. Jobs and the opportunity for stable employment and KIPP: Stand Academy to launch Beyond School and advancement form the most powerful basis for Walls. The initiative matches a company employee with breaking the cycle of poverty. a fifth or sixth grade student to provide one-on-one mentoring. The employees give back to the community • In 2011, T.G.I. Friday’s became a partner of Feeding by hosting students at their offices and investing in the America, a national non-profit that connects food banks future of tomorrow’s leaders. across the country and focuses on addressing hunger in the U.S. We donated more than USD 230,000 resulting •T  hrough a grant from the Carlson Family Foundation, from fundraising connected to the World Bartender T.G.I. Friday’s provided USD 100,000 in funding and Championships and through our support of Hunger partnered with the National Restaurant Association’s Action Month in September. Education Foundation, ProStart. The program, which reaches more than 90,000 students in 1,700 high •T  .G.I. Friday’s also initiated a pilot with Food Donation schools, gives students a platform to discover new Connect, an organization that administers Harvest interests and talents to open doors for careers in Programs designed to reduce food waste and ensure the culinary arts. Upon completion of this curriculum, that edible food is being collected and provided to students receive the ProStart National Certificate of those in need. Our pilot project with nine restaurants Achievement and are immediately qualified to seek in Chicago focused on donating food that could not work in a restaurant. be used or served at the restaurant but could still be Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 12 Millennium Development Goal 3: Millennium Development Goal 7: Promote gender equality and empower women Ensure environmental sustainability (including water) • Through a grant from the Carlson Family Foundation, • T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants in the U. K. recently joined the T.G.I. Friday’s donated USD 100,000 over a three-year Sustainable Restaurant Association and are using their period to the Women’s Foodservice Forum (WFF). WFF audit tools to develop a plan for further improvements in is committed to engaging 100,000 women and men to sustainable performance. mentor, advocate for and sponsor women in foodservice. •C  arlson Wagonlit Travel has a global agreement with •C  arlson Rezidor Hotel Group partnered with BD Imports The CarbonNeutral Company, the leading carbon to supply in-room coffee for Radisson in the Americas. offset and climate-consulting firm, to provide emissions BD Imports, a minorityand woman-owned company, is management services to CWT clients. CWT enhanced an importer of green coffee from sustainable sources its CWT Sustainable Solutions offering, which now in coffee-producing countries. Phyllis Johnson, founder consists of a pre-trip carbon calculator, post-trip and president of BD Imports, works to empower women emissions management reporting and a range of coffee workers in Africa and Central America through services designed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. the International Women’s Coffee Alliance. •C  WT is proud to be an Advisory Committee Member of • In 2004, Carlson signed the Code of Conduct for the Global Business Travel Association Project ICARUS – Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel Europe. Project ICARUS is an initiative of the GBTA that and Tourism and in 2010, was a founding member of the researches, educates and promotes sustainability in the Business Coalition Against Trafficking. business travel and meetings sectors. CWT is the only Travel Management Company (TMC) engaged in Project Millennium Development Goal 4: ICARUS across Europe to facilitate an industry-wide shift Reduce child mortality to sustainable solutions. • Carlson is a co-founder of World Childhood Foundation, which is committed to defending the rights of the child • In November 2011, Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group and securing better living conditions for children and announced a global partnership with World Cleanup young women at risk around the world. 2012. World Cleanup 2012 is a global campaign which aims to remove illegally dumped garbage in 100 •C  arlson Rezidor Hotel Group partnered with Clean the countries and raise awareness worldwide. During World World, an organization whose mission is to prevent the Cleanup 2012, Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group will support millions of deaths caused by hygiene-related illnesses and help organize World Cleanup actions. every day by collecting and recycling soap and bottle amenities discarded by the hospitality industry. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 13 Business Unit Focus Corporate Carlson’s World Headquarters earned the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) LEED Silver level certification for Existing Buildings: Operations & Maintenance (LEED EB O&M®) certification. LEED is the nation’s preeminent program for the design, construction and operation of high performance green buildings. The building achieved LEED certification for operational best practices and superior environmental performance, including: a perfect score of 48 LEED credit points; an ENERGY STAR score of 87 placing the property in the top 15 percent of all comparable buildings nationwide; implementation of an interior pest management program to reduce toxicity of pesticides; replacement of all high-flow restroom fixtures with water-saving models; ENERGY STARrated IT equipment; and sustainable food purchases. 14 Business Unit Focus Corporate The Carlson Executive Team and employees at the Carlson-sponsored Habitat For Humanity single-family home build in Minneapolis. This was part of the “Together We Can” Carlson Community Giving Campaign during Responsible Business Action Month at Carlson World Headquarters. More than 300 employee volunteers donated more than 2,500 hours to construct the home. 15 Business Unit Focus Hotels The Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Gothenburg, Sweden, installed NetClean, a device that prevents users from accessing or distributing child pornography on the web. One year after the devices were installed, the hotel evaluated and decided to continue its use. The hotel’s leadership on this issue has been widely endorsed by Swedish political leaders. 16 Business Unit Focus Hotels The staff of the Park Plaza Sukhumvit in Bangkok raised more than 130,000 baht to help fund materials and construction of a modern toilet facility for the Phukem School in Petchaburi Province, Thailand. As a measure of their commitment, hotel team members also helped build the facility and made it a fun day for the underprivileged children of the community. The Radisson Blu Aqua Hotel in Chicago joined Responsbile Business Action Month in 2011 even before opening for business. The hotel partnered with Kits for Kidz, a program that benefits students in the Chicago Public Schools whose families cannot afford to purchase school supplies. The kits include school supplies and a backpack for the school year. The hotel purchased one kit per staff member with the funds raised. 17 Business Unit Focus Hotels The Radisson Blu Hotel at East Midlands Airport in the U.K. uses a range of low energy technologies to deliver an 87 percent reduction in CO2 and supply up to 90 percent of the consumed energy using renewable sources. Since pioneering Responsible Business in the hospitality industry in 1989 with the introduction of its environmental policy in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group has long been recognized as a leader. In January 2012, the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group launched Think Planet, an ambitious energy-saving inititiative to reduce energy consumption 25 percent in our hotels in Europe, the Middle East and Africa by 2016. 18 Business Unit Focus Restaurants Nick Shepherd, (third from right) with the staff of Minnie’s Food Pantry, a member of the Feeding America Network. More than 200 team members from the T.G.I. Friday’s Support Center have volunteered at Minnie’s Food Pantry sorting, stocking and lending a helping hand. Recently, these employees took their commitment to a new level delivering a 24-foot truck purchased by employees that will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of Minnie’s. 19 Business Unit Focus Travel In 2011, Carlson Wagonlit Travel decided to shift the focus of its annual client event toward a greater purpose that would create meaningful stakeholder connections. As a result, “Impact on the Gridiron” was born. CWT partnered with Habitat for Humanity to create a “celebration with intention,” that allowed participants to become fully engaged in the cause. The interactive event, which was planned and executed in partnership with CWT Meetings & Events, took place at Sports Authority Field in Denver during the Global Business Travel Association’s (GBTA) annual convention last August. Participants had the opportunity to engage with Habitat, make their mark on the home being built by CWT, and interact with the local family who would soon live in the home. CWT’s innovative event later received national recognition by PR News magazine’s annual CSR Awards in the Event category. CWT continues to combine a focus on Responsible Business with its GBTA event and in 2012 is supporting Project STEP, a Boston-based charity for musically gifted children from underrepresented Boston communities, during its “Thrive in Retro” event at Boston’s historic Symphony Hall. 20 Business Unit Focus Travel More than 80,000 people worked under Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group brands during 2011. The group counts more than 140 nationalities among the team members in our hotels in more than 80 countries and territories. Experience in different hotels and different countries is an integral part of a hospitality career and we support transfers across hotels. Cultural differences enable us as a host, to cater to the needs of our clientele on an individual basis. Pursuant to the European Union Directive on Works Councils (94/45/ EC, the Works Council Directive), The Rezidor Hotel Group in Europe has established the European Works Council, which includes representatives of management and employees. Annual meetings are held and issues such as the company’s finances, performance and future ventures are discussed with employee representatives. 21 About This Report This report serves as Carlson’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. It highlights our Responsible Efforts in support of the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. For more information about Carlson, please visit www.carlson.com. About CarlsonSM Carlson is a global hospitality and travel company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota, U.S.A. Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group includes more than 1,300 hotels in operation and development, including Radisson Blu, Radisson® Park Plaza®; Park Inn by Radisson, Country Inns & Suites By CarlsonSM and Hotel Missoni; more than 900 T.G.I. Friday’s® restaurants; and a majority stake in Carlson Wagonlit Travel®, the global leader in business travel management. Carlson operates in more than 150 countries and territories and its brands employ more than 170,000 people. http://www.carlson.com © 2012 Carlson All rights reserved. CarlsonSM, Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, Radisson Blu, Radisson®, Park Plaza®, Park Inn by Radisson, Country Inns & Suites By CarlsonSM, Hotel Missoni, T.G.I. Friday’s®, and their respective logos are trademarks of Carlson or its subsidiaries. Carlson Wagonlit Travel® and its logo are trademarks of Carlson Wagonlit Travel. Rezidor and its logo are trademarks of The Rezidor Hotel Group. Carlson / United Nations Global Compact. Communication on Progress — 2012 22
