Communication on Progress Year: 2010/2011 Page 1/12 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact TNS RMS East Africa continues to support the UN Global compact and push its agenda by continuously reporting in a Transparent manner on the company’s good business practise to encourage Capacity building by creating awareness of ethics, integrity and Corporate Social Responsibility. ERIC REINGEWERTZ CEO TNS RMS EAST AFRICA Company name: TNS RMS EAST AFRICA LTD Sector: Support Services(Research) Number of employees: 88 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2008 Contact person: CAROLINA WAITHUNGURI Address: P.O Box 72951 – 00200, Mpaka Road, Westlands Email: Caroline.waithunguri@tnsglobal.com Phone: 254(20)4280000/4280351 Page 2/12 Brief description of nature of business TNS is a world leader in market research, global market information and business analysis. TNS provides market research insight across all industry and sectors. Scope of this COP This COP is for the year 2011 and covers all the four thematic areas of Human Rights, Labour rights , Environment and Anti-corruption. Page 3/12 Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed UN Global Compact human rights principles covered: Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment TNS RMS East Africa is committed to the protection and advancement of human rights as enshrined in the UniversalDeclaration of Human Rights (UDHR) The TNS RMS East Africa Human Rights Policy is grounded in the WPP Code of Business Conduct (the “Code”), and operates in conjunction with the Code. The Code and Human Rights Policy set forth TNS RMS East Africa policies and practices relating to conducting our business in an ethical and responsible manner that supports and respects the protection of human rights. It reflects the company’s core values and high ethical standards. A brief description of our Processes or Systems SEXUAL HARASSMENT Sexual Harassment is an invasion of an individual’s rights and a violation of the law. Consistent with our core values, it is the policy of TNS RMS that sexual harassment of staff is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. Sexual Harassment at the workplace is defined as follows: Sexual harassment is an unwelcome, sexually determined behaviour (whether directly or by implications) as: Human Rights § Physical contact and advances § A demand or request for sexual favors Current § Sexually colored demands § Showing pornography Any unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of sexual nature HIV/AIDS WORKPLACE POLICY HIV/AIDS is arguably one of the greatest challenges facing countries, societies, individuals and Organizations doing business in the sub-Saharan region and in particular, the East African region where TNS Research International does business. TNS Research International recognizes the impact of HIV/AIDS on the Community and its staff, and it has committed itself to making a contribution in the fight against this pandemic in the sub-region. More specifically, this HIV/AIDS workplace policy has been developed to act both as a benchmark and a platform on which to encourage all to protect the rights of the infected and affected, preserve the integrity and performance of our workforce and organization, and support initiatives by others in the community. This HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy informs, clarifies and sets out promises and responsibilities for all of us, and commits TNS RMS East Africa Ltd to: § Provide an enabling and safe working environment for all staff. § Not making the HIV test mandatory for any current or prospective employee(s) to work with TNS Research International, as HIV infection does not, in itself, constitute lack of fitness to carry out tasks. § Providing all a fair and equitable chance for employment, promotion and other benefits regardless of one’s Page 4/12 current HIV status. Both the HIV infected and the uninfected persons have the same rights and privileges as provided for in their work contracts with TNS Research International. § Working with the HIV infected staff (and their line managers) to ensure those no longer able to undertake their current job due to HIV related ill health, are provided an alternative and reasonable work arrangement. § Maintaining strict confidentiality with regard to HIV status of any staff and/ or their dependents, and keep such information privileged unless the concerned staff gives their consent in writing for it to be shared. TNS Research International however, encourages the HIV infected to consider self-disclosure. § Providing appropriate HIV/AIDS information and prevention tools, including condoms, to empower all staff and their dependents to protect themselves and encourage reduction in HIV related stigma. § Encouraging and supporting all staff and their dependents to access VCT services to know their HIV status. § Providing eligible HIV infected staff and/ or their dependents with treatment, care and support to improve their quality of life, in line with our medical scheme. HEALTH & SAFETY INFORMATION The Company is committed to achieving a high standard of health and safety in all its activities and requires the active participation of all employees to reach this goal. This is essential for ensuring the health and safety of our staff, visitors and our premises and of others working with us. Staff must co-operate and comply with the measures, which the Company takes in the interests of health, comfort, cleanliness, discipline, safety and orderly working conditions. The Company’s health and safety objectives are set out in the Health and Safety master Policy statement which can be found in the Knowledge Navigator and all staff are encouraged to carefully read and observe it. COMPENSATION Salaries § To determine salary, TNS RMS classifies each position in one of several salary scales. These scales are adjusted periodically so that they can remain competitive with those offered for comparable positions by other relevant organizations in Kenya. Initial placement and subsequent movement within and between salary scales is determined by various criteria, including professional qualifications (education, skills and experience), responsibilities and performance. § Pay increases are entirely discretionary and are based on individual merit and overall financial performance of the company. All deductions from salary payments, including income tax, National Social Security Fund, and the National Hospital Insurance Fund are indicated on the pay slip. Medical Cover § Coverage for the cost of out-patient and inpatient care for staff and their dependants is provided through a policy with reputable health care providers or insurance companies registered in Kenya. Details are provided on the letter of appointment. The terms and benefits of these policies are reviewed periodically to ensure that they are adequate and cost-effective. § Medical cover is for all contract and permanent staff members. Permanent staff is covered together with their bona-fide legal dependants up to a maximum of one spouse and three children. Dependent children are covered up to the age limit of 18years. Exceptions are on dependent children of up to 21 years who are still in school or colleges. Proof of enrolment in full time educational establishment is required. Page 5/12 Activities implemented in the last year · All staff who qualified for the medical scheme as laid out were covered. · Salaries for staff were paid out in time. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company · Motivated staff · Improved productivity Activities planned for next year Human Rights · Continue and enhance the activities implemented in 2011. Future ture Page 6/12 Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory UN Global Compact labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment The human resource department in TNS RMS East Africa is responsible for the oversight and implementation of the Labour policy, and shall define the company's implementation and monitoring efforts to conform to this policy and advance our commitment to continuous improvement. A brief description of our Processes or Systems TNS RMS observes Kenyan public holidays, namely New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Labor Day (May Day), and Madaraka Day, Mashujaa Day, Jamuhuri Day, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Id-el-Fitr and any other day that the government declares public holiday. We ensure that our Employees get a leave day on the prescribed government Holidays. Annual Leave Annual leave entitlement is 21 working days accumulated at a rate of 1.75 working days per month. Leave entitlement increases according to the length of service of an employee, up to a maximum of 26 working days as follows: § 0-4 years of service 21 working days leave entitlement § 5-9 years of service 24 working days entitlement Labour Rights § 10 years and over – 26 working days entitlement Current Prior to staff proceeding on leave, confirmation of the leave request is made by submitting a leave application form, recommended by the immediate supervisor, to the Manager, Human Resources. In approving leave, the Supervisor, will first confirm there has been adequate provision for the completion of any assignments during the employee’s absence. § The Company operates on an annual leave cycle that runs from 1 January to 31 December of each year. Any of the compulsory days not taken by 31st December of each year can be carried forward on until the 31st of March of the following year. After this date all previous leave not taken will be forfeited. § All employees are entitled to leave allowance of 2% of their annual basic pay or ksh.6, 000 whichever is higher on condition that their leave is not less than seven days. Compassionate Leave In the event of death of a member of the immediate family (parent, child, husband, wife, brother or sister), staff may be granted up to seven (7) working days’ compassionate leave. The Human Resources Manager will approve such requests. Sick Leave § If a member of staff is unable to work due to illness, he/she should contact the Manager, Human Resources. A medical certificate from a physician should corroborate illness necessitating absence from work for more than two consecutive days. § If at any time, in the opinion of the Doctor appointed by the Company staff become unfit to perform Page 7/12 your duties for reasons of ill health, up to one and a half month of sick leave with full pay and three months on half pay are provided in any 12 months. Beyond this period sick leave can only be granted at the discretion of the company. § In the event of prolonged absence, the Company reserves the right to seek medical opinion from a qualified practitioner that may result in a recommendation for retirement on medical grounds Maternity Leave/ Paternity Leave § On completion of the probation period a female employee shall be entitled to three calendar months maternity leave with full pay. An employee who has taken three months maternity leave shall not forfeit her annual leave and leave allowance for that year. § Maternity Leave without pay may be extended beyond the usual period at the discretion of the Management. § The Company will allow some level of flexibility to breastfeeding mothers after the maternity period providing that the total time commitment to the company is fulfilled and that this is agreed with the line manager. § Paternity leave of 14 days can be taken within 60 days of the birth of the child on submission of the birth certificate. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER TNS RMS is an equal opportunity employer and selects staff without regard to race, ethnicity, sex, religion, disability, age, sexual orientation or family or other relationships with existing staff members. It is RI policy to provide equal employment for all applicants and staff. This non-discrimination policy applies to all areas of employment including recruitment, hiring, training, promotion, compensation, benefits, transfer, termination and social recreational programs. It is the responsibility of all staff to conscientiously follow this policy. Activities implemented in the last year · All recruitments that were held were done openly and fairly. · A number of staff s were granted the various leaves they were entitled to. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company · Motivated staff · Improved productivity Activities planned for next year · Continue with the implementation of last year’s activities Labour Rights Future Page 8/12 Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental UN Global Compact responsibility principles covered: Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment TNS RMS East Africa commits to meet all environmental rules and regulations in the industry and strive to protect our environment through sound management practices and decisions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We are an automated company encouraging all employees to be digital. Environment Activities implemented in the last year Current · Use of recyclable material in the office. · Use of recycled paper for field questionnaires · Use of automated systems to avoid paper use. I.E soft storage verses Hard paper storage Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company · Increased awareness and responsibility among staff on environmental conservation. · Savings made on use of papers. Activities planned for next year Environment · TNS RMS East Africa will engage in more environmental activities not only within itself but in the community front as well. Future Page 9/12 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion principles covered: and bribery Commitment We are part of the WPP group of companies which are expected to be sox compliant. WPP is listed in the London Stock Exchange market. A brief description of our Processes or Systems TNS RMS East Africa operates in many different markets and countries throughout the world. In all instances, we respect national laws and industry’s codes of conduct. • We recognize our obligations to all who have a stake in our success including share owners, clients, employees, and suppliers. • Information about our business is communicated clearly and accurately in a non-discriminatory manner and in accordance with local regulations. • We select and promote employees on the basis of their qualifications and merit, without discrimination or concern for race, religion, national origin, color, sex, sexual orientation, age or disability. • We believe that a workplace should be safe and civilized; we will not tolerate sexual harassment, discrimination or offensive behavior of any kind, which includes the persistent demeaning of individuals through words or actions, the display or distribution of offensive material, or the use or possession of weapons on or client premises. • We will not use, possess or distribute illegal drugs. We will not report for work under the influence of drugs or alcohol. • We will treat all information relating to the company’s business, or to its clients, as confidential. In particular, ‘insider trading’ is expressly prohibited and confidential information must not be used for personal gain. • We will not knowingly create work which contains statements, suggestions or images offensive to general public decency and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of our work on minority segments of the population, Anti-corruption whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, color, sex, sexual orientation, age or disability. • We will not for personal or family gain directly or indirectly engage in any activity which competes with companies or with our obligations to any such company. • We will not offer any items of personal inducement to secure business. This is not intended to prohibit appropriate Current entertainment or the making of occasional gifts of minor value unless the client has a policy which restricts this. • We will not accept for our personal benefit goods or services of more than nominal value from suppliers, potential suppliers or other third parties. • We will not have any personal or family conflicts of interest within our businesses or with our suppliers or other third parties with whom we do business. • No corporate contributions of any kind, including the provision of services or materials for less than the market value, may be made to politicians, political parties or action committees, without the prior written approval of the company and the prior agreement of its share owners • We will comply with all applicable local laws and regulations, and any other laws with an international reach, such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, where relevant. Activities implemented in the last year · TNS RMS Kenya being a member of the WPP group carried out an Anti-Bribery and corruption seminar on 30th June at the Crown Plaza Hotel Nairobi in which all employees were encouraged to attend. · Participated in the designing of the Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company · No reported incidents of corruption among staff · Good corporate image maintained Page 10/12 Activities planned for next year Anti-corruption · Adopt the Code of ethics for Business in Kenya once unveiled. Future Page 11/12 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? TNS RMS East Africa will take the initiative of using this COP in our company profile and client proposals. Page 12/12
