CSR Report 2011/12 Extract from Annual Report 2011/12 Sustainable development Clas Ohlson is a dedicated retail company with 157 stores and e-commerce in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. We offer a range of 15,000 products in Hardware, Home, Multimedia, Electrical and Leisure. Our head office and distribution centre are located in Insjön, Dalarna, and we have approximately 4,000 employees. The company does not own any factories but cooperates with approximately 600 suppliers and 750 manufacturers in 30 countries. This sustainability report describes how we work with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Basis for Clas Ohlson's CSR work Clas Ohlson works according to the philosophy that Our business concept is to make it easy for people to solve sustainability issues require an overall approach and that their everyday practical problems in life. Our own operations these issues must permeate the entire organisation and and those of our suppliers and manufacturers are subject its various operations. This requires the involvement of the to demands concerning working conditions and other entire organisation in the efforts to achieve a sustainable human rights, work environment and environmental impact. society and also engage our customers and owners in this Through a sustainable business concept and operations, work. Clas Ohlson aims to create value for our shareholders, customers and employees, as well as for society as a Policies and reporting period for Clas whole. Clas Ohlson aims to contribute to sustainable Ohlson's Sustainability Report development and protect living conditions for current and This is the fourth sustainability report prepared by Clas future generations. Ohlson, based on the latest guidelines issued by the Global Efforts to contribute to sustainable social development are of critical importance to our business operations; partly due to increasing demands from customers, employees and other stakeholders, but also because sustainability generates new business opportunities for Clas Ohlson. All major investment decisions must take economic, social and environmental implications into account. Our sustainable vision We shall commit the company’s resources to economic, social and environmental development that contributes to sustainable living conditions for current and future generations. Clas Ohlson's CSR organisation and responsibility Clas Ohlson’s sustainability programmes are led by the CSR forum comprising the CEO, Director of Information, Director of Purchasing, Director of Supply Chain, Director of HR, environmental Coordinator, Internal Controller and CSR and Code of Conduct Manager. The CSR forum makes decisions pertaining to goals, strategies and activities for the entire Group’s CSR programmes and monitors whether the company is Dimmable LED Bulb. W (equivalent to 40 W). Rated life: working effectively toward its set goals. The CEO has 20,000 hours. Temperature range: -20 till +40 °C. E 27 socket. overall responsibility and the CSR programmes are to be 36-4643 integrated into and encompass the entire organisation. Sustainable development 27 Reporting Initiative (GRI). Clas Ohlson has chosen to apply in respect of workplaces, working conditions and work C-level* disclosure (not reviewed by an external party). A satisfaction (read more on pages 36-39). cross-reference table is presented on page 43 detailing where the various GRI indicators can be identified in Clas Customer survey Ohlson’s Annual Report, Sustainability Report and on the Each year, Clas Ohlson conducts an extensive customer website. survey encompassing Sweden, Norway and Finland. The The information and performance indicators provided customer survey for the financial year under review included in the Sustainability Report are selected on the basis of questions relating to customers’ views of sustainability and significance and relevance from a sustainability perspective the areas that they considered most important with respect for Clas Ohlson and according to requests from our to the environment, ethics and social responsibility (see the stakeholders. The Sustainability Report pertains to the diagram on the next page). 2011/12 financial year, meaning the 1 May 2011 – 30 This year’s survey shows that customers believe that our April 2012 period. Some sections contain information, social work is most important, followed by a good personperformance indicators and diagrams for the 1 January nel policy, our environmental programmes and finally our 2011 – 31 December 2011 period. other community involvement. For the second consecutive year, Clas Ohlson participated in the Sustainable Brands Clas Ohlson’s stakeholders and target Image Survey 2012. The survey gauges the Swedish groups population’s attitude to and perception of corporate Clas Ohlson’s key stakeholders and target groups are sustainability programmes, and Clas Ohlson was awarded customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and the distinction of “Best in the Industry 2012”. manufacturers, as well as the general public. The customer dialogue on sustainability issues is We engage in a continuous dialogue with key important and will be further developed to include stakeholders and also conduct internal and external surveys customers in the development of Clas Ohlson’s operations to ensure that we keep abreast of opinions and requests and the products we offer. concerning the company’s operations and development. The expectations and demands placed on Clas Ohlson by Our stores stakeholders differ. An open dialogue generates increased In conjunction with store establishments, Clas Ohlson knowledge and assists in determining the aspects of our cooperates with municipalities, regions and government sustainability efforts that need improvement. authorities. There is a shared interest in creating a viable We engage in meetings with a number of funds and asset local industry, particularly in the city locations where Clas management companies and their sustainability analysts Ohlson primarily establishes its stores. Central locations concerning various CSR issues and the opportunities and mean that people can shop where they live and work, challenges facing Clas Ohlson. reducing the need for driving to business centres outside The Sustainable Value Creation Initiative also contributes city centres. Clas Ohlson opens a large number of new to providing valuable feedback from the capital market stores in our current four markets every year, thus creating in terms of key CSR issues. During the financial year, many new job opportunities. Clas Ohlson conducted meetings with various non-profit organisations to gain familiarity with their viewpoints, experience and work with human rights and the environment. Financial development that creates value A follow-up review by the organisation Swedwatch was Clas Ohlson has reported a profit every year since its conducted during spring 2012 in which Clas Ohlson and inception in 1918. Healthy profitability and sound finances other companies in the industry participated. The analysis, are essential for conducting long-term sustainable which was published in June 2012, was based on interviews operations and creating value for shareholders, employees, with buyers and suppliers, and is available for reading on suppliers and society at large. As the business grows Swedwatch’s website (www.swedwatch.org). We also and expands, new job opportunities are created and, participated in a number of research projects, including one through the taxes paid in our various markets, Clas Ohlson at Lund University, as part of efforts to contribute to empirical contributes to public finances and the financing of society’s research in the CSR area. joint commitments. Participation in international sustainability Significant events during 2011/12 initiative During the financial year, we continued to make progress in Since 2008, Clas Ohlson has been a signatory to the UN our long-term programme aimed at monitoring compliance petition to promote work in the area of human rights, the with our Code of Conduct. Over the course of the year, 617 UN Global Compact. Since 2008, we have also contributed audits were conducted of manufacturers in Asia compared to the international climate initiative, the Carbon Disclosure with 426 in the preceding year. A programme designed Project (CDP). This requires that we report both direct and to intensify cooperation with strategically significant indirect emissions of greenhouse gases from our operations manufacturers commenced with the objective of raising the that occurred in 2010. CSR standard to the second highest or absolute highest level. Employee surveys In-store energy consumption was reduced by about Our work environment survey reveals a high level of 50 per cent in a number of stores as a result of superior job satisfaction and an excellent working environment. lighting plans and new lighting technology. The new lighting During the financial year, a Group-wide employee survey – is used in all recently opened stores, while the system Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) – was conducted. The will be introduced in older stores in conjunction with their survey provides valuable feedback from our employees renovation. 28 Sustainable development Emissions from transport have been reduced by raising requirements and conditions, in addition to in-store fundthe filling height for pallets used in transporting goods raising campaigns on behalf of children in Nepal. The from the distribution centre to stores. More goods and objective over a three-year period is to provide some 7,000 less air in the trucks permit a reduction in carbon dioxide children the opportunity to attend school. emissions and costs. Clas Ohlson continued the phase-out of conventional light bulbs by means of various marketing *GRI application levels campaigns. Thanks to our competent personnel and inThe guidelines have three different application levels: A, B store information, customers receive assistance in selecting and C. The reporting criteria at each level reflect an increased appropriate alternatives. Clas Ohlson cooperates with Save application or coverage of the GRI Reporting Framework. A “plus” the Children. This involves educational efforts on behalf of (+) can be added at each level to indicate that that the item in the report has been externally verified. young workers in China in terms of meeting their special NORDEN Samtliga CSR-variabler ökar något jämfört med föregående år, men likt 2011 så är Nordic Nordisk survey det fortfarande undersökning of krav the på sustainability aspects av vilka hållbarhetsaspekter leverantörerna och en jämställdconsidered som arbetsplats most som important viktigast äranses viktigast. Andel som Percentage Andel somanser att följande who anser consider the är frågor att följande viktiga ärissues following frågor för butikenför important viktiga handlar defor i (8-10) the stores butiken where they de handlar i shop Att Placeställa höga high krav påon demands sina leverantörer their suppliers in Att ställa höga krav på sina leverantörer gällande 62% 64% gällande arbetsförhållande (inget barnarbete relation to labour conditions arbetsförhållande (inget barnarbete etc.) 71% 62% etc.)(no child labour, etc) Att skapa SkapaCreate jämställdin enenjämställd equality arbetsplats arbetsplats the workplace medbra med bra with 56% 59% arbetsvillkor good working conditions 56% 63% 48% 49% produkter erbjudaprodukter AttAtterbjuda som Offer eco-friendly miljövänliga somärärmiljövänliga products 48% 53% Promote environmental Miljöfrågor issues 45% 46% Miljöfrågor 45% 47% Samhällsengagemang Support community involvement 26% 28% Samhällsengagemang 26% 33% Support Välgörande charitable ändamål causes 20% 23% Välgörande ändamål 20% 24% Population2011 Population 2012 Population 2010 Population 2011 The strategies are as follows: Bas: Population 3041IP 3 © LynxEye AB, 2009. All rights reserved. © LynxEye AB, 2009. All rights reserved. 1 Strategy Activity Open dialogue with our stakeholders and Feedback from our stakeholders via Employee Satisfaction Index, customer opinionbuilders concerning our CSR work. surveys and participation in Sustainable Brands Image Survey. Participation and dialogue with NGOs, universities, forums and other parties in relation to CSR issues. More intensive cooperation with suppliers and Further developed processes to monitor, follow up and support manufacturers manufacturers to achieve gradual social and in Asia as regards working conditions, environmental programmes and other environmental improvements aspects. Programmes aimed at reducing the number of suppliers and manufacturers. Cooperation with other organisations to raise the efficiency and effectiveness of monitoring and development programmes. The CSR perspective shall be an integral Integration of CSR issues in Clas Ohlson’s strategy and business planning. part of our business and operations. We Development of the organisation, processes and system support for CSR shall contribute to sustainable development, programmes. capitalise on existing business opportunities Internal training to raise expertise and awareness of CSR issues throughout the and strengthen our long-term competiveness. organisation. Develop the product range and communication, Range enhancements with new products that help our customers reduce their thus helping our customers in their selection electricity consumption and environmental impact. of products that contribute to sustainable Improved customer communication in relation to CSR issues in our stores and development. through other sales and communication channels. We shall make a difference in society by Long-term cooperation with, for example, Save the Children to help improve supporting selected non-profit organisations in conditions for children, in the form of educational programmes in China, as well as countries in which we are active. offering children in Nepal the opportunity to attend school. Community involvement for cultural and sporting activities, especially for young people living in and around Insjön. Sustainable development 29 Our work to promote human rights and better working conditions Taking responsibility for the environment purchase from various suppliers and manufacturers. We are also responsible for ensuring that our products generate and the people who are affected by our the least amount of environmental impact possible during operations is important for Clas Ohlson. their lifecycle. Verifying and working for improvements in our supply chain is a long-term and complex process. It requires Responsibility in our supply chain commitment and effort from the entire organisation as well involves making demands and verifying as our suppliers and manufacturers. Since the introduction compliance, but also developing longof our Code of Conduct in 2005 and the establishment of our purchasing office and CSR department in Shanghai in term relationships with our suppliers 2008 and in Shenzhen in 2010, we have come closer to and supporting their efforts to achieve manufacturers and taken several significant steps forward in our efforts to influence, verify and improve conditions in our sustainable improvements. supply chain. Integral part of the operations Our supply chain CSR work is an integral part of Clas Ohlson’s operations. Clas Ohlson is a dedicated retailer. The company does Targets are set, planned and monitored by Clas Ohlson’s not own any factories, and purchases its entire range from CSR forum (read more on page 27). suppliers and manufacturers in 30 countries. Some 38 per In our work on social responsibility in the supply chain, cent of our range is purchased directly from factories in close and effective cooperation between the purchasing Asia. Direct purchasing gives us greater opportunities for office and the CSR department is essential. Both influencing, verifying and supporting our manufacturers in entities actively ensure that Clas Ohlson’s suppliers and their efforts to improve working conditions and their work manufacturers sign and comply with the requirements environment. of our Code of Conduct and that any deficiencies are The work involved in verifying and supporting our addressed. In its daily work, the purchasing office can suppliers and manufacturers primarily focuses on the access information about our manufacturers’ CSR status, production taking place in countries with a high risk of nonaudit reports and improvement work to support decisions compliance with our Code of Conduct. concerning purchases of various products or the selection of a supplier or manufacturer. If suppliers or manufacturers Long-term commitment and cooperation have a serious non-compliance that is not addressed, they Our ambition is to contribute to a better work environment are blocked in the system until the problems are rectified. and working conditions in our own operations and for the people involved in the production of products that we The CSR departments in Shanghai and Shenzhen Our CSR department in China is responsible for verifying, History of Clas Ohlson's CSR work assessing and monitoring compliance with Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct, and for training and communication with 1998 Policy concerning child labour introduced. our suppliers and manufacturers in Asia. This assignment 2001 Environmental policy introduced. includes CSR audits of manufacturers and supporting their 2004 Launched process to develop and introduce efforts to improve. Code of Conduct. Organisationally, the department reports to Clas Ohlson’s 2005 Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct for suppliers CEO and, at the end of the financial year, consisted of adopted by Board and published. the CSR Manager Supply Chain, the CSR team leader, 2006 Working basis for the company’s systematic CSR administrators, and CSR auditors, who audit manufacturers work is prepared, approved and tested. and provide information and training in factories. 2007 First external CSR audits carried out. 2008 Establishment of a special Corporate Social Responsibility organisation in Shanghai. Challenges and opportunities 2009 Expansion of the number of audits and deepeClas Ohlson has a broad range of about 15,000 ning of cooperation with suppliers in regard to our products. The company does not have its own factories, Code of Conduct. but purchases its products from a large number of 2010 Anti-corruption section added to our Code of manufacturers. For many manufacturers, Clas Ohlson is Conduct. a small customer that accounts for less than 5 per cent of 2011 Purchasing office in southern China with CSR their annual sales. auditors. The factories in Asia represent various types of challenges, such as excessive overtime, poor working 30 Sustainable development China to help improve conditions for young workers (older than 16) (read more on page 32). As part of this work, and in line with the UN Global Compact to combat corruption, we undertook advance training on corruption and bribery in the company during the fiscal year. Training More intensive training programmes were conducted to provide basic CSR training for all company employees. Training creates a shared platform in the company, describes the various components that make up Clas Ohlson’s work, and how each individual can attain the company’s sustainability goals. Our purchasing office undergoes regular training in CSR and our work in the supply chain, and purchasers participate in audits every year, thus enhancing their knowledge and experience of the process and insight into how they as purchasers can contribute to improvements. During the year, Clas Ohlson’s auditors underwent external environmental training, an introductory course on the CSR SA8000 standard, along with seminars and labour legislation. Training programmes were also Bright Solar Garden Lights. Solar lamp with Bright LEDs that conducted in factories to raise insight into various provide a strong glow. Lights up beautifully in the garden. Height production processes, carbon emissions and greater from ground: 28 cm. 3-pack. 36-4771 awareness of special requirements and conditions for young workers (older than 16). Each year, we arrange training courses in Hong Kong, conditions, inadequate protective equipment, no or weak Taipei and Shanghai for agents relating to our CSR unions and manipulated time sheets. Corruption, bribery programmes and monitoring of the supplier chain. Our and other problems can also compound verification agents, who assist with direct purchasing in Asia, also processes. We make both announced and unannounced participate in audits to acquire more knowledge about visits to our manufacturers. All companies operating either the work involved in monitoring, verifying and supporting directly or indirectly in Asia encounter these challenges manufacturers. and can contribute to improvements in several ways. Clas Ohlson’s strategy is to use a combination of its own External information CSR auditors and external audit firms. Close cooperation Clas Ohlson’s sustainability report, which is part of the annual between our CSR department in China and our purchasing report, is the basis of our external CSR reporting and is office in Insjön is also essential for achieving results. prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Clas Ohlson works to prevent corruption and bribery. As (GRI), which makes it easier for others to monitor our work. a company and purchaser of goods and services, we can Clas Ohlson’s stakeholders can receive more information on and must make demands on business ethics, both our own our website, where we have also published a number of case and our sub-contractors’. studies with examples of our work on social, environmental The manufacturers with whom we cooperate have and other sustainability issues. We report our CSR efforts various skills and experience of CSR requirements and to the UN Global Compact and CDP (Carbon Disclosure audits. Many factories have several international customers Project). that impose demands and make recurring visits to the factory, while others have more limited experience since Our tools and processes clear requirements and CSR audits by purchasers were previously rare. We have noticed a difference during recent The Code of Conduct years, and an increased number of purchasers now make The basis for our work on monitoring and improving work demands and verify factories, which is the key to achieving in our supply chain is our Code of Conduct. Clas Ohlson’s lasting and sustainable improvement. Code of Conduct contains the demands we make on Joint demands by purchasing companies for better ourselves, and on our suppliers and manufacturers in conditions for people and the environment represent a relation to working conditions, the work environment, ethics positive trend and can generate even greater effects by and environmental impact. means of endeavours to harmonise the various tools and We refer to international conventions and national laws methods that are used. Clas Ohlson is a member of CSR and regulations. The requirements of the Code are based Asia, an organisation that presents opportunities for us on the UN Declaration on Human Rights and Rights of the to share experiences. To enhance efficiency of followChild, and the ILO core conventions. up and change work, we evaluate any cooperation with The Code is based on the OECD guidelines for global organisations, such as SEDEX (SMETA), BSCI or multinational companies and also complies with the GSCP, which have common codes of conduct, tools and ten principles in the UN Global Compact in the areas of processes. We also cooperate with Save the Children’s human rights, labour standards, the environment and antiCentre for Children’s Rights and Corporate Responsibility in corruption. Sustainable development 31 Our demands in the Code include: demands are not permitted to cooperate with Clas Ohlson. • We do not tolerate child labour or forced labour. Since the introduction of our Code of Conduct, a number • Employees must not be discriminated against on the of suppliers have chosen not to sign the Code or not grounds of personal characteristics or beliefs. qualified to be one of our partners for a range of reasons. • Workers’ health and safety must be prioritised in the If our partners do not give us access to audits or are workplace, for example that proper protection is used, unwilling to work with improvements, despite discussions and equipment and buildings are safe. and attempts, we terminate our partnership with them (read • Hazardous substances and waste must be handled more on pages 33-34). safely. Manufacturers with a committed management and • Employees must have acceptable working conditions, effective management system for monitoring, control and particularly in regard to wages and working hours. document management are in general best at meeting the The Code is available in Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish, demands of the Code of Conduct. English, Mandarin, Vietnamese, Korean and Japanese and has been published in its entirety on Clas Ohlson’s website Assessment and control of new factories (http://about.clasohlson.com/en). Before Clas Ohlson purchases products directly from a new supplier or manufacturer in Asia, a representative from Demands on suppliers and manufacturers the company visits the factory to make an initial assessment All of our suppliers and manufacturers must sign our of various CSR aspects based on our requirements. The Code of Conduct. The suppliers, in turn, are responsible factory must also sign our Code of Conduct. for ensuring that their sub-contractors and manufacturers To identify any deficiencies, we also work with selfcomply with our Code. Suppliers and manufacturers that assessments where the manufacturer completes a are unable or unwilling to sign our Code or comply with our comprehensive questionnaire about conditions in the factory What we wanted to What we achieved What we want to Targets achieve 2011/12 2011/12 achieve 2012/13 • Intensify our • Active work to increase cooperation • Participation in the CSR Asia organisa• Greater focus on environmental issues efforts in with other organisations and tion, leading to cooperation with other in CSR programmes. assessing, companies in relation to harmonised retail companies active in the region. • Deeper cooperation with key controlling tools and methods for monitoring the • We increased the number of auditors, manufacturers and suppliers at the and working Code of Conduct. both initially and subsequently, and “Excellent Yellow” level to raise and to improve • Increase the number of external raised the proportion of external reward manufacturers for their CSR conditions for audits to make more verifications in auditors to control the quality of our work. people and the addition to our own. own work. • Increased efforts to support environment, • Increase proportion of unannounced • We increased the proportion of manufacturers’ CSR programmes vis-àamong our (window) audits to acquire some unannounced (window) audits as vis sub-suppliers. suppliers and idea of normal conditions for our an effective supplement in auditing manufacturers. manufacturers. activities. • Deeper audits in the manufacturing • Advanced cooperation with key area where the risk for deviations are manufacturers and aimed at reducing assessed greatest. the number of manufacturers. • Expand our work • Increase the number of training •O  ur auditors supplied information for • Continuing training programmes for with information sessions for factories. factory managers in the areas of health new and existing manufacturers. and training at our • Advanced training for our largest and and safety, human resources and manufacturers. the most important manufacturers. environment. •C ontinuous • Continuous training. • Production process training in factories. • Continual further training for our CSR training of our • External environmental training, covering auditors. CSR auditors. such areas as training in respect of • Enhanced competence in the current emissions of carbon dioxide, environmental area. environmental management systems, and chemicals. • Introduction to SA8000 and Young workers’ special needs and rights”. • Cooperation • Cooperate with more companies • Participation in CSR Asia. • Assess the potential to cooperate with with other and organisations. • Cooperation with Save the Children in other companies and organisations companies and • Study various initiatives aimed at China (CCR CSR). in respect of audits to gain greater organizations in harmonising the company’s CSR • Participation in various research studies effect and increased potential to exert order to influence programmes. in the CSR area at Lund University, for influence. and continue example. • Greater dialogue with stakeholders in improving. the countries in which we are active. • Deeper, long-term cooperation with Save the Children. • Improved • Increased internal and external • Increased CSR information on • Increased communication about CSR communication communications. Clas Ohlson’s website. via all channels; stores, e-commerce, both internally and • Further development of our dialogue • CSR training for all personnel catalogue, telephone and marketing. externally. with stakeholders. (May/June 2012). • Enhanced cooperation with Save • Participation in the Sustainable Brands the Children and campaigns to offer Image Survey – awarded the “Best in children in Nepal the opportunity to the Industry, 2012” distinction. attend school. • Continual CSR information to our employees via our internal information channels. 32 Sustainable development in regard to the work environment, working conditions and the environment (based on the requirements of our Code of Conduct). The most comprehensive control is carried out during audits, when our own or external auditors inspect the manufacturing facility, interview the employees and verify various documents. Clas Ohlson bears the costs of these audits (an audit is described on page 35). The demands in the Code are based on: • UN Convention on Human Rights. • UN Convention on Rights of the Child (1989). • ILO Convention on the Minimum Age for Employment (no. 138, 1973). • ILO Convention concerning the prohibition and immediate action for the elimination of the worst forms of child labour (no. 182, 1999). • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (1998). Preventive work Some manufacturers have very little initial knowledge about Cocraft Stud Detector. Locates wooden and metal studding plus our demands and regulations or how they can proceed. electric cables in walls, ceilings and floors. Max. detection depth During the audits, our auditors inform manufacturers of for wooden studding: 38 mm, electrical cables/metal: 50 mm. 40-8158 our requirements and the areas that must be improved. We produced training materials in the areas of health and safety, human resources, and the environment to support manufacturers in their efforts to improve operations. We Remarks and improvements conducted training programmes at 120 factories during the In our audits, most remarks are made regarding health year. and safety, such as deficiencies in the use of protective Although Clas Ohlson is often a small customer for our equipment, evacuation and fire protection, and wages suppliers, most of them react positively to being audited and working hours, such as excessive overtime or lack of and are prepared to improve any deficiencies. However, access to social insurance. we do meet manufacturers that for various reasons are not During the year, most improvements took place in health prepared to provide us with access for our audits or are and safety. General improvements in relation to wages not interested in working with the improvements that are and working hours take longer to achieve. This issue is required within the given timeframes. If we cannot convince complex and requires a long-term process in which both them to change their position, despite attempts and the purchasers and the manufacturers of goods in Asia, discussions, we terminate our partnership with them. in consultation with authorities and NGOs, have to work together to find sustainable solutions. Recurring audits Since many manufacturers have a colour code yellow We conduct recurring audits of our active manufacturers, in terms of the CSR level, with various deviations, in the who are reviewed at least every second year. future we plan to work to raise the manufacturer’s level We conducted 617 audits during the financial year, both towards green, that is, without any deviations, in order to initial and recurring. Our own auditors conducted 591 audits, target and deepen cooperation with strategically important while 26 external audits were carried out by independent manufacturers who report a positive development of their audit firms specialised in social responsibility and human CSR programmes. rights. An audit normally takes 1-2 days, depending on the size GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) of the factory and the number of employees. The auditors inspect the factory’s premises, interview employees and In 2009, Clas Ohlson introduced GRI – the global reporting verify documents. The audit is documented in a report. If we standard for sustainability activities – which made it easier for discover non-compliance with our Code, an action plan is people to monitor our sustainability efforts. The introduction prepared with information about actions that must be taken of GRI has also created value for Clas Ohlson by providing by the factory within a given timeframe (read more under a framework with well-defined performance indicators, which “The CSR audit process” on page 35). can be used to set targets and monitor results in selected areas. Assessment of the CSR level Our manufacturers’ CSR levels are assessed according to a Reporting deviations and actions taken range of colours: A number of selected performance indicators in the human Green – Meets the requirements of our Code of rights area can be found in the tables on page 34. Conduct Yellow – Identified non-compliance with the Code Non-discrimination Orange – Identified high-risk non-compliance with the Audits conducted during the year identified one case Code of discrimination and noted five remarks regarding the Red – Identified zero-tolerance non-compliance absence of policies against discrimination. The most with the Code common form of discrimination is that recruitment Sustainable development 33 advertisements impose demands in terms of age and/or gender regarding candidates. Clas Ohlson has demanded the introduction of a non-discrimination policy and that the advertisements be changed. Freedom of association and collective bargaining We identified 17 cases of restricted freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We have demanded that suppliers introduce systems that eliminate these obstacles. In general, freedom of association is a major problem in Asia and represents a large and important area of development that requires collaboration between manufacturers, purchasing companies, NGOs and government agencies. Child labour (under 16 years) We identified twelve cases of child labour in our audits Radio ear defenders. Listen to music while you work. during the year. In each case discovered in our audits in 40-8308 China, the workers were 15 years old (workers must be at least 16 years to start working in China). When we discover under-age workers, we work together with the child/parents and the factory to try and find the best solution for the child. Status per active manufacturers In a further 36 cases, factories did not have satisfactory 30 April 2012 ID documentation to verify the age of employees (with no suspicion of child labour at the time of the audit) and in 5 Status Green Yellow Orange Red cases, factories did not have a child labour policy. In these Per cent cases, Clas Ohlson demanded that the companies introduce proportion 7% 90% 3% 0% child labour policies and procedures to maintain records of identification documents. Status after completed CSR audits per finanical year Forced labour We did not identify any cases of risk of forced labour during Year 06/07 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 the financial year. Previously identified cases in this area have Green 14 11 4 11 pertained to wages or to workers’ identification documents Yellow 4 24 296 332 300 438 being confiscated by the manufacturer. Clas Ohlson Orange 50 82 109 demanded that these activities cease immediately and that Red 14 49 51 40 59 the factory concerned introduce policies and procedures to prevent forced labour. Total 4 38 359 444 426 617 Non-compliance based on GRI indicators after completed audits: GRI indicators 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 Total HR4K Non-discrimination 16 15 20 6 57 HR5K Freedom of association and the right to collective 1 29 9 7 17 63 bargaining HR6K Child labour 1 1 1 6 12 21 HR7K Forced labour 5 2 0 0 7 Glossary and definitions GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Global reporting standard for sustainability programmes. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Introduced in 2009 at Clas Ohlson. CSR entails that companies, on their own initiative, demonstrate active commitment and responsibility in terms of social Suppliers development. The term encompasses companies’ social Companies with whom we place orders. responsibility, environmental responsibility and HR policies. Manufacturers (factories) Code of Conduct Companies that manufacture our products. A Code of Conduct includes guidelines that describe how a company should conduct operations, ethically, socially and Agents environmentally. It is often based on various international Suppliers in Asia with whom we have a long-standing relationship agreements, such as UN and ILO conventions, national legislation and who purchase products from other suppliers and and regulations. Requirements may also pertain to the production manufacturers in Asia. carried out by suppliers and manufacturers. By applying a Read more: The complete Code of Conduct and further information Code of Conduct, companies aim to ensure that products are about Clas Ohlson’s efforts to promote human rights is also available on manufactured under satisfactory working conditions. the website at http://about.clasohlson.com/en. 34 Sustainable development The CSR audit process At Clas Ohlson’s office in Shanghai and Shenzhen, six auditors are employed to check conditions in factories. Clas Ohlson performs internal audits using its own auditors and external audits through independent organisations. An audit comprises the following components • An audit is initiated when our auditors convene an opening meeting with the owner of the factory or a senior official. During this meeting, we provide information about Clas Ohlson, describe the audit process and the agenda for the day, the auditor collects information about the factory and reviews the documents that the factory must produce for review. • This is followed by a visual inspection of the factory and its premises, including canteens and any housing. Some of the items we check are: Health and safety Documents for production and other • Fire safety (including fire equipment, properties escape routes, emergency exits, fire • Certificates and permits drills) • Policies • Protective equipment for workers, • Attendance lists including protective gloves, ear• The practise of fines or other plugs disciplinary actions • Ventilation, noise and light Child labour • Drinking water • Pay attention to and check for • Toilets young workers • Canteen and kitchen (including The environment hygiene and certificates) • Report the factory’s environmental • First aid equipment impact and risks • Electric wires and cables • Relevant documents and certificates • Machinery equipped with safety de• Hazardous substances and waste vices are marked and handled safely If the factory provides housing for the • Access to MSDS (Materials Safety workers Data Sheet) • Number of people per room • Training and medical examinations • Personal space for people who work with hazardous • Toilets substances • Gender-separated rooms • Recycling management • Fire safety (including fire equipment, • Water purification, air purification escape routes, emergency exits) • Ventilation and light • Hygiene and safety • Documents are verified in the next phase, including payrolls, time sheets, ID documents, employment contracts and various types of certificates and permits. • Employees at the factory are then interviewed. The interviews are voluntary and confidential, as protection of individual workers is important. • The visit is concluded with a closing meeting where the factory management is informed of the audit findings. If non-compliances have appeared, we discuss the improvements that must be made and the timeframe for their implementation. • Another inspection is carried out later to ensure that the factory complies with the audit’s improvement requirements. This inspection is conducted by either Clas Ohlson’s own representatives or an independent organisation. We also reserve the right to make both announced and unannounced audits of our manufacturers. Clas Ohlson bears the costs of the audits. Sustainable development 35 Clas Ohlson's values and employees Clas Ohlson’s employees are the core of were recruited in autumn 2011, and a new trainee program commenced in autumn 2012. the Clas Ohlson brand. A comment we • Follow up of the results and action plans on the basis of frequently hear from our customers is that the Employee Satisfaction Index, (ESI) 2011. • Continuing anchoring of our value base, with the we provide good service and have pleaobjective that all employees are familiar with our sant and knowledgeable staff, whereby corporate history and culture and contribute to they expect a little more of Clas Ohlson. fostering and developing the Clas Ohlson spirit. Proud employees On 30 April 2012, the number of employees in the Group Clas Ohlson is continuing to expand at a rapid pace. The was 3,920. Of these, 52 per cent were full-time employees. number of employees in our markets is steadily increasing. The effect of our manning optimisation policy is that we With the purpose of safeguarding expertise for future had fewer employees in the past year compared with the growth and expansion, we place great importance on preceding year. One positive effect of this strategic planning attracting and retaining the industry’s best employees. is that we can offer part-time employees a higher level of Key success criteria in this work include providing employment, which is also aimed at ensuring competence access to internal career opportunities, continuous skills and service for our customers. development, market-based salaries, and health and Over the course of the year, more than a thousand diversity programmes. employees participated in some form of training programme in Insjön. An eventful year Our second Group-wide employee survey was finalised The following events, measures, and activities provide a when the UK completed its survey during autumn 2011. brief summary of our HR and training programmes during The survey was conducted earlier during the year in the 2011/12 financial year. Sweden, Norway, Finland and China. Overall, 85 per cent (84 per cent 2010/11) of our workforce responded to the •C  ontinuing focus on skills development in questionnaire, which is a high participation rate. entrepreneurship. The ESI (Employee Satisfaction Index) for the Group was • Launch of our new leadership-training programme 74 per cent (unchanged from 2010/11), which, by external for executives, other key personnel and potential comparison, rates well vis-à-vis against other companies. managers. • Continuing organisational development and manning Considerable confidence optimisation to provide quality customer service, The employee survey offers an excellent basis for our combined with high efficiency. efforts to attract, satisfy, stimulate and motivate employees • Our first group of trainees completed the programme as well as to how we can develop leadership in the and took up positions in goods supply, purchasing and company. operational development. Three of the new trainees Among other points, the survey indicated that most Total number of employees Number of employees, men/women Employees per country Women, 42% Men, 58% China, 1% Sweden, 51% 4,000 3,962 UK, 8% 3,920 3,430 Finland, 9% 3,000 3,100 2,974 Norway, 31% 2,000 1,000 0 07/08 08/09 09/10 10/11 11/12 Total Store Store Salaried Other WareWomen Men Total managers employees managers house Total number of training hours 43,541 6,484 4,221 5,900 2,557 26,723 35,980 62,703 Average per employee 15 32 6 3 6 16 16 16 36 Sustainable development Focus on spare parts – Clas Ohlson likes wear but not waste! A well-kept secret is that Clas Ohlson has a vast range of spare parts – comprising more than 9,000 articles – that can extend the service life of various products. The stock ranges from clock parts to drive belts and coffee pots. To date, only a minor share of our customers have been aware that we offer spare parts and our own workshop to which they can turn for help in repairing products. “Many customers are positively surprised when they hear that we offer spare parts and workshop services and can extend the life of a favourite product – ranging from machinery, tools and electronics to household products, multimedia and leisure products. This is an issue of service and sustainability, or, in other words, economising with resources and not dumping things unnecessarily,” says Sven-Åke Östberg, Customer Service Manager at Clas Ohlson. A key aspect of Clas Ohlson’s new e-commerce venture is the potential to display the extensive range of spare parts accompanying the various products. Using this channel, customers can also search for spare parts for products that are no longer included in the product range – a feature that is much appreciated, especially in the case of more costly machinery and tools. And in terms of support, there is considerable expertise available at Clas Ohlson, with 25 service engineers active in various specialist areas, namely, electrical and clock parts, machinery and tools, multimedia, home and household, as well as leisure and toys. Being able to offer spare parts and workshop services is a key feature of our service, but is also crucial in being able to contribute to sustainable development in the form of more wear and less waste. Our aim is to always guide our customers to the right product with the right quality ambition to solve the particular task. A more basic, low-cost product can function perfectly for many years when used for simple tasks, though not too often. However, in the case of professional users who use a product every day for difficult tasks, a more advanced and frequently more costly product is required that can cope with more demanding use. Sustainable development 37 employees are proud to work at Clas Ohlson and feel the appropriate skills for their working tasks and that the involved in the decisions made. Confidence in managers organisation can give its customers an optimal product and executive management is strong, and our efforts to offering and service. During the year, 2,500 employees promote diversity, equal treatment and equality are rated received some training in a classroom format or via video highly. Our challenges are linked with our growth, which conferencing and e-learning. requires continuing care and development in regard to our In autumn 2011, a new learning portal was opened on status as an attractive employer with a focus on core values, Clas Ohlson’s intranet. Via the portal, employees can leadership, and clear feedback on employee performance conduct occupationally tailored interactive training courses and salary. in a simple and cost-effective manner, with minimal During the year, measures based on the results of environmental impact and administration. The training previous employee surveys were introduced. Employee assessments conducted to date have been positive. participation in action programme planning provides clearer target formulation and superior precision, as well as greater Competitive salaries involvement in the implementation phase. Clas Ohlson’s pay policy is to offer a competitive total remuneration package. The fixed salary shall constitute the Diversity enriches basis for total remuneration. The salary must be comparable We firmly believe that good results, satisfaction, to the relevant market and reflect the scope of responsibility commitment and teamwork are attained through diversity. that the work entails. The fixed salary shall be reviewed Consequently, we strive to achieve an even distribution of annually to ensure a market-based and competitive fixed staff with varied experiences and backgrounds. salary. The Group’s gender equality policy underlies our In addition to a fixed salary, all employees – regardless of diversity programmes. The objective is that neither gender their professional role – receive some form of performancewill account for less than 40 per cent in any professional based variable salary as well as a keep-fit allowance and category. This is achieved through strategic competence staff discounts. development combined with the prioritisation of an even gender distribution in connection with recruitment. Preventive healthcare programmes During the 2011/12 financial year 42 per cent of the Clas Ohlson offers a good work environment, where company’s employees were women (41 per cent 2010/11). employees are satisfied, enjoy a sense of security and The proportion of women in senior management was 20 per belonging, and physical and mental well-being at work. cent as of May 2011 (13 per cent in 2010/11). TwentyOur annual employee survey shows that the work five per cent of our management team, including country environment is good and that job satisfaction high, which, managers and senior executives, are women (18 per in turn, is reflected in low employee turnover in relation to cent in 2010/11). A large number of our store employees the industry, a total of 18.4 per cent (including part-time are younger than 30 years, which is natural since many of employees), and low sickness absence figures. During them are students who work part-time in the store during the 2011/12 financial year, the total sickness absence evenings and weekends. amounted to 5.0 per cent. Of the total sickness absence, 2.1 percentage points of absence exceeded 14 days. Skills development with a business focus The Clas Ohlson Academy in Insjön is responsible for Our shared core values Group-wide training, including obligatory and voluntary Clas Ohlson has a resilient corporate culture, a special training courses, covering all countries and all occupational corporate spirit and core values in which caring for categories. The objective is to assure the company’s employees and customers has always been a natural regeneration and growth by ensuring that employees have feature. A young organisation A large proportion of our employees are younger than 30 years, which is natural since many of our store employees work part time. Students often work evenings and weekends in one of Clas Ohlson’s stores. Age breakdown, Clas Ohlson Group Employee turnover* Employee turnover, men/women* Over 50 years, 9.2% Below 30 years, 46.6% Over 50 years (0.8%) Below 30 years (13.5%) Men (19.1%) Women (17.4%) 30-49 years (4.2%) 30-49 years, 44.2% * Current statistics (according to GRI) also include part-time employees 38 Sustainable development New learning portal offers inspiration and know-how Kim Andersson at Clas Ohlson’s Triangle store in Malmö completed the “Advanced personal sales” course using the new learning portal. “The course was excellent. It provided numerous suggestions as to how deal with customers in various situations,” Kim comments enthusiastically. The interactive training course, which is done from home, is based on animated customer situations that store personnel may encounter. “This creates a link to reality, which makes it easier to remember compared with a lot of text and theory. I’ve already experienced lots of situations in the store that I have been able to handle thanks to the course.” The course extends over a total of 1.5 hours, and is split up into lesson sessions of 10 – 15 minutes. Participants can decide whether to do it all in one go or on several occasions. “It’s great being able to study at home in peace and quiet, instead of having to go to a store or a course centre. In my case, it worked best doing the entire course over a single evening but everybody has different times and possibilities,” Kim concludes. Salesmanship is at the centre of our core values. This of responsibility, everyone is equally important in attaining means that we always seek to pursue business and always our common goals. conduct it with the customer in mind. Our core values are also marked by drive, warmth, commitment and innovation. Innovation For Clas Ohlson, innovation means being creative, Drive innovative and curious. We are always seeking new For Clas Ohlson, drive is the enjoyment, willingness and opportunities, products and solutions, while also feeling ability to make things happen. We find solutions to everyday proud of our history. problems, no matter how large or small, and turn words into Core values are at the heart of the Clas Ohlson brand. action. They provide a compass for the efforts of the entire Group and are the guiding principles for how we communicate Warmth with our customers. As the Group grows, it is important For Clas Ohlson, warmth is the friendliness, care and to remain clear and forceful. Core value programmes are service-mindedness we display in all customer interaction, essential in giving employees and customers in Sweden, in meetings with each other within the company, and in our Norway, Finland, UK and China a shared image and relationships with suppliers. perception of Clas Ohlson. Commitment For Clas Ohlson, commitment means that each individual takes personal responsibility. Regardless of our role or area Number of employees* Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Stores 1,199 1,134 278 267 2,878 Distribution centre 333 333 Salaried employees 472 107 49 34 47 709 Total 2,004 1,241 327 301 47 3,920 – of whom women, % 42 38 41 54 60 42 – of whom permanent employees, % 90 86 97 88 4 88 – of whom full-time, % 60 44 47 34 100 52 Average period of employment in the company, year* Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Salaried employees 6.7 7.7 5.0 1.8 3.5 6.5 Stores/distribution centre 7.1 4.0 2.0 1.6 5.0 Average sickness absence ,% Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Total sickness absence 4.9 6.8 3.1 1.7 0.0 5.0 – long-term sick leave 1.9 3.5 0.4 0.3 0.0 2.1 – women 6.0 9.2 3.9 2.3 0.0 6.3 – men 4.0 5.3 2.5 1.1 0.0 4.0 *April 30 2012 Sustainable development 39 Our responsibility for the environment Clas Ohlson purchases products from representing an efficiency enhancement of 57 per cent compared with the older lighting system. approximately 600 suppliers in 30 • Increased height on goods pallets from the Distribution countries. The products are transported Centre to the stores. Following an ergonomic risk by sea, air, road and rail to the distribution analysis, the filling height pallet was raised by 20 cm. This permitted pallets to carry more goods, thereby centre in Insjön in Dalarna, where they are reducing greenhouse gas emissions and transport stored and sorted for onward distribution costs. • New model for the assessment of chemical risks in to our stores in Sweden, Norway, Finland goods. Since spring 2011, Clas Ohlson has applied a and the UK, and to mail order/Internet new method to steer requirements, sampling and the customers. The goods are mainly monitoring of requirements in purchasing operations. transported by road, but transport by sea Environmental work in a wider context and rail is increasing by the year. Our greatest challenge, from a risk and cost perspective, is our dependence on fossil fuels and their climate impact, particularly in regard to freight. We work actively to achieve our environmental objectives, In addition to the threat of a shortage of oil in the longer and continuously improving the company’s environmental term, current climate-policy efforts at government level performance is a priority. Clas Ohlson’s environmental policy could result in higher taxes and charges. states that the environmental perspective must underpin all The impact of logistics on the climate is one of two important decisions, in order to create long-term value for our prioritised areas in our environmental work. In partnership customers, employees, shareholders and society at large. with the transport companies we engage, we are seeking This entails a lifecycle perspective that spans the entire solutions to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions. chain, from choice of suppliers, manufacturing methods Climate change also shifts the focus to energy and transport modes to product materials, use, energy consumption in society. The EU issues directives (such as consumption and waste management ErP) in order to promote the design and development of products with higher energy efficiency. Key events during the year As a step in this transition process, our product range •T he development of our in-store lighting system and product information is continuously developed to help continues. New lighting sources mean that the installed our customers reduce their own electricity consumption, electricity output has fallen from 35 to 15 W/m2, thus benefiting both the environment and the economy. Environmental Outcome Goal goals 2011 Analysis 2012 Activities Sea freight +8.6% -5% CO2/tkm (vs. 2007) (4.02 vs. 3.70) Lower loading factor for container. 3.52 Road -2.9% Higher loading factor does not impact Increased height for pallet loads -10% CO2/tkm (vs. 2007) (50.4 vs. 51.9) the measuring method. 46.7 forwarded from Distribution Centre. Train Intermodal transport to stores in the UK +10% of the proportion of +20.5% results in a higher proportion. The goal land transport (vs. 2007) (19.4 vs. 16.1) for 2012 has been achieved. 17.7 The proportion of airfreight is at a Air -35% reasonable level. The goal for 2012 was -10% lower share (vs. 2007) (0.0615 vs. 0.094) attained. 0.085 Business travel -13% Compared with 2010, the proportion of -20% CO2/km (vs. 2007) (108.1 vs. 124.3) rail, air and road increased. 99.4 Max. 150 g CO2/km for new company. Consumption of operating electricity at the DC in Continuing decline, despite the fact that Insjön -15% higher loads on pallets have the Optimisation of operating periods, goods -25% kWh/pallet (vs. 2007) (20.2 vs. 23.8) opposite effect. 17.1 flows, cooling and ventilation. The Energy-related Products Directive (ErP 2009/125/EC). The Ecodesign Directive means that the product must offer a certain energy efficiency and resource efficiency in order to be used in the EU. The ecodesign regulation takes the form of EU stipulations with specifications for various product groups. The regulations apply in all EU countries and the requirements apply from the date stated in the document. Explanation for the table: CO2/tkm = CO2 emissions per tonne/kilometre. Intermodality, means that a freight unit, such as a container, is freighted with several different modes of transport, such as train, boat or truck. DC = Distribution Centre. 40 Sustainable development The EU’s REACH regulation has led to a greater focus on results in reduced costs and reduced environmental impact. the chemical substances that products could possibly The performance indicator for climate impact in conjunction contain. For our part, this entails clearer and more efficient with business travel by road, air and rail increased by 8 per procedures for specifying requirements and communicating cent, from 100 till 108 g CO2/ km. The underlying factor is a with our suppliers. We use a risk assessment model for decrease in rail travel and higher road and air travel. this work, which basically means that we classify products according to supplier category, brand, area of application Results and user group. We then adapt our demands on suppliers Clas Ohlson’s total carbon dioxide emissions for goods and products according to the risk classification. transport decreased from 16,289 tonnes (2010/11) till 15,349 tonnes (2011/12). A higher level of sea and rail Organisation and responsibility transport is the primary factor. Emissions per tonne/ kilometre increased – from 5.5 (2010/11) to 6.0 grams per Environmental efforts are a feature of Clas Ohlson’s tonne/kilometre (2011/12), primarily due to the loading sustainability work and are coordinated in a CSR forum. factor for sea transport from Asia. The forum formulates targets and strategies, and plans and monitors sustainability efforts. Each function manager is then responsible for measures relative to the environmental Product responsibility impact of his/her own activity. Read more about Clas Ohlson’s CSR forum on page 27. Overall environmental goals The products we sell must have properties that meet or exceed market expectations in regard to material characterisFreight and business travel tics, energy consumption, safety and quality. Product rangOur overall environmental objectives entail that carbon es and information is to be developed to help our customers dioxide emissions per tonne/kilometre for freight and reduce their own environmental impact. person/kilometre for business travel must be reduced by 30 per cent by 2020, compared with the base year of 2007. The reduction applies to the total performance indicators for Chemical risk substances current transport modes. The number of chemical substances covered by the About 85 per cent of goods arriving from Asia to EU REACH regulation is rapidly increasing. Clas Ohlson Gothenburg by sea are transported by rail to the terminal has worked extensively in training suppliers as regards at Insjön. The Purchasing Department adapts orders to legislation and risk assessment of the chemical content of fully fill entire containers, which provides the optimal load products and packaging. The company has also drawn up factor. Goods from Swedish and European suppliers are a contract with an accredited laboratory in China, through coordinated in several locations for onward transport by road. which suppliers can test their products. Transport from the distribution centre to stores and customers mainly goes by road, but the proportion of the Phase-out of risk substances flow of goods that is transported by rail and sea increased All materials and substances in products with known from 16.4 per cent (2010/11) to 18.3 per cent (2011/12). risks must at least meet the requirements of applicable Since July 2011, the height of pallets dispatched from the legislation. Clas Ohlson is phasing out risk substances distribution centre has been increased by 20 cm, which subject to the REACH regulation by setting a maximum Energy consumption* Carbon dioxide emissions from 2011 2010 2009 The performance indicators show energy transport and travel Store premises, kWh electricity/m2, year)* 139 150 139 consumption in four Transport gram CO2 per tonne/kilometre Offices, kWh/m , year, total 2 142 157 205 different areas: electricity consumption in stores, 2011 2010 2009 Distribution centre, kWh/m , year, total 2 89 100 83 electricity consumption, Outgoing freight 46.6 47.7 50.1 Distribution centre, kWh/pallet, electricity 20.2 22.6 24.2 district heating and oil consumption at the head Incoming freight Europe 17.1 22.5 18.9 Fuel oil Insjön, m3 0.8 9.4 19.8 office and distribution Incoming freight Asia 4.29 3.76 4.19 *Excluding stores in the UK. centre, and electricity consumption per Total electricity consumption (GWh) delivered pallet. Business travel gram CO2 per person/kilometre 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Store premises* 34.0 30.9 24.2 Mean value road,air, rail 108 100 108 Offices 1.2 1.6 2.2 Distribution centre 4.6 5.1 4.4 Proportion of air freight (%) of total goods flow Fossil carbon dioxide tonnes) 0.14 2011 2010 2009 0.12 Freight 15,349 16,289 11,800 0.10 Travels 794 514 530 0.08 Heating** 11 186 286 0.06 Electricity 3,453 2,760 1,079 0.04 0.02 **Carbon emissions originate from burning of fuel oil. During 2011, 0.00 1% of district heating at Insjön was based on fuel oil and 99% on 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 biomass. Of the carbon emissions, 2.0 tonnes comes from own consumption and 9.1 tonnes from district heating production. Target 2012 Sustainable development 41 limit of 0.1 weight per cent. We have identified additional with workshops, spare parts store and so forth. Since substances for textiles and leather products beyond legal December 2009, all sections of the buildings have been requirements, which we minimise in our products. Clas connected to bio-based district heating. The performance Ohlson also has more stringent requirements than the legal indicator for the total consumption of electricity, district limit values for materials that come in contact with skin and heating and oil continues to fall. those used by children. The REACH regulation includes a requirement that consumers must be informed of the Stores content of hazardous chemicals in goods within 45 days Electricity and energy consumption varies significantly of a request. We have elected to provide information that among the different stores. For example, certain stores have accompanies the product when we feel that a particular escalators and additional electric signage, resulting in higher product may contain a hazardous chemical. However, the electricity consumption. requirement that we set for suppliers is that products must Electricity consumption in our stores points to a welcome not include any hazardous chemicals. trend reversal, with a reduction of 7 per cent, from 150 kWh per square metre per year (2010/11) to 139 (2011/12), Energy efficiency excluding the stores in the UK. In the Nordic region, cooling/ The Ecodesign Directive and Energy Labelling Directive are heating is included in the leasing contract. However, in the key tools in the EU’s efforts to attain a 20 per cent reduction UK, all property-related energy is billed separately, which in energy consumption by 2020. The directives entail that means that electricity consumption in UK stores cannot be certain product groups must provide certain energy and compared with that of stores in the Nordic region. resource efficiency if they are to be used within the EU and The reduction in electricity consumption results from also that it must be clear for the consumer how energya keener focus on lighting issues, good cooperation with efficient the product is. suppliers and a greater portion of energy-efficient light A substantial share of the products affected by the sources and fittings. directives is included in Clas Ohlson’s product range. Concrete examples are requirements in terms of reduced Waste standby losses, increased energy efficiency in transformers The WEEE Directive (Waste Electrical and Electronic and the ongoing phase-out of conventional light bulbs. Equipment) applies in all countries where we operate and Clas Ohlson accepts producer responsibility through its Aftermarket service wear, not waste membership in national waste collection systems in all Repairing a product rather than dumping it away is a markets. concrete example of sustainability. In addition to the For many years, the distribution centre at Insjön has extension of the service life of the product, an environmental employed efficient systems for sorting waste at source and benefit is achieved through a reduction in waste. Clas recycling. Surplus packaging is pressed into large bales that Ohlson has a product range accompanied by thousands of are sold and become raw material for new products. The spare parts and its own workshop with service engineers. same applies to various fractions of plastics. Other waste is Our employees’ product expertise is appreciated by separated into approximately ten fractions. customers, who are also offered repairs at cost price. Packaging Energy consumption In cooperation with our suppliers, we aim to reduce the proportion of environmentally damaging product packaging. Overall environmental objectives This will be accomplished by avoiding the use of plastic All energy consumption in our own and leased premises packaging or by replacing PVC with PE or PET plastics. and properties must be documented. Efforts are to be As far as possible, packaging size is adapted to match the directed toward specified savings targets for the distribution content in an effort to minimise the amount of packaging centre, head office and stores. The use of energy from fossil materials and reduce our transport volume and, thus, our sources in our own operations must be discontinued. environmental footprint. Sales of carrier bags in our stores amount to 8.8 million Distribution Centre (2011/12), of which about 13 per cent are paper bags. The overall energy consumption at the Distribution Centre Other bags are made of polythene (PE). The introduction of declined by some 11 per cent, returning to the 2009 level: sustainable re-usable bags of reinforced PP plastic proved 89 kWh per square metre per year. The favourable outcome successful, with sales rising sharply from about 80,000 is the result of the systematic optimisation of ventilation, (2010/11) to 198,000 bags (2011/12). cooling equipment and automated equipment. Packaging that is sent to our mail order customers is Other performance indicators reinforce the impression environmentally friendly due to their content of around of a positive trend. Energy consumption per pallet declined 57 per cent recycled fibre and bio-based adhesives. Clas from 22.6 (2010/11) to 20.2 (2011/12) kWh/pallet, despite Ohlson accepts its producer responsibility for packaging the higher load per pallet. The number of picking rows through membership in national collection and recycling increased by 15 per cent, with an unchanged number of systems in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. outgoing pallets – a definite efficiency enhancement that provides lower emissions and reduced costs. Printed matter Head office Clas Ohlson's head office at Insjön comprises two buildings Overall environmental objectives totalling 20,000 square metres of floor space. These When choosing communication channels, the buildings also house the Insjön store and customer service, environmental impact will influence our decisions. We 42 Sustainable development strive to increase the proportion of online customer and Legislation and guidelines shareholder communications. The production of our printed Clas Ohlson is mainly impacted by the following EU matter is to take place with technology and materials directives: that are well-documented. Our printed matter must be • Regulations on the use of substances hazardous to the recyclable as high-quality fibre. environment and health in products (REACH, RoHS, Also, all our direct mail advertising and this annual legislation applying to materials that come into contact report are printed on Nordic Ecolabelled paper. The Clas with food products and the Toy Safety Directive). Ohlson Annual Report is distributed only to shareholders who • Regulations on the products’ energy efficiency (ErP). request printed information from the company, leading to a • Producer responsibility for waste electrical and decrease in the number of issues printed by some 70 per electronic equipment (WEEE). cent, thus reducing our environmental impact. Read more For further information on our environmental and sustainability programmes, visit our website http://about.clasohlson.com/en. RoHS: 2002/95/EC oon the Restriction of the Use of certain Hazardous chemicals’ properties and assess the risks. A new authorisation procedure Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. will be introduced for chemicals with properties that are seriously hazardous The RoHS Directive forbids the use of mercury, cadmium, lead, hexavalent to the environment and health. Particularly hazardous substances are chromium and the flame-retardant substances PBB and PBDE in new entered in a so-called candidate list. electrical and electronic products released into the market as of 1 July 2006. All manufacturers, importers or sellers of goods on the candidate list The quantity limit is 0.1 per cent by weight (0.01 per cent cadmium by weight) containing more than 0.1 per cent by weight of a substance must present of homogeneous material. RoHS covers the product categories included in this information to their customers to ensure that the product can be handled WEEE. In Sweden, the Swedish Chemicals Agency is the regulatory body. safely. Reach: 1907/2006/EC Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and WEEE: 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. The Restriction of Chemicals The Directive came into effect throughout the aim is to design and produce electrical and electronic products in a manner EU on 1 June 2007 and REACH regulations will be introduced gradually that prevents waste. When waste anyway occurs, it is to be collected and through 2018. REACH is based on the principle that it is the party that reused or recycled in an environmentally sound manner. Manufacturers manufactures or introduces a chemical into the market who is responsible and importers are to pay for future recycling of products and ensure that for determining the risks associated with the chemical before it is put collection and environmentally sound recycling is performed. In Sweden, the into use. Chemical manufacturers and users shall prepare data on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the regulatory body. Clas Ohlson's GRI profile A complete version is available at http://about.clasohlson.com/en Clas Ohlson reports at C level. Performance indicators Page Financial impact EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 58-61 Environmental impact EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 41 EN4 indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. 41 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 41 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 41 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved. 28, 40, 41, 42 Social impact LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment terms and region. 39, 73 not 31 LA2 Employee turnover. 38 LA10 Average number training hours per employee and year per employee category. 36 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other diversity indicators. 38, 76-79 Human rights HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights, and actions taken. 7, 33 HR4 Number of cases of discrimination and actions taken. 34 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 34 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. 34 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. 34 Product responsbility PR1 Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 41, 42 Sustainable development 43 Clas Ohlson AB (publ.) SE-793 85 Insjön, SWEDEN Phone: +46 247 444 00 Fax: +46 247 444 25 www.clasohlson.se Corporate identity number: 556035-8672
