R I S K M I TI G A TI O N & I N V E S TI G A T I O N ckrglobal.com info@ckrglobal.com Vancouver 17 Fawcett Road Suite 225 Coquitlam, BC CANADA November 19, 2012 V3K 6V2 1.800.661.9077 Tel: +1.604.517. 4545 Fax: +1.604.517.4510 President’s message I am pleased to confirm that with this second Communication on Progress CKR Global reaffirms its support of and commitment to the initiative and principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The CKR Global group of risk mitigation and investigation companies, the first firm of its kind in Canada to formally become a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, is committed to CANADIAN OFFICES conducting all its business in a responsible manner, consistent with national and international Barrie, ON standards and norms. Calgary, AB Edmonton, AB We believe that our long-term business success is linked to the integration of environmental, social, Hamilton, ON and governance issues with corporate management and day-to-day operations. At CKR Global, this Kamloops, BC includes: Kelowna, BC Kingston, ON Lethbridge, AB • Focusing on the mitigation of risk and enhancement of human safety and security through the London, ON delivery of a broad range of related professional services, locally and globally Nanaimo, BC • Conducting business in a socially responsible and ethical manner Ottawa, ON • Minimizing our impact on the environment Red Deer, AB • Focusing on developing human resources from within our organization St. Catharines, ON • Providing value-added, ethical services to our clients Sudbury, ON Trenton, ON • Helping to build local capacity in the international communities we operate in Toronto, ON • Employing a variety of policies, programs and practices to manage corporate governance and Vancouver, BC local and international regulatory compliance in a manner consistent with, or exceeding, Victoria, BC international good practices, including international human rights standards and norms. Waterloo, ON Windsor, ON We take our broader obligations (social, environmental, economic) as a responsible corporate citizen Winnipeg, MN very seriously, and devote significant non-commercial activities to reflect these values and our INTERNATIONAL commitment to them. Kabul, AFGHANISTAN Nicosia, CYPRUS The CKR Global group of companies is founded on the excellence of our people, their shared GULF commitment to doing the right thing, and the excellence in our diversity of services – all of which are Kolkata, INDIA focused on mitigating risk and enhancing human safety and security wherever we work. Delhi, INDIA LATIN AMERICA Respectfully, Robert Burns President and CEO Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. CKR Global supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights both in principle and practice, in addition to related human rights standards and norms. As such we evaluate and respond to human rights issues within our business operations as required. Given our international work, CKR Global does not and will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known or reported, including torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. except where such work is done on behalf of nongovernmental organizations, such as the United Nations, directly in support of human rights-based development projects. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. CKR Global is a signatory to the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Service Providers, and has enshrined the principles of this Code as well as those of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights in all our overseas human safety and security related work and operations. This includes conducting human rights risk assessments in overseas operations. We encourage our major clients and suppliers to become signatories to the United Nations Global Compact. CKR Global has enacted workplace policies and procedures that address and support human rights, including a respectful workplace free from harassment, discrimination and violence. These are both national and comply with provincial legislation in each geographic area of operations within Canada. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Through our internal corporate Senior Leadership Team, which includes the human resources team, national and locally compliant policies and procedures were enacted in 2012 to support our approach to human rights. To help monitor for compliance and respond to potential incidents of noncompliance, CKR Global has retained an external third party reporting line for instances of concern to staff. CKR Global has not been the subject of any human rights related complaints or investigations in the past year. 2 Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Consistent with our formalized human resources related policies and procedures, CKR Global has enacted a Code of Conduct that applies to all employees and contractors as one approach to ensuring a safe and respectful workplace. CKR Global supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization that uses forced, prison or child labour. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. CKR Global has a range of human resource policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment including equal opportunities, leaves of absence, wage and hours of work requirements, etc. This includes systems to ensure all staff are properly trained, equipped and licensed where required to conduct work within their realm of expertise. All CKR Global employees are issued with an offer of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including job title, employment status, pay rates, benefits, roles and responsibilities, vacation entitlement, and overtime pay arrangements. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. CKR Global is formalizing an employee handbook which will provide staff with access to standardized information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. This will be completed by early 2013. To help monitor for compliance and respond to potential incidents of noncompliance, CKR Global has retained an external third party reporting line for instances of concern to staff. CKR Global ensures compliance with employment standards legislation in accordance with employee work location. CKR Global has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles in the past year. 3 Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. A CKR Global focus of 2012 and the coming year is working towards an environmental sustainability policy, with enabling practices. In support of this CKR Global become a participant in the UN Climate Neutral Network in 2011 and is actively seeking ways to reduce its carbon footprint. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. CKR Global has enacted policies within its most carbon intensive divisions to reduce emissions and enhance recycling efforts. As one approach to reducing our impact on the environment, CKR Global has begun using hybrid vehicles where possible. An office recycling program was begun in 2011 in some offices, with the goal being to have a program in place across all national offices by end of 2013. More energy efficient lighting is being installed in offices along with other measures to reduce the use of electricity. To reduce the use of paper and creation of waste, new project files are being created and stored electronically. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with travel, regional and national meetings are being conducted virtually where possible. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Observable progress has been made in some, not all, offices in regards to waste reduction, recycling and utilization of energy saving measures. Plans are underway to create corporate measures and targets for 2013 relating to energy use, waste and carbon emissions. 4 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. CKR Global does not support any form of corrupt practice by its staff, contractors or clients. This includes a refusal to participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. CKR Global actively monitors and assesses the threat of potential corruption in all projects – domestic and international. Corporate policies and procedures are transparent to all involved and are compliant with Canadian legislation, which in turn is consistent with the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Our corporate stance on corruption is widely distributed to all staff and contractors. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Through its parent company, CKR Global has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for all employees and company directors. This policy specifically addresses corrupt practices, amongst other practices in the workplace such as harassment, environmental protection, discrimination, health and safety. The policy is linked to internal governance and accounting oversight mechanisms to monitor for corrupt practices. CKR Global has attended and spoken at public seminars, conferences and learning events with Transparency International and the Government of Canada on corruption issues, including national and international compliance, threat risk assessments and measures to mitigate the threat of corruption and corrupt practices. CKR Global has joined the UN Global Compact Working Group on the 10th Principle. CKR Global has retained an independent third party reporting mechanism to provide a vehicle for both internal and external anonymous reporting of issues and events of concern. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. CKR Global has not been involved in any legal cases, investigations, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. 5
