SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL R E P O R T 2012 The OKI Group's initiatives of corporate social responsibility (CSR) focus on contributing to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world through sound corporate activities based on our corporate philosophy. Corporate Philosophy The people of OKI, true to the company’s enterprising spirit, are committed to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent information and communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the information age. OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct For the betterment of corporate value, the OKI Group (Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and members of its group of companies) seeks to provide satisfaction to its customers at all times and to become a trusted partner for our stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, employees, customers and suppliers, and the local societies of the areas in which it operates. In addition to complying with all related laws and regulations, the OKI Group will implement sound corporate activities consistent with social norms, and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world. Customer Satisfaction A Better Working Environment The OKI Group is dedicated to developing and providing The OKI Group ensures and maintains a safe and products and services that ensure continued customer comfortable working environment for all employees. satisfaction, in full consideration of safety and ease of use. Respect for Employees Fair Corporate Activities Respecting the individuality of each employee, the OKI The OKI Group conducts appropriate transactions and Group creates a corporate culture in which its personnel works to ensure fair, transparent, and free competition. are encouraged to engage challenges facing the groupwith courage and determination. Good Communication The OKI Group engages with society through a variety Environmental Conservation of interactions, and discloses company information in In order to realize and pass on a better global environment, manners that are appropriate and fair. the OKI Group promotes environmental management and makes efforts to conserve the environment through its Intellectual Property and Information products and its business activities. Management The OKI Group recognizes the importance of intellectual Social Contribution property, and properly manages and protects company As a good corporate citizen, the OKI Group implements and customer information, including personal information. social contribution activities dedicated to the betterment of society. Respect for Human Rights The OKI Group respects the human rights of all persons Regional Awareness involved in its corporate activities and eliminates illicit The OKI Group endeavors to build a positive relationship discrimination of any kind. It does not allow child labor nor and grow together with local societies, respecting the forced labor. cultures and customs of the countries and regions in which it operates. 2 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 The OKI Group, as described in its corporate philosophy, Code of Conduct which is to be conformed to by all aims at contributing to the improvement of the quality of life executives and employees of the group. We have for people around the world through its core business, disseminated the charter and the code across the group namely the manufacturing and distribution of products and through various means such as training programs. We have services that can serve the development of the information also defined seven priority themes to be pursued. The CSR age. What underlies the group's CSR (corporate social Division, an organization dedicated to CSR-related efforts, responsibility) initiatives is our commitment to the pursuit and takes the initiative in promoting activities under these themes. fulfillment of this idea. We will continue to make every effort to fulfill our social In order to cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, we responsibility based on our corporate philosophy by ensuring enacted the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct as a that each member of the group complies with the OKI Group statement of values to be shared by all member companies Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of ofthe group. In addition, we also established the OKI Group Conduct. Foundation of CSR at the OKI Group CSR Initiatives by the OKI Group Contributing to the Improvement of the Quality of Life Corporate Philosophy for People around the World Customers Shareholders/Investors Business Partners Local Communities Global Environment Governments NPO/NGO Corporate Activities Creation of Economic Value Statement of values OKI Group companies need to share コーポレート・ガバナンス Corporate Governance OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Customer Satisfaction Good Communication Respect for HumanRights Respect for Employees Social Contribution Regional Awareness A Better Fair Corporate Activities IntellectualProperty and Environmental Information Management Working Environment Conservation Code of conduct to be conformed by all OKI executive officers and employees OKI Group Code of Conduct Compliance Employees The OKI Group’s Activities Social Responsibilities Stakeholders in Business Participation in the United Nations Global Compact OKI has participated The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the United Nations Human Rights: Global Compact since Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally May 2010. The UN proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make  sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Global Compact is a CSR Labor: initiative proposed by Principle 3: B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective then-UN Secretaryrecognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and meeting in January 1999. It was officially launched in July Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 2000. occupation. The OKI Group supports the Global Compact's ten Environment: Principle 7: B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental principles in the areas of human rights, labor, challenges; environment, and anti-corruption, and thus further Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and enhances its CSR activities and contributes to the Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly realization of sustainable society. technologies. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: B usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 A Message from the President We keep our customers' trust and help people enjoy an improved quality of life through our ongoing efforts and sincere business activities based on an enterprising spirit. We will fulfill our responsibilities specifically, we accurately understand the needs of society, establish element technologies and manufacturing to society in accordance with our technologies, achieve a level of quality that truly satisfies corporate philosophy. customers, and offer reliable maintenance systems ensuring secure, long-time use of our products and service. As an OKI commemorated its 130th anniversary in November outcome of such activities, today we provide many products 2011. In order to take on the challenge of producing and services that constitute and maintain social telephone sets in Japan, Kibataro Oki, the company's founder, infrastructures. Among them are telecommunication established Meikosha, the country's first manufacturer of infrastructure for carriers, operational systems for financial telecommunications equipment in 1881 only five years after institutions, automated teller machines (ATMs), and various Alexander Graham Bell's invention of the telephone, and laid public service systems including disaster prevention the first foundation of Today's OKI Group. Since then, we have systems. always been committed to creating new businesses with new In order to further serve customers and society in this technologies and making the world more convenient. This age of volatility and change, our mid-term business plan for commitment embodies our corporate philosophy that underlies the period from 2011 to 2013 focuses on bolstering efforts for our CSR initiatives: The people of OKI, true to the company's growth under the following two strategies: 'enterprising spirit,' are committed to creating superior network O  KI provides products and services to contribute to the solutions and providing excellent global information and development of the information society through joint communications services to meet the diversified needs of efforts by sales and marketing, technology development, communities worldwide in the information age. production, and maintenance. O  KI aims to become a company that makes steady growth by generating profit stably. Grounded in the solid business base constructed through We contribute to society through our various efforts we have made thus far, we will shift to consolidated group management, enhance monozukuri (the products and services. art of manufacturing), strengthen our service business, and create new businesses based on our unique technologies in order to help people enjoy a more improved quality of life. Based on this philosophy, the OKI Group's mission is to contribute to society through our products and services. They are created by the results of our business activities characterized by the integration of sales and marketing, technology development, production, and maintenance. More 4 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Hideichi Kawasaki President Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. We promote responsible corporate better global environment, we enacted the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 in April 2012. The vision outlines the management as a global corporation. basic directions of the group's environmental management and sets targets for 2020 in four fields of Realization of a In order to advance responsible management as a global low-carbon society, Prevention of pollution, Resource enterprise, the OKI Group has enhanced corporate circulation and Biodiversity conservation. In accordance with governance and facilitated the implementation of group-wide the vision, we will enhance our efforts about business activities CSR-related activities. Part of such efforts was the enactment and products. of the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, the statement of values to be shared with all group companies, and the OKI With a number of significant incidents and changes in the Group Code of Conduct that should be conformed by all business environment inside and outside Japan, we had to executive officers and employees. We have disseminated the rethink the importance of sustainability and social charter and the code across all companies of the OKI Group responsibility during 2011. Among them were the Great East inside and outside Japan. Japan Earthquake in March, Thailand floods in October, Furthermore, OKI participated in the United Nations Global supply-chain disruptions and electricity shortages due to these Compact in 2010. Since then, we have further promoted our natural disasters, economic crises in Europe, and rising yen. CSR activities based on the Global Compact's ten principles in As the OKI Group commemorated its 130th anniversary in the the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and antisame year, we saw this milestone as a fresh new beginning to corruption. Fully aware of our responsibilities as a global go back to the starting point, an enterprising spirit. We are enterprise, we will continue to help build a sustainable society. now determined to further increase our corporate value through sincere business activities. This Social and Environmental Report 2012 is intended to help all stakeholders better understand the OKI Group's social and environmental We contribute to the realization of a activities carried out in fiscal 2011. We sincerely hope that as better global environment in accordance many people as possible will read this report. Your honest with the OKI Group Environmental opinions regarding our CSR initiatives would be greatly Vision 2020. appreciated. June, 2012 From this perspective, we believe that proactive actions for reducing environmental load form an integral part of the OKI Group's corporate activities. In order to understand global environmental issues and contribute to the realization of a 5 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Company Profile Profile Net Sales Consolidated Non-consolidated Corporate Name: Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (Billions of yen) Founded in: January 1888 8,000 Company Established: November 1, 1949 Capital: 44 billion yen 6,000 545.7 Employees: 16,736 (Consolidated), 3,373 (Non-consolidated) 443.9 432.7 428.1 *As of March 31, 2012 4,000 Head Office: 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, 271.1 Tokyo 105-8460, Japan 2,000 200.5 189.9 205.1 TEL: +81-3-3501-3111 Business Segments 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year Info-Telecom Systems The OKI Group offers telecommunication systems, Employees Consolidated Non-consolidated social systems, mechatronics system, and various (Number of employees) solutions & services utilizing its core technology of info30,000 telecommunication and mechatronics. Printers 20,000 17,415 18,111 16,697 16,736 The OKI Group manufactures printers for business use utilizing its LED technology and distribute them throughout the world. 10,000 EMS and Others 3,182 3,170 3,373 3,103 The OKI Group offers EMS (Electronics Manufacturing 0 Services) and other services based on its highly 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year sophisticated design and production expertise developed within the group. Editorial Policy ●  he OKI Group Social and Environmental Report featuring our T social and environmental efforts is published in order to inform our greater 《 Stakeholders' interests 》 [ Information featured in this report ] ● Discussions related to GRI and ISO26000 stakeholders of the group's CSR (corporate social responsibility) ● Initiatives in the industry such as initiatives in an easy-to-understand way. Meeting EICC,GeSI and JEITA ● Opinions from stakeholders on the past Our CSR Social and Environmental Reports Stakeholders' interest Commitments  his report features four articles under the title Meeting Our CSR ● Opinions from stakeholders collected ● T through various surveys of employees and Commitments that cover four key challenges for the OKI Group others in which our stakeholders as well as the public show an intense ● Corporate governance 《 Significance to the OKI Group 》 interest. The report describes our seven priority themes concerning ● Priority themes ● Corporate Philosophy (Achievements in fiscal 2011) ● The OKI Group Charter of Corporate social responsibility and our efforts made in fiscal 2011 as well. It Conduct, the OKI Group Code of Conduct also includes the Detailed Data section at the end which covers [ Information provided on the website ] ● The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 ● The OKI Group Environmental Policy performance data concerning our environmental activities. ● Priority themes (Policies and systems and ● The United Nations Global Compact other related information) ● Priority themes about CSR ● Risk management and other issues ●  etailed information on each priority theme, such as that on D Significance to the OKI Group greater specific policies and systems for it, are provided on our website. The information on the website also includes a comparative table that shows the relationship between the OKI Group's CSR activities and the core themes of ISO26000. (Please see Page 19 for the Reference Guidelines specific topics provided on the website.) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 (GRI) Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 (the Ministry of Environment) Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (the Ministry of Environment) UN Global Compact COP (Communication on Progress) Policy GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): An international NGO that develops and disseminates globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. ISO26000 (International Organization for Standardization 26000): An international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility (published in November, 2010). EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition): An alliance of electronic manufacturers focusing on CSR that has enacted a code of conduct in the supply chain. GeSI (Global e-Sustainability initiative): A partnership of information and communications technology companies that collaborates with EICC about CSR management in the supply chain. 6 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 CONTENTS OKI Group's CSR 2 Net Sales by Business Segment Others A Message from the President 4 in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated) 4.1％ Company Profile / Editorial Policy 6 EMS 7.3％ CONTENTS 7 Printers 26.2％ 428.1 Infotelecom Special Features: Meeting Our CSR Commitments billion yen systems 62.4％ Providing People with Safe and 1 Secure Social Infrastructures 8 Net Sales by Market in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated) The OKI Group 2 Environmental Vision 2020 for Other regions Future Generations 10 11.5％ Europe 11.9％ 428.1 Contributing to the Sustainable 3 North Japan America billion yen 72.6％ Development of the Countries and 4.0％ Regions in Which We Operate 14 Providing Customers with 4 Sophisticated and Secure Information Security 16 Corporate Governance 17 Promoting CSR at the OKI Group 18 Scope Covered by this Report ■ Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations 20 〈 Time Period 〉 This report covers fiscal 2011 (the year from April 1, 2011 to March 31, ■ Information Security 21 2012). However, the report also discusses some facts preceding this period ■ Improvement of Customer Satisfaction 22 as well as policies and plans to be implemented in subsequent periods. ■ Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors 23 〈 Organizations 〉 The report covers the activities of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd., its ■ Respect for Employees 24 subsidiaries and affiliates inside and outside Japan. Environmental data ■ Social Contribution 25 mentioned in this report refer to the following organizations: ■ Consideration for the Environment 26 OKI Toranomon district, Shibaura district, Honjo district, Takasaki district, Tomioka district, Numazu district, Warabi district, Kansai Laboratory, Kitanihon Regional Office, Chubu Regional Office, ー Detailed Data 28 (Japan) Kansai Regional Office, Chugoku/Shikoku Regional Office, Kyushu Regional Office OKI Data (Fukushima Distrtict), OKI Printed Circuit, Nagano OKI, Shizuoka OKI, OKI Sensor Group Device, OKI Micro Engineering, OKI Digital Imaging, OKI Techno Power Systems, OKI Metaltech, Companies OKI Engineering, OKI Proserve, OKI Customer Adtech, OKI Communication Systems, OF Networks (Japan) Co., Ltd. Group OKI(UK), OKI Data Manufacturing(Thailand), OKI Telecommunications Technology (Changzhou), Companies OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen), OKI Precision (Thailand), OKI Electric Technology (Kunshan), (Overseas) DongGuan TangXia OKI Micro Engineering Factory 〈 Corporate Names / Names of Organizations 〉 In this report, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. is referred to as OKI, and its corporate group, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, as the OKI Group. The names of the organizations referred to in this report, in principal, are those used as of April 2012. For further information, please contact Forecasts, Plans and Targets CSR Division In addition to factual information about the past and current activities of the OKI Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Group, this report also includes forecasts, plans and targets for the future. They reflect assumptions and judgments based on information available at the time of writing. Thus, e-mail: oki-csr@oki.com readers are requested to understand that the future results of the company's activities could be different from what is described in this report. 7 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Mee ting Our CSR Commitments 1 High-Performance Fire Command Center System (Fire Fighting Headquarters of Uji City ) Special Providing People with Safe and Features Secure Social Infrastructures current analog wireless communication networks are planned to Providing Security and Safety in the be fully digitized by the end of May 2016. For this purpose, the Field of Fire and Disaster Management Fire and Disaster Management Agency conducted a series of demonstration experiments of digitized wireless communication Since its inception, OKI has developed technologies systems at sites under six fire fighting headquarters in fiscal 2010. contributing to various social infrastructures, and provided OKI participated in two of these experiments at the Fire and products and services based thereon. The company has also Disaster Management Bureau of Kobe City and the Fire Fighting contributed to the security and safety of people in the field of fire Headquarters of Gifu City, and helped verify radio properties, and and disaster management. More specifically, it offers fire and examine essential functions of disaster management wireless communication systems as well as voice communication and fire command center systems using its specialty technologies optional features of data about wireless communication and switchboards. communication. The Fire Wireless communication systems for firefighting and Fighting Headquarters of Gifu emergency use enables communication between fire command City started the full-scale centers, emergency vehicles and operation troops. While fire and operation of a digitized system rescue services have become increasingly sophisticated and the in June 2011 before the other Digital wireless communication systems for firefighting and emergency use need for more efficient use of radio waves has been asked for, the participating headquarters. (Fire Fighting Headquarters of Gifu City) ● High-Performance Fire Command Center and Wireless Communication Systems for Firefighting and Emergency Use Digital wireless communications for firefighting and emergency use Fire Command System Portable wireless Fire Fighting device Headquarters Command Control Device Advantages of Digitized Wireless Communication Multiple, enhanced channels (Frequency expansion by narrowing the bandwidth ) Wireless Line Base Station Protection of confidential information and privacy by Control Device Wireless Device Vehicle monitoring In-vehicle wireless speech signal processing device device Interconnection with other digital equipment 8 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 for Future in Light of the Great East Japan Earthquake compiled Importance of Telecommunication and issued by the Fire and Disaster Management Council in in Disaster Situations Reconsidered January 2012. OKI has established Digitized Fire and Disaster After the Great East Japan Earthquake Management Wireless Communication Promotion Office, and has been making efforts to realize an effective shift to digitized The Great East Japan Earthquake has made us reaffirm the networks. importance of collecting and sharing information on fire fighting and disaster management activities in widespread disasters. In response to disconnected telephone networks and power disruptions soon after the earthquake, the OKI Group immediately High-Performance Fire Command began preparing for an assistance to afflicted areas through Center System Based on OKI's offering wireless communication equipment. In fact, the company stared receiving many requests to lend wireless communication Technology and Experience devices from different areas the day after the earthquake. Thanks to the cooperation with its sales staff and dealers through out OKI's high-performance fire command center system helps Japan as well as swift responses from its production sites, OKI identify the locations of disasters in response to emergency calls, was able to offer more than 140 portable and in-vehicle wireless promptly dispatch ambulances and fire engines, and support devices that were used as tools of communication in relief on-site relief activities. OKI has offered the system since 1968. activities. Recent changes in social and natural environments have In addition to professional disaster management services made accidents and disasters more complex, diverse and greater under the control of fire fighting headquarters, numerous local in size. The complexity and diversification of today's urban volunteer fire corps and disaster prevention organizations were structures and people's needs have also greatly changed the committed to relief activities after the earthquake. With the limited environment surrounding disaster management. Under these performance of the current analog wireless communication circumstances, disasters need to be dealt with prompt actions systems, however, these volunteers were not able to send using highly sophisticated systems. OKI's high-performance fire messages about what was going on site while they were able to command center system is based on our 40-year experience of receive messages from fire authorities. It is expected that the delivering firefighting-related systems, in-depth understanding of digitization of wireless communication will allow an increased disaster management tasks, and unique ICT.* number of available channels, two-way communication with Today OKI's IT-integrated high-performance fire command volunteer fire corps. and closer cooperation with them in disaster center system is used at about 150 fire fighting headquarters in situations. Japan including the Fire Fighting Headquarters of Uji City where The urgent need for the digitization of fire and disaster the system has been in service since March 2012. The system management wireless communication systems is emphasized also includes a location information function to identify the locations of in A Report on Desirable Fire and Disaster Management Systems disasters soon after emergency calls, and an automatic mobilization ordering function and a vehicle operation control function for the optimal organization and dispatch of emergency services. As a result, the fire fighting headquarters’ initial Stakeholder's VOICE responses to disasters have become swifter and more efficient. * ICT: Information Communication Technology Enabling Wide-area Coordination of Fire and Disaster Management Activities Supporting Wide-area Fire and Disaster Management Services in Preparing for Syozi Adachi Fire Chief, Gifu City Large-scale Disasters The digitization of our wireless communication system In order to be ready for future large earthquakes, such as a has allowed wide-area coordination of our activities. Different major earthquake hitting the Tokyo metropolitan area and a Nankai emergency vehicles in different locations are now able to Trough earthquake, wide-area disaster management based on close communicate with each other via the base station. The cooperation between neighboring municipalities is indispensable. In advantages of the digitized system also include voice communication with clear sound, and the improvement of this context, new command systems for wide-area fire and disaster confidentiality by use of short messages. We appreciate management services are currently being developed. OKI has set OKI's efforts to improve the user-friendliness of the wireless up a special marketing team, and tried to develop more practical, communication system based on its in-depth understanding reliable systems fully catering to customer needs. of our activities. We hope OKI will further improve the system OKI will continue to contribute to the establishment of more in the future by making the portable wireless device smaller and lighter, and allowing more flexible operations for different secure and safer social infrastructures through its efforts to areas with different regional characteristics such as urban support regional disaster management in addition to the promotion areas and mountain areas. OKI's continued contribution to of the digitization of fire and disaster management wireless fire and disaster management will be greatly appreciated. communication. 9 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Mee ting Our CSR Commitments Special Features 2 Enactment of the OKI Group The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 for Future Generations Environmental Vision 2020 OKI Group As the ongoing economic globalization and booming Environmental Vision economies in emerging countries have led to increased greenhouse gas emissions and ecosystem deterioration, there is 2020 growing concern over environmental issues. In order to address environmental challenges, there have been a number of The OKI Group achieves a better global movements to set long-term targets and plans inside and outside environment for the next generation and Japan. For example, the Japan Business Federation (as known as inherits the environment. Therefore, we Nippon Keidanren) published Nippon Keidanren's Commitment to promote the environmental management and a Low Carbon Society as a basic policy to address climate set targets for 2020 in four fields of Realization change. The World Summit on Sustainable Development held in of a low-carbon society, Prevention of Johannesburg set a target to minimize the impacts of chemical pollution, Resource circulation and substances on human health and environment. At the 10th Biodiversity conservation and then actively Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on work on the targets. Biological Diversity (COP10) , a new strategic plan for biodiversity called the Aichi Target was adopted. The latter two targets are 1. Realization of a low-carbon society: intended to be met by 2020. Furthermore, increasing concern Contribute to realize a low-carbon society by the about the possible resource depletion in the future has also maximization of energy efficiency, through the become an important issue to be addressed on the global level. provision of environmentally conscious products and services, and business activities. Under these circumstances, it is very likely that the scope of responsibilities for business operators will be widened in the 2. Prevention of pollution: future. Minimize the use of chemical substances and The OKI Group has advanced environmental measures since emissions to the atmosphere and discharges to water the 1970's. Today we are globally committed to environmental which affect on human health and environment. protection through its products, services and business activities. In order to address environmental issues more proactively, we 3. Resource circulation: enacted the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 in April 2012. Minimize new input resources by the expansion of recycling process of used products and production The vision outlines the basic directions of the group's wastes, and reduction of materials at the time of environmental management and sets targets for 2020. production. 4. Biodiversity conservation: Establish a management system to work on the biodiversity conservation and sustainable use. 10 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 VOICE Hisao Suzuki Steady Contribution to Global Environment from a Long-term Perspective Executive Vice President The Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011 has brought accordance with the vision. Among such strategies are about significant changes to us. Since emerging energy those about the realization of a low-carbon society by problems and policies toward them, in particular, have a promoting a smart society based on IT as OKI's significant impact on business activities, firms are asked to competitive advantage, and the prevention of hazardous take appropriate measures. Believing that a long-term substance pollutions by conforming with all relevant global perspective and forward-looking targets are necessary in regulations about environment conservation. We will help order to respond quickly to such significant trends, we protect rich natural environment for future generations by enacted the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020. This enacting an annual plan to achieve the vision and vision focuses on four fields with mounting global concerns. implementing thereof. Each new growth strategy of the OKI Group is developed in the development of Japan's first wireless multi-hop communication Realizing a Low Carbon Society system*1 for the new 920MHz frequency band as an energysaving effort by IT. Intended to be used in smart communities and smart houses*2 , the system allows large-scale, reliable and Global warming and climate change are two of the most energy-saving networks in which thousands of wireless devices important global issues. As they have become increasingly can be connected to a single base station. The system also offers aggravated and conspicuous, there have been active discussions highly flexible route controls ensuring high network connectivity about possible solutions to them on a global basis. even in the event of base station faults and troubles in wireless The mitigation of climate change and the realization of a low devices. In addition, the system's router with a relay function carbon society are important agendas also for the OKI Group. As enables battery-driven operation for several years, and thus a business group deeply involved in IT, we have actively promoted greatly helps save energy for the entire network. Green IT* for pursuing environment-friendliness in our products The 920MHz frequency band, which is scheduled to open in and services, and have made efforts to save energy in our July 2012, offers high signal propagation, and is considered to be business activities for fulfilling our corporate responsibility. In order ideal for use in smart communities and houses. We will develop to further promote such activities, we participated in the Nippon various products and services for this frequency band and thus Keidanren's Commitment to a Low Carbon Society in March 2012. contribute to the penetration of smart houses. * Green IT: Environmental efforts related to IT that are classified into two categories, Green of IT and Green by IT. *1 Wireless multi-hop communication: Data transmission involving other wireless devices by a bucket brigade process. It allows data transmission in environments without communication infrastructure elements such as base stations *2 Smart houses: A type of houses for the next generation in which electricity consumption are monitored and Active Promotion of Green IT visualized using IT-driven distribution boards and smart taps. They help promote energy-saving efforts and control the power consumption of home electrical appliances during peak hours. Communities using the same In order to further facilitate Green of IT, we expanded the system are called smart communities. range of OKI Eco Products Certification in fiscal 2011 by reflecting some global energy-saving regulations such as the Energy Star Program in its registration standards. In September 2011, OKI announced that it had succeeded in ● Examples of the application of 920MHz wireless multi-hop technology allowing effective energy saving for the entire networks Large-scale field area network with high reliability Energy-saving home area network Home ICT Healthcare Security/watch over Environment Home control visualization Smart house Optical access line Smart house PC control Power consumption EV charge IP network Home gateway (measure against reserve power flow) visualization control 11 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 2 Special Features The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 for Future Generations Energy-saving Efforts in Business Activities As proclaimed in the Environmental Vision 2020, the OKI Prevention of Pollution Group has been committed to energy-saving activities because it believes the reduction of green house gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted from its business activities is important for Chemical substances bring people considerable convenience. realizing a low-carbon society. Some of them containing harmful substances, however, need to In fiscal 2011, we made several energy-saving measures to be controlled strictly and relevant regulations must be tightened deal with power shortage during midsummer caused by the whenever necessary. In this context, regulations to control accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. They chemical substances contained in products, such as EU's RoHS included dispersing summer vacations, the reduction of the sizes directive and REACH regulation, have recently become of spaces used, the suspensions of servers, and air-conditioning increasingly demanding. Similar regulations have been enacted in controls. OKI Digital Imaging, a group company manufacturing other countries such as China and Korea. LED print heads, reconsidered the operating conditions of the The OKI Group makes utmost efforts to handle chemical refrigerating equipment in its clean room for manufacturing substances appropriately, uses alternate substances with less semiconductors and achieved a 12% reduction of power impact on human health and environment, and try to reduce the consumption over the previous year even if clean rooms were use of such substances for both products and business activities. exempted from the national power-saving edict. The company also reconsidered the operational procedure for externally-procured Prompt Response to Regulations about steam and achieved a year-on-year 51% reduction in purchase Chemical Substances in Products volume. Recognizing the importance of the appropriate management As a result of these efforts, the CO2 emission from the OKI of chemical substances in products from early on, the OKI Group Group's major production sites during fiscal 2011 amounted to established the Product Assessment System in 1998. The group 40,600 tons, a 13% decrease over the previous year. It means that was also a pioneer in the development and implementation of a we have substantially exceeded a goal set in the Voluntary Action system to manage and calculate chemical substances in products Plan on Measures to Fight Global Warming of the Japanese based on network technology, one of OKI's core technologies. The electric and electronics industry, improving the basic unit for CO2 group has always made prompt responses to the enactment and emissions with respect to real output* in fiscal 2010 by 35% or the revision of relevant regulations. More specifically, it has more compared to 1990, by making a 71.5% improvement. (A enhanced its systems to manage chemical substances by revising final assessment is to be calculated as the average percentage the OKI Guidelines for Managing Chemical Substances in during the five years from fiscal 2008 to 2012.) Products and the OKI Green Procurement Standards. The realization of a low carbon society is an important issue to Furthermore, the system to manage and calculate chemical be addressed in the long run. The OKI Group will continue to substances in products was developed later into a more address these issues through its products and services as well as comprehensive system that ensures full conformity with its business activities. regulations relevant to Green Procurement. Called COINServ* Basic unit for CO2 emission with respect to real output: CO2 emission / real output (real output = nominal output / COSMOS-R/R, this new system is enhanced whenever necessary, Bank of Japan's Domestic Corporate Goods Price Index for electrical machinery and equipment with fiscal 1990 as the base year) and is currently sold to outsiders. ● CO2 Emissions(from Major Production Sites of the OKI Group) The number of chemical substances requiring strict 100 management is expected to increase in the years to come. In Emission Volume order to further ensure conformity with relevant laws and 100.0 Basic Unit regulations in this context, we established a procedure to evaluate 100 the chemical substance management systems of suppliers, added 80 it to the OKI Green Procurement Standards, and started the implementation thereof during fiscal 2011. The procedure allows Compared to Fiscal 1990 (%) the visualization of the strength and weakness of each supplier, 80 and thus helps improve the quality of its management system. Emission Volume (1,000 tons) 60 57.8 ● Check Sheet for Supplier's Management System of Chemical Substances in Products Evaluation Result Items to be Evaluated in Supplier's 46.9 60 CO2 Emission Basic Unit for Real Output Acceptable Level Management System of Chemical Substances 44.3 41.4 41.7 External 40.6 Communication Total Environmental Category Evaluation Item Number of Items 40 Change 100 Management Evaluated Management System and Response to 80 Policy and Planning 6 33.9 40 Non-conformity 60 Environmental Education and Training 1 31.2 30.8 40 Document and Record 28.5 20 Design and Management Management 2 and Control 25.3 DevelPerformance and Management 0 4 opment Review 20 Design and Development 1 20 Shipping Procurement Management 7 Inspection and Traceability Processes Receiving Inspection 2 Procurement Management Process Control 8 Shipping Inspection and Process Receiving Traceability 3 Control Inspection Change Management and Information Response to Non-conformity 5 0 0 Visualization of Supplier's Management 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Strength and Weakness External Communication 3 (Base Year) （Fiscal Year) Total 42 12 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 During fiscal 2011, OKI formed a partnership with FUJISOFT The OKI Group will continue to ensure the appropriate INCORPORATED about the integration of FSGreen Chemical management of chemical substances in products in order to Report, FUJISOFT's system to help examine information on minimize their impact, and reduce the emissions thereof into the chemical substances, into COSMOS-R/R. The integration has atmosphere and waters. allowed users of COSMOS-R/R to ask a group of suppliers to survey chemical substances in their products and components at one time. Before then, the system users had to ask each supplier to make a survey. The upgraded system also supports the Resource Circulation management of survey status. In other words, COSMOS-R/R now offers a one-stop service that covers information gathering, data management, calculation and reporting to customers, and thus As resource consumption has continued to increase due to greatly improves the efficiency of each survey task. population increase and economic growth, resource depletion has ● How to collect information on chemical substances in products become a significant problem. In order to help build a resource circulation society, the OKI Customer Customer Customer File File File Group has promoted resource saving and recycling in its business activities. As part of its consideration to create environmentallySupplier Supplier Supplier friendly products, the group has also tried to recycle as many used products as possible, utilizing the Cross-jurisdictional Waste FSGreen Chemical Report Treatment Manufacturer Scheme. Requests for Responses Registration of Responses JAMP IT Internet Progress Management Error Checking Return (GP/AS) Mail We have also been active in saving resources for our Confirmation of Responses products. During fiscal 2011, OKI Digital Imaging developed a new LED printhead using a smaller number of components (a 25% decrease compared to its predecessors). One of the most COINServ-COSMOS-R/R important requirements for a printhead is a function to prevent LED Main Functions Survey/Collection Calculation/ Customer Response light from being out of focus by securing the levelness of the Function Evaluation Function Report Function substrate on which LED chips are mounted with a high degree of accuracy. For the predecessors of the new printhead, such levelness is secured by combining several adjustment components. The structural design of the new printhead does not Information to be Managed Survey Progress and Management Material Information Master require such components. The printhead is planned to be massproduced for different products during fiscal 2012. Database of Chemical Database of Database of Database of Substances Chemical Substances Definitions Configuration in Purchased in In-house Laws and Information Components Processed Products Regulations, etc. Biodiversity Conservation Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances in Business Activities While chemical substances used in the OKI Group's There has been a growing interest in biodiversity. OKI has production sites are managed appropriately in accordance with already made various efforts for biodiversity. For example, OKI the levels of environmental impact, the group has made efforts to became a member of the Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon reduce the use of chemical substances as well as their emissions. Keidanren Promotion Partners, and also participated in the Japan During fiscal 2011, the volume of emitted chemical Business and Biodiversity Partnership during fiscal 2010. OKI has substances was 9.6 tons, a 41% decrease over the previous year, also supported the Japan School Biotope Contest organized by thanks to the redesigning of the treatment process for substrates. the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan since fiscal 2001. For ● Use and Emission of PRTR Chemical Substances the 2011 contest, we helped broadcast a video of the event on its U  ntil last fiscal year, our calculation covered only the substances used in large amounts. Under the revised PRTR website, and offered a download service for posters produced by system, we have widened the scope of substances to be calculated. The data was revised to reflect this change. participating schools. 120 Amount Used We will further promote our commitment to biodiversity 109.1 conservation by continuing existing environmental activities such 100 Amount Emitted 93.1 as forest improvement programs. We also plan to include efforts Amount Used (tons) 80 for biodiversity as an item to be checked in the OKI Green 60 Procurement Standards. 46.9 40.7 41.5 40 17.5 18.2 15.6 16.2 20 9.6 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Fiscal Year) 13 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Mee ting Our CSR Commitments 3 Opening ceremony for the dining hall at Yuezhuang Elementary School (Photos provided by Plan Japan) Special Contributing to the Sustainable Features Development of the Countries and Regions in Which We Operate Establishing Management Systems enhance CSR-related management, we have developed an assessment format reflecting the requirements for global CSR Required for Production Sites procurement, and disseminated it to our production sites. As the world's economy becomes more integrated, what is required of companies is more diverse as ever. They are now Growing with the Countries and asked to pursue not only their own growth but also contribution to sustainable development of the countries and regions in which Regions in Which We Operate they operate. The OKI Group currently has production sites in Japan, As contribution to the countries and regions in which we Thailand, China and Great Britain. Our activities there focus on the operate is one of our most important agendas, the OKI Group's further improvement of our sophisticated production technologies, global business management has focused not only on the pursuit the dissemination of our sophisticated production management of economic advantages, but also on efforts for promoting trust across the group, the reduction of environmental impacts arising with local communities from the outset. from manufacturing activities, and the appropriate management of As we have worked closely with local employees and vendors occupational health and safety for employees. We address these for the improvement of production technologies, local employees managerial issues in accordance with the OKI Group Charter of have begun taking initiatives in improving productivity. We have Corporate Conduct. also been active in providing local employees with IT education As the group's all production sites are ISO9001-certified, our and language education while encouraging them to obtain various quality control efforts are managed based on the certification with certifications because we believe human resource cultivation also Quality Management Department at each business unit or group is part of our social responsibilities. company. Each production site has established its own quality In addition to these efforts through our business activities, we control systems in accordance with their production lines and the have also been active in interacting with local residents and characteristics of their products. In fiscal 2011, we established participating in various social action programs inside and outside Production & Product Safety Division at the head office that is Japan. As a result of such highly-regarded community-based responsible for the optimal utilization of production resources, the activities, a Chinese subsidiary of the Group recently won a local coordination of production tasks and other group-wide efforts. CSR award. Regarding environmental conservation, 39 sites of the OKI group, mostly production sites, have obtained ISO14001 Integrated Certification. We have set a group-wide management Supporting a Project to Build a Dining system with business themes (focusing on reducing environmental burdens through products and services) and site themes Hall at an Elementary School in China (focusing on reducing environmental burdens at each site). Occupational health is being managed at each production site by In fiscal 2011, OKI and its nine subsidiaries in China its Safety and Health Committee comprised of members from both supported a project to build a dining hall at Yuezhuang management and employees. Elementary School in Shaanxi Province. OKI decided to support As the promotion of CSR throughout the supply chain has the project in order to express its appreciation for its business become an important issue, an increasing number of our expansion in China along with the country's growth as part of its customers have expected us to make these efforts. In order to 130th anniversary celebrations. 14 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Among 268 children attending this old school established in 1922 for neighboring 7 villages, 213 live in a dormitory. Before the Special Report project, children had to have simple meals in a makeshift tented dining room because the dormitory had no regular dining or Fulfilling Our Responsibility washroom facilities. Carried out through Plan Japan* as one of its Donor-tied Even in Disasters projects, this project focused on providing children with a safe and sanitary dining environment by building a dining hall, a kitchen Corporate responsibilities for constant supply of products and a washroom. It also included a training program about have drawn more attention in the wake of the Great East Japan nourishment and health. Since local stakeholders including Earthquake on March 11 of 2011 and Thailand floods in October children and teachers were involved in all stages of the project of the same year. from planning to progress management, they were able to The Great East Japan Earthquake forced OKI Data to partly establish a system to maintain their dining hall by themselves. We cut off production at its Fukushima site. As a result of immediate believe that nutritious meals prepared in a sanitary environment recovery efforts by employees, the site was able to resume help improve children's health and learning effect. We also hope full production on April 11. This incident made us rethink the that they will grow up to be respectable members of local importance of our responsibilities for constant supply of our communities and the nation. products. But it was not long before, however, serious floods The OKI Group will continue to contribute to local communities hit Thailand in October. OKI Data Manufacturing (Thailand) in various ways, and grow with people there. (hereafter called ODMT) was forced to close up operation * Plan Japan: a member of Plan International, a non-profit, non-governmental organization recognized by the United for about three months from October 6 since floodwater had Nations inundated its production facilities. In response to this disaster, OKI Data, the group company overseeing all printer-related operations, immediately set up a task force in Japan. The company then networked all relevant sites inside and out side Japan via a video teleconference system, checked on what was happening in Thailand, gave prompt instructions, drew up a plan for alternate production, Removing equipment from ODMT for alternative production and started putting the plan into practice on October 10. In order to effectively implement the Stakeholder's VOICE plan, the company got the cooperation of its business partners, opened new lines for alternate production at other sites, and Comments from Stakeholders at secured materials and equipment for them. At the same time, Yuezhuang Elementary School many Thai skilled workers from ODMT were dispatched to such alternate production sites. Each employee involved in this plan Thanks to the new canteen, our dining problem has been worked very hard to produce and supply products under the solved. Now dining in this bright and spacious canteen, we slogan Customers across the world are waiting for our products! don’t have to put up with the cold winter and the hot summer. It's time to show our real strength. Meanwhile, ODMT started There is a disinfection cabinet in the new canteen which making arrangements for the withdrawal of damaged equipment enables us to eat safe food. and the installation of new Xi, a fifth grade student equipment soon after the flooding. Furthermore, once As the student canteen is built, accommodation condition the floodwater receded, for our children has improved. Now our kids are able to grow all employees at ODMT healthily and happily in such good condition, we can do farm worked hard cleaning the work or go outside to work reassuringly. site and preparing for the Ma Hongdeng, a parent resumption of production. Thanks to all these efforts, ODMT resumed production Recovered production line at ODMT partly on January 4, 2012. It resumed full production on March 1 ahead of schedule. In its recovery efforts, ODMT strengthen measures against flooding, and redesigned the layout of production lines for more prompt recovery from future flooding. The OKI Group will further promote its BCP by enhancing its global backup system. Old dining room (left) and inside the new dining hall 15 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Mee ting Our CSR Commitments 4 Providing Customers with Sophisticated and Special Secure Information Features Security Providing Information Security The OKI Group's Efforts for Responding to Advanced IT Information Security Today the use of information technology (IT) is indispensable In addition to providing customers with information security for any company. On the other hand, advanced IT and the services, the OKI Group has made various efforts to enhance its increasing popularization of the Internet have created a series of own information security. new threats such as computer viruses and cyberterrorism. The We have implemented our security measures from three OKI Group, as a leader in the information society, has been long perspectives shown in the following diagram since the enactment committed to information security, and offered its customers of the OKI Group Security Policy in fiscal 2002. Furthermore, each various security products and services. business unit of the group has designed its measures to promote The advent and popularization of smartphones, cloud information security under the supervision of the Information computing and social media are greatly changing business Security Committee established in fiscal 2007. The secretariat of activities. However, many companies are leery of adopting them the committee conducts on-site monitoring to check how such for fear of complex processes for proper management and measures are being implemented. We have also obtained the security risks such as information leakage. ISMS* certification (See Page 21). Understanding these circumstances, OKI launched EXaaS The measures implemented in fiscal 2011, in order to respond Mobile Desk, a cloud computing services for smartphones in to increasingly sophisticated recent cyber attacks, included the January 2012. This service allows employees to view in-house blocking of paths for information leaked from virus-infected PCs or corporate data on a cloud server using smartphones from servers, in addition to the existing security patches and antivirus locations outside the company in an easy and prompt way. It also software. We also introduced a tool to prevent wrong enables the easy development and introduction of applications transmissions. This was due to a survey by an outside that allow us to use smartphones as terminals without changing organization showing that 20% of information leakage is caused our existing business systems. In order to avoid security risks, by erroneous operations of e-mail and other applications. data to be viewed is not actually located on smartphones. The We constantly provide education programs reflecting the service also features a VPN* connection function for secure latest trends of information security. We also conduct an authenticated/encrypted communications and a terminal control information security general checkup of all employees including function to ensure the prevention of unauthorized use and the temporary staff every October. In fiscal 2011, we reexamined the protection of lost terminals. items to be checked, emphasized the importance of protecting * VPN: a virtual network built on a public line network such as the Internet. information from customers and trade secrets, and thus promoted security awareness. We will continue to improve our information security system as a leader of information society. * ISMS: Information Security Management System ● ExaaS Mobile Desk Service ● Information Security System Based on Three Perspectives Monitoring at the Protection from Automatic updating of security center computer viruses virus pattern files Systems for Visibility Mobile (monitoring and so on) Desk OKI Group Security Policy Office Smartphone Systems for Support (IT governance) Systems for Protection (the introduction of IT) (rules, education and so on) Management of confidential data Clarification and definition of data using a shared server and business processes Implementation of information Development of IT infrastructure security education 16 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Corporate Governance The OKI Group regards ongoing improvements in corporate value as its most important management priority in its quest to earn the trust of stakeholders. To this end, we are working to reinforce corporate governance based on our fundamental policies, including “the enhancement of management fairness and transparency” and “the acceleration of decision-making processes.” ■ Corporate Governance Structure ■ Committee Organizations OKI maintains a corporate auditor system, with a Board of As part of its efforts to reinforce corporate governance, Directors and a Board of Company Auditors. To enhance OKI established the Compensation Committee, whose management efficiency, it has also introduced an executive members include an outside director. The Committee is officer system, with the aim of separating the roles of the Board responsible for ensuring transparency in the criteria and of Directors and Company Auditors/Board of Company mechanisms used to set executive remuneration. We have also Auditors (supervision and auditing of business execution) and set up the CSR Committee to deliberate basic policies related executive officers (business execution). to our CSR activities, as well as several dedicated committees; The Board of Directors makes decisions on fundamental the Compliance Committee to deliberate fundamental management policies and other important issues, and also compliance-related policies; and the Information Security supervises the execution of business. Company auditors audit Committee to ensure the thorough implementation of the business execution functions of directors based on audit information security measures. In addition, OKI has set up the policies and methods decided at Board of Company Auditors’ Disclosure Committee to ensure that disclosure to stakeholders meetings through attendance to Board of Directors’ meetings is accurate and timely. and other important meetings. Company auditors also liaise closely with the accounting auditors and the Internal Auditing Division to accurately ascertain the overall status of company ■ Internal Control operations as well as to carry out audits of business In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the executions. The Board of Directors and Board of Company Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Board of Auditors include three independent director/company auditors Directors in May 2006 passed a resolution concerning the who have no conflict of interest with general shareholders. Basic Policy for the Establishment of an Internal Control The Executive Officer Committee makes decisions related System. In May 2010, the Board of Directors made a partial to the execution of Group operations. Through participation by modification to the Basic Policy. Conforming to the Basic all executive officers, the Committee seeks to accelerate Policy, OKI has been developing a system to secure decision-making and business advancement and clarify appropriate business operations. Pursuant to the Financial business responsibilities. Instruments and Exchange Act, we also have an internal control reporting system in place, through which we submit internal control reports to the Kanto regional bureau of the Ministry of Finance and disclose the assessment results of the effectiveness of internal controls related to financial reporting. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Board of Company Auditors Board of Directors Compensation including Outside including Outside Committee Accounting Auditors Collaboration Company Auditors Audit Director Supervision President Audit CSR Committee Executive Officer Committee Internal Auditing Collaboration Compliance Committee Division Corporate Audit Marketing & Sales Section Information Security Business Section Committee Audit Subsidiaries and Affiliates Disclosure Committee 17 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Promoting CSR at the OKI Group In order to fulfill CSR based on the corporate philosophy, we cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, in accordance with the basic policies determined by the CSR Committee, through the cooperation between the CSR Division and other relevant business units under the seven priority themes. CSR Priority Themes: Focal Points and Achievements CSR Priority Themes Focal Points for Fiscal 2011 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 ◦Expansion of risk management as a group ◦Revision of the OKI Group Code of Conduct Full Compliance ◦Improvement of efficiency in risk management and ◦Improvement of the compliance systems of the enhancement of monitoring overseas group companies with Laws and ◦Review of the risk management cycle ◦Publication of a booklet called Case Examples of Regulations p.20 Compliance ◦Review of the items to be checked in-house ◦Reexamination of the items to be checked in the Information ◦Continuation of the visualization of how the information security measures have been entrenched information security general checkup ◦Continuation of the self-check system to confirm Security in suppliers the entrenchment of compliance measures p.21 ◦Improvement of educational programs for mid-level ◦Establishment of Production & Product Safety Improvement of engineers Division ◦Expansion of the application range of universal ◦Improvement of education programs focusing on Customer design technique practical business processes ◦Establishment of a new business unit to promote Satisfaction p.22 human interfaces ◦Fair and timely disclosure of the achievements made ◦Holding of results briefings and IR meetings Good Communication in the first year for the revised mid-term business ◦Redesigning of the IR website for more with Shareholders plan accessibility and Investors p.23 ◦Recruitment and training of diverse human resources ◦Promotion of the employment of challenged ◦Entrenchment of the supports for the development of people not only in Japan but also at overseas sites Respect for the next generation ◦Promotion of work-life balance ◦Establishment of a teleworking system ◦Promotion of the efficient management of working Employees ◦Promotion of the mental and physical health of employees hours ◦Continuation of the existing measures to promote p.24 mental and physical health ◦Creation of new activities that provide reconstruction ◦Promotion of social action programs including Social assistance to those affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake those focusing on recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake ◦Enhancement of social contribution activities inside ◦Assistance to a project to build a dining hall at an Contribution and outside Japan elementary school in China p.25 ◦Improvement of the OKI Group's basic unit for CO2 ◦Achievement of the OKI Group's target for emissions and the achievement of the industry's new improving the basic unit for CO2 emissions targets ◦Participation in the Nippon Keidanren's ◦Addition of some new facilities to those applicable Commitment to a Low Carbon Society, a new to the management standards in response to the initiative of the business circle Revised Energy Saving Act, and the review of the ◦Replacement of old air conditioning systems and standards other equipment with energy-saving systems ◦Response to the revision of laws and regulations ◦Review of energy management standards in response Consideration for the about power saving products. ◦Improvement of efficiency in surveys of information to the national power-saving edict for summer ◦Revision of in-house regulations to comply with Environment on chemical substances in products ◦Implementation of surveys of suppliers' CMS systems the International ENERGY STAR Program and other global standards ◦Addition of a new web research function to COSMOS-R/R, and the enhancement of the system's function to refer relevant laws and regulations ◦Holding of briefing sessions about the CMS assessment standards at group companies inside and outside Japan, and the commencement of p.26 their operation 18 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 In order to disseminate the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of Conduct as the basis of our CSR activities throughout the group, we published a booklet featuring the full text of the charter and code with explanatory notes in four languages (Japanese, English, Chinese and Thai). Copies of the booklet were distributed to all applicable employees. In fiscal 2011, we revised the OKI Group Code of Conduct in order to further promote corruption prevention and the elimination of antisocial groups. The revised code has been adopted also by group companies inside and outside Japan. We will continue to reflect on our social responsibilities to be fulfilled through our global business activities pursuant to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption) and ISO 26000 (an international standard about social responsibility) while reexamining our CSR activities in terms of what our stakeholders expect from us, and further contribute to people and society through our core business. Focal Points for Fiscal 2012 Information Provided on the Website ◦Effective follow-up for risk management activities at group companies ◦Establishment of compliance systems ◦Enhancement of measures to disseminate the contents of education ◦Risk management promotion systems programs ◦Fair business and purchasing practices ◦OKI Group Procurement Policies ◦Efforts for security export control ◦Safe use of smartphones ◦Strengthening of information security ◦Continuation and improvement of the checking systems for the group ◦Regulations and rules related to information security companies and business partners ◦Information security education ◦System for protecting personal information ◦Improvement of educational programs for mid-level engineers as a group ◦Quality assurance system and management ◦Expansion of the application range of universal design technique ◦Cooperation within the group against product safety risks ◦OKI Group's approach to universal design ◦Fair and timely disclosure of how the revised mid-term business plan is being ◦OKI Group's investor relations activities implemented for the group's further growth ◦Strict prevention of insider trading ◦Information for shareholders and investors (IR website) ◦Recruitment and training of diverse human resources ◦Basic policy on human rights and resources ◦Continuing entrenchment of the supports for the development of the next ◦Holding internship events generation ◦Career design support initiatives (results of training programs) ◦Continuing promotion of work-life balance ◦Maternity, childcare and nursing care programs, and time adjustments ◦Continuing promotion of the mental and physical health of employees ◦Special-purpose leave ◦Initiatives for occupational health and safety (lost worktime accident rates) ◦Continuation of the activities that provide reconstruction assistance to those ◦Basic philosophy and systems for social contribution activities affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake ◦The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love achievements in fiscal 2011 ◦Continuing promotion of social contribution activities inside and outside ◦Participatory social action programs Japan ◦Activities contributing to local communities in Japan and overseas ◦Promotion of efforts to achieve the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020: ◦OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 [Realization of a low-carbon society] ◦OKI Group Environmental Policy Improvement of the OKI Group's basic unit for CO2 emissions ◦OKI Group Environmental Management Preparatory efforts for the Nippon Keidanren's Commitment to a Low ◦Scope of ISO14001 Consolidated Certification Carbon Society ◦OKI Group Environmental Accounting [Prevention of pollution] ◦OKI Eco Products Improvement of operational procedures and IT systems in compliance with ◦Operation of the Chemical Substances Management Systems the relevant laws and regulations as well as the industry standards ◦Recycling of Used Products [Resource circulation] ◦Controlling and Reducing Chemical Substances Examination of targets for reducing materials newly input at production sites [Biodiversity conservation] Formulation of a clear policy Construction of a management framework Implementation of educational programs 19 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 O K I G R O U P Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations The OKI Group has worked to strengthen compliance in Compliance that features possible compliance problems and Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Fair Corporate Activities order to comply with all related laws and regulations and actions to be taken in a Q&A style. Copies of the booklet have implement sound corporate activities consistent with social been distributed to all Compliance Managers. We have also norms. Under the leadership of the Compliance Committee encouraged participants in various training programs to headed by the Chief Compliance Officer, we focus on the effectively use the booklet by distributing copies thereof. enhancement of training and the promotion of integrated, Participation rates in compliance education programs systematic, companywide risk management. Furthermore, (for the OKI Group in Japan) in fiscal 2011 we have established consultation and reporting channels Training sessions for Compliance Managers 100% as well as whistle-blowing regulations such as those about e-learning program (about on-the-job compliance) 98% the protection of whistle-blowers, thus tried to discover and rectify improper activities at an early stage if any. ■ Improvement of Measures to Deal with ■ Revision of the OKI Group Code of Conduct Compliance Risks At the meeting of OKI's Board of Directors on December OKI has steadily promoted risk management based on its 28 of 2011, a revision of the OKI Group Code of Conduct was Risk Management Regulations and established a system to resolved. The purpose of the revision was to present a cleardeal with any risk. As OKI regards compliance risks* as the cut stance on corruption prevention (for which relevant laws most important category thereof, each business unit of the have been reinforced on a global level) and the elimination of company needs to register potential risks related to its antisocial groups as the OKI Group. operations with the Risk Management Promotion Office. We have also established a management cycle to develop Major Changes in the Revised Code measures against them and monitor the implementation thereof within the group on a regular basis. In fiscal 2011, we extended this cycle from 6 months to II. Fair Corporate Activities one year for the purpose of improving managerial efficiency ❸ We will not give, offer or accept bribes, whether in cash and the effectiveness of measures taken. In order to prevent or otherwise, to or from any third party, including but not this extended cycle from becoming a mere routine, we restricted to government officials, customers or their representatives. reinforced communication between applicable group companies, and adopted a more effective way for monitoring. ❹ In case of donations and political contributions, we will Furthermore, we continued to reinforce risk management at first consider the necessity and appropriateness overseas sites, and established a basic framework for carefully, and then we will make only appropriate promoting compliance at almost all sites. donations and political contributions in accordance with * A compliance risk : a risk associated with violation of laws, regulations and in-house rules applicable laws and regulations and company rules.  We will resolutely confront antisocial groups and criminal organizations that pose a threat to the order ■ Emergency / Disaster Response and security of civil society and all contact with such The OKI Group has established “Safety Countermeasures entities is strictly forbidden. Committees” and emergency communication networks at its domestic and overseas sites as well as its group companies. In the event of a disaster, appropriate countermeasures are enacted to protect people's lives, prevent secondary accidents, ■ Enhancement of Compliance Education contribute to local communities and foster good relationships In order to disseminate with them, and ensure the continuity of business operations. As compliance-related measures across for the continuity of business operations, we set guidelines for the group, the OKI Group gives formulating a BCP (Business Continuity Plan) in fiscal 2008. training sessions for Compliance In fiscal 2011, we redesigned the BCP for each business Managers at six sites in Japan. segment based on lessons and reflections from our responses Participants in these sessions roll out to the Great East Japan Earthquake, planned blackouts, and the knowledge learned in their nation-wide campaigns for saving energy. When floods hit the business units. The dissemination of production site in Thailand in October, its employees worked such knowledge is checked through hard to recover from the damage through close an e-learning program for all executive communication with related group companies, and officers and employees of the group. strengthened measures against flooding (See Page 15). We In October 2011, we published Case Examples of Compliance will continue to make our utmost efforts to appropriately deal a booklet called Case Examples of with any disasters such as an earthquake. 20 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 O K I G R O U P Information Security The OKI Group, based on the OKI Group Security Policy, we have adopted an antivirus software program designated Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Intellectual Property and Information Management has established a system to ensure information security computer viruses detected in China. We have also improved under the leadership of the Information Security Committee. the local help desk function, enhanced support for damages We properly manage and protect company and customer caused by computer viruses, and thus improved the virus information, including personal information, through elimination rate there. various activities such as twice-a-year reviews of efforts for In fiscal 2011, we further promoted the project for mobile information security and information security audits. PCs launched in fiscal 2010. We encrypted the hard drives of mobile PCs in order to prevent information leakage in case of theft or loss, and made the users of the approved mobile PCs ■  Visualization of How the Information put the certificate sticker as we did in Japan. Security Measures Have Been Entrenched in Partners and Suppliers In order to improve the quality of information security ■ Promotion of Acquiring ISMS Certification throughout the supply chain, OKI has checked the information The OKI Group is working to acquire the ISMS* certification security measures of its business partners and suppliers for divisions involved in building and operating internal handling important confidential information. More specifically, information systems and for divisions engaged in general we have asked such companies to self-check their information system design development, in order to improve the reliability security measures using a check list designed by us, of network solution construction and related services. Five evaluated the results of their self-checks using our own scoring companies and seven business units of the OKI Group are system, and shared the challenges found in this process with ISMS-certified organizations as of June 2012. them since fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2011, the number of business partners highly Business Units / Group Companies That Have Acquired the ISMS evaluated according to our criteria increased by 9 points from Certification (as of June, 2012) the previous fiscal year. They made a visible progress particularly Name of Business Unit / Group Company Initial Registration Date in technological measures such as password updates and Japan Business Operations Co., Ltd. (Operations Div.-1, Operation Management Dept. January 30, 2004 security consciousness about the management of confidential of Operations Dev.-2, Inspection and Training Div.) Oki Consulting Solutions Co., Ltd. September 20, 2006 information. These results show that security measures have OKI Software Co., Ltd. December 21, 2007 been steadily entrenched in our business partners. Oki Customer Adtech Co., Ltd. January 31, 2004 Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (OKI System Center) August 4, 2003 Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (Government & Public Systems Marketing & Sales Div., Enterprise Systems ■O  KI-CSIRT for Prompt Response to Marketing & Sales Div., Information Systems Div. and Public Systems Business Div. at Shibaura site) December 27, 2004 Security Accidents Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (Information Planning Div.) February 14, 2003 * ISMS : Information Security Management System In order to enhance our preventive measures against threats to computer security and improve our capacity to respond to them, we established OKI-CSIRT*1 as an organization ■E  nhancing the Protection of Personal specializing in responding to security accidents in September Information 2008. OKI-CSIRT publishes a report on computer viruses every The OKI Group has enhanced the protection of personal month and offers technical assistance within the OKI Group. It information based on the Privacy Policy also contributes to prompt information sharing and problem enacted in 2004. We have committed to the solving through participation in the Nippon CSIRT Association protection of personal information under the (NCA) and cooperation with other outside organizations. leadership of Chief Privacy Officer. Privacy In fiscal 2011, OKI-CSIRT reinforced its partnerships with managers have been appointed at the NCA, CSIRT of other corporations, and relevant governmental corporate level, and in business units and agencies about measures against cyber attacks. More group companies. The OKI Group has also promoted its specifically, it obtained information on targeted emails*2, member companies' acquisition of the PrivacyMark blocked them, and shut down information leakage routes. certification so that they can take appropriate measures to protect personal information. Ten companies of the OKI Group *1 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team have acquired the PrivacyMark certification as of June 2012. *2 Targeted email: an email sent to a specific organization or individual as a cyber attack to steal information ■D  isseminating Information Security Companies that have acquired the PrivacyMark Certification (as of June 2012) Measures to Business Sites in China Japan Business Operations Co., Ltd. Oki Communication Systems Co., Ltd. Oki Customer Adtech Co., Ltd. OKI Software Co., Ltd. The OKI Group has started to disseminate its information OKI Proserve Co., Ltd. OKI Networks Co., Ltd. security measures to business sites in China since fiscal 2008. Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Oki Data Corporation As the IT environment in China is different from that in Japan, Oki Wintech Co., Ltd. Payment First Corporation 21 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 O K I G R O U P Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Believing that quality entails customer satisfaction, education programs from among which each employee can Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Customer Satisfaction OKI's quality philosophy focuses on providing products choose the most appropriate program for his or her need. that always make customers happy. OKI's Quality Since usefulness on a practical level is especially Assurance Regulations define the company's quality important in our curriculum, we have started offering a new philosophy, responsibility and authority. There are also course on design of experiments (orthogonal experiments) as administrative instructions for the entire company and a program common to all mid-level engineers across the each business division. These philosophy, rules and company since fiscal 2010. This uniquely practical course regulations are incorporated into the quality management features lectures focusing on the past applications at OKI, and system of each business division. Furthermore, we have seminars using an original data analysis support tool that obtained ISO9001 certification at all our production sites, enables students to concentrate on the process of each and have built the most appropriate quality control system experiment without being bothered with calculation. We also for each production line or product. follow the practical effect of the course and continue to improve its quality. In fiscal 2011, we added experimental simulations on PCs to our curriculum with the intention of ■ Establishment of Production & facilitating practical utilization thereof. Product Safety Division OKI established Production & Product Safety Division as a corporate level business unit on October 1, 2011. The division ■ Constant CS Surveys on Our is responsible for two functions to oversee production and Products and Activities product safety. The first function focuses on the optimum OKI has constantly conducted CS surveys of customers in utilization of production resources across the OKI Group and the financial industry about the OKI Group's business activities the coordination of different tasks while the other ensures in different categories such as sales, proposal, development product safety in compliance with Consumer Safety Act, and maintenance since fiscal 2007. The results of such Product Liability Act and other laws. surveys are disclosed and explained to respondents In fulfilling the individually. Any advice given by customers in this process is first function, the also fed back to OKI. The relevant business units then adopt division held the 1st such advice, reexamine the activities poorly evaluated by OKI Group customers, decide a policy to deal with the problems, and Workshop on share them with other units within the group if necessary. Production Reform Our CS survey in fiscal 2011 included a new questionnaire and Improvement in item about our services products such as an ATM operational November where A presentation at the Workshop on Production Reform and support. Approximately 70 customers answered our representatives from Improvement questionnaires in 6 aspects on a zero-to-five scale. The production sites inside and outside Japan gave presentations respondents also made free comments. on their efforts. The purpose of the workshop was to improve organizational power in manufacturing that affects the quality of each product. As for the function to oversee product safety, ■ Establishment of Human Interface the existing Company-wide Product Safety Policy was Design Department reexamined, and revised into the Product Safety Basic Policy OKI Data, a stipulating specific activities to be carried out. Under this new leading policy, the division will compile all rules to cope with product manufacturer of accidents and function as a portal for the entire group. business-use printers and multifunctional printers, ■ Improvement of Quality Education established Human OKI has given Interface Design education programs Department in April on quality for different 2012. While the types of employees functions of its Operability verification of printers at different levels products have such as new recruits, become increasingly complex, small businesses and novice members of individuals now constitute a significant part of their users. functional Consequently, the company is now asked to realize greater departments, and A seminar on quality user-friendliness that allows people with little knowledge of IT mid-level engineers. We have also offered various elective to make full use of its products, and produce a truly easy-to22 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 understand manual. The new department is comprised of two International standards by emphasizing the importance of teams, one examines and creates manuals, and the other accessibility in the company's guidelines for websites since focuses on operability and design. It aims at establishing 2002. As part of such efforts, in October 2011, OKI renewed global operability with integrity in cooperation with the the opening page and the pages for corporate information of Operability Committee, an organization whose members are its website to make them conform with JIS X 8341-3:2010*, a from different functional departments such as Design, Sales, new JIS standard to ensure web accessibility to elderly and and CS Promotion. Based on the OKI Group's concept of challenged people. The new JIS standard includes a section to Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Good Communication universal design, the department also pursues the test the accessibility of each web page and rank it in three improvement of accessibility by reflecting considerations for levels (A, AA and AAA). The above renewed pages were different types of challenged people including elderly people evaluated to partly meet the requirements of the AA level. OKI and people with impaired color vision. will continue to increase the number of web pages in conformity with the standard. * JIS X 8341-3:2010 ■ Enhancing Accessibility of Website Guidelines for older persons and persons with disabilities-Information and communications equipment, software and services-Part 3: Web content. It is a standard about accessibility launched in June, 2004 as part of the the Japan Industrial Standards. It was revised later in August 2010. OKI has made utmost efforts to build truly accessible websites in conformity with JIS standards and other Achievements in Fiscal 2011 O K I G R O U P Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors The OKI Group appropriately discloses useful information ■ Communication via IR Website and to shareholders and investors in a timely manner, including e-mail Newsletters corporate information, management strategies and operating OKI has an IR results. The purposes of our IR activities are to improve Website where a management transparency, help build trust with our range of investor shareholders, and thus improve our corporate value. The relations department responsible for these activities is IR Unit. The information, group also makes every effort to prevent insider trading in including financial order to protect shareholders and investors, and help ensure data, is posted the integrity of securities markets. simultaneously in Investor Relations site on the web English and http://www.oki.com/en/ir/ Japanese in order ■ Corporate Strategy Meeting to maintain fairness in information disclosure. In order to make Focusing on Mid-term Business Plan the site more accessible to investors, we renewed the OKI recognizes that the Japanese version and English version of the site in October appropriate utilization of the 2011, and January 2012 respectively. Furthermore, we views of the market in improved the content of the page for individual investors in the management practices and Japanese version in Mach 2012. We will continue to improve business activities serves to the quality of the IR site. further increase operating We also send OKI News Mails to approximately 1,500 efficiency and raise corporate people, including our institutional investors and people who value. Based on this Resulting briefing (May 2011) have signed up on our website. This e-mail newsletter includes recognition, President and the other members of the the latest financial results, information on filings to securities management team conduct investor briefings, hold IR meetings exchanges, press releases on topics such as new products and engage in various other communication activities. As part and services, and information on updates to our IR Website. of such efforts, President explained how the company had worked for its mid-term business plan to fiscal 2013 as well as We will further promote the disclosure of information in a its policies for fiscal 2011 at a resulting briefing held in May, responsive, and appropriate manner while complying with the 2011. The company's other efforts for appropriate, timely revisions of the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and disclosure of information included an increased number of IR Exchange Law and the timely disclosure rules of the Tokyo meetings for institutional investors inside and outside Japan. Stock Exchange. 23 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 O K I G R O U P Respect for Employees Believing that the protection of each employee's human ■ Helping Employees Develop Their Skills Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Respect for Human Rights / A Better Working Environment / Respect for Employees rights underlies all business activities, the OKI Group has The OKI Group offers more than 250 elective courses other proclaimed Respect for Human Rights in the OKI Group than compulsory or designated training courses for new recruits, Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of managers and specialists. Employees are able to choose the most Conduct, and emphasized the importance thereof through appropriate courses from among them in order to build the skills education programs. The group has a strong commitment to required for their career goals. In fiscal 2011, OKI's employees pursuing fair recruitment, and building working environments spent an average of 1.77 days to take such training course. with respect for diversity based on its vision: Pride, Passion and Sincerity. We have also made various efforts at overseas group ■ Establishing Support for the companies such as the encouragement of the acquisition of Development of the Next Generation relevant certifications, and different educational and support OKI was granted the Law for Measures to programs meeting the needs of each country or region. Support the Development of the Next Generation certification (nicknamed Kurumin ) by the Tokyo Labor Bureau. The main reason ■ Good Labor-Management Relationship for its acquisition of the certification was that it through Dialogue had achieved the targets set in its Action Plan OKI respects the freedom of association and collective in compliance with the Law for Measures to Support the Development bargaining based on the laws in each country and region, and of the Next Generation. puts great importance on building trust between employees In fiscal 2011, OKI introduced a new teleworking system for and management. In Japan, the company holds general employees responsible for childcare or nursing care as part of its third labor-management meetings with the company's top Action Plan focusing on establishing work-family balance through executives and union leaders as well as divisional laborvarious support programs that help employees take specific actions. management meetings to exchange opinions and information on economic conditions and labor issues. ■ Promotion of Work-Life Balance OKI has offered various supporting systems about ■ Promoting the Employment of childbirth, child rearing and nursing care in order to help its Challenged People employees balance work and family life. Among them are a The OKI Group has promoted the recruitment of severely flextime system and a HOP (discretionary labor) system that challenged people as teleworking employees through OKI allow flexible work styles. In case of Special Leave for a WorkWel, a special purpose subsidiary*of the group. As of April Particular Purpose, employees are allowed to take a leave for 2012, it employs 49 people with physical, intellectual, visual or medical care for themselves, nursing care for their families, internal disabilities, including 35 teleworkers utilizing IT. The and other purposes including participation in social action percentage of challenged employees at the group in fiscal programs, education and school events. 2011 was 1.83%, a slight decrease from fiscal 2010. We will Furthermore, the Work-Life Balance Promotion Committee, continue to promote the employment of challenged people in with members from both the management and the labor union, the future. sets specific targets, checks and improves the relevant The OKI Group's overseas subsidiaries have also systems for work-life balance. Information on such activities is addressed the recruitment of challenged people. OKI Electric available on the intranet. In fiscal 2011, we focused on the Industry (Shenzhen) in China entered an agreement with the Xili efficient management of working hours, had all manager class Vocational Rehabilitation Center, and recruited 12 challenged employees take a training program on this topic. people as special employees in June 2011. Employment rates of challenged people ■ Promoting Mental and Percent Physical Health of Employees 2.00% Employment rate of The OKI Group has promoted “Health OKI 21,”a campaign to 1.95% challenged people facilitate voluntary health management of employees with support 1.90% from management, labor union and corporate health insurance 1.85% Mandatory employment rate society. The Group gives useful advice through the intranet, 1.80% conducts surveys of employees, and offers exercise programs. 1.75% Furthermore, it has the “Mental Health Working Group” as an ad 1.70% hoc committee of the Central Safety and Health Committee, 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year promotes the utilization of Kokoro Wellness Navi, a new tool to * A special purpose subsidiary is a company established to provide special considerations for the employment of challenged people as defined in the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled. support mental health, and provides a consultation services. 24 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 O K I G R O U P Social Contribution The OKI Group, based on the Basic Philosophy and the OKI Group (22 companies as of April 2012) who agree with Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Social Contribution / Regional Awareness Basic Policy for Social Contribution Activities, has the purport the program. They are asked to donate 100 yen a promoted various social action projects. More specifically, month. the group has made donations, participated in regional Among the groups assisted by the program is the contribution activities, and supported social action Architectural Association of Japanese DEAF (AAJD) which programs by employees. In order to be involved in a wide produced SOS Cards in collaboration with OKI. These cards range of social contribution activities, we have interacted help hearing-impaired people and foreigners communicate with and collaborated with various nonprofit organizations, and others about their physical problems in the event of an enhanced such activities inside and outside Japan. emergency. AAJD released the cards in 15 different languages for free of charge in July 2011. The EDF-Japan, another recipient of the 100 yen fund, have helped secure educational ■ Response to the Great East Japan opportunities for children in Laos, Cambodia and Thailand. The Earthquake organization produced Darunee Plates, a tool to collect coins The OKI Group has to be used as scholarship money. been active to relieve people hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake in ■ Lecture on Diverse Ways of Working March 2011 and help at a Special Support School rebuild the afflicted areas. OKI Workwell gave a The following table shows lecture about career specific support activities Cleaning a tsunami-devastated beach education for 14 junior by the group. and senior high school Among them, volunteer activities for reconstruction support students at Tokyo were organized in collaboration with Sompo Japan Insurance Metropolitan Bokuto Inc., Marubeni Corporation and Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Special Support School and volunteers from among the group's employees visited on February 24, 2012. Shichigahama, a town in Miyagi Prefecture damaged by The lecture was Lecture at Bokuto Special Support School tsunamis, ten times. simultaneously shared with 7 students from Tokyo Metropolitan Jonan Special Support School by use of Workwell Support activities in fiscal 2011 Communicator for School, a networking system developed by Monetary the company. 10,000,000 yen (in parallel with lending of IT/network devices ) donation Funds raised by employees in Japan (through management-labor The Tokyo Metropolitan Board of Education has Funds raised collaboration) designated three special support schools for physicallyby employees Funds raised by overseas employees (donated through Red Cross Society in each country ) disabled children including the above two as the model Volunteer activities of employees for reconstruction support schools for its career education initiative since fiscal 2010. The A fair of made-in-Tohoku products at the OKI Warabi Culture Festival lecture was given as part of the OKI Group's support for the Donation of picture books to the Sanriku Culture Restoration Project in Reconstruction support collaboration with the NPO Action with Lao Children initiative in which President and two teleworking employees of E vent featuring a taketombo workshop and a marionette show for activities OKI Workwell talked about diverse ways of working utilizing IT employees and their families of the OKI Group in the Fukushima area -D  onation of a refrigerated blood transport vehicle to the Japan Red Cross for challenged people. Miyagi Blood Center (as a matching gift from the 100 yen fund of Love) ■ Supporting the Operation of a Symposium on ■ Donation-based Program “Ethics & Social Responsibility Research” The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love The Portugal office of OKI Data Group supported The OKI Group has made assistance efforts for various Symposium on “Ethics & Social Responsibility Research” held social action groups in Lisbon in April 2011 as a printing partner. Organized by the through the OKI 100 ISCTELisbon University Institute and CIS*, the two-day Yen Fund of Love, a symposium featured presentations of latest studies on ethics donation-based social and social responsibilities in organizational decision-making action program. The processes, and practical discussions by participants from participants in this around the world. OKI supported the operation of the program include symposium by printing posters, brochures, lunch tickets and executives and Darunee Plates for 500-yen coins (left) and 100-yen other materials. coins (right) employees of the The coins put in all holes in a plate enable a child to go * CIS: Centre for Social Research and Intervention member companies of to school for a period of one year. 25 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 O K I G R O U P Consideration for the Environment In order to achieve the OKI saving mode if no one uses it for a certain period of time, Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Environmental Conservation Group Environmental Vision 2020 and the power is disconnected to some parts of the module. (See Page 10) that outlines the The new ATM is designed to go into power saving mode directions of the group's immediately after each transaction. environmental activities, we ◦Reduction of Power Consumption in Power Saving Mode coordinate and implement Logo for the OKI Group's In order to further save power in power saving mode, we environmental management environmental activities increased the number of parts to be disconnected in the systems across the entire group mode to include the banknote recognition sensors and that underpin our environmental management others. commitment. We actively promote the continued reduction ◦Development of New Control Technology for Banknote of environmental impact through our products and Recognition Sensors business activities. Since high precision and quality is asked for sensors, it usually takes a certain period of time for a sensor to secure stable operation after it is activated. We developed a new ■ Environmental Contribution control technology to significantly reduce this time from through Products activation to stable operation. The technology has allowed 70% Reduction of Power Consumption in Automated Teller our ATM to promptly return from power saving mode. Machine (ATM) ◦Minimization of the Length of Banknote Conveyance Route The main requirements for ATMs used to be quiet, fast and In order to save power consumed for conveying troubleproof operation. As customers have become banknotes, we minimized the length of the banknotes increasingly environmentally conscious since the enforcement conveyance route. The conventional conveyance route had of the Revised Energy Saving Act, there has been an growing to be complex to deal with three types of transactions, need for ATMs with low power consumption. In order to meet withdrawal, deposit, and refund at transaction cancellation. this need, OKI has tried to reduce power consumption of the We simplified it by developing a new component that allows banknote handling module within its ATM system, and the sorting of banknotes for three directions. As a result, we achieved a total of 70% reduction of power consumption in the were able to decrease the number of components used for standby and transaction modes. the module and shorten the conveyance route by 40%. ◦Shift to the Power Saving Mode Immediately After Each As a result of these technological development and Transaction functional improvements, we have achieved a dramatic The entire banknote handling module of the conventional reduction of power consumption. We will continue to cater to version of our ATM is always turned on to allow a prompt energy saving needs of customers and make various return from standby mode. The machine goes into power proposals about ATM operation. OKI Group Environmental Activity Plan (Fiscal 2011): Targets and Achievements Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Category Activities Targets for Fiscal 2014 Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results Evaluation See Page Operate and improve chemical Reflect the results of the evaluation of Build a procedure to evaluate Control of Established and started operating a substance management suppliers' CMS* in our procurement suppliers' CMS and operate it on procedure to evaluate CMS ○ chemical • Regulations to control standards a trial basis substances chemical substances inside 12 〜13 contained in and outside Japan Assemble and utilize a Add a new function to increase Products Added a web survey function products • Response to revised standards database of Suppliers' CMS survey efficiency for chemical and started to operate thereof ○ of the industry evaluations products Manufacturing low Conform with laws and Register more than three new Meet sales targets for Eco regulations about power saving OKI Eco Products in 11 power consumption as well as the industry's Products certified in accordance accordance with the new Registered five new Eco Products ○ Website products with the new standards initiatives certification standards Reduce C02 emitted from Business Activities Basic unit to be reduced by 1% Basic unit to be reduced by Prevention of business activities (by introducing 12、 27、 or more (compared to the 1% or more (compared to the Reduced basic unit by 2.0% ○ global warming highly efficient equipment, and average of the past five years) average of the past five years) 28、29 improving operational systems) Resource Reduce newly input resources at Meet targets for the reduction Maintain and continue Maintained and continued 13、27、 ○ Circulation production sites of newly input resources zeroemission zero-emission 29 Streamline OKI Group Examine the visualization of Implement the consolidated Completed consolidation Environmental Environmental Management environmental data about sites certification plan, and examine certification as planned and ○ Website Practices of OKI Group System inside and outside Japan the expansion thereof added one site environmental Management management Establish and operate a Prepare for a biodiversity Completed preparations for a Formulate a procedure to biodiversity management evaluate biodiversity management system and biodiversity management ○ 13 system examine a plan for it system and enacted a plan for it * CMS: Chemical Management System 26 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Twofold Improvement of Luminous Efficiency of 74% Reduction of Waste Plastic Through Careful LED Printhead Separation of Wastes OKI Digital Imaging (ODI) develops LED printheads. ODI OKI Communication Systems in Tokorozawa, Saitama has has achieved the twofold improvement of luminous efficiency addressed the recycling of waste plastic since fiscal 2008. In of its LED printheads by improving the LED structure. In a fiscal 2011, the company achieved a 74% reduction in disposal digital LED printer, toner on the photoconductive drum amount and a 78% in disposal cost compared to fiscal 2008. In exposed to LED light from its LED printhead is transferred to order to facilitate careful separation for recycling, the company and fixed on paper (Figure 1). Thousands of LED chips are discussed about appropriate ways to separate waste with its mounted on the LED printhead. Each LED chip is comprised of contractor in the first place. It then established a system to multiple semiconductors. ODI arrived at the best possible ensure careful separation by carrying out various awarenesscombination of thickness, materials, density and other raising activities. Among them were careful instructions at each conditions about semiconductor devices from among job site, the visualization of recycling effects, and the numerous combinations. This combination secures the same dissemination of a Q&A guideline. The company also light output as the conventional LED printhead with half the introduced compressors for compressing waste plastic prior to driving current. As a result, it allows the further reduction of the contractor's collection thereof, and thus improved collection power consumption and prolongs LED life with less heat. efficiency. As a result of the promotion of these activities on a Figure 1: Exposure of light from Figure 2: LED chip with twofold company-wide basis, the company achieved the above LED printhead luminous efficiency dramatic reduction in disposal amount and disposal cost. LED light LED printhead Photoconductive drum Separated containers for waste plastic Compressed waste plastic ■ Environment Conservation Efforts in ■ Promoting Environmental Skills Business Activities The OKI Group has Reuse of Packaging Materials for ATMs offered various environmental OKI's Mechatronics Systems Plant in Tomioka, Gunma education programs at manufactures and assembles ATMs and other products. The different sites. OSZ in China plant has promoted the reuse of packaging materials for ATMs held Lowcarbon Knowledge in cooperation with OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen) in China Contest, an event to raise Winning team in the Low-Carbon Knowledge (OSZ). For example, the plant adopted new shock-absorbent awareness about the Contest at OSZ pallets for ATM units and components, and improved the prevention of global warming, in May 2011. A total of 100 method to fix them on such pallets. This change has allowed participants from the company's employees competed with the plant to use the same packaging materials for three round each other in this quiz-show-style contest. The participants trips. Before that, packaging materials were disposed of after commented that they were impressed by the relationship being used for a one-way trip. As a result, the plant between their life styles and the prevention of global warming dramatically reduced the annual purchase volume of new as well as the importance of environmental conservation. packaging materials from 300 tons to 78 tons in fiscal 2011. The plant also downsized its protectors for its ATM units while maintaining the same shock-absorbing function. It ■ Pollution of Underground Water and Soil enables the plant to increase the number of ATM units loaded The OKI Group has specified a group of observation points in a shipborne container by 30%. As a result, it was able to at every production site and monitored the quality of reduce CO2 emissions by 135 tons during the fiscal year. underground water there on a regular basis. During such a regular examination at Honjo site, the groundwater sampled from some observation points was measured to be a bit above Reuse of Packaging Materials for ATMs the normal level. In response to this, the OKI Group has implemented appropriate recovery measures under the ATM units Cap ATM components guidance of the relevant local authorities. In fiscal 2011, no (Imported from China) (Exported to China) underground water or soil pollution was observed. Sleeve ■ Penalties / Claims Dismantling There were no environment-related penalties imposed on or Reuse claims made against the OKI Group in fiscal 2011. Whenever such an event occurs, we locate the cause thereof, deal with Pallet the problem properly and take appropriate preventive steps. 27 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmental Impact of Business Activities (Material Balance) The OKI Group uses energy, water and chemical substances as input to conduct business activities focusing on development and production while discharging substances with environmental impact into the atmosphere and waters, and emitting wastes as output. In fiscal 2011, we widened the scope of the PRTR substances to be calculated in response to the revision of the PRTR system. The data of fiscal 2010 were also revised to reflect this change. Emissions into the Energy Consumption Atmosphere Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 ● Greenhouse gas Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Electricity［Million kWh］ 143 125 CO2* ［1,000 tons CO2］ 69 62 Heavy oil ［kl］ 745 751 PFC ［1,000 GWP-tons］ 0 0 ● Acidifying gas Benzine ［kl］ 2,081 1,654 NOx ［tons］ 4.1 4.1 Kerosene ［kl］ 71 80 SOx ［tons］ 0.8 0.9 Light oil ［kl］ 126 75 Input Output ● Chemical substances City gas ［km3］ 2,159 1,330 Substances subject to PRTR ［tons］ 15.6 9.2 Liquefied petroleum gas ［tons］ 134 145 Liquefied natural gas ［tons］ 0 0 Total amount converted into ［kl］ 39,012 33,819 crude oil The Water Use Input OKI Group Output Emissions into Waters 〈Development and Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 ● Chemical substances Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Production Activities〉 Tap water ［1,000 tons］ 315 366 Substances subject to PRTR［tons］ 0.5 0.4 Industrial water ［1,000 tons］ 318 305 Groundwater / well water ［1,000 tons］ 566 615 Total ［1,000 tons］ 1,199 1,286 Input Output Use of Chemical Substances Waste Emissions Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 ● Chemical substances Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Substances Substances subject to ［tons］ 109 93 subject to PRTR ［tons］ 19.1 11.3 PRTR ● Waste emissions Quantity of waste emitted ［tons］ 15,567 7,251 Final waste disposal ［tons］ 64 19 *Breakdown of CO2 Emissions Emission Category Sites (1,000 tons) Warabi district, Shibaura district, Takasaki district, Honjo district, Tomioka Major sites of the OKI 41 district, Numazu district, OKI Data, Nagano OKI, OKI Printed Circuit, OKI Group Metaltech, OKI Digital Imaging Other sites 21 Sites other than the above Total 62 All sites in the scope 28 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I G R O U P Reducing Environmental Impact of Business Activities and Products The OKI Group has been active in reducing environmental impact of its business activities and products in order to contribute to environmental conservation. Reducing Environmental Impact of Physical Distribution CO2 Emissions from Transport Activities OKI, as a shipper, has enhanced its efforts to reduce environmental impact of physical distribution in partnership with OKI Proserve (hereinafter called OPS). As a pioneer in 5,000 4,677 reducing CO2 emissions by adopting modal shift, OPS has accumulated a wide spectrum 4,213 CO2 emissions (tons) 4,000 3,721 of transit information and organized it into a database to fully meet the requirements of the 3,259 2,682 Energy Saving Act. In fiscal 2011, the CO2 emissions reduced by modal shift amounted to 3,000 591 tons (virtually flat from the previous fiscal year). The total volume of CO2 emitted from 2,000 our transport activities in fiscal 2011 amounted to 4,677 tons, a 11% increase compared to 1,000 the previous fiscal year, partly due to production increase and growing local transport 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year using small freights. Promotion of Material Recycling (Zero Emission) Material Recycling Rates of Main Production Sites The OKI Group has been active in improving its material Zero Emission recycling rate*1 since 1996. In fiscal 2002, we achieved zero as a recycling rate Material recycling rate (%) of 99% or more 99.1 99.8 99.1 99.6 99.7 emission *2 at main production sites. In fiscal 2011, the material 100 recycling rate was 99.7%. 90 *1 Material recycling rate: quantity of material-recycled resources / (quantity of materialrecycled resources + quantity of wastes subject to final disposal) x 100 80 *2 Zero emission: defined by the OKI Group as a material recycling rate of 99% or more 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal Emitted from Main Production Sites 80 The amount of the general and industrial wastes emitted from 64 the OKI Group's main production sites and subject to final 60 Final Disposal (tons) disposal was 19 tons in fiscal 2011 due to the reduction of waste fluids and other efforts. 40 30 26 28 19 20 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year Recycling of Used Products Recycling of Printer Supplies The volume of used products collected in fiscal 2011 was OKI Customer Adtech has been active in reusing and 4,692 tons (with an 86% increase compared to fiscal 2010), with recycling printer supplies such as toners and drum cartridges. an increased number of collected ATMs as a main factor. The The recycled product rate to sales volume was 2.5% in fiscal material recycling rate was 96.2% and remained at the almost 2011 (a 48% decrease compared to fiscal 2010) due to an same level as fiscal 2010. increase in the sales volume of standard items. Recycling of Used Products Recycled Product Rates Recycling rate (%)*3 （%） 3.6 3.3 100 95.2 95.2 22.8 3.2 2.9 94.6 20 95 2.8 96.2 Reuse rate (%) *1 91.2 2.4 90.5 18.3 93.3 90 2.4 92.7 15 1.9 15.3 2.0 88.9 2.3 88.4 85 Material 1.6 10 80 1.2 recycling rate (%)*2 0.8 75 5 4.8 0.4 2.5 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fiscal year *1 Reuse rate: the ratio of reused parts and materials to collected used products (in mass). *2 Material recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling and reuse to collected used products (in mass). *3 Recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling, thermal recycling and reuse to collected used products (in mass). 29 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 Achievements in Fiscal 2011 Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmentally Conscious Products The OKI Group has developed various environmentally conscious products utilizing its innovative technologies and offered them to customers. CM21Ex, a New Integrated Cash Management System That Reduces Standby Power Consumption by Half OKI launched CM21Ex, a new integrated cash management system in November 2011. The system is intended to be used at sales offices of financial institutions for handling and managing cash. In order to cater to an increasing need for lower power consumption of our customers, CM21Ex allows a 50% reduction of standby power consumption by introducing the industry's first comprehensive energy-saving mode for standard integrated cash management system*. The new system also reduces the amount of paper used for paper bands for banknote bundles by 10% compared to the preceding systems. (Each bundle contains 100 banknotes.) It also features an autoload function for paper bands to reduce workload of users. CM21Ex, a new integrated cash management system Furthermore, the system features several functions to streamline inspection and auditing tasks of users. Among them are a feature to track the history of unauthorized operations (such as opening or closing of the access cover), and the industry's first audit/reference function that allows the creation of written documents of different records. * Standard integrated cash management system: an integrated cash management system with a safe for small bundles of banknotes (each bundle contains 100 banknotes) . Any smaller system without such a safe is excluded. A3 Color LED Printers with the Lowest 0.7W Sleep-Mode Power Consumption of the Series In November 2011, OKI Data launched three new models of its A3 color LED printers, C841dn, C811dn and C811dn-T. With these models equipped with a proprietary integrated circuit called Green ASIC, the company has reduced the lowest sleep-mode power consumption of the COREFIDO series (aimed at the Japanese market) from 0.9W to 0.7W. The models also feature an auto power off function that automatically turns off the power if the printers are not operated for a specific period of time, and prevents users from wasting C841dn with the lowest sleep mode power power by forgetting to turn them off after their printing tasks. consumption of the series The company has made the internal mechanism of the new models much simpler than those of their preceding models by making maximum use of its LED technology. This change has made the models very compact. The area of space occupied by each of the models is smaller than that of any other model in the world.* * 20% less than the area of space occupied by any other A3 color LED or laser printer as of October 2011 according to the data provided by OKI Data. REACH-compliant SVHC Analysis Service REACH-compliant SVHC Analysis Flow Laws and regulations to control chemical substances in products have become Sample increasingly demanding. For example, the scope of the REACH regulation, one of the most widely accepted regulations for such substances, is expanded every year to include new Selection of constituents Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC)*1 to be controlled. Consequently, the management to be measured of chemical substances has become very important for any company. In this context, OKI (for each material) Engineering launched a new service to analyze SVHCs in a short period of time in June 2011. Since some SVHCs cannot be detected by the conventional abbreviated analysis methods, NO YES Metallic compound corporations have to spend time and money for more precise analysis. OKI Engineering developed a new analysis method based on ion attachment mass spectrometry (IA/MS)*2 for substances that are hard to detect by the conventional methods. The company offers a prompt screening analysis service by combining this method and ICP analysis. *1 SVHC: Substances of very high concern specified by the European Chemical Agency that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic such as endocrine disturbing chemicals. Ion attachment mass spectrometry ICP analysis *2 Ion attachment mass spectrometry (IA/MS): A form of mass spectrometry that uses the ionization of an organic chemical substance to be analyzed by attaching lithium ion to it without changing its molecular weight. Analysis report 30 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 O K I G R O U P Environmental Accounting The OKI Group introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999. Since then, we have conducted environmental activities in a highly efficient way to optimize investment effects. Environmental Conservation Costs The OKI Group has adopted a specific procedure for selecting equipment and devices with low environmental impact and has used it when renewing or introducing any infrastructure system. For example, we have replaced energy consuming facilities with energy-saving ones, and promoted the recycling of wastes through capital spending. Capital investment in fiscal 2011 amounted to 373 million yen (compared to 328 million yen in the previous fiscal year) while the amount of costs was 1.397 billion yen (compared to 1.501 billion yen in the previous fiscal year). Investment / Costs (Unit: million yen) Investment Costs Category Main Efforts 2010 2011 2010 2011 Pollution prevention cost Investment in pollution control facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 9 6 41 46 Cost in Global environment conservation costcost Investment in energy-saving facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 236 164 90 133 business areas Resource recycling cost Investment in facilities for internal treatment of organic waste liquid, waste recycling costs 59 156 261 244 Total 305 326 391 423 Upstream / downstream cost Green procurement (chemical substances survey) costs, costs for remodeling systems to collect data on chemical substances contained in products 3 28 275 280 Administration cost Costs for obtaining environment management certifications, and maintenance and operation costs 17 16 233 219 R&D cost R&D costs for creating energy-saving products 1 1 599 471 Social activity cost Costs for planting trees in production sites, costs for activities contributing to local communities 2 2 3 3 Environmental damage cost Cost for reserves to respond to environmental damages, insurance cost and surcharge 0 0 1 1 Other cost － 0 0 0 0 Total 328 373 1,501 1,397 Benefits Related to Environmental Conservation Costs The economic effects increased to 660 million yen (compared to 50 million yen in the previous fiscal year). One of the main factors of this dramatic growth was an increase in real income from a sale of used variable products due to the appropriate separation of wastes. The substantial decrease of energy used though power-saving efforts on a site level also contributed to this growth. Economic Effects (Unit: million yen) Environmental Conservation Effects Difference Effects Environmental Impact compared to Category Main Efforts previous 2010 2011 Conservation Effects 2010 2011 fiscal year Cost Effect of saving energy and resources Reduction of electricity, petroleum, gas, packaging materials, etc. used in business activities −104 256 CO2 emissions (tons) 68,583 61,667 −6,916 reduction effect Effect of reducing treatment cost Reduction of wastes generated from business activities through recycling −1 22 Waste Final waste disposal 64 19 −45 Sale of valuable wastes generated from business activities 149 376 emissions (tons) Real income effect Sale of used valuable products 9 10 Total 53 664 〈Accounting Conditions〉 ① When environmental conservation costs and other costs are consumed for a single activity, only the environment costs are calculated for environmental accounting. ② The depreciation cost of investment is calculated using the fixed installment method for a period of three years. The economic benefits achieved due to these investments is calculated for three years, in line with the depreciation period. ③ Personnel costs are calculated by prorating the personnel costs for the total time spent on environmental conservation activities. ④ The real income effect represents the value for the current fiscal year. Major Environmental Conservation Efforts The following tables show main efforts with respect to investment, costs and economic effects calculated in our environmental accounting. Main Efforts in Each Category in Japan （Unit: 1,000 yen) Main Efforts in Each Category in Overseas （Unit: 1,000 yen) Category Main Efforts Amount Site Category Main Efforts Amount Site/Company Recycling of waste plastic, metal, glass and other materials 50,629 OKI Data Shift to recyclable packaging materials 5,143 OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen) Shift to energy-saving air conditioning systems 17,600 Honjo district Investment Investment Renewal of lighting fixtures 16,000 Tomioka district Facility remodeling for improving production DongGuan TangXia OKI Micro Engi3,711 efficiency neering Factory Shift to energy-saving air conditioning systems 8,300 Nagano OKI Shift to LED lighting 7,600 Shibaura district Renovation of effluent treatment facilities 1,075 OKI Data Manufacturing (Thailand) Development of highly-durable products 102,586 OKI Data OKI Telecommunications Technology Costs for RoHS analysis 15,100 Development of low temperature fixing toner 100,367 OKI Data (Changzhou) Costs Development costs for making the existing products more energy-efficient 74,304 OKI Data Costs Waste management costs 11,823 OKI (UK) Efforts for improving energy efficiency of lighting and air conditioning systems 10,713 Takasaki district Development costs for environmentally conscious products 6,270 OKI Techno Power Systems Training for environmental auditors 1,202 OKI Electric Technology(Kunshan) Sale of valuable waste 156,603 OKI Sensor Device Economic Effects * Exchange rate : 128 yen / ￡, 2.74 yen / Baht Sale of valuable waste 75,231 OKI Printed Circuits Energy saving effects through various power-saving efforts 27,582 Honjo district Energy saving effects through various power-saving efforts 6,958 Takasaki district Energy saving effects through various power-saving efforts 4,530 OKI Communication Systems 31 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2012 CSR Division 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan oki-csr@oki.com http://www.oki.com/ Published in June 2012 NOTE: (pp.6-7) On September 14, 2012, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd restated its past financial results from FY end. March 31, 2008 to FY end. March 31, 2012. Impact amount on Net Sales due to restatement Net Sales by Business Segment in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated) Net Sales by Market in fiscal 2011 (Consolidated) Related press release:  OKI Announces Financial Results for the First Quarter of the Fiscal Year ending March 31, 2013 and Restates its Past Financial Results (September 14, 2012) http://www.oki.com/en/ir/accounts/2013q1/2013q1.html
