1/28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 CUNICO RESOURCES NV 2/28 FENI Industries has a long-term commitment for sustainable development, demonstrated trough our activities in past years. The notion for continuous improvement we are guided with is not limited only to our operations, but also to all aspect of our socially responsible practices, mirrored in the relations with our employees, customers and suppliers, our environmental responsibility and the support we give to the community. Being committed to operate in sustainable manner and act responsibly in relations with all our stakeholders, we recognized our values in the 10 principles of UN Global Compact and decided to join the Network in February 2011. By becoming a member of this family of likeminded entities, we confirmed OF THE MANAGEMENT Konstantinos Daskalakis our endeavor to continue and further develop our social responsible practices, General Executive Manager taking advantage of the knowledge and experience cumulated in the network. Our goal is to carry out our operations with endorsement of society at large, especially if the community where we work benefits from our presence there. Therefore, we continue the path we have traced, ready to meet the challenges, open for suggestions and proposals from our stakeholders. In the previous year we have continued our positive CSR practices, which are part of the company activities for many years. We continue working on strengthening of occupational health and safety of our employees, widening the scope of activity to our contractors and we have permanent dialogue and cooperation with our workers’ Union. FENI Industries remains committed to act responsible in protection of environment, launching several environmental projects last year. We conduct our business with high integrity, introducing practices which prevent corruption and give transparency to relations with our stakeholders. Finally, the support we deliver trough our social projects – sport, COMMITMENT health, education, cultural events, infrastructure, makes us distinguished member Nikola Rizov of the community, which commits and encourages us in same time to conDeputy General Manager tinue to act in a socially responsible way. We see social responsibility as inseparable part of our activities; therefore the development of our business in future should be followed with a progress of the CSR practices in every aspect. We commit to add value to the quality of occupational health and safety and other HR functions, to act responsibly toward environmental challenges, to upgrade our CSR practices in the relations with our customers and suppliers and to continue to deliver valuable support to the community. This is FENI Industries’ first report for Corporate Social Responsibility; its aim is to show our dedication to the sustainable development of our business, to Zorica Stavrova present our social responsible practices in the past year and to deliver our Administration Manager commitments to further progress in this field, but we find it also as a medium for spreading of the spirit of sustainability in our wider community, aiming to encourage other companies and organizations to act in this direction. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 3/28 Feni Industries and the Corporate Social Responsibilities Feni Industries is acting according CSR practices since years. By joining the Global Compact Network (United Nations), Feni Industries is expressing its strong commitment to develop and formalize all these actions in a structured, transparent frame; Feni Industries is proud to present its recent achievements for the year 2011 in this 1st Corporate and Social Responsibility Reports. The Ten Principles Definitions The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption Social responsibility: Social responsibility is the enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: responsibility of an organization, which has im• The Universal Declaration of Human Rights pacts of its decisions and activities on society • The International Labor Organization's Declaration and the environment through transparent and INTRODUCTION — DEFINITIONS on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work ethical behavior as a consistent part of the sus• The Rio Declaration on Environment and Developtainable development and the welfare of society. ment It takes into account the expectations of stake• The United Nations Convention Against Corruption holders is in compliance with applicable law and The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, consistent with international norms of behavior; support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour and is integrated throughout the organization. standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Ethical behavior: Ethics addresses questions about Human Rights morality. To be in accordance with the rules or • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the standards for right conduct or practice, especially protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and the standards of a profession. • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Stakeholders: Individual, Communities or firms that Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of are subject of potential direct or indirect impact association and the effective recognition of the right to from FENI Industries and its activities. collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Sustainable development: Sustainable development compulsory labour; is development that meets the needs of the • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and present without compromising the ability of future • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect generations to meet their own needs. of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 4/28 FENI Industries is a pyro-metallurgical plant producing ferronickel with 983 employees in 2011. FENI Industries is located in Kavadarci, R. Macedonia. Feni Industries is a subsidiary of Cunico Resources NV (Cunico Resources, Cunico) which is an international mining and metals company, specializing in the exploration, mining and production of ferro-nickel. Cunico Resources is operating 2 smelters: FENI Industries in Macedonia and NEWCO Ferronikeli in Kosovo. Cunico Resources is the largest ferro-nickel producer in Europe and the fourth largest in the world. From ore with 0.9 to 2.2% of nickel oxides and 15-40% of iron oxides, we are producing ferroalloys with 20% nickel metal and 80% iron metal. All this production is exported worldwide and is used for production of stainless steel. With the achievement of our production above 17 000 tons of nickel in 2011, FENI Industries has become an internationally acknowledged producer. COMPANY PROFILE MACEDONIA Production of Nickel yearly 5 000 t 10 000 t 15 000 t 2012 ESP4, water collection, new slag dump 2011 Sizer, granulation 2, fine fraction transport (17 290 t) 2010 EF2 restarted, REACH, 2 bypasses for ore, export slag 2009 ISO 14001:2004, Economic crisis 2008 IPPC Permit, ISO 9001:2008, EF2 stopped, 2 new driers Current shareholders 2007 New drier, new ESP3 2006 New EF technology, new granulo system, 2ndEF 2005 Richer %Ni ore (Indonesia & Philippines) 2004 Start to work with 2 rot. kilns / 1 EF Private company FENI Industries Sep-01 Stoppage Feb-99 State owned company with private shares (concession) FENI MAK Sep-91 Stoppage Jun-84 State company 1983 Start FENI Apr-82 Construction 1979 Activity of the department for Environment 5 000 t 10 000 t 15 000 t FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 5/28 TECHNOLOGICAL PROCESS 3 FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 6/28 Management Systems FENI Industries is committed to implementation and integration of the management systems in its operational capacities. The commitment from the CEO was made to apply the ISO systems in March 2007. History overview • April 2008: Certification ISO 9001:2001 by SGS • December 2009: Certification ISO 14001: 2004 by SGS • December 2010: Integration of both systems ISO 9001 and 14001 • July 2011 : Certification at NewCo Ferronikeli (Kosovo), part of Cunico Resources. Next steps with the systems The next objective is to incorporate the Social Responsibility Guideline within the above mention international standards that are voluntarily implemented. SYSTEMS ISO project team FENI Industries, other facts • Golden medallion 2008 for the best tax payer in 2008; • The first company in the Republic of Macedonia that acquired IPPC permit; • Award for the highest exporting rate in the 2010; • Second national price for the best corporate practices in 2009 in the area of relations with the workers; • Edition The 200 best companies in the county Fifth biggest and fifth most successful for 2010; • First national award for the best corporate practices in 2010 in the area of the relations on the market and medallion for the best corporate practices in the category of social bargaining. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 7/28 Safe work ambient • absolute compliance with the Occupational FENI INDUSTRIES realizes that in running the safety and health at work regulation; operations of nickel metal production, we need • permanent training and development of efto prioritize occupational safety and health princifective skills for working safely; ples, and in this direction the Company gives • obligating our contractors to follow up the the highest priority to compliance with the safety Company` s safety policies and procedures; regulations and rules as well as the rights of • formalizing the above principles into procethe workers to a safe working ambient within dures. the corpus of the human rights. For each employee of ours, within the entire As we use to say, to complete the safety circle: production facility, our first priority is to maintain by identifying hazards, applying controls, reviewing a secure and safe workplace. effects, assessing risks, we are capable to make In applying the principle of safety and health at projection for improvements, and, in 2011, we work, we especially pay attention to four key finalized this cycle by having achieved the full LABOR points: Risk Assessment Process with having made Statement on Safety for each working position. (Documentation on Risks Assessment and Statement on Safety for each job position is completed in 7000 pages). Our commitment to the safe work ambient and RIGHTS AND aiming for a “minimum harm” to our employees, contractors, visitors, community, is implemented into our internal policies, acts, procedures and numerous operating instructions, signs, recommendations, Business Ethics Policy, Manual Safety Book, ISO Safety procedure, Safety training program, Plan for rescue and protection verified by the State body. HUMAN “Think of your own safety and safety of the others “ is the message addressed to the employees, contractors and visitors at all entries of the plant facilities. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 8/28 Occupational health and safety employees and 470 for the contractor` s employWe assign priority to preventive healthcare for ees were delivered in 2011. Medical staff is our employees. The scope of occupational health actively included in the safety training programs includes: occupational health, work ergonomics giving lectures to the employees in giving first and trainings. aid with simulation of different cases of possible With regard to occupational health, FENI INDUSaccidents at work. In 2011 medical staff delivTRIES provides medical services on a daily ered trainings in first aid in 8 tours aimed for basis. Infirmary within the plant premises with different target groups and they participated in doctor and nurse is very well complying with exercising the simulation of different risk situathe company` s commitment of preventive meditions. cal services. 3142 individual services to our LABOR RIGHTS AND Our medical staff is dedicated to increasing the self-health care awareness. Exercising in first aid techniques, lectures, visits on side etc. are the activities they are running on a daily basis. Safety Office but also, we can deliver safety trainings externally. Attached to each contract with our contractors there is an annex with labour, safety, environmental and fire protection obligations they have to conduct during the contractual period. HUMAN 97 safety controls over our and contractors ` s operations were conducted, 80 precise recommendations for solving deficiencies and possible improvements were accordingly delivered, 404 workers were included in the safety trainings, exercises and simulations in different target groups defined in the Safety trainings program. Every control, recommendation, incident or any Dime Dimov, Safety Office Manager related event was reported and recorded. Wide Our Safety Office manager realizes that in runscoped Annual Safety, Health and Fire Protection ning our operation we need to prioritize occupareport with statistics and recommendation is detional health and safety: livered from 2007 onward. Risk and Safety “ Safety office is very proud of the achieveoffice on a two-weeks basis and Risk and ments in 2011. Concerning risk and hazards, we Safety steering Committee on a two-monthly have assessed 291 job positions covered by basis considers all the above issues. 964 employees and accordingly we created Our goals for the next period is to increase the Statement on Safety for each of this job posilevel of trainings with safety campaigns purposed tions. Three members of the Safety Office were to introduce all the employees to the highest certified in 2011 as experts in Occupational principle of occupational safety and health. Also, Safety by accredited State body. The Company Safety office will evaluate the status of realizawas licensed to conduct internal safety trainings, tion the recommendations being given in 2011”. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 9/28 Man-oriented policies FENI INDUSTRIES believes that human rights are universal and is committed to ensure that no operational activity of the company would violate any principle of human rights. As an integral part of the community, we believe that we are permanently upgrading our position, in order to acquire recognition not only by relevant institutions, but also to become “socially recognized”. The core values of the human rights are implemented into the Company` s internal policies, acts and procedures, and penalties for their violation are strictly defined. As a part of an international group, there is a multicultural ambient and currently eight worldwide nationalities are creating multicultural matrix of behavioral standards, which are supporting and enriching the core values of the human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. Achievement of FENI Industries in human resources terms Labor rights, activities, results From a company with long history of being • 162 new arrivals: in 2011 went through the within the average values in all fields, Feni was process of introducing them into their work, LABOR transformed into a company that achieves excelrights and duties, safety lectures, and a speciallent results. Identification of the factors that enized brochure addressing their rights and duties abled this leap from average to excellent results in the field of occupational safety and health, made our nowadays high-rank status. was given to each newcomer. • According to the Annual training plan 2011, 738 workers out of 964 (77%) have passed RIGHTS AND through different trainings. 10 of them were certified in different fields. • Two ‘Letters of Gratitude” were delivered for special achievements. HUMAN Ana Andova, Human Resources Office manager Human resources are among the best assets of the Company. Openness, trust, spirit of being together in good and crisis periods, high standards of rights linked to the work targets, dedication to the high performance rates, are the Risk and safety seminar basic values of FENI` s employees established in the company’s acts. We are convinced that the high quality of our human resources comes out Our goal for the next period is to improve the of the high-class recruitment process, compensaexisting system of individual performance evaluation tion and benefits system, and our system of in aim to reduce possible subjectivity by making all continuous trainings (principles stipulated in Busithe indicators for individual performance measurable ness Ethics policy, Collective Agreement, New as much as possible. staff appointment procedure, Training procedure, Discipline procedure). FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 10/28 FENI INDUSTRIES provides an adequate compensation and benefits for the employees, through a permanent improvement of the salary system. This system is composed of three elements: fixed amount for each job position, bonus part depending on the realization rate of the projected monthly targets of production and variable part depending on the individual monthly performance. Special achievements are specially evaluated by awards and letters of gratitude, recorded in the personal file of the workers. The monthly production plan and related bonus is published on the bulletin boards on monthly basis. So, everybody can calculate his/her own salary for the current Award for the Labor Union dialog month. Two Letters of Gratitude were delivered for speLABOR cial achievements. The practice of implementing high standards in operations and socially responsible practices based upon the human rights in the labor field resulted in recognition by the National body for awarding the best corporate practices – medallion for the project : “Social RIGHTS AND dialog : Employer – Union”. Signature of the collective agreement Social dialog, bargaining Labor Union President’s Statement Traditionally the relationship between FENI and its “In the branch union that our Union is member human capital is very strong and this relationship of, there are only two collective agreements becontributes to the sustainability of the company` s ing signed between the workers and the employHUMAN growth and development. Almost all of the workers. ers are members of the union. Moreover, the provisions of our collective agreeThe Collective Agreement stipulates the rights, ment are in effect also for the workers that duties and responsibilities of the workers and have not joined the Union, since our position is employer as well, the scope and way of realizato protect generally the rights of everybody tion of the rights and duties and way of hanworking in the company. dling disputes between the parties. We are in permanent negotiating process adMoreover, there is an option of external Arbitrage dressing many questions that concerns the workin case of having no agreement. ers on a daily basis. Four representatives of the Union are assigned to make official representation of the workers in the safety and health issues. The Company supports their additional education, training and seminars. Taking into consideration that we have a long history of union activities – in good and in the crisis times, there are a lot of achievements that made us a serious partner in the Company` s issues. Signature of the collective agreement FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 11/28 In this regard, I can say for 2011 that is a very fruitful year. Implementation of the second collective agreement after the company was privatized in 2001 have started. In March 2011 we pushed salary raise up of 1,6% upon the 2010 statistic figures of living costs. National Labor Union Games in Struga 2011 LABOR Labour Union President.for the 10 years ‘restarting of Feni’ We took a few humanitarian actions to support our workers and their families in urgent situation. We represent the workers if some disciplinary charge is raised up against the workers. RIGHTS AND We have access to all documentation, reports, Even it is not legally compulsory, the company statements within the disciplinary process. gave special vacation bonus (and it is becoming tradition) in three installments – in May, in SepWe have already started negotiations with the tember and before the New Year Holidays. Heatmanagement on our goals: increase rate of the ing wood takes a lot of the family` s budget salary adequately on the 2011 living costs figand the Union made agreement with the comures, increasing the budget for the bonus part pany dealing with heating consumables about the and variable part of the salary formula, and, payment in six installments. The Company supincreasing of the fixed salary part for two workports this and payroll office manages the installforce categories: technicians and skilled workers”. ment payments. HUMAN FENI’s presentation for social dialogue—BOSSMIP seminar 2011 FENI Industries sport collective before going to the National Labor Union Games in Struga 2011 FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 12/28 FENI Industries and environment Since its renaissance in 2001, FENI Industries is considering environment as an integral part of its production. In 2008, after being the 1st company in Macedonia to receive the IPPC Permit (Aadjustment permit with operative plan), FENI Industries has developed and certified an Environmental Management System (ISO 14 001). This system, which is audited every year by Independent Body, is a strong tool in order to control and follow up the realization of our environmental activities. Continual improvement Numerous achievement for environment were performed during the last 5 years, which include: • New filter line 2 (ESP3): 2.5 million Euros; • Implementation of air dispersion model (ISCT3); • Concrete ponds to prevent spillage (crusher water department); • Oil separator; ENVIRONMENT • Installation of a crusher line for the slag: This allows the export of 200 000 tons of this byproduct world-wide; • Ambient air quality station Airpointer installed at Sivec; • Preparation of slag disposal parcel for recultivation. Spe c fi ic c ons umpt o i n ee l c t r ic it y (s me lt e r ) 90 16 000 80 14 000 70 12 000 Mwh / ton nickel 60 10 000 50 8 000 40 6 000 30 20 4 000 10 2 000 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Spe c if ic c ons umpt o i n ee l c t r ic it y s me lt e r = f (%N i n i or e ) 100 2 80 1. 5 Environment integrated in the production process: MWh/tons nickel Important achievement for the environment were % Ni in tr eated or e 60 1 40 20 0. 5 also performed from a technological point of 0 0 view: 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Using more and more high nickel grade ore is Ee l c t r ci ti y smelt er %Nin i t aken or e allowing FENI Industries to obtain drastic deS u l ph ur i n t h e m a z o ut ( he a v y f u e l o i l ) ( %) creasing of specific consumption of electricity; • Using of heavy fuel oil with lower sulfur con3.00 tent; 2.50 • The installation of a crusher at the slag dis2.00 posal is enabling FENI to crush its dumped 1.50 1.00 slag in order to export them. This is a good 0.50 example of recycling; 0.00 • Permit from the Ministry of Environment to coApr-04 Sep-04 Feb-05 J ul-05 Dec-05 May-06 Oc t-06 Mar-07 Aug-07 J an-08 J un-08 Oc t-08 Mar-09 Aug-09 J an-10 J un-10 Nov-10 Apr-11 Sep-11 Feb-12 J ul-12 incinerate rubber chips. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 13/28 AMBIENT AIR QUALITY — ACCREDITED LABORATORY Results Sivec Ambient air quality monitoring is assessed by indeSivec 0.20 0.15 pendent and accredited laboratories. These measure3 mg/m 0.10 0.05 ments are done in the 2 nearby villages of FENI 0.00 SO2 Dus t Industries. Usually, the sampling station stays 1 1500 m Results M DK week in one village, and the next week in the other village. These measurements show that ambient air quality ESP1 ESP2 respects the guideline values. Vozarci ENVIRONMENT – COMMITMENTS PM m e a s u red a t Siv e c (m g/m 3) S O 2 m e a s u r e d a t S iv e c ( m g / m 3 ) Perio d J an u ary 20 09 No v em be r 20 1 1 P e r io d J a n u a r y 2 0 0 9 N o v e m b e r 2 0 1 1 0.1 4 00 0.0 60 0 0.1 2 00 0.0 50 0 0.1 000 0.0 40 0 0.08 00 0.0 30 0 0.06 00 0.0 20 0 0.04 00 0.0 10 0 0.0 00 0 0.02 00 9 20 09 9 00 00 0 20 10 0 01 01 1 20 11 1 01 01 20 0 09 20 9 9 20 1 10 20 0 0 20 1 11 20 1 1 0.0000 20 0 p2 v2 20 1 p2 v2 20 1 p2 v2 Ja n Ma r Ma Ju l Se No Ja n Ma r Ma Ju l Se No Ja n Ma r Ma Ju l Se No y y y Du s t M DK d us t SO2 MDKSO2 AMBIENT AIR QUALITY INTERNAL MONITORING FENI Industries performs continuous monitoring of ambient air in the plant surrounding. This monitoring is performed using a device Airpointer, which is located in Shives village. This internal continuous monitoring of ambient air includes: Concentration of PM10, Wind direction and Wind speed. The measurement is done each minute according to optical method, but there is a possibility to download the data for 1min, 5 min, or 30 minutes average. From this results, our Environment Department calculates a daily average value for each day. The results of this monitoring are recorded and compared Air Pointer station with the republics’ regulations, and the originals are stored in the Department of Environment. Октомври 2011 70 PM10(ug/m3) 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 .10. .10.1 .10. .10.1 .10. .10. .10. .10. .10.1 .10. .10. .10. .10. .10. 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 ден среднодневна вредност max. дозволена месечна средна вредност FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 14/28 Monitoring Feni Industries has established a complete moniHouse-keeping toring network since 2002. This monitoring is In the last year, we have drastically improved made both internally and externally. This monitorour house-keeping within the plant. This signifiing includes: cant improvement was made by: • Air emission; • Strong commitment from the Top Management; • Ambient air quality (aero-sediment and PM10); • Additional human resources in the team • Surface water; ‘General Cleaning’; • Soil sampling. • Purchasing of one tractor with trailer; This monitoring is performed also for our mine • Development of simple working instructions; Rzanovo. All results are regularly communicated • Installation in key location of ‘waste collection to Authorities. A billboard at the entrance of the factory releases this information to the Public. points’; • Regular house-keeping visits’ from an Administration-Environment team. These visits allow us ENVIRONMENT – MONITORING to inventory problems and then to propose solutions to appropriate personnel; • This improvement was also accompanied with the creation of a ‘house-keeping committee’ gathering management from all sectors of the company; • Collected waste (metal scrap, scrap belt, plastic containers, used oils) is then sold to accredited companies which are recycling them. Practicing at the office for environment Environment is a developing educational field in Macedonia. Our office for environment is traditionally giving opportunities for students to share our experience and to learn with professional team the realities of the environment. In the last several years, students’ practice is provided on annual level, on various subjects (electrostatic precipitators, grid soils sampling around the factory, surface water evaluation, risk assessment). Noise measurement at Rzanovo mine Aero-sedimentation monitoring FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 15/28 Slag is a by-product that is generated from the production of ferronickel. In Feni Industries, slag is disposed in an internal disposal, 2 km from the plant. This slag is transported on liquid conditions using ladle carriers under temperature of 1500-1550°C. There are 2 types of slag in FENI Industries • Electrical furnace slag and • Converter slag. Slag type Typical quality SiO2 45% Fe total 20% Electric furnace CaO 18% air cooled slag (800 000 t/year) MgO 3% Ni 0.06% Bulk density 2.3 t/m3 Converter Fe 60% ENVIRONMENT SLAG air cooled slag Ni 0.4% (100 000 t/year) Specific gravity 4.4 t/m3 In 2010 a crusher was installed at the slag disposal. This is enabling FENI to crush its dumped slag in order to export it. This is a good example of recycling. Last year, we have exported around 200 000 tons of slag worldwide (Scotland, Dubai, Saudi Arabia,USA). Potential usage of slag Environmental testing and REACH • Cement Industries; In 2011 extensive environmental tests of our slag • Anti-slip material (road and side-walk); were performed. These tests were performed in order • Brick additives and manufacturing; to register our slag under the European REACH • Sub-layer road (embankment); regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and • Sand blasting; Restriction of Chemicals). All these tests clearly dem• Aggregate to concrete for high density coating. onstrates that our slag is ‘environ-friendly’. It opens potential second life for this product. Parameters Tests Results Laboratory Daphnia magna (ISO6341) Fish Poecilia reticula (ISO7346-1) Laboratory ECOCHEM – Czech Ecotoxicity (on granulated slag) Absence of toxicity Freswater algal (ISO8692) Republic Seeds of white mustard Sinapis alba 0.001 mg/L Fe Water solubility (on EF slag and C slag) OECD 105 0.001 mg/L Ni GLP Bioservice (Germany) Very low solubility At pH 4.2 Laboratory ECOCHEM – Czech Leaching tests (on EF slag and C slag) Very low leaching Ratio 1:20 Republic US EPA method 3060A NTUA (National Technical University Hexavalent chromium (Cr6+) Alkaline digestion and colorimetry Absence Athens) using diphenylcarbazide XRD on finer classes after milling – NTUA (National Technical University Respirable crystalline silica <1% Rietveld quantitative phase analysis Athens) NTUA (National Technical University Respirable fraction (EF slag) Laser particle size analyses <0.1% Athens) 28-days prolonged toxicity test in Aquatic toxicity long-term On-going GLP EUROFINS (Germany) Rainbow Trout – OECD 204 FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 16/28 Comprehension of the air quality in the area: the air dispersion model At FENI Industries, Air Dispersion Model ISCST3 from Lakes Environmental Software has been developed and implemented. This tool allows us to assess the ambient air quality in the area of 6 km around FENI. This ADM takes into account the potential emisAIR DISPERSION MODEL — FUTURE sions from stacks inside FENI, fugitive emissions, emission from conveyor belts and emissions from industrial roads inside the factory. Feni Industries External monitoring is a rare company in the country using such a predictive and advanced tool. Further steps for the environment at FENI Industries in 2012 Forecasted results are cross-checked with the FENI Industries is operating with an A adjustment measured ones (from our internal and external permit with operative plan. monitoring). • According to our plan, in full agreement with the Authorities, FENI Industries is installing a 4th filter (electrostatic precipitator) at the line no 1. This is an important investment (3 million euros). This filter is being supplied by the Swiss company ELEX. Civil preparatory work started at the end of 2011. • In 2012, Feni Industries will also inaugurate the ‘water collecting station’. This investment will allow us to collect all our emitted water. This will also allow us to decrease our water consumption, to recover a fraction of the ore, to decrease fugitive emission by watering the potentially dusty areas of the factory. • Re-cultivation of a part of our slag disposal is also planned for 2012. Air Dispersion Model Project ‘Water collecting’ started at the end of 2011 FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 17/28 Acknowledgment and systems FENI Industries is dedicated to high ethical We are working continuously on spreading this ANTI-CORRUPTION norms in all aspects of its operations. Therefore, way of work to our stakeholders – employees, anticorruption principle, as one of the 10 CSR suppliers, customers, community, trough our proprinciples recognized by UN Global Compact is cedures and our actions as well. incorporated in governing of our businesses activities in all segments. The Business Ethics Policy is a foundation upon which the Company operates and conducts its business, addressing also our employees and business partners with requirement to act with highest ethic and moral standards. The Business Ethic Code is distributed trough our internal communication channels to all employees and also placed on many public places and offices in the plant, so as to be accessible to all employees and visitors. AND Our Purchase Procedure is regulating the purchase process in the company, giving special attention to the transparency and practices preventing corruptive activities. However, its use is not limited only to the Purchase Department. BUSINESS, ETHICS, TRANSPARENCY Beside the fact that it is available to our employees on intranet, by having all departments involved in different stages of the purchase process, its principles are well known, followed and used in the daily activities of all departments. Our suppliers are also well informed and directed to respect and follow our rules and principles in regard to purchase practices. Implementation and activities Committee members rotate and belong to different departments, having high ethical, moral and Having very intensive purchase process, enorprofessional integrity. mous variety of purchased goods and over 1000 suppliers – both domestic and international, gives high importance to the regulation of the purchase process. Therefore, the improvement in the purchase process made in direction of transparency and anticorruption measurements, as well as the practices supporting fair competition create values not only for our company, but for all stakeholders included in the value chain. In order to ensure higher transparency and be proactive in term of anticorruption, we established a Purchase Committee, as a decision making body for higher value purchases. Purchase Committee meeting FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 18/28 Second step in this direction is the practice of collecting closed offers, which provides a base WITH SUPPLIERS for fair competition and serves as anticorruption tool. The benefit is recognized by our suppliers in term of open access, confidentiality of offers and fair competitiveness. Involving new companies in the process means also support of family, small and medium companies, which are important factor in the business society. Fair competition itself differentiates the best companies enabling them to sustain on the market. Prevention of corruptive behavior does not only protect both sides, but also sets Offers opening and promotes high ethical norms in the business environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION — RELATIONSHIP Outcomes Our efforts and accomplishments in this field were The internal audit performed by independent auditors recognized by the National CSR body and we were which always has in its scope of control the purrewarded with award for best CSR practices in the chase process confirms the consistency in applying segment of market relations, for fair and transparent of the procedure. purchases. The level of transparency and support of fair competition is proven by the fact that in 2011, our suppliers base increased for 153 new suppliers, which is an increase of around 15% in comparison with the previous year. In 2011 we also started a practice of distributing questionnaires to the suppliers, in order to measure their perception for the transparency and fairness of the purchase process, as well as for the level of prevention of corruptive behavior. The feedback received shows us that we are on the right direction, committing us to improve further. Receiving of National Reward for CSR CEO statement given after receiving of National Reward for best CSR Practices, October 2011 For FENI Industries as a company which applies the CSR principals in all areas of operation, as well as in the relations with the community, the CSR reward for Relations on the market , more specifically for fair and transparent purchases, is a confirmation for consistency of our policies and practices in relations with our suppliers. The reward has particular significance for us also because of the fact that the company has over 1000 suppliers, which on one side means that the benefit is directed to one very wide group of recipients, and on other side trough such way of working we influence the awareness for necessity of social responsible functioning of all our partners. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 19/28 Introduction metallurgical faculty during the study years. Being committed to sustainable development, we • Enabling the students to merge theory invest not only in our business, but also in the with practice, to solve specific problems for community where we operate; we create value their graduation thesis, researches etc. and are oriented to the continuous improvement in our operations, but we are also guided by the same principles in our relations with the community. Therefore, we are striving to deliver social value in all segments of living – infrastructure, sport, culture, and to act as a partner of the municipality and the villages which are in our closest neighborhood. We present bellow trough words and trough pictures some of the events and activities we have supported last year. Promoting CSR at Kavadarci Signing a memorandum for cooperation with the TMF In November 2011 in Kavadarci, the first local Scholarships conference for CSR practices by National body FENI Industries has scholarships’ programs for COMMUNITIES for CSR was organized. FENI Industries particitalented students from the Technological Metallurpated with a presentation for CSR practices apgical faculty. pliance in all segments of the Corporate and Social Responsibilities. The aim of this conference was to share our experience and to motivate the other local companies in the field of the CSR activities. The Student is preparing graduation thesis Internships University students are also given the opportunity to participate in all process activities in the form of summer internship. Presentation of CSR Practices in Kavadarci Partnership with High Schools and Universities FENI Industries supports the education as an important process of social and professional development of every young individual. The good partnership relations between the high schools and universities with the business sector have significant values in the career progress of the young population. The forms of cooperation involves: • Our Company’s laboratory and premises are used by the Students from the TechnologicalStudents from faculty of Metalurgy—Kavadarci FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 20/28 SPORT Feni Industries supports many sport activities on local and national level, as well as within the company. Basketball FENI Industries is fully financing the local basketball club. The club was founded in 2005 under the current name BC FENI. In 2011 the club has shown great achievements: • First in the BIBL Balkan League; • Champion of Macedonia. Traditionally, FENI Industries is organizing the Basketball academy international tournament “Dimitar Gjorgjiev”, where Rewards and recognition national as well as international basketball teams The mayor of the town Kavadarci gives a 7th are participating. COMMUNITIES — SPORT September Annual reward to the FENI Industries Thousand of funs and supporters from the town Basketball Club for their achievements and the are following the matches on regular basis. This big contribution in the sport development in 2011. way, we are directly affecting the promotion of sport. Basketball club president receiving recognition from the mayor Basketball team—winner of national championship Skiing—Sarplaninki cup From 25-27 February 2011 on the ski tracks of Academy for basketball Popova Sapka, the traditional Sarplaninski Cup FENI Industries has founded an academy for was held for the 38th time, which was supported Basketball in 2007. In 2011, 79 children, in 3 by FENI Industries as well. categories are members of the academy. From the first category 5 young players are playing in the first team, 2 players are with double license and are playing in FENI first team as well as in BC Borec in Veles. The main objective is also every year to increase the interest of the young population to spend their time in sport activities and to have a better progress in their social live. Sarplaninski cup FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 21/28 Football FENI Industries has continuous cooperation with muFC Tikvesh was founded in December 1930 and nicipality, as well as with our neighborhood villages it is one of the oldest football clubs in MaceVozarci and Shivec, aiming to give support and donia. Since 2011 FENI Industries has provided PARTNERSHIPS address the needs of the citizens. ” article published significant financial support and has participated by the local authorities. into the reconstruction of the terrain field. AND FC Tikves—Kavadarci Feni Industries is supporting also the football club Crna Reka from Vozarci (our nearest village). COMMUNITIES — SPONSORSHIPS Support of the ‘Kavadarecki Vesnik’, Local newspaper Business association in Kavadarci FENI Industries is one of the founders of the Business economic social union in the town Kavadarci. We are sharing our experience and contributing in improvement of the business cliFC Crna Reka—Vozarci mate in the town and surrounding. Cooperation with local communities Support of Children section in the local hospital FENI Industries supports the local communities for For New Year, FENI Industries donated packages investments in infrastructure projects . Significant to the children staying in the local hospital. projects were the water network connections of Trough the Rotary club association, FENI has Sivec and Vozarci. also financed medical equipment for the hospital. We are also actively participating in the reconstruction of the primary school in Vozarci. New church in Kavadarci New Year packages for the children in local hospital FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 22/28 The Day of the Tree Grozdober Carnival is an event organized In 2007, Macedonia introduced the ‘day of the every year in Kavadarci. It takes place over tree’ initiative. During those days, citizens and several days and is one the largest cultural employees from all companies in administration manifestations of its kind in the region; The in the country are planting trees in Macedonia. Tikves Carnival is traditionally supported by FENI Industries. ACTIONS AND Tikves Carneval in Kavadarci Day of the tree The festival includes folk, pop and rock conMacedonia is the initiator of this environmental COMMUNITIES EVENTS certs, traditional dancing, seminars, presentations practice which is now developing worldwide. and exhibitions. During this time the town centre FENI Industries joins “The Tree Day Plant houses, many temporary restaurants, stalls and Your Future action, two times per year. Around shops, open to allow visitors to experience the 50 employees from the company were planting scents and tastes of local delicacies. This culmitrees on two different locations around nates in a carnival procession through the main Kavadarci. streets of the town. Fire Protection FENI Industries and its qualified personnel share their experiences and their own resources for the needs of the local institutions. On long – term basis, FENI’s employees are participating in the fire extinguishing actions together with the local fire protection brigade. Fire brigade is extinguishing a fire in Kavadarci Day of the tree—participation of our employees FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 23/28 As a largest company in the town, following its sustainable development policy, FENI industries acts as a partner of the local municipality for many infrastructure projects. Aiming to create long term value, we strive trough this partnership to address the needs of all citizens and makes Kavadarci a better place for living. COMMUNITIES CAPITAL INVESTMENTS As a partner number one in the local community we would point out the investment in the Town Square. FENI Industries has majorly supported Reward 7th September Annual Reward The contribution of FENI Industries in increasing the realization of the Town Square reconstruction of the living standard of the citizens and in the project. progress and development of the town, is well The reparation of the square is a very important recognized by the local Authorities. Hence, FENI project with a significant value for ALL citizens in was rewarded with the highest recognition ”7th of the town of Kavadarci. It is generating added September Annual reward”. value as a long term investment. Recognition from the Municipality The CEO, of Feni Industries Mr. Konstantinos Daskalakis was rewarded with the ‘Golden Key of the Town’’, naming him as Citizen of honor in Kavadarci for his extraordinary contribution in continuous development of the town. Golden key reward from municipality Kavadarci FENI’s long term goal is to continue the support for the creation and implementation of the community empowerment programs, taking into consideration compliance with the local and national development strategies. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 24/28 A Action:We act adhering to the social responsibility principles in the fields of labor and human rights, environment, transparency and anticorruption and relations with society. B Benefit:Trough the CSR’ activities we continuity create social value which makes impact and brings benefit to our internal and external environment – our employees, business partners, community. C Commitment: Our commitment to the environment, business ethics BOOK and quality are public documents and integral part of our management systems (ISO 9001 and 14001). Each worker is adhering to their principle and this is the base of our business. ALPHABET D Dialog: There is a continuous dialogue with all our stakeholders. For example, the result from the dialogue with our Workers’ Union is the signing of the Collective Agreement. E Education: We support education of our employees trough trainings, seminars, professional licensing, master studies. We also provide scholarships, internship, case studies, and researches for students, for their graduate or master studies. F Fairness: Fairness is the first step to the anticorruption principle. We provide fair access to all companies interested to cooperate with us and we protect the confidentiality by submission of closed offers. G Goals: Goals are driving forces for us. Our main goal is to provide continuity of the production process, reaching the production targets we have established. We work on this goal led by sustainability principles, thus fulfilling our goals for social and environmental responsibility. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 25/28 H Health: FENI Industries build and strengthen the health care for its employees and ensure on appliance of the occupational health and safety systems within organization, trough the work of the Health and Safety office as well as its own medical center within the company. I Integration: Within the established Quality and Environmental management systems FENI Industries has started with integration of the Social Responsibility Guidelines within the organization. BOOK J Join: FENI Industries join the UN Global Compact in 2011. K ALPHABET Kavadarci: FENI Industries is situated near the town Kavadarci. Most of our employees are from Kavadarci. Our social responsible practices in relations with community are directed to Kavadarci and surrounding. L Labor: FENI Industries is one of the biggest employers in the country. We comply with Labor law regulations in all aspects and upgrade the labor rights trough our CSR practices, spreading this model to our business partners and becoming a positive example for the other companies in the country. M Multicultural: Multicultural concept is a part of FENI Industries activities, because it employs people form many different nationalities, from 3 different continents. We look at this as advantage, since it is a source of new views, ideas and it strengthens our openness to diversity. N Nickel: FENI Industries excavates nickel ore and produces ferronickel alloy. Together with our sister company Ferronickel – Kosovo, under the umbrella of Cunico Resources, we are number four ferronickel producer in the world. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 26/28 O Opportunity: FENI Industries gives the opportunity to young students and talents to have practice and to make researches within our company, using the company facilities, as well as the experience of our employees. P Participation: FENI Industries has a significant participation in the community, through different forms of activities – sport, culture, infrastructure projects. We are especially proud for the new town square, since it has a long-lasting value and it shall be used for many generations. Q Quality: Quality is a management philosophy in FENI, aiming for BOOK continuous improvement of the quality of products, processes and working conditions. Our commitment to quality is integrated in our systems ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. R ALPHABET Responsibility: The responsibility for respecting human rights is universal and it is part of our values, incorporated in the way we do our business. It is integrated in the workplace, marketplace, community and beyond. S Safety: FENI Industries is applying all the national and international laws for Safety at work, as a main part of the process activities, through the Risk and Safety committee and Safety officers. T Transparency: In 2011 we received the main national reward for Fair and Transparent Purchases. An example of transparency is our Purchase Committee, composed of managers from different departments, whose task is reviewing the offers and making selection decisions. U Union: The Labor and it had an important Union in FENI Industries is with a long tradition role in some crucial moments in the history of the company. Now there is a permanent dialogue between management and Union; and one of the results of this dialog is the conclusion of Collective Agreement. FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 27/28 V Value: Ethics, transparency and fairness are our commitments and are clearly and strongly expressed in our policies. W Worker: Workers and human resources in general are our most valuable asset. We work continuously in adding value to this asset trough trainings, education and through the daily challenges of each working place. Their efforts and knowledge are part of each production record we make. X eXperience: Our plant is rich with experience cumulated within BOOK the last decades of operations. By employing young people we transfer this wealth to the new generation, giving them a chance to learn and thus provide succession. Y ALPHABET Yearly report: In order to communicate its results for the corporate and social responsibilities, Feni Industries will publish a yearly report. This report will be a public document. Z Zivotna Sredina (@ivotna Sredina): This is the Macedonian translation of environment which means 'the conditions where we live'. This includes the plant and its workers, but also the surrounding with the villages and cities. Authoring: This report was entirely made from FENI Industries ‘s team: • Ana Andova Human Resources office • Zorica Stavrova Administration department • Nadica Stavrova General Management department • Olivier Desevedavy Environmental & Quality Control Department We extend our gratitude also to Viktor Trajkov and Ilija Vidikov (Environmental & Quality Control Dept) for their strong technical support in the preparation of this report. FENI Industries—Kavadarci—February 2012 FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011 28/28 CUNICO RESOURCES NV FENI INDUSTRIES P.O. Box 53, Kavadarci Macedonia Tel: (+389) 43 410 434 Fax: (+389) 43 414 853 E-mail: feni@feni.com.mk www.cunicoresources.com FENI INDUSTRIES CSR I 2011
