Sustainability Report 2011-2012 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Certifications Our People A Case Study 02 OUR JOURNEY... OUR COMMITMENT The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Industry Awards and Recognition 04 OUR VISION Table of Contents 06 LOCAL PRESENCE.. GLOBAL KNOWHOW 08 LEADING SUSTAINABLY 36 32 20 13 11 10 01 Table of Contents Message From The CEO Albert Szent-Gyorgyi, a Hungarian Biochemist and the Nobel Prize winner for Medicine in 1937 said, “Water is life's mater and matrix, mother and medium. There is no life without water.” to continuously ask ourselves the same question: what does sustainability mean to us and how can we integrate it in our business? Gyorgyi’s lucid quote, although 75 years old will remain forever valid because indeed, water is life. With that in At Metito, we endorse Corporate Sustainability as part mind, water is said to be the “new oil” and the conflicts of the organisation core values and we align it with our of the years to come will most probably be for claiming strategic business plan. We further lead initiatives ownership of its valuable natural resources. This only on the different fronts including environmental, confirms that to maintain world peace, fixing the global community and operational and integrate them at all economy and balancing the politics of the world will not levels. Committing ourselves to this value and to stand be enough. Without a doubt, we are in dire need as accountable for it, we report on sustainability in an businesses and as individuals to effectively manage, attempt to showcase our initiatives and progress within maintain and sustain the world’s natural water this framework to continue leading our industry by resources through effective supply and demand example – a Metito philosophy that has never been management to maintain our livelihoods. For Metito this compromised. We believe that through doing so we are is not just an objective but the fundamental reason encouraging others to step up and truly commit to why we exist as a business and our mission as an becoming “companies with a conscience”. organisation. Metito’s mission is to provide effective water “Sustainability... is no longer a management and treatment systems that can reconcile the ever growing demand for water and its dwindling nice-to-have, but a must have” natural resources. This in itself is also a reflection of our belief and commitment to the concept of sustainability. Over the past year, we have been busy conducting Sustainability has become a globally acknowledged situation analysis, establishing standard operating standard that is no longer a nice-to-have, but a procedures and metrics that can better streamline our must-have in today's global economy where consumers business and assist our IPO preparedness exercise in a make choices based on the quality and the social impact way that helps us act public before we go public, when of a product or service. As service providers, we are and if we decide to do so. often asked at Metito to assist clients in developing sustainable water management systems to address their On the operational front, Metito has not only begun the water needs, and, over the years, this has motivated us transformation internally to sustainable practices, but 02 has focused our capabilities to better support our We have also seen a remarkable growth in our people’s clients’ needs. We have attained the NSF certification training and in their interest in attaining professional for some of our chemicals to address increasing certifications to further equip themselves with the Message From The CEO demand for such qualifications in the emerging theory behind the best practices of serving clients at a markets. world class quality. These developmental initiatives, will continuously enable Metito to differentiate itself and to On the environmental front, we have kept our raise the bar for customer focus and service excellence. commitment to the Global Compact initiative and I am confident that we still have much to do, but it is maintained working closely with Emirates Environmental reassuring to know that the Metito Group recognised Group as a founding member and as partners in public early on that sustainability is a core for a journey of long awareness campaigns including conducting community term success that benefits our worthy stakeholders: lectures to raise awareness on the issues of water clients, shareholders, employees, and the communities scarcity and the viable solutions. We have also we serve. We commit to continue harnessing our global maintained our golden certified Green Building knowhow, resources and the power of our people to qualifications for our global headquarters in the UAE sustainably serve our stakeholders and to provide water and incorporated additional measures that complement where needed and improve sanitation when required our status, such as installing new recycled/eco-friendly through management solutions that can stand the test flooring in our main auditorium room and formalising of time and that can benefit humanity for generations to our e-waste recycling process. come. On the educational front, we have maintained a strong presence as knowledge bearers for water related issues Sincerely, and we saw an unprecedented interest in our experts’ commentary and advice on the water situation in emerging markets and the practical solutions that can be implemented to address the challenge of water scarcity. We have also hosted educational visits from local and international universities such as the MIT Mutaz Ghandour Sloan University from the USA. Chief Executive Officer “...to maintain world peace, fixing the global economy and balancing the politics of the world will not be enough...” 03 Our Journey ... Our Commitment 04 Our Journey... Our Commitment Metito is the leader and provider of choice for total services and solutions that can stand the test of time intelligent water management solutions in the emerging and can benefit humanity for generations to come. markets with operations spanning four continents and covering three business areas: design and build, Our organisation is now at the forefront of the water specialty chemicals and utilities. With over fifty years of and waste water industry with a current global project operational experience, the group provides world-class portfolio in excess of US$ 1 billion and over 2500 customized, comprehensive and advanced solutions employees across its worldwide operations, and we across the full spectrum of its industry, from clean to remain committed to further incorporating sustainable dirty water. practices into our business and endeavours. This commitment is complimented by the continuous At Metito we believe in the triple bottom line approach: development of our most valuable assets; our people, people, environment and profit. This translates into a who are core to the success of our organisation. long-term corporate responsibility that has economic, social and environmental dimensions and includes the Leading by example is a wholesome approach that we concept of stewardship the responsible management embody at Metito and through Metito’s seventh of resources. With a reputation for performance sustainability report, we aim to showcase our progress excellence and best practice, we know that sustainable on this important front to inspire others to play an business practice drives success, inspires people and effective role in the economic and social growth in their ultimately leads to a steady growth through providing markets of choice. 05 Our Vision... The Mission Metito commits to a sustainable environment through providing effective water management and treatment systems that can reconcile the ever growing demand for water and its dwindling natural resources. 06 The Values Our Vision Customer Focus Every employee is customer satisfaction driven. We commit to provide our clients with value-added products and services and to achieve high returns on investments for our shareholders; we further strive to exceed their expectations and keep them continuously informed through personable, honest and open communications. People Focus Our employees are our most valuable assets; we recognise their needs and professional aspirations and make every effort to provide them with relevant training and opportunities to empower them to achieve their goals, and in turn support our mission by their high quality performance and refined service. The health and safety of our employees is also paramount to our organisation and we commit to continually improve their standards. Quality Leadership We lead with integrity, refined expertise and creativity, We commit to deliver quality services and products both as individuals within an organisation and as an that are in line with our customers’ needs, and to organisation operating in local and global markets. Our maintain World Class performance in all our business tried leadership approach demands leading by example undertakings. This is founded on the highest standards and influencing others to do likewise and with this, of customer service, uncompromised ethics and accountability becomes a guaranteed bi-product. environmental consciousness. Our quality systems ensure that we do this right the first time, every time. Sustainability Collaboration, Team Work and Passion Metito is a responsible corporate citizen that aims to We believe in, and encourage, team work as it creates a implement sustainable practices throughout its sustainable flow of information and knowledge sharing businesses. Our commitment to sustain the environment that helps benchmark our work, enables us to better is achieved fundamentally through being an integral our performance and leverage our collective knowhow player in an industry with a mission to meet the world’s and refined skills. Our passion and belief in what we do, water demands and to preserve its resources. Stemming complement this spirit and take us that extra mile that from our People Focus, we also aim to invest in and helps Metito stand out, further, from its competitors. develop human elements to help provide a sustainable pool of talents to the communities we work with. 07 Local Presence... Global Knowhow 08 Leading Sustainably... A Case Study Our People The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Industry Awards and Recognition Certifications 10 Leading Sustainably A Case Study Wastewater Treatment Plant Palm Jumeirah Dubai, U.A.E. Under the visionary leadership of Sheikh Mohamed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of UAE and Ruler of Dubai, the Palm Jumeirah township, an iconic project constructed off the coast of the emirate of Dubai, was inaugurated. The project was built in the shape of a palm tree and extended Dubai coastline by more than 120 km, as well as becoming the Average daily flow 18,000 m3/d only modern structure able to be seen from space. Peak daily design flow 21,700 m3/d Being home to world renowned dignitaries and Peak factor 2.5 celebrities meant that all associated utilities demanded challenging innovations, an adherence and Peak hourly flow 1,875 m3/h commitment to maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection, as well as architectural Peak flow duration 2 hours aesthetics. The location of the plant on prime land left an extremely limited space for plant buildings and respective facilities. Architecturally, the treatment plant is inside a circular building constructed below ground to keep it invisible. The given geometry, limited space and underground conditions presented a very difficult task of arranging the equipment, facilities and utilities. Metito Metito Scope of Work employed the MBR (membrane Bio-reactor) process technology, which is the latest technology in treating This included the detailed engineering, manufacture, inspection, supply, storage, installation, testing and waste. This process has a considerably reduced commissioning, start-up, performance test and training environmental footprint compared to other of personnel at site. It also included operation and conventional schemes and has the added advantage of maintenance of the plant for eight years. producing high quality treated water. Special designs were adopted for this approach to allow Plant General Information operational access and equipment maintenance. Limited headroom dictated the use of a specially The sewage treatment facility mainly comprises designed serpentine monorail that covers the whole the following units: work space. The status of the location demanded zero tolerance for any unpleasant odour emissions. • Inlet works • Biological treatment The ventilation system, dehumidifier and odour control • Sludge handling units in the work space were carefully designed taking • Chemical cleaning into consideration these stringent demands. • Electrical and control system 11 • Advanced underground water reuse Plant Technical Characteristics • High quality effluent for irrigation and cooling tower • No odour or noise Raw sewage from the residential community is transferred to a main sewage lift station through two intermediate pumping stations. Treated water quality The sewage treatment plant is designed to treat 18000 m3/day of domestic sewage. The collected raw sewage is received through a 600mm diameter BOD < 10 mg/l underground main and the incoming flow is metered COD < 50 mg/l before it enters the treatment units. TKN < 5 mg/l Suspended solids < 10 mg/l Benefits Ammonia-Nitrogen NH3(N) < 3 mg/l Total Nitrogen (TN) < 30 mg/l • Low operators requirement • Landscaping benefits with a fully underground Fecal Coliform < 10 mg/l sewage treatment plant and polishing plant 12 Leading Sustainably Our People 59% 60% 40% 50% Metito Employees’ Length of Service 40% 30% 2% 1% 8% 20% 0.40% 0.60% 10% 20% 0% an As A M frica A pe ian < 5 yrs id n dl a C me ro e nd Ea Au ana rica Eu 5-10 yrs ste str dia n/ rn ali n/ an 10-15 yrs Metito’s slogan; “Local Presence, Global Knowhow”, 15-20 yrs 69% reflects its commitment to the markets it operates in by > 20 yrs establishing local operations, which enable its professional teams to closely execute and monitor its projects, rather than remotely managing them. This local presence gives Metito a better understanding of the culture, market drivers and customers’ needs, thus giving Metito an edge over its competitors and allowing UAE & China it to produce intelligent water solutions tailor-made to satisfy its clients. Employees Who Received Training 379 The Company’s management team strives to ensure Total Training Hours 13,439 that all personnel involved in providing technical Average Training Hours Per Full Time 6.06 solutions are well versed in the individual circumstances surrounding the client’s desired installation. All relevant Employee information is provided to help produce a comprehensive execution plan and detailed designs are individually prepared to suit the client’s needs rather 19% than providing off-the-shelve solutions. The senior management of Metito is always closely involved in the whole process of client satisfaction in order to ensure the company’s wealth of specialised experience is filtered down to the local operations guaranteeing world class products, solutions and continuous client support. Metito’s commitment to its markets and clients stems from its commitment to its people who are considered to be the company’s most valuable asset. Metito’s commitment is to provide employees with the experience and the exposure that help them in their 81% career progression, provide them with equal Technical Training Hours (10,922 hrs) opportunities, a safe working environment free from any form of discrimination and job security. Non-Technical Training Hours (2,517 hrs) 13 Despite the impact of the Arab spring in Metito’s areas of operation, its global workforce has risen to 2,254 Renovating Our Approaches strong. The company’s staff retention vision and policies have a long term outlook rather than being Evolved Recruitment reactionary to short term changes. This vision and Metito’s recruitment strategy and methodology has commitment was clearly reflected in its actions to find evolved and shifted from almost total dependence on suitable placements for the staff members whose third parties, to a strategy based on a direct search for sectors where affected by the unrest. This resulted in candidates who are suitable to our particular Metito providing over 50 engineers with alternative requirements. Through the company’s executive search opportunities in more stable areas. in top specialised sites, it has access to international talent for its current and future needs. This new Metito prides itself on having an impressive staff approach has served both economic and business retention record in all areas it operates in. The goals. company is also very proud to see the second generation of the Metito family take up positions in the company alongside their parents to continue the Automated Human Resources success story that their fathers have started. Management System (HRMS) The company’s corporate culture is based on mutual During the year, Metito began the implementation of an respect and understanding, transparency, integrity, Automated Human Resources Management System collaboration, innovation and safe working (HRMS) for the entire Group through a phased roll out environment, which all contribute to maintaining process. The system allows Metito to: Metito’s drive to remain an employer of choice. • Improve standardization and economies of scale by implementing an online system 14 Leading Sustainably • Improve speed at which information is available to the organisation • Improve flexibility of information to support business planning place comprehensive succession planning policies and • Improve transparency and consistency of processes concepts based on preparing a pool of talent, giving them opportunities to make certain decisions and train Implementation of this system also brings Metito to a them in various technical and soft skills to prepare them new level of transaction efficiency, reporting and for the future. automation of administrative processes. All processes are workflow enabled, meaning they are responsible for Training and Development (a) routing the document to the relevant person for action, (b) generating email notifications on initiation Metito provides comprehensive training services to all and action of request (c) triggering email reminders employees which are intended to develop soft and core on expiry of identification information/details on skills and therefore add value to the company and PeopleFirst HR system (d) approval of leave request enable it to better serve its clients. through email. During 2011, at Metito’s UAE offices alone, the training Diversity, Inclusion and Fostering Talents program was maintained with employees receiving an average of 5 hours of training to maintain their Metito is an equal opportunity employer where all skills sets, with technical and non-technical training employees enjoy the same rights and responsibilities constituting 53% and 47% of total training hours compatible with their job function and mission. No administered, respectively. This near-even split employee shall discriminate against a fellow employee, clearly demonstrates the company’s commitment to or a potential candidate on religious, political, ethnic, developing its people through a holistic technical and sex or disability grounds. This right is documented in qualitative approach. all company policies and guaranteed by senior management. Health & Safety The company’s recruitment and career development Metito regards the health and well-being of its people as policy is performance based within a clearly identified a foremost concern that is never compromised.The competency framework that help all employees with company provides extensive training to employees their career progression. This is supported by well planned and designed learning and development training courses aimed at increasing knowledge, Corporate HSE 1,173,774 efficiency and effectiveness, thus contributing to employee’s aspirations for further growth. Metito’s Statistics for Man hours without Lost remuneration and reward strategy is based on offering Design and build Time Incident (LTI) competitive remuneration packages and additional performance based rewards in terms of various Business, UAE 221 applicable incentive schemes. Operations from First Aid Cases From starting date 17th June 2005 Succession Planning 3.73 up to Week 19 of Severity Rate Succession planning is an integral aspect of the risk 2012 management strategy of the organisation. Metito has in 15 working on construction sites to help them understand and commit to all aspects of health and safety to minimise potential risks associated with the nature of their work. Metito holds numerous international health and safety certifications, and its employees have obtained various trainings and certifications through accredited and awarding bodies including but not limited to: • Safe use, erection, alteration, and dismantling • Maintenance & inspection of supported scaffolding • First aid awareness First aid training • Advanced first aid • Supervision, inspection • Tags during safe use, erection, alteration, circulation in the injured and waiting for help services to • Safe rigging operations: safe use of lifting arrive, unless CPR was deemed necessary to perform. • Gears and rigger responsibilities. • Rigging operations safety Yoga for A Healthier Body and Soul • Rigger • H2S / breathing apparatus Metito Pune went an extra mile to vividly reflect the essence of Metito’s QHSE policy, in a practical In addition, hazard identification & risk assessment are and enjoyable manner. They have successfully carried out in all sites through which safety plans are introduced various activities to further evoke a set, and are individually tailored to each site for utmost sense of wellness among their teams including: efficiency. periodical medical check-ups, circulating health awareness emails, as well as introducing the ancient Other initiatives include: Indian technique of yoga. Yoga Asanas has been practiced for centuries, and Preparing for The Unplanned when integrated with wisdom from ancient scriptures it may improve the quality of daily living. A workshop was Metito launched an intensive First Aid Training aimed at held at Pune office with the help of a teacher trained by maintaining public safety among its employees. The Ved Vignyan Maha-Vidhyapeeth, who introduced training was conducted by Dr. Rajan Sadanandam from several practices that can help a person address a Dubai Health Care Centre and successfully introduced variety of ailments such as obesity, insomnia, asthma, basic first aid and CPR to employees. diabetes, hypertension and migraine. The yogic positions under this technique are designed to give the During the interactive training, Dr. Sadanandam practitioner the gift of wholesome health, which is illustrated the important steps that need be followed balanced physical health and a calm mind. when first aid is required. These included initial engagement steps which necessitate avoiding moving This workshop was attended by 25 employees, and the the victim, calling emergency services, determining team at Metito Pune is planning to organise regular responsiveness, checking signs of breathing and sessions to further practice the same after office hours. 16 Leading Sustainably Team Building Initiatives In it, to Win it! Metito encourages social bonds between its employees Behind every success there is a driving force and a to strengthen their sense of belonging and working as a commitment to excel. The latter has truly become team. It is believed that through such team building second nature for the employees at Metito, which is initiatives, communication and interpersonal skills are why when Metito’s basketball team claimed the Championship Trophy Class C Division of the enhanced and nurtured. This is particularly true when inaugural Pinoy Expat Basketball Club (PEBC), it came new employees become active members of the Metito as no surprise. They were in it to win it! family with such activities enabling a smoother transition, creating an environment built on acceptance Formed in December 2008, Metito basketball team rather than intimidation. joined the league in the UAE with a sturdy line-up of 12 players. The team now led by the skilful Ivan Chua as With a multinational organisation such as Metito, and coach, comprises of 15 players including the ‘Most headquarters in a country with a rich and diverse Valuable Player’ award winner Marvin Gutierrez. cultures such as the one existing in the UAE, these Since formation, the team led a victorious journey initiatives help expat employees further integrate into winning five tournaments, playing against strong teams society and focus on peoples similarities rather than such as: Indus Blades, Ali Café, Migrante, Art Venture, their differences. Bayso and Patriots. But winning is no coincidence as the team attributes their success to the support of Following are examples of such activities: Metito’s Human Capital department and to their intensive training schedule that helped refine their skills and put their team spirit into a fun and healthy practice. Metito basketball team 17 Berlinwasser China Holdings' (BCH) team, led by Jun Liang, General Manager BCH and accompanied by Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities China Team Building Activity activity packed three days event. Unfortunately, the Hefei project team were unable to join due to the Metito is looking to grow its China business entity, plant undergoing upgrading works. Activities included led by Jun Liang, General Manager Berlinwasser formal presentations delivered by the Special Purpose China Holdings, a wholly owned subsidiary of Metito Companies’ General Managers, focusing on the Holdings, through the combined efforts of the Executive operations and performance, and a trip to navigate the Management team in China and their counterparts at Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, reaching 4506 metres the Global Head Office. With an overarching aim of above sea level. building strong relationships between all parties, team building with a twist was certainly the order of the management meeting held in March 2012, in the presence of Rami Ghandour, Executive Director, Metito Utilities. The Berlinwasser China Holdings team, representatives from the Nanchang, Panjin, Changchun and Chuzhou projects, and from the Corporate Head Office: Cindy Yao, Sonia Norris and Rami Ghandour, attended the Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities and Jun Liang, General Manager Berlinwasser China Holdings Indeed, it is rewarding and encouraging to witness relationships, trust and business awareness growing by the minute through such an indirect, yet effective manner which embodies the essence of team work and how individuals must work together to achieve sustainable success. The event was hosted by General Manager Jun Liang, and superbly organised by Amanda Wan – BCH Secretary. 18 Leading Sustainably Recognition With over 50 years of operational experience and 150 years of experience collectively acquired by its Directors, Metito has reached a fair understanding of Mutaz Ghandour, CEO Metito, Joniwel, Jakarta office Finance employee psychology. Appreciation remains to be key Director, PTMI President Director Pak Deepak Nyayadhish as it is a fundamental human need and the strongest and Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities motivator. Manager MUL and new PTMI President Director Pak Employees respond positively to appreciation Deepak Nyayadhish. expressed through recognition because it confirms their contributions are valued and they are considered PTMI honoured employees who had completed 10 worthy. When employees and their hard work is valued, years or more of dedicated service, acknowledging their sense of satisfaction and productivity rises and their loyalty and commitment to Metito, which paved they are motivated to sustain a good attitude and the way for PTMI to thrive and contribute to the Group’s business performance. journey of success, growth and expansion. Metito Indonesia Celebrates At an earlier date, Bassem Halabi, Metito Group Business Development Director, treated the Jakarta Metito Indonesia (PTMI) has proudly celebrated its office employees to a social gathering, during which ‘10 Years’ Service’ award distribution ceremony in Jakarta office Finance Director, Joniwel, was presented the presence of Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chief with a 10 years’ service award. The evening was also a Executive Officer, Rami Ghandour, Executive Director good opportunity to brief the team on the future Metito Utilities (MUL), Walid Madwar, General expansion plans for PT Metito Indonesia. Metito Indonesia (PTMI) team accompanied by Mutaz Ghandour, Metito CEO, Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities and Walid Madwar, General Manager Metito Utilities 19 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity 20 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Knowledge Sharing and Educational Initiatives At these testing times for the world economy, the necessity for maintaining and growing knowledge and communication platforms, as well as strengthening trade links within local and global markets, assumes greater importance, especially with regards to sustainable industries such as the water and wastewater industry. Metito continues to lead in this front, through continuous efforts to share its expert knowledge and insights with school and university students, the media, industry stakeholders and the general public. By this, the Group remains committed to create further Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities, speaks at awareness of water related issues and to have a bigger the 2nd HSBC China Middle East Forum in Dubai, UAE impact in forming a more responsible demand and supply sides of the chain. In 2008 Metito re-entered the Chinese market as part of a joint venture with Germany's Berlinwasser, and only 3 Moreover, Metito actively takes part in industry years after that the Group acquired Berlinwasser’s engagements; as exhibitors, speakers or conference / shares in BCH, which is now a wholly owned subsidiary summit delegates. This helps to create a wider of Meito Holdings. BCH now manages a total waste communication platform by which industry knowledge water treatment capacity of 1.2 million cubic metres per can be shared, enhanced and also questioned. These day, serving over 5 million people. In three years since engagements also allow extensive networking BCH’s inception, the company has managed to triple its opportunities and discussions from which new projects’ portfolio to six wastewater treatment plants, solutions to existing challenges may be concluded. located in Anhui, Jiangxi, Liaoning and Jilin provinces on a build own operate (BOT) basis, as well as taking over Metito’s knowledge sharing and educational initiatives own operate (TOT) and operations and maintenance include: (O&M) projects. Public Communication H.E. Sheikh Nahayan Mabarak Al Nahayan, UAE Minister for Higher Education and Scientific Sharing Hands-on Experience and Insights Research & Chancellor of the Higher Colleges of Technology gave a key note speech at the forum on Doing Business in China explaining the need for China and the Middle East to strive to be “High-Imagination-Enabling Countries” Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities, took instead of “Low-Imagination-Enabling Countries”, as a panel seat in a session at the 2nd HSBC China Middle categorised by Thomas L Friedman, author and East Forum titled China 2012: Crossroads?” in order to columnist for the New York Times. showcase Metito’s experience in China, as well as the promise and potential pitfalls of doing business there. Showcasing The Pearl Qatar Project The session was moderated by Tom Ashby, Business Editor -The National, a UAE daily newspaper, and To showcase the Pearl Qatar sea water desalination hosted by Bruce Alter, Head of Trade HSBC China. (SWRO) plant as a novel approach to challenging environmental requirements and as an integral 21 infrastructure of the iconic Pearl Qatar Project, Bassem Salah El Ackad, General Manager Metito Overseas, Halabi, Group Business Development Director Dubai, Northern Emirates, Oman, Pakistan and presented the challenges and innovative solutions that Kingdom of Saudi Arabia gave a community lecture were effectively addressed by Metito whilst working on addressing this topic as part of a public advocacy this prestigious project. and awareness raising campaign to promote responsible water resource management. This The presentation and the case study were very well campaign is under the umbrella of the UNDP’s received in MEED magazine’s Qatar Projects’ event, Every Drop Matters project which is led by the which was attended by 482 industry professionals. Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) in the UAE. This is a 12 months project that aims at increasing the understanding of water conservation issues in the UAE amongst policy makers, public sector organisations, corporate and private organisations, mass media, school children and the general public. As founding members of EEG, Metito was offered the valuable opportunity to take on a role in this important campaign through presenting the public with means by which we can conserve water, particularly on the supply side of the cycle. The educational activity was well-attended by around 100 students and individual members of the EEG coming from the public sector, academic and corporate world. District Cooling: A Viable Solution for an Eco-Friendly Future Salah El Ackad, General Manager Dubai, Northern Emirates, Oman, Pakistan & KSA , gives a public lecture Metito was invited by the Chemical Engineering college at the American University of Sharjah (AUS) to conduct an educational lecture discussing District Cooling Giving a Community Lecture on Water for an eco-friendly future. Richard Barwell, Metito Conservation Chemicals Business Development Manager took the lead and gave this lecture. Effective water management has become a strategic necessity for countries around the globe as we During his lecture, Richard shed light on the global face increasing water demand and dwindling natural, water challenges and their impacts on local societies renewable water resources. Water conservation is and explained how the situation is critical. Richard gave therefore presenting itself as the most cost-effective the examples of South Asia which will reach the 40% and environmentally sound way to rationalise this threshold and the Middle East and North Africa region demand and in this front everyone can play a part in which may hit 58% of water scarcity by 2030. protecting and conserving water supplies, in order to help sustain it for future generations. 22 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Richard Barwell, Metito Business Development Manager, lectures at the American University of Sharjah, UAE Despite the disappointing figures, Richard illustrated the SME Advisor Middle East is aimed at business owners feasibility of changing the scenario to a more positive and senior executives across the GCC with a circulation outlook through utilising technologies that save more of 60,000 copies. Armed with practical advice, it has water. He went on to showcase these technologies as been highlighting key business issues for the small and implemented in some of Metito’s well established medium enterprise segment since its launch in 2005. projects such as The Palm Jumeirah Islands, and Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) among others. Fady Juez Shares His Expert Insights on The interactive lecture was well received and attended Water Scarcity by over 60 students and professors. Fady Juez, Metito’s Managing Director, shared his insights on water security, advancing technology and Human Capital Advice to Small and the private sector’s role in supporting government in an Medium Businesses interview with Utilities ME magazine. Hisham Fadda, Metito Group Human Capital Director Documentary – Qatar National Day contributed an article to SME Advisor Middle East, in which he explains the drawbacks that arise when United Development Company (UDC) and the Qatar companies approach HR strategies with facts and National Day Organisation nominated Metito Qatar to figures and forget that they are dealing with human illustrate through existing practices, what can be done to beings. Hisham also shared his insights on how to protect the environment, from a water company establish a sustainable and successful Human Capital perspective. This was part of the making of a function. 23 ‘It is wonderful that a prestigious institution such as MIT has a course on water as part of its MBA programme. I was particularly impressed that the course content and site visits were all student organised, and the students who came on the visit were all very switched on. The business of water needs to be focused on and such activities can only be positive for all our future’, said Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities. Rami Ghandour, Executive Director Metito Utilities , Sonia Norris, Metito Senior HR Manager and Reem Saleh, Metito Corporate Communications Manager, with the MIT Sloan MBA student delegation science-fiction film about 22 young and brilliant Qatari both in Turkey and the UAE. The visit was hosted by students determined to become well known, world Rami Ghandour, Executive Director– Metito Utilities and -class scientists to better serve their country. attended by other members of the management team at Metito. Rock Wallaby one of the most popular production houses selected one of the 22 young students who During the visit the students were introduced to the acted in the film to visit Metito’s waste water treatment different services provided by water and waste water plant at Qatar Pearl Island and its site laboratory. The management companies through their distinct 12 year old student, who played the role of an businesses. This was followed by an interactive Q&A environmental scientist in 2030, tested different session where the opportunities, challenges and parameters on samples such as pH, total dissolved prospects of the industry were discussed and potential solids, total suspended solids, chemical oxygen career paths for professionals seeking roles in the water demand, ammonia and residual chlorine. The film was industry highlighted. The students were also guided in a broadcasted on December 18th, 2011 on the occasion tour at Metito’s factory to showcase examples of the of Qatar’s National Day. work done through this unit. Bridging the Gap from Theory to ‘In the case of the water study tour, we developed hypotheses before travelling. The meetings with Business Practice entities such as Metito provided us with the opportunity to test these hypotheses and to learn more in general about the water industry. Metito, provided an Hosting MIT Sloan MBA Students insight into the private sector within the water industry, something that we were particularly interested in’, said Metito hosted a delegation of twenty-five MIT Sloan Zainab Memon, 2013 MBA Candidate, MIT Sloan MBA students, headed by Catherine Gamon, Director School of Management. Student Life Office, at its global headquarters following a five week seminar course on the business of water 24 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Metito Hosts Manipal University Students At DIP Metito hosted a group of students from the Engineering College of Manipal University, Dubai to showcase the company’s sewage treatment plant at Dubai Investment Park (DIP). The students were given a tour at the plant to introduce them to the applied processes, technologies and measures taken on by Metito to mitigate any possible environmental impacts accompanying its operations. In addition, a comprehensive presentation was given on water consumption and the effective means by which students were given the opportunity to tour the sewage we can play our role in this important sustainability treatment plant & the reverse osmosis desalination issue. plant at The Pearl Island to learn about the process, applied technologies and mitigation of environmental impacts. Metito’s Project Manager, shared a comprehensive presentation to the junior and senior students which included facts about water consumption and demonstrated effective ways to conserve water. Manipal University students' visit to Dubai Investment Park (DIP) waste water treatment plant Al Awsaj Institute of Education (A.I.E) Academy Visit to The Pearl Metito Qatar hosted a group of students from the Al Awsaj Institute of Education (A.I.E) Academy, Qatar Foundation, Doha to showcase the seawater reverse osmosis desalination plant at The Pearl Qatar. The A.I.E students' visit to The Pearl Qatar 25 Qatar Environment and Energy Research Institute Visit to The Pearl Metito hosted a group of 40 local & foreign students from the Qatar Environment and Energy Research Institute, Qatar Foundation, Doha to show case the sea Bassem Halabi, Metito Group Business Development Director water reverse osmosis desalination plant at The Pearl speaks with the McMaster University student at Metito global headquarters in Dubai, UAE Qatar. The students were given the opportunity to tour the reverse osmosis plant at The Pearl Island, one of the most prestigious real estate developments in the making desalination more sustainable in the Arabian State of Qatar, to learn about the process, applied Gulf. technologies & environmental impacts. Following the visit, Metito Qatar was requested to work Hosting International Trade with Qatar Environment and Energy Research Institute, Delegations Qatar Foundation to build a pilot SWRO plant, that puts into practice a reliable and more energy efficient Hosting the British Water and Waste Water water treatment method, compared to the existing technologies in other desalination systems. Mission to UAE Metito hosted a delegation of nine UK companies from Addressing a Knowledge Quest across the water and waste water sector as part of its trade mission to the UAE. The mission was organised by Travelling thousands of miles to seek the expert UK Trade & Investment (UKTI), the arm of the UK knowledge of water and waste water industry leaders in Government which supports overseas trade and the region, Omar Saif, a graduate student in the inward investment, to encourage UK companies to do Engineering Public Policy program at McMaster business in the United Arab Emirates and to promote University, as well as a student in the joint UNU-INWEH technological and commercial partnerships. McMaster Diploma program, visited Metito Global Headquarters in Techno Park to seek insights that can During the visit, that took place at Metito’s global help him in his Major Research Project “Water Without headquarters, the companies gave brief individual Borders”. introductions about their companies and the services/products they offer and Walid Madwar, Bassem Halabi, Group Business Development General Manager Metito Utilities, presented an Director took the lead to provide Omar with the overview of Metito and the core services provided by necessary practical knowledge, the future outlook on the Group. desalination and the type of investments that are being made in green technologies within the Arabian Gulf region-one of the most arid regions of the world. Metito was one of approximately 10 to 20 expert participants interviewed for this research paper, which is based on an environmental economic analysis of desalination in the region. The research will also highlight the obstacles and opportunities present in 26 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Environmental Initiatives Our mission is to remain committed to sustain the environment through meeting the world’s water demands and preserving its resources. We strive to continually reduce our carbon footprint and to integrate eco-friendly initiatives within our business. Our environmental management systems are internationally certified by ISO 14001:2008 and our headquarters is recognised by the US Green Building Council’s (USGBC) as a ‘Gold’ certified Green Building according to its Leadership in Energy Design (LEED) standards. Metito’s global headquarters also hosts a waste water recycling plant with a capacity of 40 cubic metres per day. The produced treated sewage effluent (TSE) is natural global resource. Metito’s business cards and used to feed the irrigation tank needed for onsite letterheads are all printed on recycled paper, and its landscaping. operations around the globe are taking on active initiatives to support this cause. Recycling Pune: The Paperless Office Metito is an advocate and a committed supporter of recycling and reuse to preserve the worlds Metito Pune has introduced strict guidelines on using paper and has achieved a 100% recycling rate of all paper that is bought for temporary use in the office. There are no hard copies stored and when printing is required for strict business use, the documents are then scanned and soft copies of the same are stored in server. When printing, both sides of the paper are used and after confirmation from the respective user that the information has been copied to the server, the used paper is handed over to a local recycling agency. Newspapers are also handed over to the agency for further recycling. In 2011 and 2012 over 20,000 A4 and 10,000 A3 pages were recycled. Introducing the Yellow Bin IT and electronic wastes, usually referred to as “e-waste”, mostly ends up being disposed in landfills or by incineration, which raises serious environmental and health issues. Recycling or processing e-waste to extract the minerals trapped inside and reusing the 27 rest of the components is a viable solution to solve conserves our natural resources such as timber, water, the menace of its disposal, as much of this waste oil/petroleum and minerals as it reduces the need for contains significant quantities of non-biodegradable raw materials. To put this in perspective the 375 million toxic substances. In line with Metito’s sustainability cartridges globally used per year amounts to the agenda, the UAE IT team has taken on the initiative to disposal of: formalise the disposal of consumables such as • 1,000,000 cartridges per day cartridges, toners & batteries generated at our UAE offices, and to have them all disposed through the • 11 cartridges per second “Emirates Environmental Group” (EEG). • 375 million cartridges put end-to-end would To ensure efficiency in implementing this initiative two circle the earth over three times 240 litre Yellow Bins were placed at Metito’s Sharjah office building in order to collect the e-waste. Techno park and Abu Dhabi offices e-waste will be collected for disposal in the same containers in Sharjah. Recycling e-waste has developed to become a sustainable business practice in itself and not just a viable solution to eliminate the harmful effects of e-waste disposal. Recycling reduces air and water pollution/emissions associated with land-filling, incineration or the manufacturing of new cartridges and 28 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Community Initiatives For a more integrated approach to sustainability, Metito maintains sustainable operational practices, while continuously engaging with the local communities that host our operations across the globe. Supporting Special Needs Students Metito Qatar signed a free service contract with Al Shafallah Centre for children with special needs, where it performs periodical water analysis and treatment of potable water, chilled water systems and swimming pools to ensure safe water. The centre needs high quality water in physiotherapy and for the chillers, among other uses. This is a true milestone for Metito’s sustainability efforts Metito’s services include: testing the swimming pools in Qatar, as it provides the perfect fit between the for Legionella, and testing of pool, chillers, fountain and company’s core expertise and capabilities and its ability fire fighting water on a monthly basis. to utilise this to make a difference in the communities hosting its operations. The signing ceremony was attended by Abdullah Al Abdul Jabbar, Al Shafallah Centre Government Relations This pioneering project is set to be globalised with the and Security Director, Mourad Masud Hamdan, Al UAE being the 2nd country to implement the Shafallah Centre Project & Maintenance Director and Ali initiative. Metito will be signing a similar memorandum Zain Mousawi, Al Shafallah Centre Legal Advisor. From of understanding with Al Noor Training Centre for Metito Walid Orabi, General Manager Qatar, Bahrain special needs in Dubai, UAE, and this will be followed by and Kuwait, Mohammed Faour, Customer Service similar centres across the Emirates. Manager Metito Qatar, and Omar Abou Mourad, Procurement Executive Metito Qatar, attended. Ali Zain Mousawi, Al Shafallah Centre Legal Advisor, Mourad Masud Hamdan, Al Shafallah Centre Project & Maintenance Director, Abdullah Al Abdul Jabbar, Al Shafallah Centre Government Relations and Security Director, Walid Orabi, General Manager Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, Mohammed Faour, Customer Service Manager Metito Qatar, and Omar Abou Mourad, Procurement Executive Metito Qatar. 29 Ashwini Lagas, Metito Pune House Keeper, donates blood Gifting Life... Donating Blood Chairs for Charity In October 2011, Metito Indonesia, PTMI, organised a Metito donated chairs to the UAE Red Crescent for blood donation drive in support of the Indonesia distribution among schools in the Emirates where Red Cross. The event was held in coordination with they are most needed. These chairs will be used in RAPI (the Radio Community Organisation), Radio classrooms where they will help create a better learning 8EH (local radio station) and was attended by the environment for students attending these schools. Director of PLN Engineering and Operation Director of KBN (Nusantara Integrated Area). A total of 115 volunteers participated in this drive compared to 78 volunteers taking part in the previous drive. In support of the initiative, Metito Pune organised a drive in coordination with the “Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital Blood Bank”, attracting over 40 volunteers. The blood collected was then donated to the multispecialty hospital “Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital & Research Centre”, based in Pune. In the GCC, Metito Qatar also organised a blood donation drive in support of the Hamad Medical Corporation, which attracted a good number of volunteers. 30 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Connecting With Future Leaders Water Relief: Providing Water Where Needed Metito launched the first poster competition 2011 at the American University of Sharjah under the theme ‘the Metito believes that every human has a basic right importance of water for life’. Through this competition, to clean and safe water. In some places there is a students were inspired to think of innovative and fundamental scarcity of water and resources that may creative ways by which they visually communicate this not allow for this right to be fully exercised and to important subject. address this issue, Metito has continued to support Human Appeal Internationals' (HAI) efforts to provide Tigran Kostandyan from the faculty of architecture was water relief to communities across Africa. announced the winner in a ceremony attended by a large number of students in the AUS. Sonia Norris, Through Metito’s involvement, safe and clean drinking Metito Senior HR Manager, presented an overview of water is provided to multiple African villages in Senegal, Metito, highlighting its most prominent achievements Somalia, and Sudan, which sustainably improves the and core businesses. Sonia also stressed on the active living conditions of their inhabitants. role of Metito in leading the environment sustainability through providing intelligent water management and Metito has been committed to HAI since 2008, and solutions around the globe. through this commitment the Group has secured clean and uncontaminated drinking water to over 6,000 The competition and its associated event were received people by drilling wells in their villages. So far, three very positively by both the students and management wells have been drilled in Senegal, two in Nigeria, and of the AUS as evident by the number of attendees and five more are being completed in Somalia, Sudan, and the active engagement witnessed. Nigeria. Most of the villages that are targeted through this initiative are farming villages, inhabited mostly by It takes courage to look with a fresh eye on existing women who need to travel long distances just to find matters and to dare to present new perspectives and drinking water. alternative solutions that may, someday, help change the world. With Metito, it pays off too...! 31 Industry Awards and Recognition 32 Industry Awards and Recognition Fady will be able to present the pressing issues of water and waste water industry in the Middle East and in discussing worldwide water issues and viable solutions. The IDA is the leading non-profit global organisation dedicated to desalination, desalination technology and water reuse. The association serves more than 2,400 core members from 60 countries and reaches an additional 4,000 members from its worldwide network of Affiliate organisation. MEED Quality Award Qatar National Winner The Pearl Qatar sea water reverse osmosis plant (SWRO) won the ‘Power & Water Desalination Project of the Year’ for Qatar in the prestigious MEED Quality Fady Juez, Managing Director Metito Awards for Projects 2012, the only awards program in the GCC to recognise completed quality projects. Fady Juez Wins International Desalination Association Board of Directors Election The awards aim to raise standards through benchmarking best practice specified in the project Metito Managing Director, Fady Juez, was elected to the brief and excellence provided in the project delivery. IDA Board of Directors 2011-2013 for the Middle East Judged by an independent panel consisting of region. As a member of the IDA Board of Directors, representatives from each GCC country and experts in Metito representatives at the MEED awards ceremony, The Westin, Abu Dhabi 33 in the projects industry, the winners are selected on the from Dar AlHandasa, The Pearl Qatar contracting basis of their economic, social and environment impact, company join them at the award ceremony. as well as innovations and achievements in design, engineering and construction. H2O Award for Yas Island Project Bassem Halabi, Metito Group Business Development Director presents at the MEED Quality Awards Ceremony Omar Zoubi, Metito Abu Dhabi General Manager at the The Pearl SWRO plant had obvious challenges H2O awards ceremony including; immediate needs, nature of plot area and the stern environmental restrictions regulating Metito was awarded the 2011 Best Waste Water infrastructure/operations’ work in The Pearl. These Treatment Project award organised by H2O magazine challenges were successfully tackled with the well and presented at the 1st Middle East Water Leakage coordinated work between Qatar and Sharjah’s highly Summit. qualified engineering and project management teams. An environmental assessment study was performed to Omar Zoubi, General Manager Metito Abu Dhabi, study the dispersion of hyper saline reject water into the commented on the prize saying, ‘I still capture some sea. The plant serves the irrigation, district cooling and memories of the last phase of the Yas Island project potable needs of The Pearl. where the team was racing against time working relentlessly, 24/7, to handover the plant and put into The Pearl Project Management team including Walid operation right before the Formula One Grand Prix Oraby, General Manager Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, event launch in November 2009’. ‘Metito is proud to be Moataz Hamammi, Operations Manager, Samir Gad, part of the iconic Yas Island project and honoured to Proposals Manager, UAE & Qatar, Mina Yacoub, Field have had the chance to build the largest waste Operations Manager accompanied by Bassem Halabi, water treatment plant in the region, which utilising state Metito Group Business Development Director, of the art technologies with a design capacity of attended the MEED Quality Awards ceremony at The 54,000m3/day that serves the surrounding luxury Westin, Abu Dhabi, where they received the certificate hotels and entertainment facilities’, he added. Yas Island for 'Qatar National Winner' for the best is set to be a global entertainment destination unlike any Desalination/Water Treatment Project of the year. other and plays a vital role in the development of the Metito was honoured to have Eng. Nimer Bou Saleh Abu Dhabi tourism industry. 34 Industry Awards and Recognition The project will utilize a Membrane Bioreactor process relationships with customers. To win in such a which produces high quality effluent that can be safely competitive platform is a great achievement for Metito used in open irrigation with no health hazard. As part of as it acknowledges the quality and creative services the the summit the award ceremony gathered thought company is providing. by creating competitive leaders and industry professionals to discuss and advantage, optimising business processes, enabling establish ways for effective water leakage management. growth or improving relationships with customers. To win in such a competitive platform is a great The award was presented to Metito Group Business achievement for Metito as it acknowledges the quality Development Director, Bassem Halabi, for Metito’s Yas and creative services the company is providing. Island project which involved constructing, executing and putting into operation new sewage treatment works The award was presented to Arnab Debroy, Metito to serve the whole island. Information System Manager in recognition of the following projects: Order Intake and Project Revenue Recognition System accessed via LAN, WAN, Intranet, 50 Chief Information Officers (CIO) Extranet and Wireless global net channels and the Aruba wireless and Remote Office Connectivity. The first project was launched in August 2011 and is used to compute the company’s revenue from projects based on the costs incurred with respect to weightage of each stage formula. It is also used to consolidate the order intake position from the companies and server locations in all geographies. The second initiative was launched in September 2011 to achieve enterprise wide secured wireless connectivity across all regions utilising the most innovative technologies such as: Windows Server as an operating system, Networks system as computers and ERP software. This Active Directory integrated solution is an extremely effective solution to extend the WAN network for Voice, Data and Video traffic with minimal intervention from the Corporate IT Department. It primarily benefits the Accounts and Finance, Sales and Projects Departments in the business. For these projects to materialise and successfully meet Metito was recognised as one of the Top 50 Chief business needs, a significant amount of team work was Information Officers (CIO)s among some of the biggest involved. Projects, Finance and IT & MIS departments companies in the Middle East including: Etisalat, all worked together and successfully delivered such Emirates Airlines, Dubal and Qatar Airlines. This is a amazing results and highlighted the importance of team prestigious award that celebrates top organisations and work, a value Metito believes in and promotes as part of their IT heads, who are using information technology its corporate culture. in innovative ways to deliver business value whether by creating competitive advantage, optimising business processes, enabling growth or improving 35 Certifications NSF Certification Reverse Osmosis (RO) Antiscalants is a core chemical NSF International is an independent, not-for-profit range of Metito’s M-Series which we have been organisation that provides standards development, supplying and utilising for many years. Since its product certification, auditing, education and risk introduction in 1982, the demand for M-Series has management for public health and the environment. continuously grown in the countries where Metito The organisation has been testing and certifying operates especially from repeated clients who have products since 1944 and its certificates are very well tried it and have had positive experience utilising the recognised and respected by stakeholders around the same. This success paved the way for Metito’s chemical globe. team to approach and successfully expand to new markets such as Pakistan and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). It also encouraged Metito to acquire the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) Standard 60 for its key product range of Reverse Osmosis Antiscalants along with other niche products, to better service its clients who require such accreditations for potable water treatments. 36 metito.com Intelligent Water Management 2011-2012
