1 Sustainability Report 2011/2012. Contents Introduction Letter from the Executive Board 4 Letter from the Supervisory Board 6 The year in highlights 8 About this report 10 Section I: organisational structure About Deloitte 13 Sustainability in Deloitte 18 Section II: our performance Serving our clients 24 Our people 31 Our impact on society 36 Our ecological footprint 41 Section III: annexes Annex I: Assurance report 45 Annex II: Basis of reporting 47 Annex III: GRI table 48 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 3 Letter from the Executive Board Rotterdam, July 18, 2012 Dear reader, Our present time is characterised by economic uncertainties and market volatility. This is true for both our clients and the Deloitte organisation. We are all forced to rapidly adapt to change, technological advancement and public outcry. In such times, sustainability – the long term balance between profitability and the external environment – is a beacon, a dot on the horizon that defines both the direction and the way in which we embark on our business journey. In a world dominated by scarcity of resources and social inequality, Deloitte has more than a moral obligation to limit possible negative impacts associated with its business practices and to enhance positive impacts. Doing so makes good business sense as our experience tells us it also leads to cost reductions stronger stakeholder relationships and new business opportunities. As a professional services provider, we are in an excellent position to manage scarcity and social inequality in our own business and in the operations of our clients. Adding value throughout our entire value chain from suppliers to clients is at the heart of our approach to sustainability. It is therefore logical that our sustainability strategy has both an internal and an external focus. Internally we put emphasis on the reduction of our direct ecological footprint, the way we manage our talent and the impact we have on society at large. Externally, our efforts are primarily aimed at increasing the sustainability performance of our clients’ operations in an integrated way. In 2011/2012 we made good progress in the implementation of our sustainability strategy. First and foremost, we agreed on ambitious and concrete targets that we aim to achieve by 2016. Secondly, we are to contribute to the pilot of the International Integrated Report Committee (IIRC) with the publication of the Deloitte Report. We firmly believe that reporting financial and non-financial information in a comprehensive and easily accessible manner provides all stakeholders with a better understanding of a reporting organisation’s performance and strategies. For us, participation in the IIRC pilot is a logical consequence of our innovation approach. Finally, we were satisfied with the results of our annual Talent Survey, receiving a 70% engagement score from our employees. Naturally, our ambition is to further improve in this area but we are happy with the recognition we get from the people who know us best: our talent. Against these positive achievements, we also have some concerns. We received a fine from the Netherlands Authority for Financial Markets (AFM) not fully complying with the Dutch accountancy standards. We have taken appropriate actions in the areas of quality and independence and are in a continuous dialogue with AFM in order to clarify our practices and performance in this area. Secondly, we saw a considerable increase in our CO2 emissions caused by mobility. To curb this trend, our new targets for 2016 include reduction targets in this area. We are committed to continuous improvement in the area of sustainability. To demonstrate this commitment, we are proud participant of the UN Global Compact and an active contributor to the work of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We have used the GRI’s Reporting Guidelines to compile this report, which classifies as GRI A+, as it did in 2010/2011. We hope you enjoy reading this report and that it will add to your understanding of our company. We value feedback from all our stakeholders and would therefore welcome any reactions to this report via www.deloitteannualreport.nl. 4 (From left to right) Mario van Vliet, Richard Roovers, Sandra Heuts, Mennolt Beelen, Peter Bommel, Cees de Boer, Wilten Smit. Executive Board Mr. P.J. Bommel Chief Executive Officer, Managing Partner Audit Mr. C.J.G.M. de Boer Chief Finance Officer, Chief Operations Officer Mr. R.A.J. Roovers Managing Partner Tax Mr. M. van Vliet Managing Partner Consulting Mr. W.L. Smit Managing Partner FAS Mrs. S.H.C. Heuts Managing Partner Clients & Markets Industries Mr. M. Beelen Managing Partner Clients & Markets Region Sustainability Report 2011/2012 5 Letter from the Supervisory Board Rotterdam, July 18, 2012 The financial year 2011/2012 saw significant progress The firm also agreed to participate in a pilot of the for the firm in the area of the sustainability. Deloitte has International Integrated Report Committee (IIRC) aimed agreed to ambitious sustainability targets to achieve by at developing a fully integrated annual report. This 2016, as part of a long term strategy. coincides with the completion of a Deloitte stakeholder analysis aimed at improving our external reporting The Supervisory Board fully supports this strategy, practices. which comprises a strong internal focus while also helping clients implement their own integrated We are also pleased by the outcome of the Talent sustainability strategies that are consistent with their Survey among Deloitte employees that show strong business objectives. levels of engagement with the strategy. Deloitte took important steps in the year towards The Board fully supports the follow-up work done as the ‘greening’ of its policy for car leasing and many a result of the sanction applied by the Dutch financial partners and staff have either switched to more authorities (AFM), which included a review of the environmental friendly cars. Besides, the firm renewed quality of selected audits performed in 2008. This its contract with Dutch Rail, making rail travel available follow-up was focused on improving; our compliance to all Deloitters. We expect to see a reduction of the with applicable audit and independence standards; the CO2 emissions caused by mobility over time. documentation of audit work performed; the quality of any judgements made; and our ability to identify and signal relevant risks as professional audit practitioners. 6 As a result of an infringement of independence rules our recently appointed CEO and Executive Board Member stepped down from his position in close consultation with the Supervisory Board, which is consistent with its zero tolerance approach to any violations of professional standards and with the core values of Deloitte of Integrity and transparency. The Executive Board of Deloitte considers sustainability to be a high strategic priority, not only with regards to its environmental aspects, but also one that is consistent with the interests of its stakeholders, including the general public, and the level of sustainability it seeks to provide through its services. The Supervisory Board therefore fully supports this vision and the steps made in the year to implement it. Supervisory Board Mr. F.G.H. Deckers, Chair Mr. J.C. Kombrink Mrs. J. Schraverus Mr. J.G.C.M Buné, vice-Chair Mrs. A.J.L.M. van Berkel Mr. C.A.M. Renne Sustainability Report 2011/2012 7 The year in highlights June 2011 Diversity is reconfirmed part of the Talent Vision 2016 This section outlines a selection of the activities and and our internal diversity team is expanded achievements in 2011/2012 that we are particularly July 2011 proud of. Sustainability declared an integral part of the Deloitte strategy August 2011 Deloitte wins an assignment for a major supplier of building materials to develop a sustainability strategy September 2011 Our recruitment site www.werkenbijdeloitte.nl ranked number 4 in best website research from WUA October 2011 Deloitte switches off all commercial lighting of its offices for the ‘night of the night’ November 2011 New Amsterdam office is awarded a BREEAM four star certificate December 2011 Deloitte is announced winner of the InCompany 200 prize for employee satisfaction in the category professional services provider 8 January 2012 During the World Economic Forum, Deloitte presents research indicating that 73% of top managers believe that the core activities of companies should also contribute to society February 2012 Deloitte launches Social Media Policy titles “Add, Solve, Enrich” stimulating Deloitters to actively but prudently contribute to discussions in social media March 2012 Deloitte donates €10,600 to Make-a-Wish. This sum was generated by offering our Rotterdam office to display New Year’s wishes sent in by the general public as well as from donations made by Deloitters April 2012 Deloitte starts a coaching programme specifically aimed at female senior managers May 2012 Deloitte ranked second in professional services providers category in MT-500 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 9 About this report This report contains an overview of the sustainability Materiality activities and performance of Deloitte Netherlands and In 2011/2012, we concluded our comprehensive its subsidiaries between June 1, 2011 and May 31, 2012. stakeholder dialogue on the basis of our 2009/2010 It contains, amongst others, an overview of the activities Sustainability Report. In this process we followed a we have undertaken as follow up to the key initiatives as five step approach. In the first step we identified our published on page 17 of our 2010/2011 report. most relevant stakeholder groups. We decided to focus on our people, our clients and on non-governmental The current report has been compiled using the organisations that have an interest in Deloitte. In step Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3.0, as 2 we determined the key themes we wanted to discuss published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). with our stakeholders. We have done this mainly on Please refer to Appendix III for the GRI Reference the basis of desktop research. Step 3 consisted of the Table. As a result of our strict application of the actual dialogue sessions. These were performed mainly GRI Guidelines, this report is categorised A+. Our in face-to-face discussions. In step 4 we analysed the Sustainability Report also serves as the Communication outcomes of the dialogue sessions and we validated on Progress, as prescribed by UN Global Compact, to our findings in a roundtable event with the participants which Deloitte Netherlands is a signatory. in October 2011. Finally, in step 5 we assessed how the conclusions from the dialogue inputs our policies Scope and our targets for the period 2012-2016. The dialogue In this report, Deloitte refers to Deloitte Holding B.V. was executed as an additional activity to our ongoing and its fully owned subsidiaries as listed in the ‘Notes to stakeholder engagement activities, which include the specific items on the balance sheet’ in the Annual the Employee Engagement Survey (bi-annual), Client Report 2011/2012. Service Assessments (annual), Engagement Reviews (ongoing) and the Deloitte Market Survey (annual). Deloitte Holding B.V. is the Dutch member firm of Deloitte Touch Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private As we value transparency, the most important company limited by guarantee, hereafter to be referred conclusions from our stakeholder dialogue process are to as ‘our global office’. Please refer to www.deloitte. listed in table 1, together with our response. com/about for a detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Like all member firms, Deloitte Holding B.V. is a separate and independent legal entity that provides its services subject to applicable local law and regulations. Like all member firms, the results of Deloitte in The Netherlands are reported to DTTL to facilitate the publication of the DTTL Corporate Responsibility Report. 10 Table 1: Stakeholder dialogue outcome and Deloitte response Finding Deloitte response Reporting Stakeholders are unfamiliar with the Sustainability Report A broader communication effort will be made to increase familiarity with The report is not appealing and too high-level this report By implementing a new structure and design to the report, the current report should be more appealing and accessible Website support is inadequate A good HTML version of this report will be made available and will be actively promoted Deloitte is expected to have a state of the art report and integrated reporting is seen as essential The Sustainability Report feeds into the integrated Deloitte Report but is also published as a standalone document because of the added value and insights it provides. Participate in benchmarks Deloitte participates in the “Transparantie Benchmark” as published by the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs (see text below) Integrity Include integrity on all levels: customer approach and service, innovation and education Integrity is one of the most important values of Deloitte and requires continuous attention. Our approach to quality (including integrity) can be found in the Transparency Report Describe the whole lifecycle of customer service and describe the sustainability impact per phase This lifecycle approach has been adopted in our integrated Deloitte Report and will continue to be developed Professionalise sustainability services through education and training that can also be offered to In 2012/2013 we will implement a comprehensive employee engagement clients and training programme that will also be available to clients Target setting Targets should be clearer, more concrete and ambitious. They should reflect the proactive We increased the number of quantitative targets for the period 2012approach of Deloitte 2016. They reflect our ambitions and actions Deloitte should take the lead in quantifying the indirect effects on sustainability through its We started a project to measure the effects of our services on the services sustainability performance of our clients on a structural basis. Over the coming years we will pilot a system and solve reliability and completeness issues CO2 policy The ambition should be to achieve CO2 neutrality. This ambition should as much as possible be We believe that CO2 neutrality can only be achieved when all energy achieved by own activities is consumed as efficiently as possible. We therefore focus on energy efficiency for now. We will continue to explore possibilities for CO2 neutrality in the future Offsetting should not be considered as long as there is better use of comparable investments but We fully agree to this position and hence focus on reduction of energy Deloitte should be transparent about this consumption and related CO2 emissions New issues Biodiversity As our footprint is limited, our effect on biodiversity is not material. In our sustainability service offerings, however, biodiversity is integrated Water consumption and waste water discharge are added to our ecological footprint focus Water See the Zeronauts case on page 23 Future scarcities Energy positive buildings Deloitte has an existing policy of compliance with BREEAM Mobility Mobility is an integral part of our ecological footprint focus Work/life balance Work/life balance is part of our talent approach Independence and objectivity There seems to be little information on conflict of interest management and the whistleblower These issues are detailed in our Transparency Report but we have also procedure included some information in this report for the benefit of the reader. In this report we discuss some major dilemmas (such as unoccupied office Ethics and dilemma reconciliation should be treated in a more transparent manner space in The Netherlands) that we are facing in the area of sustainability Sustainability Report 2011/2012 11 An important conclusion from our stakeholder dialogue Continuous stakeholder engagement is that stakeholders feel Deloitte has identified the We firmly believe that stakeholders can provide us right issues in its approach to sustainability. Some of with insights and knowledge that is complementary their expectations had not been fully met, including: to our own insights and therefore engage with them improved measurement and description of the impact on a continuous basis. However, some stakeholder Deloitte has on the sustainability performance of its groups are more difficult to engage with because clients, the implementation of clear measurable targets, they are either not a homogenous group or not greater transparency on integrity and client acceptance particularly interested in Deloitte (e.g. NGOs in the standards, and the ambition to become carbon neutral. area of environmental protection). Yet organisations These expectations are addressed in this report. should actively pursue the ideas of such stakeholders. On the basis of our stakeholder dialogue, we are We are proactive in this regard, as demonstrated by confident that we meet the requirements regarding the organised stakeholder dialogue we concluded in materiality as set out in GRI guidelines G3.0. 2011/2012. Reliability In the coming years we aim to design and implement a We applied the internal controls system that was process that facilitates the way we seek the opinion on designed two years ago to collect the relevant our stakeholders before taking action on a particular performance data from our business information issue. This implies we should be able to provide our systems and suppliers. This was centrally recorded stakeholders with timely and correct information and and reviewed by our internal audit department and actively share our dilemmas. It also implies that we externally assured by Ernst & Young. Their conclusions establish a low threshold process where stakeholders can be found in the Assurance Report in Annex I. can feed their ideas on activities that Deloitte should undertake, or provide feedback on activities already Restatement of figures undertaken. The method we used in previous reporting years to calculate the amount of professional kilometres driven by employees in lease cars can no longer be validated. For reasons of comparability, we have restated our related data (number of kilometres per lease car, CO2 emissions per lease car based on kilometres driven and CO2 emissions per lease car based on litres of fuel). 12 Section I: organisational structure About Deloitte Deloitte’s professionals are unified by our shared values: integrity, outstanding value to markets and clients, Our vision commitment to each other and strength from cultural Our vision is to be the Standard of Excellence in the diversity. They enjoy an environment of continuous markets in which we operate. learning, challenging experiences and enriching career opportunities. Deloitte’s professionals are dedicated European network to strengthening corporate responsibility, building The Deloitte firms of Denmark, Belgium, Germany, public trust and making a positive impact in their Austria, Luxembourg, Central Europe and the communities. Netherlands work together internationally within Deloitte Société Européenne (DSE); a regional Strategy cooperation focused on servicing clients seamlessly, The downbeat prospects for the Dutch economy and across borders. France is participating as an associate ongoing decline of the public sector, offers limited member. Next to DSE, Deloitte in the Netherlands is a growth prospects for large parts of our highly mature member of the European Cooperation Agreement, a markets. In this environment, we understand that cooperation of the 10 largest EMEA member firms. growth will primarily be achieved through greater market penetration and by increasing the number of Regional cooperation services available to our clients. At the same time, The Deloitte member firms in Europe, the Middle acquisition opportunities may also arise, enabling us to East and Africa jointly form Deloitte EMEA, a regional increase scale and benefit from expected growth in the cooperative organisation that acts as a platform for consulting and financial advisory services markets. mutual cooperation and the provision of services to clients who have a presence in this region. In 2010, we began the As One strategy for the period 2010/2013 that will enable us to fulfil our vision to be Global cooperation the Standard of Excellence, while achieving sustainable Deloitte in the Netherlands is a member of Deloitte growth and a leadership position in the market. The Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL). Together we deliver strategy consists of 18 initiatives under the headings of integrated expertise and innovative services on a quality, sustainable growth and operational excellence, global and local level with professionalism, quality and and addresses the dramatic changes that have occurred integrity. in our market environment over the past two years. These initiatives have been further distilled into six Legal status priority areas that will provide us with immediate Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche traction and commitment to drive our growth in the Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited longer term. These six priorities are: by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each • Focus on quality of which is a legally separate and independent entity. • Increasing client focus Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed • Growing the number of services per client description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche • Driving innovation Tohmatsu and its member firms. • Cost reductions • Strengthening our As One culture With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world class capabilities and deep local expertise to help clients succeed wherever they operate. Deloitte has more than 195,000 professionals, committed to becoming the Standard of Excellence. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 13 Financial Audit Tax Consulting Advisory Services Consumer Business Manufacturing Energy, Resources & Transportation Real Estate Financial Services Technology, Media & Telecommunications Public Sector • National Government • Local Government • Health Care • Education North-East North-West Middle South-West South-East Risk & Reputation Innovation & Sustainability Talent Functions Industries Regions Central areas Our services collectively responsible for the performance of its tasks Deloitte offers services in the areas of audit, tax, and reports to the General Meeting of Shareholders. consulting and corporate finance. These core functions Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by collaborate across specialist industry and market the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of segments. recommendations made by the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders brings together Governance the entire group of shareholders. The meeting helps Deloitte is managed by an Executive Board responsible maintain Deloitte’s “checks and balances” system by for creating a strategic and policy framework and exerting its influence on the policies of the Executive objectives, monitoring the implementation of policies Board and the Supervisory Board. The company’s and maintaining cohesion between the company’s budget, the company’s long-term policy and various various units and disciplines. The Executive Board other matters referred to in the Articles of Association reports to the Supervisory Board and the General require the approval of the General Meeting of Meeting of Shareholders. Shareholders. The Supervisory Board oversees and advises For a more detailed description of our corporate the Executive Board and supervises all general governance, please refer to the Annual Report developments at Deloitte. The Supervisory Board is 2011/2012. 14 Shared values and ethical principles Deloitte’s shared values define the underlying beliefs that bind DTTL and its member firms together. Our ethical principles further determine the specific standards of behaviour expected of all Deloitte’s leaders and people. The shared values are: Strength from Integrity diversity Commitment Outstanding to each other value to markets and clients Our ethical principles give guidance on appropriate professional conduct, covering the following issues: Honesty and integrity Fair business practices “We act with honesty and integrity.” “We are committed to fair business practices.” Professional behaviour Responsibility to society “We operate within the letter and the spirit of “We recognise and respect the impact we have on the applicable laws.” world around us.” Competence Respect and fair treatment “We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to every “We treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy and client assignment.” fairness.” Objectivity Accountability and decision making “We are objective in forming our professional opinions “We lead by example, using our shared values as our and the advice we give.” foundation.” Confidentiality “We respect the confidentiality of information.” Sustainability Report 2011/2012 15 Business process A prospect is an organisation or individual that we To maintain the trust of our stakeholders, we have believe is of added value. Prospects may contact a standard business process in place that supports Deloitte or may be identified and contacted by us in the quality of our work and ensures our professional relation to the specific sector and industry knowledge opinion is unbiased and forward thinking. we provide. Our standard business process can be depicted as When a concrete opportunity for a new prospect has follows1 : been identified, it is usually listed in our customer relationship management (CRM) system. For existing clients, new opportunities are added to the existing CRM file. Prospect and opportunity Deloitte wants to ensure that we do not accept clients and suppliers that may jeopardise our vision to be the Standard of Excellence or accept engagements that could create a conflict of interest or impair our CRM independence. We mannage processes to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding client and engagement acceptance. All relevant partners and employees are trained in the application of our rules regarding acceptance and independence. Acceptance As a safeguard to our efforts, our Acceptance Centre runs checks on newly created prospects and opportunities in our CRM system. In 2011/2012, a Team composition total of 4,695 background checks on new prospects were performed and 15,623 checks on new opportunities were completed. During the year a total of 31 (potential) clients have been earmarked Assignment as organisations to whom we do not want to render services. Furthermore, for 2,138 opportunities the Acceptance Centre asked for additional information in order to comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Second reading After the formal acceptance of a client or engagement, the engagement team is composed. Members of the engagement team are expected to be in an Close assignment independent position vis-à-vis the client. Conflicts of interests should be avoided at all times. Personal independence is a joint responsibility of each team member and our organisation. Client Service Assessment 1 This is a high level, overall process description. For more detailed process descriptions, please refer to our Transparency Report 2010/2011 16 Once there is a signed engagement letter and the We perform annual practice reviews. These are team has been composed, the engagement can be designed to ensure that the quality of our work is performed. As part of our quality framework, it is our meeting the requirements from various applicable standing policy that predetermined written documents, standards and society at large and to provide sent to an external party, are reviewed by an internal evidence of our compliance with, and consistency in, expert that is not directly involved with that specific the application of our polices and methodologies, engagement. including those that are function specific or cover risk management. After the work has been concluded to the satisfaction of our client and all bills are paid, we close the engagement. Through the Client Service Assessment, that is performed among major clients and that uses interviews or online questionnaires, we give our clients the possibility to render feedback on their experiences with Deloitte. This feedback is used to continuously improve our services to clients. Additionally, we measure customer satisfaction through our Group Market Study. On an annual basis, all partners and employees of Deloitte are required to submit an independence confirmation. All these submissions are checked by our Independence Centre and, additionally through sample testing by the Internal Audit Department. Additionally, on a continuous basis, all employees at management level and above must list their personal (financial) interests, and those of their dependents. The Independence Centre is charged with the monitoring of these registrations. On the basis of a risk analysis, our Internal Audit Department under responsibility of the Director of Independence, performs sample tests. In 2011/2012, our Internal Audit Department conducted investigations into the submissions of 126 employees, leading to 21 cases of non-compliance with our strict internal rules on independence. The Independence Centre provides regular online and classroom training on our rules regarding independence. In 2011/2012, 2,391 partners and employees participated in our online training activities. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 17 Sustainability in Deloitte Vision Ambition Technology has given us greater insights into the Our sustainability ambition is to be the Standard of mutually dependent systems and organisms that make Excellence in making Deloitte and its clients sustainable up our world, in addition to an understanding that its for the future. resources are not endless.Deloitte is fully aware that the creation of economic value can sometimes lead to the Strategy destruction of the well-being, habitats and dignity of In line with our vision, Deloitte has two main focal others. We also know that the current growth in world points: impacts from services and impacts from population and increasing global wealth means we are operations. rapidly approaching barriers caused by stress factors. Continued growth, necessary for the continuity of our Impacts from services company, requires us to think not just about what we The impact from our services by far exceeds our do, but how we do it. operational impact. We act as financial auditor, consultant or sparring partner to around 20,000 clients, As a leading business services company, our all of which make an impact on their own business operational impact on the economy, society and the environment. We serve our clients using a holistic environment is relatively small. However, as an active approach where sustainability is an integral part of our and integral part of society, we do not believe this work, rather than a bolted-on activity. This means that makes us exempt from making a continuous effort to our Lead Client Service Partners are responsible for reduce negative direct impacts and enhance positive detecting sustainability opportunities with their clients ones. To this end we will keep investing in greener inside and outside the scope of their assignment, and offices, the use of more sustainable energy sources, to then help design solutions. The Sustainability Team and in the communities in which we operate, among in Deloitte Innovation is continuously developing new other programmes. and innovative service offerings that contribute to the sustainability of our clients that our partners and Although our operational footprint is somewhat consultants can use, and is a good sounding board limited, our influence on the footprint of others is for ideas internally. Through awareness and learning potentially huge. We are committed to helping our programmes, partners and consultants are kept up to clients adapt to the new market realities making their speed with the latest developments. organisations fit for a new era, creating business opportunities for both Deloitte and our clients. By integrating sustainability throughout our core business services, Deloitte is fully equipped to be change leaders; a knowledgeable, visionary and inspirational team that can convey a sense of urgency to others and provide logical solutions, making human activity more sustainable. 18 Operational impacts In reducing direct harm to our business environment 3. Our impact on society and the maximising positive, operational impacts, we We are a knowledge company and we want the have identified four areas that we believe are material broader community to profit from the knowledge to Deloitte. These areas are: and experience we have in-house. We aim to make a positive contribution to the development of 1. Integrity people in the communities in which we operate. It is vitally important that our business is a trusted Our vehicle to achieve this goal is the Deloitte Fair partner to our clients and society at large. To Chance Foundation. The Foundation offers a variety ensure the integrity of our services, we maintain of educational initiatives to help underprivileged robust programmes to secure our independence children shape a better future for themselves and and the quality of our work. In addition, we have their families. We contribute to a better world implemented strict procedures for client acceptance. through the implementation and maintenance of We actively maintain our Code of Ethics and all our our Supplier Code and sustainable specifications for staff are trained in the application of our ethical the products and services that we purchase. principles. 4. Our ecological footprint 2. Our people Although our energy consumption is limited, we We hire the best talent in order to provide high believe we are all responsible for preserving natural added value to our clients. Through extensive resources for future generations. Furthermore, there training and career development programmes, is overwhelming evidence that CO2 emissions are we continuously harness and develop the talents driving climate change. We maintain strict policies and skills of our people. We challenge our diverse regarding mobility with the aim of reducing fossil workforce to form multidisciplinary teams that utilise fuels consumption and related financial costs. All the wealth of experience within Deloitte in order to our existing offices are powered by energy from meet and exceed the expectations of our clients. renewable, CO2-neutral sources. When designing new offices, state-of-the-art technology is used and high standards, such as BREEAM, are met. We see waste as a raw material for new products and aim to conduct separated waste collection in all our premises. When we organise events, we do so in accordance with high sustainability standards. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 19 Enabler Governance We believe that being transparent about our Responsibility for our sustainability agenda and related business helps to refine our strategy and improve our activities falls to the Executive Board, that is in turn operations through the feedback we receive from our guided by the Supervisory Board. Deloitte has created stakeholders. We publish a wide range of financial an internal Sustainability Board to safeguard the and non-financial information on our activities and implementation of sustainability as an integral part of performance and our publicly available reports provide our business. This Board consists of representatives from a truthful reflection of our practice, externally assured all our business functions as well as specialists and issue to the highest level. Using a wide variety of feedback owners within Deloitte. The Sustainability Team within mechanisms, such as employee and client surveys, Deloitte Innovation has an external focus and is tasked to social media, webcasts, face-to-face meetings, and develop innovative solutions to sustainability challenges desktop research, we actively seek the opinions of affecting our clients. Our internal Sustainability Office the people and organisations that shape our business co-ordinates and supervises our internal sustainability environment. priorities. Finally, it is the responsibility of our functions to deliver our sustainability services to the client in an integrated manner. 20 Supervisory Board Executive Board Works Council Sustainability Board Internal Innovation & Sustainability Office Sustainability Audit Tax Financial Advisory Consulting Group Support Services Center Operational impacts Impacts from services Integrated sustainability services Sustainability Report 2011/2012 21 Targets In order to measure our progress, we track our performance and have set targets on a general level as well as for our four focus areas, to be achieved by 2016. Tabel 2 Targets for Sustainability Report Target 2016 Baseline 2012 General targets Transparency Deloitte is the highest ranked professional Deloitte ranked third in benchmark group services company in the Transparantie Benchmark Client awareness 70% of clients are familiar with Deloitte’s Client awareness and appreciation are not sustainability activities and appreciation score yet structurally measured using Client Service is >7.0 as measured by our Client Service Assessments Assessments Serving our Clients Embedding sustainability Sustainability is addressed in 75% of our Sustainability not yet structurally embedded in engagement letters engagement letters Measuring our impact Development, improving and testing of a No such methodology currently exists methodology to calculate the monetary value of the impact of our services on sustainability Innovation Each year, 10 new and innovative service 7 fast tracks involving sustainability were offerings that contribute to the sustainability of organised our clients are developed Our People Employee engagement 75% score in employee engagement as Employee engagement score is 70% measured by our Talent Survey Diversity Eight diversity initiatives are embedded in Proactive diversity management in nomination, business practices succession and client team selection processes Health & safety Sick leave below 3% as measured on an annual Sick leave is 3.0% basis Ecological Footprint Sustainable offices 70% of office space BREEAM certified to the level of at least “very good” Carbon footprint 15% reduction of carbon emissions caused by Total mobility related CO2 emissions amount to mobility 21,659 tonnes Partnerships Global Compact Deloitte to reach advanced level in Global Deloitte has basic level in Global Compact Compact Suppliers 100% of major suppliers in conformity with Deloitte currently has no Supplier Code Deloitte Supplier Code Fair Chance Foundation Total of 1.500 volunteers deployed Currently 397 volenteers deployed 12,500 children in underprivileged areas have benefited from the foundations activities 22 Measuring performance This was the starting point for an exciting Deloitte As a general management approach to managing Growth Track programme developed in 2011/2012 our impact, in addition to setting new targets, we by Deloitte Innovation and John Elkington (Volans), a have also started to restructure our data collection global leader in sustainability, and author of the book process. Starting in 2012/2013, we will produce a ‘The Zeronauts – Breaking the Sustainability Barrier.’ comprehensive overview of the impact of our activities on a quarterly basis, towards realising our targets. This Together, we designed an open innovation platform will enable us to manage our performance more closely to help shape the idea that ‘zero impact’ growth the and intervene, if necessary, to ensure we stay on track basic premise behind the Zeronauts concept can to meet our targets. set a real benchmark in sustainability performance across industries. No such sustainability benchmark Case methodology for this concept currently exists. Yet, at the same time there is a great deal of discussion about The Zeronauts Symposium 2012 what would be the required path for global economic As our footprint continues to increase, the world’s growth, as the current mere quantitative growth absorptive capacity is rapidly shrinking, along with paradigm seems a slow death path for humanity. its natural resources. It is estimated that humans are already overusing the planet by 50 percent and that The first milestone in this project was in June without a radical shift in production and consumption 2012, when Deloitte held the inaugural Zeronauts habits, a future world with 9 billion inhabitants will Symposium. This comprised a presentation of the consume up to three or four times the world’s actual Zeronauts book by John Elkington, as well as the capacity. outcome of the first-ever Zero Impact Growth Strategy Monitor carried out by Deloitte on 65 world Given that such an outcome is untenable, it is clear that leading companies, across 10 industries. In addition, we require a new production paradigm and a more workshops were organised around innovative methods sustainable way of living. of measurement, collaboration, products and services, and leadership. The conclusions of the Zeronauts Symposium form the basis for a broader initiative that can deepen knowledge about ‘zero impact’ growth. This includes work on ‘Zeronautics’, which are the necessary measurement and accounting methods for individuals and companies for developing a common ‘zero impact’ growth vision. It is our aim to become leading advocates of ‘zero impact’ growth and to advise other organisations that are preparing their journeys to zero. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 23 Section II: our performance Serving our clients As with all the services Deloitte provides, innovation We realise that the combined impact of our client is a crucial differentiator in our sustainability offerings. base on people, planet and profit, far exceeds our We work with our clients in a number of ways to operational impact. As such, we work with our clients connect sustainability and innovation: to increase their sustainability performance, which not only makes good business sense for Deloitte as an o In Fast Tracks we make existing products and auditor or consultant, but also allows our people the services more sustainable opportunity to contribute to a more sustainable world. o In Innovator Tracks we develop new products and Moreover, we aim to make sustainability an integral service ideas for our clients part of our service offering to clients. This means that o In Growth Tracks we stimulate participants to think in addition to our specific sustainability services, we out of the box and to move the barriers want to include the effects on sustainability in all our engagements. We realise that we still have considerable For examples of these Tracks, please see the case ground to cover until we reach this objective. studies in this section of the report. Building the knowledge and understanding of For a professional services provider in the area of sustainability for all Deloitters working on client sustainability, it is vitally important we remain at the engagements is crucial to achieving our objective. forefront of industry and sector debates. Therefore we In 2011/2012 we continued our focus to empower spend considerable time and effort in the development Deloitters to include sustainability in their client of fresh thinking on sustainability with organisations proposals. The result was that more than 150 such as the Global Reporting Initiative, the International colleagues are now able to actively address and discuss Integrated Reporting Council, and MVO Nederland. In sustainability issues with their clients. addition, we participate in MBA curriculums and alumni In our specific sustainability work, we perform a holistic programmes from Universities, and facilitate serious set of services that cover all the important aspects of gaming sessions. sustainability management. This is in full alignment with Deloitte’s international approach: from strategy to reporting to assurance, and from supply chain management to human capital deployment. In our assignments, we are able to mobilise our international network for our assignments. More than 750 colleagues are available worldwide, either through being actively involved and providing expertise in client projects or by acting as a sounding board for new proposals and activities. This enables us to work for SMEs in the same way we work for multinational clients, where international teams are a prerequisite. 24 Next to integrated offerings where sustainability is part and parcel of a solution, we offer a set of specific sustainability client offerings: 1 2 3 4 Sustainability and climate change strategy Sustainability governance and risk intelligence Energy and natural resource management Managing energy, natural Human capital and stakeholder engagement for Developing a roadmap Developing strategies and resource consumption sustainability to help address governance to address and emissions within Strategic communications sustainability issues in sustainability related risks sustainable limits and organisational design support of objectives to engage employees in sustainability initiatives and create lasting behavioural change 5 6 7 8 Sustainable operations and supply chains Integrate sustainability IT for sustainability Information management capabilities to enable Sustainability reporting, assurance and compliance Sustainable innovation Create business opportunities focused on throughout supply sustainability strategies, Collecting and reporting sustainable value, using chains, product lifecycles programmes and data in compliance with Fast, Innovator or Growth and internal operations processes laws, regulations and Track methodologies. stakeholder expectations Sustainability Report 2011/2012 25 Global Compact Management Framework Commit Leadership commitment to mainstream the Global Compact principles into strategies and operations and to take action in Assess support of broader UN goals, in a transparent way Assess risks, opportunities and impacts across Global Compact issue areas Communicate Communicate progress and strategies and engage with stakeholders for continuous Define improvement Define goals, strategies and policies Measure Measure and monitor impacts and progress towards goals Implement Implement strategies and policies through the company and across the company’s value chain 26 Commit Our approach Business simulation gaming as tool to develop balanced The programme was composed of three elements. leadership and awareness on sustainability Firstly, we presented global megatrends affecting the sustainability of our future society and market place Client to the participants to set the scene and highlight the A leading technology company urgency of sustainability on a global scale. Secondly, the participants were divided into teams to play The challenge the Deloitte Simulation Game. In this game, the We were invited by a client to develop and facilitate a teams are challenged to lead a logistics company to programme for their leadership and top commercial sustainable business success over a twelve year period, teams to raise awareness and embed sustainability encountering numerous dilemmas in the areas of in their strategic plans and daily practice, using the people, planet and profit. To be successful the teams Deloitte Business Simulation Game. need to determine an effective strategy, engage in collaborative decision-making, master multi-stakeholder engagement and take well-balanced decisions making the right trade-offs. Finally, learnings from the presentation and game-experience were subsequently translated to daily practice in a consequent workshopexercise. In this exercise the teams were facilitated to define smart goals and actions on how to embed sustainability in their strategic plans and daily practice. As a result each individual was equipped with a practical action plan to address the sustainability of his/ her portfolio. The programme was initially successfully organised “This game helped me to identify for the Dutch Board of Directors, subsequently covered the client’s Key Account Managers, and opportunities with colleagues in is now planned for international roll-out. Similar programs are being rolled-out at other clients, more other divisions and to understand information on the Deloitte Business Simulation Game on http://www.deloitte.com/view/en_NL/nl/services/ each other’s challenges” innovation-services/innovation-portfolio/businesssimulation-game/. More information Louise van Hoof LvanHoof@Deloitte.nl Arjan ten Cate AtenCate@Deloitte.nl Sustainability Report 2011/2012 27 Assess Define Calculating Carbon Capture and Storage Developing a Sustainability strategy and action plan Client Client An international player in the oil and gas industry A European industrial sales and service supplier The challenge The challenge Our client was invited to participate in a carbon capture Our client is facing more and more sustainability storage (CCS) project. CCS is about the collection challenges by requirements of customers. The client and storage of CO2 and is an important pillar in the asked Deloitte to facilitate the client by developing a reduction of CO2 in our atmosphere. Through this sustainability strategy and translate the strategy into highly complex and costly project, our client would a concrete action plan. In this project we used the be able to reuse depleted gas reserves as well as the Sustainability Assessment Model. connected infrastructure. For the realization it was vitally important that a thorough estimate of the Our approach cash flow was established in order to negotiate the Deloitte assisted the client in developing a sustainability contractual requirements and to convince stakeholders. framework to define the key steps to integrate sustainability principles into the client business Our approach processes. Therefore we used the Sustainability We developed two flexible models that allowed us to Assessment Model by which we determined their calculate cash flow scenarios for both the injection current level of sustainability and also their level of process of CO2 in the underground storage and ambition. We hereby look at six different subjects the storage itself. The models allow for adaptation including Vision & Strategy, Embedding, Products of important variables such as the duration of the and Services, Supply Chain, Internal Operations and contract, and enables the client to calculate and share Communication. Based on the ambition level we the different scenarios. Next to this, the model can helped the client to develop their sustainability strategy be used after the investment decision to calculate the and its objectives. Next to this, we established an value of future contracts and to attract equity. action plan, which clearly defines and prioritises action steps, responsibilities and timelines. An important focus Advantages for the client will be on quick wins. In addition to long-term goals, • Thorough preparation for contract negotiations we believe quick wins are essential in order to maintain • Calculation of alternative propositions has led to a stakeholder support and for improving your financial deep insight into the positive and negative aspects performance in the short-term. of CCS Advantages for the client More information • Focus on their sustainability strategy and objectives Robert-Jan Bakker, RJBakker@Deloitte.nl • Concrete action plan to achieve their strategic objectives More information Anneke Sipkens ASipkens@Deloitte.nl Udeke Huiskamp Uhuiskamp@Deloitte.nl Trientsje Glastra van Loon TglastravanLoon@Deloitte.nl 28 Implement Measure Introduction of Sustainable Sourcing and Procurement Setting up a reliable and comprehensive measurement to realize 100% sustainable supply system for sustainability Client Client A leading energy and utility company Global market leader in the maritime services industry The challenge The challenge Deloitte was invited to introduce sustainable Sourcing We were invited by our client to set up the reporting and Procurement into the organization as the leading process for CSR and ensure a complete report was principle and implement supplier code of conduct and produced for FY 2011/2012 that would meet the GRI supplier self-assessments. guidelines. Support included validating current KPI’s, establishing common definitions, determining the Our approach required amount of depth for reporting, setting up a The programme consisted of three main phases. standardised data request procedure and linking CSR to The first phase was to assess a pilot group of the supply financial reporting. base with the Deloitte composed web survey. The survey consisted of a variety of business processes and Our approach impact on sustainability (e.g. Strategy, Supply Chain, A systematic approach was used in this project. An Environment, and Social). The outcome of this survey Initial assessment was made of the current situation divided suppliers in four main categories: Laggard, and the status of the reports up till this time. Including Starter, Performer and Leader. relevant stakeholders of the company we then drafted and agreed upon the indicators to be included in the In the second phase a plan was made to implement report and the definitions of each indicator. KPI’s were a 50% sustainable supply base. A Supplier Code of then determined related to each indicator and were Conduct was made and sent to suppliers. The same established in cooperation with senior management. supplier selection was assessed through the web After setting up these guidelines we supported the survey. client in the data gathering process, setting up a formal process and reporting structure and aiding them in The third phase consists out of a supplier development collection and analysis of the initial data. Later in the program, where supplier performance is measured and trajectory the data was updated which was left to the developed in a structured and consistent way. In this client but coordinated by our team and supported where part, innovation, cost efficiency and sustainability go necessary. After tracking the response and collecting all hand in hand. the data required for the report we aided in the total consolidation and initial analyses to leave them with a More information complete set of data to complete their CSR report. Gert van der Heijden, GvanderHeijden@Deloitte.nl The project resulted in a complete data gathering procedure and reporting structure for the CSR report. Client benefit included having a standardised reporting structure to simplify and improve the quality of CSR reporting in the future. Additionally detailed data on company performance for fleet, personnel and SHE-Q was uncovered and reported that can be used to measure the company’s sustainable performance and improve this in the future, which can translate to direct cost benefits. More information Ivo Rothkrantz, IRothkrantz@Deloitte.nl Sustainability Report 2011/2012 29 Communicate “The assurance engagement Transparency and credibility are key requirements in the communication about sustainable performance. helped me to identify External assurance ascertains stakeholders that the reported information is reliable. Client opportunities how we can support audit clients towards integrated Construction company for (sustainable) energy infrastructures. The challenge We were requested by our client to provide assurance reporting and assurance” on their first integrated report. Integrated reporting addresses the financial, environmental and social performance in coherence to inform stakeholders how the organization creates and sustain value in the short and long term. Our approach We applied an integrated approach to provide assurance on the financial, environmental and social information in the integrated report. As environmental and social performance becomes an increasingly important factor, internal and external stakeholders are demanding consistent insights based on accurate data and information. Therefore, we assessed the processes and controls for managing the environmental and social data across the business units and systems. Further, we assessed whether the report meets the content and quality requirements of the international guidelines on sustainability reporting (reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI 3.1) based on the B+ application level. As a result of our assurance engagement and its formal conclusions, the client received an assurance report, which contains information about the objective and purpose of the assurance activities, the fundamentals they are based on, the measures performed, and the resulting conclusions. Further, we presented our findings to the board and provided specific recommendations to improve on internal controls, data collection and application of the GRI guidelines. More information Ben Dielissen Bdielissen@Deloitte.nl 30 Our people More than 4,800 people look at Deloitte for the fulfillment of their personal ambitions and income. We feel it is our responsibility to create an environment where our people are encouraged to develop themselves as leaders and are motivated to give their best to the success of Deloitte. Table 3 2011/2012 2010/ 2011 2009/2010 Average FTE’s 4,475 4,472 4,624 Average headcount 4,847 4,836 4,993 Total experienced hires 164 190 84 (incl. partners) Total partner hires 6 8 3 Total graduate hires 546 546 395 Total internship 240 226 182 Total exits 669 741 926 Total divestments 0 0 0 Table 4 Part-time / Full-time population (%) Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time 2011 / 2012 2011 / 2012 2010 / 2011 2010 / 2011 Population of Fee-earners 19 81 19 81 Population of Support 47 53 47 53 Population of Deloitte 25 75 25 75 The core mission of our talent organisation is to enable Business ethics the leadership of Deloitte to create high performance Deloitte maintains a Code of Ethics that is based on teams. As such, our talent organisation aims to our Shared Values and Ethical Principles. Our Code of build leadership capabilities, such as performance Ethics determines our attitudes and behaviours as a management, invest in our business culture, and offer professional business services provider. The National innovative tailor-made solutions to safeguard efficient Ethics Officer heads our Ethics Office and is responsible processes in relation to talent. for the design and roll-out of our national Ethics & Compliance Programme, which is fully aligned with the Deloitte’s goal is to assign the best possible people to Deloitte Global Ethics & Compliance Programme. exceed our clients’ expectations. To this end, our talent The Code of Ethics was updated during 2011/2012 strategy is at the heart of our business strategy. As the and will enter into force during the financial year nature of our business is subject to significant change, 2012/2013. we constantly map the capabilities we need to adapt to new market challenges. One of the prerequisites Activities of our Ethics Office include, but are not to achieve this is what we call a self-directed learning limited to, being available for our colleagues to environment where continuous on and off the job report and/or discuss ethical dilemmas. This main education is seen as normal by everyone in Deloitte: task is a shared responsibility with our counsellors. learning is work, work is learning. Furthermore our National Ethics Officer updated our Sustainability Report 2011/2012 31 Code of Conduct and commenced the roll out of our Table 5: Incidents, number of reported occurrences awareness program in order to secure the compliance with this code in the behaviour of our people. Our new Type 2011/2012 2010/2011 Social Media Policy and awareness programme were Sexual harassment 2 4 developed and implemented in close cooperation with our National Ethics Officer. Intimidation 8 3 Stalking 4 1 As part of our internal policies the National Other disrespectful 28 20 Ethics Officer is also involved in the performance treatment of colleagues (including bullying) management process for our Audit Function. In line with our Ethics Policy an Ethical Survey was conducted. The results showed an overall improvement compared Besides the incidents mentioned in table 5, in 16 to the results of last year’s survey. Especially the instances the Ethical Officer was pro-actively consulted. awareness of the fact that we have an Ethics Officer, a Code of Conduct, ethical principles and channels in Diversity place to report unethical behaviour increased. Topics Deloitte believes in a culture where diverse talent of attention are the fact that we, as a firm, need to thrives. Diversity is critical to innovation and long show that we take action to address unethical conduct term success. We see diversity not primarily as a in a confidential manner and create an environment demographic issue, but as variety in thinking, feeling that supports discussions related to ethical conduct. and acting. Gender, ethnic background and sexual Last but not least we need to put some effort in our orientation are all indicators of potential diversity. partners who must lead by example with respect to Deloitte recognises and appreciates these differences. integrity and ethical behaviour. As diversity covers so many aspects, it is impossible to catch all the different elements of our definition of Employees, clients and other third parties have diversity in measurable performance indicators. In the the possibility to file a complaint about unwanted tables and graphs below, we present the data that we behaviour, or they can ask the Ethics Officer or one do collect. of the counsellors for advice. Clients and other third parties are encouraged to solve an issue with their counterpart within Deloitte, but can also address the Complaints Committee if the issue is not solved according to their expectations. Table 5 provides an overview of the number of incidents that were brought to the attention of the Executive Board by Ethics Officer. 32 Table 6 Headcount male/female 2011/2012 Employment category 2011 / 2012 Male 2011 / Female 2011 / 2010 / 2011 Male 2010 / Female 2010 / 2012 2012 2011 2011 Partner 249 231 18 240 223 17 Director 227 202 25 211 190 21 Senior Managers 502 403 99 469 383 86 Managers 697 499 198 676 481 195 Aspirant / Jr. Managers 1,098 723 375 1,131 770 361 Other Staff 2,074 981 1,093 2,110 985 1,125 Table 7: Gender diversity Diversity figures female Realised 2011/2012 Realised 2010/2011 Realised 2009/2010 Realised 2008/2009 Partner 7% 7% 6% 5% Director 11% 10% 8% 10% Senior Managers 20% 18% 18% 16% Managers 28% 29% 27% 25% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 34% 32% 31% 31% Other staff 53% 54% 54% 53% Table 8 Turnover Employment category Turnover Turnover % Turnover Turnover % male male female female 2011/2012 2011/2012 Partner 2 1% 0 0% Director 12 6% 4 16% Senior Managers 32 8% 14 14% Managers 45 9% 39 20% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 83 11% 63 17% Other Staff 112 12% 263 25% Table 9 Ethnic Diversity Employment category % Foreign % Native % Unknown Partner 3% 72% 25% Director 7% 82% 11% Senior Managers 9% 78% 13% Managers 10% 79% 11% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 16% 74% 10% Other Staff 20% 68% 12% Interns 17% 64% 19% * ‘Native’ refers to persons whose parents are originally of Dutch descent. ‘Foreign’ refers to persons from which one or both parents is not originally of Dutch descent. ‘Unknown’ refers to person for whom it is unknown (not registered) what the place of birth or origin of one or both parents is. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 33 Recruitment People development In 2011/2012, we recruited 710 people. An important As part of our quality framework, we want to establish element of our recruitment activities is the active a culture that embraces learning. At present, we believe deployment of online and social media. For the our learning efforts are still too traditional and do not second consecutive year, our recruitment site (www. provide sufficient room for a dialogue-based learning werkenbijdeloitte.nl) was awarded the Best Digital experience, which we aim to create. In this respect, the Application Experience Award by Digitaal-werven. In Taxperiment and the Risk Lab initiatives we organised the area of social media, we expanded our visibility in 2011/2012 are examples of innovative approaches on sites such as LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook. where learning and client engagement are combined. Although the Dutch labour market currently has a Our ambition is to make the shift from the creation large surplus, finding and attracting the right people of world class experts to the development of world remains a challenge. Although we continue to recruit class leaders. As such, we started to work on a leadera vast amount of graduates, the shift in focus to the focused learning vision and programme. We continued attraction of experienced professionals continued in our LEAD programme in 2011/2012, open to all newly 2012/2013. appointed senior managers and comprising a two-year curriculum in which strategy, authentic leadership and Incubation of sustainability self-reflection, and building and maintaining client Sustainability is integral to the way we do business. relations are addressed. In 2011/2012, a total of 145 All new hires obtain general information on employees participated in the LEAD programme. sustainability during the National Introduction Day; a We achieved our ambition to establish the Deloitte one day curriculum that is attended by all new hires University on the European agenda. A European to familiarise them with Deloitte and organised on a Deloitte University allows us to better utilise successful monthly basis. Furthermore, we aim to engage our learning programme from other Deloitte member employees in concrete initiatives, actions and trainings. firms and to anchor the unique Deloitte identity across In 2011/2012 we organised 7 Fast Track sessions borders. where sustainability was addressed. Fast Track is an intensive three-day programme where teams from Table 11: Average training days / fte Deloitte, sometimes with external stakeholders, work on improving business solutions. In total 35 Deloitters Function 2011/2012 2010/2011 2009/2010 employees participated in sustainability Fast Track Audit 13.9 14.8 14.0 sessions in 2011/2012, gaining a greater insight in the Consulting 2.5 2.4 2.3 sustainability aspects of their work. FAS 6.0 5.8 6.8 Tax 8.4 6.6 8.6 We continued our specific training efforts in the area Innovation 0.9 0.7 NA of sustainability assurance. In 2011/2012, we have conducted the training sessions to train auditors in the Others 2.3 2.5 2.2 application of COS 3410N and the reporting guidelines from GRI. Additionally, we have conducted a webcast on sustainability assurance for Deloitte auditors Retention and have participated in all our regions in the Audit In November 2011, we conducted our Talent Survey. Professional Meetings, where presentations were held The survey forms part of global Deloitte research into on sustainability and the role of the auditor. the engagement of our people with the company, the way in which we support our talent and areas for improvement our people see. A total of 3,128 colleagues participated in the Talent Survey, 67 percent of the total headcount. The results show our employee engagement index stands at 70 percent. This is well above the European professional services benchmark of 64 percent as measured by Kenexa. 34 The engagement aspects our employees were most Table 12: Number of performance reviews pleased with included the respect Deloitte has for our people, the quality of our service to clients, Performance reviews 2011/2012 2010/2011 2009/2010 the possibilities for career customisation, our fresh Number of employees 4,847 4,836 4,993 approach to branding and our innovation efforts. Number of performance reviews 4,126 4,196 4,544 Points for improvement included elements such as the Percentage of performance reviews 85% 87% 91% complete execution of the As One strategy, the lack of honest two-way communication, the quality of leadership and the retention of talent. We will work The health, safety and vitality of our people is a hard to improve our scores in these areas in the coming priority for Deloitte. We run a number of programmes years. to ensure that our facilities remain a great place to work, which our internal Health Services department One of the important labour conditions is salary. We is responsible for. Due to their activities, our sick agreed to make two adjustments in this area during leave declined from 3.5 percent in 2010/2011 to 3.0 2011/2012. First of all, we noticed that our system percent in 2011/2012. In addition, Deloitte maintains for variable remuneration was generally perceived a programme aimed at the vitality of its people. In the as being unsatisfactory for our employees. We context of our vitality programme, our employees have therefore replaced this system with a new one called access to in-house and/or external fitness facilities. In ‘performance based profit sharing’, offering greater 2011/2012, around 250 Deloitters participated in our predictability to the employee that is unbiased. The fitness programme. second change addressed the fact that the internal dynamics of Deloitte no longer justify a uniform Alumni network remuneration system across the whole company. In 2011/2012, a total of 885 people including interns Recognising labour market developments, we decided left our company. Due to our succession planning and to replace this system with a new model that allows our good recruitment processes, this did not impact greater flexibility. our business continuity. We think it is important our people understand their role at Deloitte and that there is absolute clarity on There are a number of reasons for the voluntary the expectations that we have for their performance. termination of a contract, including: the termination To this end we link people targets with our business of a contract with a fixed end date, termination due to targets to increase personal motivation and lead to a change in career, and taking retirement. Involuntary more meaningful and unbiased career decisions and termination of a labour contract is generally due to appraisals. underperformance or an outsourcing of non-core activities. We believe in life time affinity and our alumni network enables us to do this, so that we can learn from shared experiences. More than 1,500 people took part in the alumni network in 2011/2012. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 35 Our impact in society Our impact reaches beyond our employees, our clients Supply chain responsibility and the environment. Many actors in society are We purchase goods and services to run our business. affected by our work and we therefore feel a deeper We aim to prevent buying goods and services that responsibility that merits a focus beyond our core jeopardise our ambition to be the Standard of business activities. As a customer, we can exercise Excellence. Some of our major contracts already a certain influence in our supply chain and where include terms related to sustainability. For example, we necessary stimulate our suppliers to enhance their maintain a strict policy on the types of cars available to own sustainability performance. Furthermore, we feel our employees (see ‘Our Ecological Footprint’) through that by sharing our knowledge and experiences in the the lease car scheme. Yet, we were so far lacking a communities in which we operate, and by supporting common framework that sets out requirements for all organisations that share our vision, we can contribute our suppliers. to a better world and life for all. In order to investigate our role and the possible solutions to fill this gap, our purchasing department has analysed our practice and has come up with advice on how to proceed. In 2012, we will adopt the Deloitte Supplier Code as a framework for our future actions. In 2012/2013 we will commence the rollout of this Code and over the coming years we will report on our progress. 36 Corporate Social Investments and the Fair than 50 Deloitte staff members very enthusiastically Chance Foundation act as “money coaches” at these schools, taking care The Fair Chance Foundation is our main platform for of one of the eight lessons (as a train-the-trainer). Our community investment. Through the Foundation, we ambition is to increase these numbers considerably support underprivileged children in the Netherlands every year. and help to improve their knowledge and skills through a range of educational initiatives. It benefited around The Fair Chance Foundation also participates in the 5.000 young people in 2011/2012. Deloitte leverages activities of JINC, an organisation that aims to help the time and expertise of its employees to run youngsters from socially and economically marginalised projects for the Foundation and also provides funding. neighbourhoods get a good start in the labour market. By engaging our own people in the Foundation’s Through the Foundation, Deloitte offers coaching, activities, we offer them great learning and personal internships and training for job interviews. Moreover, development opportunities, enhancing both emotional Deloitte contributed to the development of the intelligence and social skills. Increasingly, we are ‘Ondernemen doe je zo’ curriculum that offers students opening up the Foundation to our clients so that in their final year of primary school the opportunity to they too have access to this meaningful learning and experience what it is like to be an entrepreneur. A total development opportunity. of 50 employees from Deloitte were actively involved with the JINC program in 2011/2012. Aside from support from Deloitte, the Foundation seeks to fulfil its mission by partnering like-minded The Foundation has supported IMC in professionalising organisations that its goals. The Foundation provides their growing alumni network by helping to define people, knowledge and financial support to these their mission and vision, products, and service offering, partnerships. as well as implementing an innovative social media strategy. Our volunteers also support Young People’s Society is becoming significantly more complex Advisory Councils for children aged between thirteen financially. Money is less tangible and advertising and sixteen. Children from these Councils are involved temptations are great – especially for children. with issues that affect their neighbourhood and they Ordering through the Internet, paying by debit card receive mentoring in valuable skills such as listening, and downloading apps are all the rage. So, for young debating and decision-making. Foundation volunteers people, it’s often quite difficult to figure what the assist these children with this process and inspire consequences of one’s actions can be. Young people’s them to resolve issues. Deloitte volunteers also act as debts are on the rise: a social problem with dramatic guest teachers and coaches. A total of 30 volunteers consequences. supported the IMC Weekendschool in 2011/2012, positively affecting the lives of children. This is why Deloitte Netherlands has taken the initiative to develop a Money Exam for primary school pupils. Close The Gap is an international organisation aiming This educational package has been developed for to bridge the digital divide. It improves local knowledge pupils aged 10-12 and teaches children to manage and puts local talent to use on projects in developing their money wisely. Each participating pupil receives a countries by offering cost-efficient IT-solutions, such as Money Exam Certificate on completion of the program. refurbished computers. Deloitte Netherlands is involved A Deloitte employee initiated this program and called with Close The Gap’s activities in Uganda and made a on the expertise of the NIBUD (National Institute for cash donation of €15.000 in 2011/2012 to facilitate its Budgeting) and a Dutch publisher, Thieme Meulenhoff work. After a thorough evaluation of the work of the to further develop the NIBUD Money Exam. Fair Chance Foundation in 2011/2012, we decided to end our involvement with Jong Ondernemen as they Fair Chance Foundation donated the NIBUD Money do not focus enough on the position of underprivileged Exam to all primary schools in socio-economical children. underprivileged neighbourhoods in the Netherlands. Well over 6,500 pupils have been reached and more Sustainability Report 2011/2012 37 Impact Day was held on September 28, 2011. More than 400 Deloitte volunteers spent the day working with underprivileged children, offering training on how to prepare for job interviews, the safe use of social media, and management of personal finance (NIBUD). In 2011/2012, Deloitte spent a total €450,594 in cash on Corporate Social Investments either directly or through the Foundation. In addition, Deloitters have spent over 5,800 hours working as volunteers on projects for the Fair Chance Foundation. Table 13: Economic Value Added Component € in milions Explanation Direct economic value generated Revenues 638,0 Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets Economic value distributed Operating costs 247,0 Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties and facilitation payments Employee wages and benefits 283,3 Total monetary outflow for employees (current payments, not future commitments) Payments to providers of capital 7,9 All financial payments made to the provider of the organisation’s capital Payments to government 0,5 Gross taxes Community investments 0,5 Voluntary contributions and investment of funds in the broader community (including donations) Economic value retained Economic value generated less economic value 98,8 equity release distributed 38 Memberships and partnerships In 2012, Deloitte Netherlands launched the GRI Deloitte Netherlands fully supports the commitments Taxonomy which allows sustainability reporters made by the global DTTL organisation to the UN to report on sustainability in an XBRL format. This Global Compact (UNGC), the World Economic gives users of the report the chance to compare and Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) analyse data electronically. Additionally, the electronic Principles, the Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative format can assist the reporting organisation in the (GCCI), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We data collection phase, as XBRL can be linked with translate these wherever possible into local activities existing data information systems that the reporting and initiatives and share our knowledge and experience organisation may use. As a pilot project, this report is with other member firms. also made available on our company website Our support for these commitments enables us to: www.deloitteannualreport.nl. • Have an understanding of sustainability initiatives undertaken by other member firms and identify MVO Nederland opportunities to leverage and learn from these We are an active member of the network of Sustainably activities Responsible Organisations (MVO) in the Netherlands. • Translate the commitments made by DTTL to the UNGC, World Economic Forum’s PACI Principles and World Economic Forum – Sustainable consumption Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative and the GRI, Deloitte supports the World Economic Forum and its into activities for Deloitte Netherlands initiatives. In 2011/2012, we contributed to its Business • Set targets for Deloitte Netherlands. Society Initiative, which aims to redefine the purpose that business has in society. Based on the internal UN Global Compact (UNGC) Millennial Survey 2011, attending business leaders were The UNGC is a voluntary international network challenged to think about the societal purpose of their of corporations, UN agencies, trade unions and business rather than just the financial performance in non-governmental organisations that supports ten order to bridge the gap that currently exists in the trust universal principles. Deloitte has made a public that society has in the private sector. pledge to promote corporate responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) anti-corruption. Deloitte has joined the IIRC, an international body that aim to develop standards for integrated reporting. The Netherlands Network of the UNGC is an initiative Integrated Reporting is a new approach to corporate of Dutch business leaders that aims to further the reporting that demonstrates the linkages between contribution of private business – within its sphere an organization’s strategy, governance and financial of influence – to sustainable development. We performance and the social, environmental and actively participate in the Steering Committee of the economic context within which it operates. By Netherlands Network, take part in the yearly UNGC reinforcing these connections, Integrated Reporting can Netherlands Symposium and contribute where feasible help business to take more sustainable decisions and to projects or workshops. enable investors and other stakeholders to understand how an organization is really performing. On an This sustainability report is based on the G3 Reporting international level, Deloitte is part of both the Council Guidelines of the GRI and also serves as the annual and the Working Group. Deloitte Netherlands has communication on progress regarding the UNGC. committed to the publication of an integrated report in 2012 as part of an international pilot that involves GRI around 60 companies. We are an organisational stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and this report follows GRI G3 Guidelines for the fifth consecutive year. Based on a self-assessment and external verification by our auditor, this report classifies as a GRI A+ level report. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 39 Political activity and lobbying Deloitte does not want to be an active part of the democratic political system in The Netherlands. Deloitte does not want to unduly intervene in or influence the political decision process. However, without being part of the political debate and decision making process, we will voice our opinion in the case our interests or those of our clients are at stake. We do this either directly or through trade and industry organisations. The purpose of such interventions is always to build an informed opinion amongst policy makers that enables them to make fact-based decisions. We encourage our employees to be an active part of society. Any political activity or participation in the activities of social organizations is always voluntary and not supported by Deloitte. As certain predefined social and political activities may jeopardize our rules on independence, such activities do require notification. 40 Ecological footprint As a professional services provider, our ecological Energy and CO2 footprint is fairly limited and consists mainly of the We use energy to run our servers, to heat, cool and energy that we use and the goods that we consume. light our offices and for mobility. The energy we use Deloitte, however, feels that it is every social actor’s causes CO2 emissions. For our power supply, we obligation to use scarce resources in the most efficient purchase green electricity, meaning that there are no way and to actively search for alternatives that are indirect emissions in relation to our consumption. For less burdensome to the environment. To this end heating, when possible we use green gas. Mobility we maintain an environmental policy that is built on (lease cars, flights and public transport) is an important the hierarchy: reduce – reuse – recycle – recovery – contributor to our carbon footprint. disposal. We have appointed an energy coordinator responsible Target setting for periodically measuring the energy data of our In last year’s report, we stated that we would use offices. This can sometimes be difficult, especially in the year 2011/2012 to establish new targets for multi-tenant buildings, where it is not always clear how our ecological footprint, taking into account the much of the energy consumption should be attributed conclusions of our stakeholder dialogue. You can find to Deloitte. In 2012/2013, our energy manager will our new targets on page 22 of this report. We have start to examine the possibilities for more efficient also established new data definitions and scope for lighting solutions. We have already made changes to these targets and will monitor them on a quarterly the illuminated Deloitte signs on the buildings that basis, enabling early intervention in case we do not we occupy, which consume less and allows us to meet intermediary target values. We have conducted automatically adjust the lighting timeframes. a baseline study to determine our starting point for further improvements. The results are published in this We maintain strict design and operation criteria for report. the buildings that we rent. To this end we make active use of the framework that is offered by the Dutch Green Building Council based on Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM). In November 2011, the design for our new Amsterdam office was awarded four stars – a BREEAM excellent rating. We have begun work to achieve a BREEAM BBG (Existing Buildings and Use) for our current office in Eindhoven. Our ambition is to achieve an excellent certificate and we anticipate that we will successfully do so in 2012/2013. Lease cars are an important constituent to our carbon footprint. Deloitte maintains a green lease policy that encourages eligible employees to choose energy efficient lease cars and discourages the lease of cars that do not meet our criteria. This policy was amended as per January 1, 2012 to include stricter limits for CO2 emissions. In practice this means that we only include cars with a predetermined fuel economy on our preferred lease car list and in addition to a maximum allowed CO2 emissions of 175 grams per kilometre our lease car programme includes an environmental correction in the form of a bonus/penalty scheme. Average CO2 emission have been determined for each fuel type in each lease category. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 41 The employee receives a bonus if he opts for a company car with lower CO2 emissions. A penalty is calculated in the event of higher CO2 emissions. On an annual basis, the CO2 emissions are monitored and where possible further adjusted. Additionally, all employees are issued an NS Business Card which allows them to travel by train. The use of the NS Business Card provided for 37,398 journeys by train, accounting for a total of 2,363,060 train kilometres. Table 14: Energy consumption and related emissions 2012 2011 2010 Related emissions 2012 Housing Total electricity consumption 13,865,809 kWh 15,442,108 kWh 15,048,366 kWh 0 tonnes CO2 Specific electricity consumption 125,3 kWh/m2 134.9 kWh/m2 129 kWh/m2 Total thermal energy consumption 78,018 GJ n/a n/a 0 tonnes CO2 Specific thermal energy consumption 0.74 GJ/m2 n/a n/a Mobility Total kilometres driven by lease cars 88,445,227 km 93,624,687 km 103,146,920 km Number of lease cars 2,957 3,231 3,448 Kilometres/lease car 29,910 28,977 29,915 Total petrol consumption 4,760,122 litres 5,618,675 litres 5.653,654 litres 13,233 tonnes CO2 Total diesel consumption 1,482,539 litres 983,455 litres 1,121,604 litres 4,648 tonnes CO2 Total LPG consumption 4,044 litres 23,694 litres 10,833 litres 8 tonnes CO2 Total kilometres travelled by air 27,345,619 km 19,506,864 km 12,817,728 km 3,686 tonnes CO2 Miles by air per FTE 6,112 km 4,362 km 2,772 km Total kilometres travelled by train 2,363,060 km 2,675,287 km 2,770,001 km 83 tonnes CO2 Train kilometres/FTE 528 km 598 km 599 km Total kilometres by taxi 2,947 km 7,241 km 3,371 km 1 tonnes CO2 Taxi kilometres/FTE 0.7 km 1.6 km 0.7 km Totals Total direct energy consumption 231,167 GJ n/a n/a 17,888 tonnes CO2 Total CO2 emissions 21,658 tonnes CO2 n/a n/a Because this is the first time we have calculated the CO2 figures using the methodology as described in Annex II, CO2 data is not comparable to data published in previous years 42 Other impacts We only use FSC certified paper for printing and in 2011/2012 reduced the amount of paper we used to 299,900 kilograms, from 315,901 kilograms in 2010/2011. Office waste is categorised as the follows to allow for recycling: • Paper • Swill (such as food remains) • Cardboard • Small hazardous waste (such as batteries) • Refuse (remaining after the separation of recyclable elements) Paper, refuse and cardboard are collected on every office floor. Swill and small hazardous waste are collected centrally per office building. Table 15: Other environmental indicators 2012 2011 2010 Total water 27,037m3 n/a n/a consumption Specific water 6.0 m3 n/a n/a consumption Total paper 299,900 kg 315,901 kg 373,183 kg consumption Paper 67.0 kg 70.6 kg 80.7 kg consumption/FTE Total collected 475,608 kg n/a n/a waste Total waste 278,625 kg n/a n/a collected for recycling Waste recycling % 59% n/a n/a Hazardous waste 531 kg n/a n/a Sustainability Report 2011/2012 43 CASE: Unoccupied office space in Primarily, we examined the possibilities of existing The Netherlands buildings on the market. At the time, none of the The Netherlands faces an increasing number of offices offices on the market for rent met our functional that are not occupied. This has a number of reasons: requirements. For this reason, we looked into the 1. The economic situation and outlook causes possibilities of a new development. In July 2010, after companies and other organisations to focus on three years of preparation, we formally committed costs. Redundancies as a result of this focus lead to ourselves to the development of a new office building a reduced demand for office space; on the Amsterdam Zuid-As. This development is led by 2. Developments in ICT offer greater flexibility and leading real estate development company OVG. allow office employees to work from any given location, including their homes; As a part of society, Deloitte shares the opinion 3. There has been a historical disconnect between the that unoccupied offices are both a social and an development of new office space and the growth in environmental problem. Unoccupied offices have a the number of office jobs; negative impact on the quality of life in the areas that 4. Many offices no longer meet the requirements of they are situated in and constitute waste from an today in terms of operating costs, architecture, environmental viewpoint. interior functionality, ecological footprint and mobility. In February 2012, a team from Deloitte examined possibilities for our company to be part of the Currently, a total of over 7 million m2 of office space in solution to the problem of unoccupied office space The Netherlands is unoccupied of which 2 million m2 is in The Netherlands. We found that as a tenant, our located in the Amsterdam area. possibilities to do something concrete are fairly limited. The complexity of the problem calls for an approach Deloitte has a policy of not owning office buildings, where all stakeholders (government, developers, but renting the required space. This allows for greater architects, builders, investors and tenants) participate flexibility when market circumstances require us to in defining and executing solutions. To a large extent, expand or decrease our business. In 2005, Deloitte such an approach already exists in The Netherlands and decided to reduce the number of offices from 45 to 20 various initiatives concerning alternative use (e.g. for now. For the two offices in the Amsterdam area, the housing or urban farming) of unoccupied office space decision was taken to move them to one single office are presently under way. However, in our opinion the to promote interdisciplinary cooperation between the alternative use of existing buildings is not a solution various service lines within Deloitte. A set of functional that can be applied to all the unoccupied buildings due requirements was defined for the relocation. These to their location or design. Over the coming years, in included among other: order to reduce the surplus in available space, many • Available space of 35,000 m2 Net Rentable Area buildings will need to be demolished. (available upon termination of our current rental obligations) On 27 June 2012, a large group of organisations, • Good access by public transport, bicycle and car representing governments and relevant private sector • BREEAM certification organisations (a.o. investors and developers) signed an • Large floor sizes that allow for cross functional agreement: Approach to the Reduction of Unoccupied informal communication Offices. This initiative aims to reduce the amount of • A1 profile, quality of life and agility that are suitable unoccupied office space in The Netherlands to a level to our clients, our employees and our market of 5% in the coming ten years. As part of the solution, ambitions the demolition of office buildings that cannot be put to an alternative use is addressed. Deloitte welcomes this broad initiative and is assessing how its specific expertise in the real estate sector can be put to use in making this a success. 44 Annex I: Assurance Report To: Shareholders, Supervisory Board and Executive Management’s responsibility Board of Deloitte Holding B.V. Management is responsible for the preparation of the report and the information therein in accordance Engagement with the criteria mentioned above. This responsibility We have performed an assurance engagement in includes designing, implementing and maintaining accordance with Standard 3410, ‘Assurance standard internal control relevant to the preparation of relating to sustainability reports’. Our assurance a sustainability report that is free of material engagement aimed to obtain reasonable assurance that misstatements, selecting and applying appropriate the information in the sustainability report 2011/2012 reporting policies that include the GRI reporting of Deloitte Holding B.V. is, in all material respects, a principles and using measurement methods and reliable and adequate representation of the policy, estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. activities, events and performance with respect to The choices made by management, the scope of sustainability during 2011/2012. Our engagement did this report and the reporting policy, including any not include any quantitative of qualitative information inherent limitations that could affect the reliability of relating to future information such as estimates, information, are set out on page five of the report. expectations or targets, or their achievability. Auditor’s responsibility Criteria Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with regard We assessed the sustainability report 2011/2012 to the sustainability report based on the engagement against the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) described above. An audit is aimed at obtaining a published by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Guide reasonable level of assurance for our conclusions. We to sustainability reporting of the Dutch Accounting performed our procedures in accordance with Dutch Standards Board (Raad voor de Jaarverslaggeving) and law and the requirements set out therein with respect Deloitte Holding B.V.’s own reporting policies. We to the independence of assurance team members. believe that these criteria are suitable for our assurance engagement. Sustainability Report 2011/2012 45 We have performed all the procedures deemed Conclusions necessary to obtain the evidence that is sufficient and Based on our procedures performed to obtain a appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Our reasonable assurance and taking into account the main procedures were: choices made by Deloitte Holding B.V. as reflected in • Assessing the acceptability and consistent the reporting policy, we believe that the information application of the reporting principles used, and in the sustainability report 2011/2012 of Deloitte the significant estimates and calculations made in Holding B.V., in all material respects, provides a reliable preparing the sustainability report 2011/2012. and sufficient representation of the policy, activities, • Assessing whether all relevant topics have been events and performance with respect to sustainability addressed. during 2011/2012, in accordance with the Sustainability • Auditing the reliability of the information in the Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting sustainability report 2011/2012 of Deloitte Holding Initiative, the Guide to sustainability reporting of the B.V. by: Dutch Accounting Standards Board (Raad voor de – obtaining an understanding of the sector and Jaarverslaggeving) and the documented reporting the relevant sustainability issues specific for the policy of Deloitte Holding B.V. organisation; – obtaining an understanding of the design and operation of the systems and methods used to Zwolle, July 18, 2012 collect and process the reported information, including the consolidation process; – identifying inherent risks relating to the reliability Ernst & Young Accountants LLP of the information and investigating the extent to which these risks are limited by internal controls; – assessing the concerning internal controls for their operating effectiveness, insofar as this was relevant for our assurance engagement; D.A. de Waard – perform based on a risk analysis further procedures related to the quantitative and descriptive information in the report, by a combination of: – interviews with relevant staff on strategy, policy, communication and management combined with document analysis to substantiate the related descriptive information in the report; – quantitative analyses to assess the quantitative data; – reconciliations with audited financial statements and underlying environmental and social data systems; – detailed checks of the data themselves on a test basis, using internal and external sources of information to substantiate the reliability of the information provided; – evaluating the sufficiency of the sustainability report 2011/2012 of Deloitte Holding B.V. and its overall presentation against the criteria mentioned above. 46 Annex II: Basis of reporting The information presented in this report is collected from As we do not separately monitor business trips, commuting and privat use of lease various online and offline, internal and external resources. cars, our data includes all these elements In many cases, interviews with partners and employees took place in order to write the text. For the data, a variety For the conversion of fuel consumption to MJ, we used the following conversions of systems were used, including but not limited to our SAP as mentioned in the GRI protocol for EN3, except in the case of LPG where we systems, the Runbook scenario for sustainability that is have opted for a locally accepted conversion value: part of our quality controls and specific project data. Natural gas: caloric value per m3 is 39,01 MJ Targets Petrol: caloric value per litre is 32.256 MJ The year 2011/2012 was a transitional year in the sense Diesel: caloric vale per litre is 35.964 MJ that there were no targets to pursue. The 2016 targets LPG: caloric value per litre is 24 MJ that are included in this report, were compiled with the input from the responsible functional departments and ultimately approved by our Executive Board. Total kilometres travelled by plane are obtained from our travel agents. For the calculation of the related CO2 emissions are calculated using the conversion factors Our people as provided by DEFRA (www.defra.gov.uk) using a classification that distinguishes Absentee rate is calculated by dividing the number economy, premium economy, business class and first class and categorises air travel in of absentee days including weekends by the total domestic, short-haul international and long-haul international flights. For the various employee population (in FTEs) in one year. subgroups, the following CO2 conversions are used Ecological footprint Domestic average: 0.16313 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger The data included in the ecological footprint chapter of Short-haul international average: 0.09589 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger this report is gathered through a number of means: Short-haul international economy class: 0.09138 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger Total electricity consumption is measured through Short-haul international business class: 0.13707 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger metering in our offices. In multi-tenant buildings the Long-haul international average: 0.11037 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger electricity consumption of public spaces is allocated Long-haul international economy class: 0.08057 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger on the basis of the relative share of the surface we Long-haul international premium economy class: 0.12891 kg CO2/kilometre per rent in such buildings. As all occupied offices now passenger have individual metering, the figures included for Long-haul international business class: 0.23365 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger 2011/2012 have much greater accuracy than the Long-haul-international first class: 0.32227 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger figures for previous years and cannot be compared In single tenant buildings, the total gas consumption The total kilometres travelled by train are obtained from our supplier Nederlandse is obtained by reading the available gas meters. In Spoorwegen. For the calculation of related CO2 emissions, we used a conversion multi-tenant buildings, gas consumption is allocated factor of 0.035 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger as published by Nederlandse on the basis of occupied office space by Deloitte Spoorwegen In buildings where Deloitte has full control, we purchase green electricity and gas. For other Taxi kilometres are gathered through expense reports. For the conversion of buildings, CO2 emissions are offset by purchasing kilometres to tonnes of CO2 we have used the conversion factor as published green certificates so that total CO2 emissions are by SKAO for the average of diesel engine cars. This figure is 0.205 kg/driven zero. kilometre. Total kilometres driven by lease cars as well as the number of lease cars in use are obtained from our In multitenant buildings, we do not have individual metering for water. This supplier means that water consumption in such building is attributed on the basis of the Total litres of petrol, diesel and LPG are obtained surface that Deloitte has in use from our supplier. For conversion of petrol to CO2 emissions we used the conversions as published by SKAO (www.skao.nl): Petrol: 1 litre equals 2.78 kilogrammes CO2 Diesel: 1 litre equals 3.135 kilogrammes CO2 LPG: 1 litre equals 1.86 kilogrammes CO2 Sustainability Report 2011/2012 47 Annex III: GRI Table GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external reference GRI A+ 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionLetter from the Executive Board 4 maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Sustainability in Deloitte, strategy 18-19 opportunities. 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation About this report, scope 10 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services About Deloitte, our services; 14 www.deloitte.nl 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Annual Report, governance 20-23 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Back cover 56 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation About this report, scope 10 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report, governance 20-23 2.7 Markets served About Deloitte, our services 14 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Annual Report 5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report 20-23 regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period www.deloitte.nl 10 3. Report parametres 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for About this report 10 information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Our previous report was published on 22 July 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this report 10 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Letter from the Executive Board 4 report of its contents 3.5 Process for defining report content About this report, materiality 10 3.6 Boundary of the report About this report, scope 10 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or About this report, scope 10 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, About this report, scope 10 subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques Annex II Reporting basis 47 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements About this report, restatement of 12 figures 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Annex II Reporting basis 47 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Annex III GRI table 48-54 Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to About this report, reliability 12 seeking external assurance for the report 48 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or external reference GRI A+ 4. Governance, commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Sustainability in Deloitte, governance 14 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Sustainability in Deloitte, governance 14 governance body is also an Executive Officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board Not applicable as Deloitte does not have a structure, state the number of members of the unitary board structure highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Annual Report, governance 20-23 to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members Annual Report, other notes to the 58 of the highest governance body, senior managers financial statements and executives (including departure arrangements) Transparency Report 2011/2012 and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance About Deloitte, business process 17 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications Governance 20 and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission About Deloitte, shared values and 15 or values, codes of conduct, and principles ethical principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Sustainability in Deloitte, governance 14 for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Annual report 22 governance body’s own performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Annual report, risk management 18-19 precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, Our impact in society, memberships 39 environmental, and social charters, principles, and partnerships or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Our impact in society, memberships 39 and partnerships 4.14 List of stakeholder groups About this report, materiality 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of About this report, materiality 10 stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement About this report, continuous 10/12 stakeholder engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been About this report, materiality 11 raised through stakeholder engagement Sustainability Report 2011/2012 49 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to Page Additional comments or external reference GRI A+ disclosure in report Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Yes Our impact in society, 38 including revenues, operating costs, employee Corporate social compensation, donations and other community investments and the investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Fair Chance Foundation providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Yes Annual Report, risk 18-19 No material risks related to climate change have for the organisation’s activities due to climate change management been identified in the risk assessment performed by the RRL. Specific risks related to our services are assessed as part of an ongoing key initiative ‘service impact assessment’. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan Yes Annual Report 35 obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Yes In 2011/2012, Deloitte received €269,114 in government subsidies EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared No Not material, as the ratio between standard n/a add. to local minimum wage at significant locations of entry level wage and local minimum wage is not operation a relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. The remuneration system is based on function level and performance. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyYes Our impact in society, 36 based suppliers at significant locations of operation supply chain responsi­bility EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Yes Our people, diversity 32 management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Yes Our impact in society, 37-38 and services provided primarily for public benefit through Corporate social commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement investments and the Fair Chance Foundation EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Yes Serving our clients 24 add. economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Yes Ecological footprint, 43 No raw, associated process or packaging other impacts materials are relevant to Deloitte services and products. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input No Not material, as this percentage is not significant materials for materials used considered significant, please refer to EN1. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Yes Ecological footprint, 42 energy and CO2 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Yes Ecological footprint, 42 energy and CO2 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Yes Ecological footprint, 41/42 add. improvements energy and CO2 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable Yes Ecological footprint, 47 add. energy based products and services, and reductions in energy and CO2 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Yes Ecological footprint, 42 add. reductions achieved energy and CO2 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Yes Ecological footprint, 43 All water used by Deloitte comes from the other impacts municipal grid EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of No Not applicable, as no water is directly withdrawn add. water or discharged by Deloitte. 50 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to Page Additional comments or external reference GRI A+ disclosure in report EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and No Not reported, as no water is directly withdrawn n/a add. reused or discharged by Deloitte. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed No Not applicable, as Deloitte does not own, lease in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high or manage land in or adjacent to protected areas biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, No Not material, as Deloitte services and products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas have no direct impact on biodiversity. of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored. No Not applicable, as Deloitte does not own, lease n/a add. or manage land in or adjacent to protected areas EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for No Not applicable as Deloitte does not have n/a add. managing impacts on biodiversity significant direct impact on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national No Not applicable as Deloitte does not have n/a add. conservation list species with habitats in areas affected significant direct impact on biodiversity by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Yes Ecological footprint, 42 weight energy and CO2 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by No Not applicable as no such emmisions occur weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Yes Ecological footprint, 11/42 add. reductions achieved energy and CO2 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight No Not material, as Deloitte does not have significant emission levels of ozone depleting substances. EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and No Not material, as Deloitte does not have weight significant NO, SO or other emissions. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination No Not applicable, as no water is directly withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Yes Ecological footprint, 43 other impacts EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No Not material, as no significant volumes of hazardeous substances are processed by Deloitte EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated No Not applicable, as no significant volumes of n/a add. waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel hazardeous substances are processed by Deloitte Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of No Not applicable, as no water is directly withdrawn add. water bodies and related habitats significantly affected or discharged by Deloitte. by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Yes Serving our clients, 24-25 and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging No Not applicable, as Deloitte services and products materials that are reclaimed by category do not involve packaging material EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number No Not applicable as no such fines were received of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Sustainability Report 2011/2012 51 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to Page Additional comments or external reference GRI A+ disclosure in report EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Yes Ecological footprint, 42 Only transporting members of the workforce is add. products and other goods and materials used for the energy and CO2 applicable to Deloitte operations organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and No Not available, as expenditures or investments n/a add. investments by type for protection are not specifically recorded and tracked. Initiatives to reduce Ecological footprint are disclosed under EN26 Human rights performance indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment No Not reported, as human rights aspects are agreements that include human rights clauses or that not directly relevant to operations in the have undergone human rights screening Netherlands. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Yes Our impact in 36 We are in the process of adopting a supplier have undergone screening on human rights and actions society, supply chain code. No screening has taken place in preparing taken responsibility this code HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and No Not reported, as human rights aspects are not n/a add. procedures concerning aspects of human rights that directly relevant to operations. are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Yes Our people, business 31-32 taken ethics HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise No Not material, as no related significant risks apply freedom of association and collective bargaining may to Deloitte’s direct operations be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for No Not material, as no related significant risks apply incidents of child labour, and measures taken to to Deloitte’s direct operations contribute to the elimination of child labour. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for No Not material, as no related significant risks apply incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to Deloitte’s direct operations to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the No Not material, as no related significant risks apply n/a add. organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects to Deloitte’s direct operations of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of No Not reported as violations of rights of indigenous n/a add. indigenous people and actions taken people is not applicable to operations in the Netherlands Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Yes Our people 33 contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Yes Our people, diversity 33 group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not No Not material, as the indicator is no relevant n/a add. provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major steering instrument for Deloitte. The basic operations benefits provided to all employees are in compliance with Dutch laws and regulations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective No Not material, as Deloitte makes only collective bargaining agreements agreements that are valid for all employees. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational No Not material, as standard notice period(s) are in changes, including whether it is specified in collective compliance with Dutch law and legislation and agreements included in standard employment contracts. 52 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to Page Additional comments or external reference GRI A+ disclosure in report LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint No Not material, as health and safety monitoring n/a add. management–worker health and safety committees that and advisory is largely conducted in collaboration help monitor and advise on occupational health and with our external service providers. safety programmes LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Yes Our people, retention 35 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and Yes Our people, retention 35 risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements No Not applicable as Deloitte has no formal n/a add. with trade unions agreements with trade unions. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Yes Our people, people 34 employee category development LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Yes Our people, people 34 add. that support the continued employability of employees development and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Yes Our people, retention 35 add. and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Yes Our people, diversity 32-33 employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee No Not material, as the ratio between the salaries category of men and women is not a relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. The remuneration system is based on function level and performance. Product responsibility performance indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Yes Serving our clients 25 In general, our services do not directly affect products and services are assessed for improvement, the health and safety of our clients. However, and percentage of significant products and services in some cases we will specifically address categories subject to such procedures health and safety aspects as part of specific sustainability engagements PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with No Proprietary information. No related n/a add. regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and administrative or judicial cases have been safety impacts of products and services during their life brought against the organisation resulting in cycle, by type of outcomes significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. PR3 Type of product and service information required by No Not material, as no regulations or codes are procedures and percentage of significant products and applicable to the information and labeling of services subject to such information requirements Deloitte services with respect to sustainability impacts. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with No Not material, as no regulations or codes are n/a add. regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and applicable to the information and labeling of service information and labelling, by type of outcomes Deloitte services with respect to sustainability impacts. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Yes About Deloitte, 17 n/a add. results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction business process PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and Yes About Deloitte, 16 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, business process including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Sustainability Report 2011/2012 53 GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to Page Additional comments or external reference GRI A+ disclosure in report PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with No Proprietary information. No related n/a add. regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing administrative or judicial cases have been communications, including advertising, promotion, and brought against the organisation resulting in sponsorship by type of outcome significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding No Proprietary information. An integral security n/a add. breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer policy and corresponding governance process is data in place to ensure customer privacy. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance No Proprietary information. No related with laws and regulations concerning the provision and administrative or judicial cases have been use of products and services brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. Society performance indicators SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes No Not material, as no significant direct societal and practices that assess and manage the impacts impacts are relevant to the communities in of operations on communities, including entering, which Deloitte operates. The indicator is not operating, and exiting a relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. Indirect impacts of our services are assessed as part of an ongoing key initiative ‘service impact assessment’, refer to page 22 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed No Not material as corruption risks in The for risks related to corruption Netherlands are relatively low SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s antiYes Our people, business 31-32 Due to the relatively low risk, we do not provide corruption policies and procedures ethics specific training on anti-corruption policy: it is part of our overall Code of Conduct training. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption No Proprietary information. No related administrative or judicial cases have been brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance to laws and regulations. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy No Not material, as no publicly-expressed positions development and lobbying can be held that could affect the integrity of the practice. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to No Not applicable, as our charity related n/a add. political parties, politicians, and related institutions by contributions focus on educational purposes country only. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive No Proprietary information. No related n/a add. behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their administrative or judicial cases have been outcomes brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance to such laws and regulations. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Yes In 2011/2012 we received a fine amounting to non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws €54,450 from the AFM. In addition, the Dutch and regulations Association of Share Owners (VEB) filed a legal claim against Deloitte for alleged breach of the accountancy regulations in the Ahold fraud *0 The materiality of the indicators has been determined through an engagement process of internal stakeholders and is validated by our stakeholder dialogue process as described in this report. 54 Our vision on sustainability is to be the Standard of Excellence in making Deloitte and its clients sustainable for the future. Deloitte Wilhelminakade 1 Postbus 2031 3000 CA Rotterdam Nederland www.deloitte.nl Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and deep local expertise to help clients succeed wherever they operate. Deloitte’s approximately 195.000 professionals are committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This publication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication. © 2012 Deloitte The Netherlands Designed and produced by Communications at Deloitte, Rotterdam.
