>> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report ArcelorMittal Brasil Looking forward to tomorrow’s steel >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Summary VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY............................................... 3 About the Report ............................................................. 4 Message from Management.......................................... 5 Our identity and operation............................................... 6 Organization profile...........................................................7 TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE........................................... 8 Case: Our good conduct policy....................................... 9 Corporate Governance................................................... 10 Mission, Vision, Values.................................................... 10 Stakeholders map............................................................11 Commitments and relationships.................................... 12 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE.............................................. 14 Case: Working this way is much better.......................... 15 People management...................................................... 16 Professional development.............................................. 17 Compensation policy...................................................... 18 Health and safety............................................................ 19 MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE............................... 24 Case: Efficient waste management............................... 25 Environmental management......................................... 26 Material........................................................................... 27 Waste.............................................................................. 28 Water resources............................................................. 32 Effluent............................................................................ 34 Energy management..................................................... 35 Emissions........................................................................ 37 Biodiversity...................................................................... 40 Environmental education............................................... 47 Responsibility on the product......................................... 48 ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES..................................... 51 Case: Top priority............................................................52 Social responsibility........................................................ 53 Community relations...................................................... 56 Art and culture................................................................ 58 Social promotion............................................................. 59 Value generation............................................................ 60 Commitment to society.................................................. 62 GRI Index ........................................................................ 63 Glossary.......................................................................... 67 Awards and recognition................................................ 70 Credits.............................................................................. 71 Summary 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 2 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES With a people-oriented corporate culture, ArcelorMittal Brasil operates in all dimensions of sustainability in order to meet the company’s strategy of ongoing growth. VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY In this chapter >> About this Report >> Message from the President >> Organization Profile >> Our identity and activity VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 3 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES ABOUT THE REPORT Evaluation survey, conducted every two years, enable the Company to outline ArcelorMittal Brasil believes that the strategies and action plans in order to engagement of all publics that relates improve the relationship with this type to the company is extremely important of stakeholder. both for the construction of corporate The ArcelorMittal Brasil sustainability social areas, as well as corporate strategy, as to the achievement of reports are written on the basis of governance practices, strategic market leadership. By this reason, Distribution the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) vision and relationship actions the company doesn’t make only guidelines. The G3 is the updated oriented to company’s stakeholders systematic engagement meetings As in the previous editions, the 2010 version with more advanced .The information provided is under with its stakeholders, but also does Sustainability Report is presented in guidelines, which follows the world the responsibility of the managers many actions which includes since electronic version only, available to all standard. The presentation of of the Company´s different areas. punctual meetings, conduction or interested parties on the Company indicators defined by the GRI reflects participation in engagement events, webpage (www.arcelormittal.com.br). the process of ongoing learning and The photos used in the publication until the use of management tools. Such practice, in addition to being in the degree of maturity achieved depict the reality and represent An example is the Organizational accordance with its policy of rational by the areas and units comprising the daily activities of the Company Climate Survey, which involves all the use of resources, increases the scope ArcelorMittal Brasil. and its stakeholders. Similarly, the employees of ArcelorMittal Brasil. and ease of access to information. stories chosen for the opening of each chapter show the impact on The Climate Survey is an important Scope the stakeholders of the actions tool for the construction of a healthy and programs developed by and exciting work environment. The The 2010 Report presents the results ArcelorMittal Brasil in 2010. collected information works as a of the Brazilian units in the flat and thermometer of the satisfaction of long steel segments. Data refers to one of its main stakeholders, the the economic, environmental and employees. The results of this type of VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 4 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Message from Management A Company that is a part of the largest steelmaking to maintain and improve our main control indicators, is applicable to all the companies in the Group, and group in the world, responsible for leading the major like the 98% rate of industrial water recirculation which seeks to offer our employees a uniform guide transformations that the steel industry is undergoing, recorded at the largest of our units. This rate reached on how to respect, protect and promote human rights has the mission to balance the economic, social the level of 99% in Monlevade and Juiz de Fora, a in operations and negotiations. Therefore, the path and environmental dimensions of its activities. An highlight in the Brazilian steelmaking industry. taken by ArcelorMittal Brasil throughout 2010 showed organization like ArcelorMittal Brasil is not just a a continuity of good practices and initiatives, with steelmaker; its product distributes wealth to its We are also a reference in industrial waste excellent results and a growing trend in recent months, stakeholders, contributes to preserving our ecosystems, management, for which reuse reached the rate of 93%, which allows us to forecast a more encouraging generates investments in people and in their talent, and well above the industry average, which is about 80%. outlook for the coming years, whether based on the values diversity. In 2010, ArcelorMittal Juiz de Fora became the first unit solid macroeconomic foundation that Brazil offers us, in the Group throughout the world to standardize the or the perspective of a rhythm of sustainable economic A synthesis of the efforts that the Company made in operation of the solid waste and byproduct industrial growth, or as a result of favorable factors like the 2010 to stay on the route of sustainable development management processes through the use of SAP. At investments related to the World Cup in 2014 and the can be read in the pages of this Report. The ArcelorMittal Tubarão, management of this area has Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. international economic scenario brought some strategic importance not just in the development of adversities, but they were overcome with creativity studies, research and new markets, but also in the use We already have overcome another stage in the and coordinated activity. Once again, we are working of co-products in a socio-environmental cooperation process of building a sustainable steelmaking process, sustained by the values that characterize our Company program. This is the case of Revsol®, used in but we know that this is a commitment that must and that make a differentiated organization: strong covering 257 kilometers of urban and rural roads in 11 be permanently renewed with the support of all our internal leadership, quality in all management areas municipalities in the state of Espírito Santo, in 2010. stakeholders, specially, the shareholders and clients, and sustainability in its multiple aspects, including whom we thank for the trust they have placed in us, priority for the health and safety of collaborators, Today we have a mature environmental management and with the effort and dedication of our employees, environmental controls and the development of people system that is recognized outside the Company, as the most valuable asset we have. and communities. shown by our obtaining the Ecological Seal of the Falcão Bauer Institute of Quality – another important The Management Confirming this conduct are the results obtained in the achievement in 2010, for long steel from five units, safety area, like the 10 years without lost time accidents which proves that our product has a high recycling rate. at the BMB unit in Itaúna and the five years without a similar event at the Guilman-Amorim Hydroelectric Also worthy of mention are the initiatives adopted to Plant. The flat steel sector also stood out due for a reduce energy consumption and pollution emissions, year without lost time accidents in Tubarão and three like the replacement in Monlevade, of Liquefied years without similar accidents in Vega. This increases Petroleum Gas (LPG), petroleum based fuel oil and our conviction that the goal of Zero Accidents is not a compressed natural gas, by natural gas (NG), and a utopia, but a possibility, one that can be achieved. A significant reduction in methane generation at the Coal guideline now reinforced by the Golden Health and Production Units (UPCs) of ArcelorMittal BioFlorestas, as Safety Rules launches worldwide and enthusiastically well as the inventory of emissions of Greenhouse Gases embraced by the Brazilian units. (GHG), prepared to identify all sources of gas emissions that compromise the environment. In the environmental area, the Company did not fail to invest to improve its management: R$ 81.5 million, 28% Last but not least, we should emphasize the launch in more than the previous year. This investment was sued 2010 of the ArcelorMittal Human Rights Policy, which VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY 2010 Sustainability Report• ArcelorMittal Brasil 5 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Our identity and operation ArcelorMittal Brasil is one of the main companies of the year. The unit has a distinctive infrastructure, which provides year. The production of rolled products also registered a growth, ArcelorMittal Group in the world. The Company operates in advantageous conditions both for the production and its reaching 25.8 million tons, an increase of 27.7% as compared the markets of long and flat steel products, wire drawing, customers supply in Brazil and abroad. With a view to meeting to 2009 figures. Brazil’s figures for apparent steel consumption reforestation and production of renewable solid bio-reducer the market, ArcelorMittal Tubarão has an excellent port complex, achieved the record of 26.6 million tons, a record in the history of (charcoal), services and energy generation, in addition to having which comprises the Praia Mole Steel Product Terminal, only eight the country and a direct result of the good performance of Gross its own organizations in the fields of information technology and kilometers from the industrial plant, a barge terminal for shipment Domestic Product (GDP), which increased 7.5% in 2010. social responsibility. Its corporate headquarters are located in of rolled products, and a well equipped rail/road network. Belo Horizonte (MG). With regard to domestic sales, the accumulated result in 2010 ArcelorMittal Vega is an industrial unit specialized in processing was 21.1 million tons, a growth of 29.2% in relation to 2009. The With 29 industrial units and operations in five countries of Central flat steel. This unit is provided with the latest equipment and exports of steel products in 2010 totaled 9 million tons and US$ and South Americas: Brazil, Argentina, Costa Rica, Trinidad & cutting-edge technology for pickling, cold rolling and galvanizing 5.8 billion in revenue, representing an increase of 4.1% in volume Tobago and Venezuela, the company stands out in all markets of steel coils. The unit is the result of greater private investments and 22.8% in value as compared to 2009. where it operates, and is governed by the commitment to in Santa Catarina: US$ 580 million. Its production capacity is 1.4 investing in innovation, knowledge and technology to find proper million tons per year of products. In operation since July 2003, the On the other hand, the Brazilian steelmaking segment faced solutions to sustainability challenges. plant processes hot-rolled coils supplied by ArcelorMittal Tubarão strong competition from imported goods, caused mainly by Real and transported by river barges, turning them into galvanized devaluation against Dollar. A total of 5.9 million tons of steel (US$ ArcelorMittal Brasil has the units of ArcelorMittal Long Steel and and cold-rolled coils for the following segments: automotive, 5.5 billion) were imported in 2010, 154.2% above the volume ArcelorMittal Flat Steel. The presence of the Company is significant household appliances, civil construction, tubes and profiles, imported last year. However, the increase in prices abroad and in the market of long (rolled and drawn) and flat (steel slabs distribution, packaging, among others. the maintenance of steel prices in the domestic market indicate a and rolled) products, producing steels of unique quality for a reversion of this scenario in 2011. number of applications — automotive, appliances, packaging, civil construction and shipbuilding, among others. ArcelorMittal Performance of the sector The market is expected to maintain its evolution in 2011, following Brasil is the greatest steel producer in Latin America, with installed the growth of sectors that use steel as raw material, namely: capacity for 15 million tons/year. After world crisis, a recovery of the steelmaking industry was the automotive industry – which projects a new production expected to take place in 2010. While this did in fact occur, it record – the household appliance sector and civil construction. The long steel segment maintains a set of steelmaking and wire was in a slow and uncertain manner. Global economic growth Infrastructure works related to the 2014 World Cup and 2016 drawing mills in Brazil (Minas Gerais, São Paulo, Espírito Santo is driven by the emerging markets. In the United States, some Olympic Games shall also boost the sector. and Bahia), Argentina (Acindar) and Costa Rica (ArcelorMittal degree of recovery took place after the extension of tax cuts and Costa Rica), and is also responsible for ArcelorMittal Point Lisas, additional stimulus, introduced late in 2009. In Europe, recovery in Trinidad and Tobago. With a 6.5 million tons/year installed followed the lead of Germany`s performance, which has positively capacity of rolled steel and 1.55 million tons of drawn products, impacted neighboring contries. the Company stands out with the most complete line of products for civil construction. It is amongst the top three global producers According to the World Steel Association, total global production of wire rod for steel cord, a product used in tire reinforcement, of crude steel reached a record of 1.4 billion tons in 2010, but and a leading producer of wire for application in industry and upon a closer look at the statistics, all the demand growth is agribusiness. coming mainly from China. Over there, the demand was 37% above 2007 (pre-crisis levels), while the rest of world was still 10% The flat steel segment brings together the following units: below 2007. Tubarão in Espírito Santo and Vega in Santa Catarina. The former is a producer of flat steels, specialized in high-quality products In Brazil, the results were positive. Data from the Brazilian Steel applied in the manufacture of consumer goods used in people’s Institute (Instituto Aço Brasil IABr) shows that the production day-to-day lives. It produces plates and hot-rolled coils at its of crude steel achieved the level of 32.8 million tons, which Serra unit, in Espírito Santo, with capacity for 7.5 million tons/ represented an increase of 23.8% in relation to the previous VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 6 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Profile of organization ArcelorMittal BioFlorestas Location: Zona da Mata, Centroin Brazil Oeste, Vale do Rio Doce, Vale do Jequitinhonha, in Minas Gerais, and Sul da Bahia Corporate Center Belgo Bekaert Arames (BBA), Main Offices of ArcelorMittal Brasil, Belgo Bekaert Artefatos de ArcelorMittal Aços Longos and Arames (BMB) and Belgo ArcelorMittal BioFlorestas Bekaert Nordeste (BBN) Location: Belo Horizonte Location: Contagem, Sabará, Vespasiano e Itaúna, in Minas Gerais; Osasco and Hortolândia, in ArcelorMittal Systems São Paulo; and Feira de Santana, Location: Belo Horizonte (MG) in Bahia. ArcelorMittal Serra Azul Location: Itatiaiuçu (MG) ArcelorMittal Brasil Foundation ArcelorMittal Itaúna Location: Belo Horizonte (MG) Location: Itaúna (MG) ArcelorMittal Perfilor Location: Contagem (MG), Lorena ArcelorMittal Monlevade and São Paulo (SP) Location: João Monlevade (MG) Andrade Mine Location: Bela Vista de Minas ArcelorMittal Piracicaba (MG) Location: Piracicaba (SP) ArcelorMittal São Paulo Location: São Paulo (SP) Guilman-Amorim Hydroelectric Plant Location: Antônio Dias ArcelorMittal Gonvarri Location: Hortolândia/Campinas (SP) and Araucária (PR) ArcelorMittal Tubarão Location: Serra (ES) ArcelorMittal Manchester ArcelorMittal Sabará Location: Contagem (MG) and Location: Sabará (MG) Guarulhos (SP) ArcelorMittal Cariacica Location: Cariacica (ES) Long ArcelorMittal Vega ArcelorMittal Juiz de Fora Flat Location: São Francisco do Location: Juiz de Fora (MG) Sul (SC) Mining, Services, Energy, Social Responsibility, and Corporate VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 7 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Ethics, quality and transparency of its management are the principles which govern the ArcelorMittal Brasil governance model, which is structured in such a way to understand the impacts, anticipate their consequences, and manage risks in all operations. TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE in this chapter >> Up to date with good conduct >> Mission, Vision, Values >> Corporate governance >> Commitments and relations TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 8 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Our good conduct policy ArcelorMittal Brasil seeks to conduct Other training activities in connection its commercial operations on the with the ArcelorMittal Group’s basis of values such as honesty and corporate policies have also taken integrity. The Company has a Code place in the period, such as those of Conduct to provide guidance and referring to the Guidelines for the assistance to its employees in the Defense of Competition (Antitrust), sense to help them to understand the Insider Information Policies and ethical and legal obligations in the Anticorruption Policy, this latter offered conduct of business. The document for the first time. In 2010, 6,254 is applicable to all directors, officers participations were registered in the and professionals of ArcelorMittal and three modules. those of its subsidiaries. Thus, the Company seeks to meet the Training in the Code of Conduct is requirements of the corporate laws one of the modules of the Corporate to which the Group is subject, and Integration Program of the Company also reduce the risk of exposing the oriented to recently hired employees. Company and its employees to civil In 2010, 19,699 people around the and criminal penalties. world participated in the course. For the first time, the activity was made available through e-learning, by means of which the participants access the contents online. Approximately 50% have chosen the e-learning tool, which provides greater advantages, flexibility, dexterity and autonomy, being also well suited to manage the participations. All employees are trained in the guidelines of the Code of Conduct TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 9 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Mission, Vision, Values Corporate Governance The Board of Directors is the The Executive Board is currently Established in 2007, the Mission, Vision and Values of ArcelorMittal Brasil highest structure in the hierarchy of composed of six members (the are the same as those of the ArcelorMittal Group, with activities in more than ArcelorMittal global management, number may range from two to nine), 60 countries. They were defined during the Arcelor Mittal Steel integration being responsible for the last saying in elected by the Board of Directors. It is process, which is today one of the greatest steelmaking conglomerate in the the decision-making processes. Below responsible for the management of world. They resulted from the contributions of employees, consolidated by the Board of Directors, the Group the Group’s businesses in the Country, the main executives. Management Board (GMB), which is acting on any matter not subject to composed of eight (8) executives under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Annual Mission the leadership of the CEO, Lakshmi General Meeting or the jurisdiction of Mittal, conducts business and defines the Board of Directors. “To be an unquestionable leader in the steel sector”. the global strategies of the parent company, in addition to establishing Corporate governance is anchored Vision and following the administrative to the basic guidelines of developing actions in the countries where the strategies to supply the market “To be the most admired Steelmaking Company worldwide the reference in company operates. with quality steel, estimulating global steelmaking.” socioeconomic growth of the regions ArcelorMittal Brasil has a corporate it operates, and reducing as much as Values governance framework based on possible the environmental impacts the same principles which govern on all links of the production chain. Sustainability the model adopted by the controlling “We are guiding the evolution of steel so as to ensure the best future for group worldwide. The Board of the industry and the generations to come. Our commitment to the world Directors, which is currently composed around us goes beyond the basics, including the people in which we invest, of eight members that are elected at the communities we support and the world we operate in. This long-term the Annual General Meeting (AGO) approach is crucial for our business philosophy.” held every two years, establishes the strategic directions and follows Quality the development of business. “We look forward to tomorrow’s steel. This entrepreneurial spirit has brought The directors have the powers to us to the forefront of the steel industry. We are going beyond the world’s elect officers, appoint or dismiss expectations towards steel.” independent auditors and supervise the Company management. Leadership “We are visionaries, creating opportunities every day. Because quality’s final ArcelorMittal Brasil non-permanent result depends on people’s quality. We try to attract and feed the best people Audit Committee can be composed of to develop the best solutions to our customers.” three to five members, chosen at the Annual General Meeting (AGO). TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 10 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES rs Custome Stakeholders map Quality a nd safety of products hain management Supply c EEmm plpo le technologies lyoey Renewab -H ees e products g Eco-friendly ea l t s rci n Re h a o u mu nd es Site visits Wo ne Sa ibl C rkin ratio fety s o ns ts e C u s tom e r o rie nted publi c are g c n a sp uc nc es ations er ond and t w re rod celle ctic -C t lie and events de v itio re ork f p l e x pr a un I n elo ns wa Su pp s cco ips Q ode r Partnerships e.g. engineering N trane pm rd na nes h a nsh ith ou r teams in customers’ plants ew t en Job s is g u a ti -O o ual for w Tra let s t s u o n t -O e r l E pe ity th t re eme ite innovate T inin ters th r o nd Provide rad g p an en g ica atio n s val u e a e U ro y ex ga s o od vices. partnerships for -E nio gra pub d r it al en ger lb f go d ser sustainable growth sse n r mm li cu tion Provide an D a o ry an ble bu n ti a ela ra m ialo n pe in ve e needs of s sight in ti o s i . s l ca eli ucts ns nts pro ines to th R ana gu ns ns ociety to t re d rod espo reme d s e tio ce e Provide quality lea uc by loc egu gem u p ui environme and he r s len Non-Gover ess de tivi de u nt. t he ity ting req acc products at rsh ty, ce l nmenta m al lar e ing fa i r Pro i p qu fo ur m c l Org -S ur de ess es and competitive as o ing Formal an a en vide es t anis qu ec sin niti e prices cc stra d Environme r ex ichi a s on y a n dp Monitor ou tr u riat t & Regulators a atio Correspon rivate mee ntal pro r -M l pe ng li t rnmen performance op ent s. rie ns nd Social and tectio G o ve in so e m ition nc ea a f o rk e dialogues the needs of meet al privat n e econom de n c e a ti n d w . Form rences and nd ev gs ing fe Working c Con ement lectures ic de stakeholders -P economic development g ondition velo to rov , e nga al and vulnerable g try-specific Health an o b i ents Soci Coun ing groups d Safety s pm r nerate economic and society a oups, a ppo u t opportunities G e m ic g steer ent loymen s p no rowth eco y to pro viding fair a whole. pa pr Emp ugh revenues, Ke ransparent co y thro and t itive tradin nvestment acting i s, fees and comp et g t n taxe ions. Attr ase condit Incre product f ti v e g o ote innovation. collec tandin om en unders pr s sta era and ce o i te industry practi he -G sh wt nab m le a e su r a h le ha pro responsib rg c Pro v r ovid tu reho and re ve r o ra com e id P rt g rn s lder pe os hold our ou r p pe p a n y su p p o rfo t fin er ca hin pee r a wit rform l o c al re nv doa man ncia pital a ce l nd city e as ance data for capa d ri v w e ll n o mic nt es sh iva tor ow Build and cl en as social, eco pm e t ’s s tand in UN v -I te ular e m day to unders ns d ni z ec ironmental and deve lo vis co ee s tio TI an tic atio ono s o or its nf ting ere s a isa an on, E I es n mic in formation h C ealt ora b p n c nd org ti -B s t wit ies li Co ma an h te go ec alls nt in socia ud ,H u uild t r u n it rp te c d sa vern -R I eme s in rep and p Build mmu or involv el A g g e u rotect ate han fety ance Active orld St e Gl WB an ble S aw tation, l o c a l c o Pr res ge pe, W obch SC i are and raise po eg CSR Euro ate al o nsD a nd n e s s o f o ur t ns ibilr i li m es pCo , ope products en -S ity ma m s (C ,R m rations e m t nag ou a ety ra g a -C nge n pa S g a g Inv em ent alle rc ing Righ Saf ct te viste i le n ti n l e st -H y ch and ila Pre its Loca hops repor l leve sors dustr alth ) ts, ult s work ation iona se an d Long-term in , He M In ss rele g ces Len ders ption terv as rm ro Water Consum iews es Info l and re ings tp l& loca eet m en Bu at e m g e Ind -P ri v g a Key issues of interest for our stakeholders sin H u s tr y en s es ea l c unity ie sO -E th a hallenges C omm ent s. u nit rg nv i nd S and developments ronm tment unitie m Engagement ways with our stakeholders an ron afety Envi es t om isa tio men tal co ci a l Inv o p por a lC ns ncerns So ent Lo c l oy m Why are our stakeholders important us? Emp Why are we important to our stakeholders? Media TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 11 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Commitments and relationships ArcelorMittal Brasil’s activities are of contributing to the search for guided by sustainable development sustainable ways for the development In addition to following the principles principles and a respectful relationship of business, particularly in the steel set forth by the International Labor with its stakeholders. In the end sector.It is a signatory of the United Organization’s (ILO) Declaration of of 2010 the company had 21.018 Nations (UN) Global Compact and it Fundamental Principles and Rights at employees in Brazil, Argentina, complies with the UN’s Millennium Work, the Company repudiates child Costa Rica and Venezuela, and Development Goals. and forced labor and extends such was considered as benchmark behavior to its business partners and in organizational climate, placing ArcelorMittal Brasil was one of the communities. between the best companies to work the first companies to commit to in Brazil and was also classified in the the Business Pact for Integrity and third quartile of Hay Group, which is against Corruption, an initiative of It refers to the fact that composed only by companies with the the Ethos Institute for Business and ArcelorMittal Brasil is in the group of 25% companies which are best best organizational climate. Social Responsibility and of the United positioned in the market. It also Nations Development Program means that all of the other 75% The Company reinforces its principles (UNDP), among other entities. The companies surveyed had lower of corporate responsibility by Pact sets forth the guidelines to be results in relation to our company. actively participating in business followed by the institutions with a view and civil organizations, in Brazil and to ensuring an ethical relationship with abroad, always with the purpose Public Authorities. Providing a safe and healthy workplace is one of the principles of the Company’s Human Rights Policy TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 12 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Human The Human Rights Policy focuses on 12 areas that have been Rights identified as priorities by the Group: In 2010 ArcelorMittal launched on a worldwide 1 – Promoting Health and Safety collaboration with subcontractors 7 – Providing Competitive 10 – Respecting Indigenous basis its Human Rights ArcelorMittal is committed to work and suppliers to prevent and Compensation and Remuneration Peoples’ Rights Policy, which is applicable towards a goal of zero accidents, remove any instances of child labor ArcelorMittal aims to pay ArcelorMittal respects the rights of to all group companies injuries and general wellbeing in in a manner that is consistent with competitive wages based on Indigenous Peoples as defined by and complements the the workplace. This is endorsed the best interests of the child. local market assessments and applicable national and emerging existing Code of Conduct, by the Health and Safety Policies at a minimum seeks to provide a international standards. Anti-Corruption Policy, and and Procedures that promote our 5 – Eliminating Unlawful commensurate compensation for the Health, Safety and philosophy of Safe Sustainable Discrimination in the Workplace each employee. 11 – Adopting Proportionate Security Environment Policy. The Steel. ArcelorMittal is committed to Arrangements purpose is to offer a guide ensure that each employee and 8 – Upholding Conditions of ArcelorMittal aims to ensure that on how to respect, protect 2 – Promoting Freedom of potential employee is treated with Employment the provision of security to our and promote human rights Association fairness and dignity. Accordingly, ArcelorMittal complies with all operations and our engagement in the operations and ArcelorMittal upholds freedom any unlawful discriminatory laws regarding conditions of with public and private security negotiations. In 2011, all of association and the effective practice based on race, color, employment including basic forces is consistent with the laws of employees will be trained. recognition of the right to collective gender, sexual orientation, age, and over-time working hours, the relevant country and relevant bargaining. We also work with our religion, ethnicity, national or social and will abide by agreements international standards and subcontractors and suppliers to origin, property, political or other negotiated with our employee guidelines, such as the Voluntary promote the achievement of this opinion, disability, representatives. Principles on Security and Human principle. birth or any other basis will not Rights. We will adapt our security be tolerated. The Company seeks 9 – Avoiding Involuntary arrangements to balance the need 3 Eliminating Forced or to provide each employee with Resettlements for safety while respecting human Compulsory Labor equal opportunity for advancement ArcelorMittal seeks to avoid rights. ArcelorMittal opposes the use of without discrimination. involuntary resettlements. In forced or compulsory labor. We will situations where it is unavoidable, 12 – Developing practices for Land also work with our subcontractors 6 – Eliminating Harassment and we commit to comply with and Water use and suppliers to avoid indirectly Violence the national government’s or ArcelorMittal works towards benefiting from or promoting such ArcelorMittal is committed to regional authorities’ guidelines on understanding and applying illegal practices. promote a work environment resettlement and rehabilitation and sound practices for land and water free of any form of harassment, also act in line with international use consistent with emerging 4 – Abolishing Child Labor exploitation, abuse or violence as human rights norms on this international practices while ArcelorMittal opposes the use defined by the laws of each country subject. respecting human rights, and in of child labor. We will work in in which we operate. support of our Environment Policy. TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 13 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES ArcelorMittal Brasil wants to attract and maintain the best professionals, offering not only opportunities for professional development, but also for personal growth as active citizens who are aware of their role in the construction of sustainability. INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE in this chapter >> Much better to work this way (case) >> Personnel management >> Professional development >> Remuneration policy >> Inclusion >> Health and safety INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 14 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Working this way is much better Some of the highlights of Organizational Repeated every two years, the survey units, totaling 19,250 employees. They of all employees. The result indicated a Climate Survey conduced in 2010, provides the Company with proper answered questionnaires covering four general favorability index of 69%, which includes that work safety is a priority to instruments to know the perception of dimensions: managerial style, corporate placed ArcelorMittal Brasil 8% above market 89% of ArcelorMittal Brasil’s employees, its employees in relation to the work processes, Company management, and average. The comparison takes into account while 90% consider that the company is environment, identifying aspects of motivation and credibility. The work was data from 112 companies Hay do Brasil concerned about the environment, and 84% satisfaction and points to be improved. conducted by Hay do Brasil, an organization clients gathered during the last five years. understand that the company cares for the specialized in climate advisory. communities where it operates. Moreover, The Organizational Climate Survey Based on the results, team challenges are 86% of employees are proud to work at conducted in 2010 was the most Within the scope of ArcelorMittal Brasil (Flat outlined, which become goals and action ArcelorMittal Brasil. comprehensive to date, and comprised for Steels, Long Steels and Shared Services), plans. The next Climate Survey shall be held the first time the Central and South America the survey had a compliance rate of 95% in 2012. Overall results of ArcelorMittal in Brazil by dimension (% favorability/2010) Media market Market 100 90 80 79 70 73 73 69 69 69 69 60 65 60 63 61 61 58 50 55 40 30 20 10 ArcelorMittal Mercado ArcelorMittal Mercado ArcelorMittal Mercado ArcelorMittal Mercado ArcelorMittal Mercado ArcelorMittal Mercado ArcelorMittal Mercado Co Ma Com tiva ort fav Gene me t rp Sty nt ti en pro orat Cre on an pp na ora ral ge pany le em ces e ge dib d Su ag bili ses na me ility ty nt Ma Eng Mo INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 15 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES People Management Continuous investments in When openings are available, those Year/month Group of qualification and professional are occupied mainly through internal employees per competence; career, compensation recruiting. This practice works on a functional level Direct employees and benefit plans considered a global scale and the opportunities are Dec/2010 Officer 16 reference in the country; excellence disclosed in the Group Newsletters, Supervisor 567 in terms of organizational climate, with all the requirements to fill with focus on the health and safety the vacancies, and also career Higher education level 2,213 of its personnel, represent the three and compensation conditions. In Mid-level technician 2,399 pillars which support the ArcelorMittal order to enhance the good use of Monthly operator 3,684 Brasil People Management Policy. opportunities, ArcelorMittal has Hourly operator 4,180 Employees and contractors are an internal recruiting tool called treated with dignity and respect and JobMarket Online (JMO), made General manager 61 are provided with a safe and healthy available to all units in all countries Manager 174 environment for their activities. All where the Group operates. Area manager 180 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Total 13,474 Company closed At the end of 2010, ArcelorMittal had DISMISSALS PER GENDER the year with 13,474 13,474 direct employees in the flat 2010 2009 2008 and long steel segments (except for employees in Brazil Male 978 1,711 1,051 the Wire Sector) in Brazil. Moreover, Female 123 268 189 the Company added to its staff 279 apprentices and 849 trainees. TOTAL 1,101 1,979 1,240 DISMISSALS PER AGE 2010 2009 2008 Up to 30 Years 548 754 653 From 30 to 50 Years 397 819 435 Over 50 Years 156 406 152 TOTAL 1,101 1,979 1,240 TURNOVER PER GENDER 2010 2009 2008 Male 8.20 14.54 9.07 Female 8.97 19.82 14.59 TOTAL 8.27 15.09 10.38 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 16 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Professional Development ArcelorMittal Brasil has a set of In ArcelorMittal Brasil, employees practices and programs designed are also provided with qualification Transforma Programme to ensure the professional programs, consisting in technical Year Participating Training development of its employees, training and incentives to ranging from trainee hiring policies complement their formation, such employees* hours to the preparation of future as subsides for foreign language, 2010 430 26,325 leaderships for the Group. university and specialization 2009 173 5,932 courses. 2008 753 Not ascertained The axis of ArcelorMittal’s development policy is the Global Since 2007, the Company maintains *From all the Company’s Brazilian units Executive Development Programme the Transforma Programme, which (GEDP) adopted by the Company offers training, courses, lectures Training hour average/year/employee per functional category on a worldwide basis – which and coaching, focused on the identifies talents with potential for preparation and improvement Occupational categ. Hours/ Average number Hours/Training managerial career; recommends of leaderships aligned with the Training of employees per employees actions to raise the competence culture and strategic orientation of (average) level of the organization; works as ArcelorMittal. Training is provided to already established leaderships and Executive Board 310.07 17 18.24 a tool for career and succession planning, and focuses on the professionals identified as potential Managerial 25,510.38 413 61.76 development of current and future successors. All employees receive Higher level 135,035.96 2,161 62.50 leaders for the organization. In 2010, regular performance appraisals and Technical level 249,932.27 3,017 82.84 another GEDP cycle was conducted orientations for career development. in which 2,985 employees Mid level 42,956.79 537 79.97 participated. Supervision 45,522.40 646 70.40 Operator 342,772.38 6,551 52.33 TOTAL 842,040.25 13,342 63.11 Note: The number of employees is calculated on the basis of the staff annual average Preparation for retirement ArcelorMittal Tubarão and the legislation referring to retirement, ArcelorMittal Piracicaba maintain a health and aging process, and retirement preparation program. The guidelines to minimize negative purpose is to present information on reactions in this phase. Transform Program involves leaders and potential successors INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 17 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Compensation policy The Company compensation policy Inclusion b) Industrial Learning Project, The project receives a positive is based on the Total Compensation conduced in partnership with evaluation by the beneficiaries: 94% concept, which considers three Since 2009, the ArcelorMittal Group the National Service for Industrial would indicate it to family members pillars: fixed salary, variable wage has a Diversity and Social Inclusion Learning SENAI and the Labor and friends; 81% are proud to work and benefits. For the composition Policy, whose objective is to ensure and Employment Ministry MTE, at ArcelorMittal Brasil and want to of wages, the Company adopts a work environment that offers addressed to people with special have a career at the company; 88% the approach of maintaining a opportunities for each one in its needs in Belo Horizonte, Juiz de declared that their expectations were competitive policy aligned with its own way to contribute to business Fora and João Monlevade. This met, the same rate was found among market of reference, aiming at people development and be valued in their project trained 76 apprentices in those that believe in the ArcelorMittal attractiveness and retention. different skills, experiences and administrative and mechanical Brasil inclusion process. perspectives. maintenance courses. The model of the Profit Sharing Plan With the idea of rehabilitation in (PLR) is among the most modern Three programs can be mentioned as c) These training courses were mind, the proposal is to reallocate to and competitive in the market, as examples of this policy: structured on the basis of theoretical another function any employee who it is based on business goals and and practical phases. At the has sustained any type of accident or employees’ individual goals, having a) Somar, which is developed by beginning of the practical part, each chronic disease. In partnership with as average target the payment of 3.5 ArcelorMittal Tubarão and fosters apprentice with special needs was INSS, such program rehabilitated in salaries per year. the inclusion of people with special sponsored by an employee for the 2010 21 employees, who were trained needs in the job market by means purpose of facilitating the inclusion to perform functions suitable to their Moreover, ArcelorMittal Brasil offers a of qualification courses, hiring of and integration to the team. The new capacity. package of benefits to its employees qualified people, creation of a sponsor is also a technical reference, and their dependents, which is one database of resumes, and inclusion easing the access to information on of the most comprehensive in the in trainee programs. In 2010, the the area and offering feedback on Somar Program benefitted 61 country. Among others, the benefits program benefitted 61 people, and the work developed. Each apprentice people in Tubarão in 2010 range from meal voucher, medical 12 of them were admitted by the received a scholarship, transportation assistance, sickness allowance, Company. ticket and medical assistance, being financing and loans, daycare hired soon after the conclusion of the reimbursement, school kit, uniform Professionals with disabilities hired for courses. and recreational club. the flat steel segment 12 12 10 10 8 6 4 2 3 2010 2009 2008 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 18 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Health and Safety All ArcelorMittal Brasil units have of the team and the adoption of topic importance. Safety related In 2010, the Company occupational health and safety a set of control and management issues are also considered in launched on a management systems and tools and methods, based on the collective bargaining agreement worldwide basis the are certified according to the Safety Tree model. Today, the BMB sponsored by the Company with Occupational Health and Safety of Itaúna is a benchmark in the the records of the locations where it Golden Rules of Health Assessment Series (OHSAS) Safety management area between operates. and Safety standard. companies ArcelorMittal and Bekaert. Another unit that stood out The Company’s priority is to maintain in the Journey to Zero Project is the the health of its employees, Guilman-Amorim Hydropower Plant, Developed at the Bekaert plant in Ubiza, Spain, it establishes encouraging them to take part in which in 2010 celebrated 5 years a tree with four “major roots”, considered to be the main the commitment Journey to Zero. To with no record of accidents with lost factors to maintain an accident free and safe environment: reinforce the culture of prevention, time. involvement of top management and all its levels, risk the Company conducts training management, training for employees, third parties and activities, behavioral workshops, The flat steel segment also visitors, and people participation and communication). daily safety chats and monthly registered expressive results in meetings of the Internal Commission terms of safety in 2010. ArcelorMittal for Accident Prevention (Cipa). Tubarão completed 1 year with no Currently, 100% of the Company’s accidents with lost time while Vega employees are represented in registered 3 years with no lost-time the Cipas, which operate at the accidents. following levels: primary and secondary prevention, early In 2010, the Golden Rules of recognition of risks, and suggestion Health and Safety were launched of corrective actions. on a worldwide basis, one more initiative linked to the Company’s All units participate in the Journey commitment to the Journey to Zero to Zero Project that seeks to reduce project. The 10 Golden Rules seek in a significant manner workplace to reinforce the fundamentals of accident indexes, involving the safety at work related to the main employees in the goal for zero causes of fatalities. The Golden accidents. In 2010, the Itaúna Rules are the same for all Company (MG) unit of BMB, a joint venture units and shall be followed by between ArcelorMittal and the all. In the first year, a broad Bekaert group, celebrated 10 dissemination has been launched years with no record of accidents with basic information about each with lost time (LTI). The result is of the determinations. In 2011, the consequence of the commitment sequence will work to reinforce the Employees at Itaúna conduct a campaign to commemorate ten years without lost time accidents at the Unit INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report• ArcelorMittal Brasil 19 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Compliance with safety standards and contractors, enabling effective ArcelorMittal Brasil’s Golden Rules is verified periodically by means of audits. At ArcelorMittal Tubarão, for control of risks through the implementation of action plans. example, a featured was the thirdof Health and Safety part audit of interface and critical In March 2010, the ArcelorMittal activities conducted in 2010. The Vega’s Health and Safety work sought to verify conformities, Management System was subject improvements and compliance to another recertification audit, Rule 1 I will come to work in Rule 6 I will respect all the with business, technical and which decided for the maintenance a ‘fit and able’ condition traffic rules operational standards in activities of the certificate of conformity with with contractors’ participation, OHSAS 18001/2007 requirements. and also to ensure proper risk Another important factor was the recontrol, disclose and implement the training of all plant managers and Rule 2 I will use fall improvements identified. The work supervisors, under the anomaly and protection or prevention Rule 7 I will respect focused on risk control, with special accident analysis methodology. equipment whenever rail priority and stay out attention to potential for occurrence. and wherever required of the close clearance according to our standards area without proper One of the highlights at The audit – developed for the precautions being taken Rule 3 I will follow period of six months – identified ArcelorMittal Tubarão a considerable number of was the audit of thirdthe lockout/isolation opportunities for improvement procedure when working Rule 8 I will respect the in maintenance and operation party interface and on equipment rules for entering and critical activities processes of direct employees working in hazardous gas areas Rule 4 I will follow the confined space entry Occupational Health and Safety metrics in 2010 (per segment) procedure before entering, Rule 9 I will not disable Indicator Flat Long as well as during the full safety devices Injury Rate (IR)* 0.04 0.12 duration of the task Lost Time Rate (LTR)** 9.43 5.86 Rule 5 I will respect all the Absenteeism Rate (AR)*** 1.76 2.21 rules of load handling at Rule 10 I will respect all all times and never stand the Health and Safety *Statistics take into account only occurrences involving company employees. under a suspended load basic rules, standards and *IR – Injury Rate signals and I will wear the required Personal Protection ** LTR – Lost Time Rate Equipment (PPE) ***AR – Absenteeism Rate INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 20 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES In 2010, the ArcelorMittal Brasil long Throughout 2010, the Long A detailed report of this work was program, allowing the management and flat steel segments registered Steel segment invested in the developed containing not only such of a health profile in search for zero four fatalities (three with third parties development of the Health and opportunities for improvement, but risk. and one with its own employee). The Safety Maturity project, which also suggestions of actions designed Company treats these occurrences seeks to identify the aspects to capture those opportunities and The long steel units are provided with austerity. The first action to be which directly or indirectly make as a result conduct the company with the Health Management taken within four hours after the it difficult to consolidate a health towards a category change. In System, purpose of which is to occurrence is the submittal of a and safety culture. On the basis 2011, the second phase of the develop prevention actions focused communication to the CEO, with a of questionnaires answered project shall consist in the review on the wellbeing of employees brief description. Within the following by the units’ top management, of specific plans for each unit so as and contractors. The actions are 24 hours, the Company issues a supervisors, health and safety to ensure not only their operability, implemented through continued more detailed report. In two weeks, area representatives, and in some but also the execution of required education, monitoring of employee’s a detailed analysis is submitted cases operational level employees, adjustments so that, by the end of health and campaigns designed to the Group Management Board existing opportunities for 2012, the Company may achieve a to risks related to professional (GMB), the main executive panel of improvement were identified, which more advanced stage of maturity, in situations and inadequate life style. the Company, with headquarters in prevent a change in the Health and which “zero accident” with lost time Luxembourg. Safety maturity level. becomes a feasible reality. Those actions significantly contribute to improve the healthy of employees and reduce absenteeism. The Cariacica unit for instance adopts Health a methodology called Life Quality Index (IQV), with the purpose promotion of measuring risks to which the employees are exposed. They range from a scale of 0 (potentially nonexistent) to 3 (potentially high); Employees, including retirees, and 1 and 2 are classified as low family members are provided with and moderate risk, respectively. the following programs: education, This measurement started to be training, counseling, disease made in June 2010. In December, prevention, risk control and serious 95% of employees presented disease treatment. There are also potentially nonexistent or low risk; preventive health actions that seen the remaining 5% were in the to reduce risk factors (cholesterol, moderate risk category. There were obesity and smoking). For each no employees classified in the risk identified, there is a specific potentially high risk category. Health promotion activities seek to reduce the risk of disease as much as possible INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 21 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES A similar program was adopted by ArcelorMittal Vega implemented in After restructuring the Pro-Life HEALTH PROMOTION PROGRAMS ArcelorMittal Sabará. Referred to 2010 the Individual Daily Readiness program, Vega closed 2010 with no PROGRAMS FACTORS as Health Risk Factor Management, (PDI) test for employees and direct employee classified as level 3 (critical its objective is to optimize invested partners in charge of the most risk factors). During the year, the Employee Monitoring Multiple factors resources and improve the critical activities. The purpose of this unit conducted its first health week, Food, movement and attitude Life style employees’ life quality. Information test is to identify the employees’ level which addressed themes such as Anti-smoking Tobacco on family history and habits is of attention, thus preventing those fight against cancer, visual acuity, inserted into a system and, based on with altered level of attention from physical fitness, blood donation With – science Life style data analysis it is possible to identify performing greater risk functions. In awareness, life quality, postural Life quality course Multiple factors employees in need for periodical the same period, the Zero Tobacco orientation and fight against stress. Chemical addiction Drugs / Alcohol control. Thus, the Company sets and Buccal Health programs were STD (Sexually Transmittable Diseases) Multiple factors out priorities for actions in the implemented at the unit. occupational medicine area, and and aids Continued Education also classifies and compares Ergonomics Ergonomic Risk workers’ health risks. Stress Attitude Health Management for Leaders Life Style GPH – Hypertension Prevention Group Multiple factors Care with the heart Special medical monitoring group (game) Multiple factors The 7 risk game Multiple factors Since 2008, ArcelorMittal Monlevade Follow-up is made by multidisciplinary Over thirty* Life style develops the Cardiovascular Health teams that when necessary suggest Management program oriented or refer the employees to specialized Health profile Multiple factors to monitoring of risk factors which activities or treatments. For example, Biophysical control program – managers* Sedentary life impact the heart of its employees. The overweight employees after filling out a Dishes** Food reeducation, employees are divided into groups questionnaire on their food habits have obesity and sedentary life according to each factor: obesity, the option of entering the Emagrecer hypertension, diabetes, smoking and em Família (Lose Weight with your Adolescent Full Assistance Program (Paia) Multiple factors dyslipidemia, which comprises people Family) and Academia (Fitness Center) Metabolic Risk Incorrect food with changes to cholesterol and programs. Every three months, they are Sedentary life Inactivity triglyceride levels. called for a clinical analysis. *Flat Steel Segment only ** Long Steel Segment only INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 22 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES contributed to increase in the last at the ArcelorMittal Manchester, ArcelorMittal years the number of potential donors ArcelorMittal BioFlorestas, mining and Tubarão registered in the National Cancer Institute (INCA) commercial plants. database, a Brazilian reference in 864 candidates in Campaigns bone marrow transplant. The integrated system allows the the Espírito Santo’s development of managerial reports, Hemotherapy and The ArcelorMittal Brasil’s campaigns Tubarão has also concentrated helping in strategic planning and Hematology Center address a number of topics which its efforts in dengue prevention anticipation of needs. It will also directly interfere with employee actions. In addition to maintaining a facilitate the dissemination of best database. health: food reeducation; drug and permanent program of surveillance practices and allow faster responses alcohol use prevention; prostate, against the disease, it promoted the to legal demands. breast and cervical cancer prevention; “D” Day of Fight Against Dengue, fight against dengue; flu, tetanus and in which inspections, lectures and In the future, it will be possible to hepatitis B vaccination. children theatre made attendees create employee monitoring profiles in aware of the importance of preventing the health and safety areas, compare Other modalities go beyond company and eliminating focus of the disease groups within the actual unit, and walls and benefit the communities transmitting mosquito. then make a more accurate diagnosis affected by Company activities, as and adopt effective prevention the case of blood and bone marrow measures. donation actions. For example, since 2006 Tubarão conducts initiatives Integrated oriented to obtain volunteers, and donated a mobile unit to the Management Espírito Santo’s Hemotherapy and Hematology Center (Hemoes) for Defining operation priorities in registration of donors by the State. the health and safety area is also In 2010, the Hemoes database an objective of the SAP EH&S registered 864 volunteers as a result (Environment, Health and Safety) of the Tubarão campaign. project, developed four years ago, whose result is the implementation The unit is also used to collect blood, of an integrated health and safety thus contributing to maintain blood system for the whole group in Brazil. stock at balanced levels. The long The tool is already in use at the steel sector has also a tradition Long Steel and Flat Steel segment in this type of campaign, having units and is under development Vaccination campaigns are frequent at ArcelorMittal Brasil units INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 23 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES ArcelorMittal invests in innovation and works with cutting-edge technologies, which ensures a more efficient operation and the development of pioneer processes that help redefine the steel industry and face global climate and sustainability challenges. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE In this chapter >> Efficient waste management (case) >> Environmental management >> Materials >> Waste >> Water resources >> Effluents >> Energy management >> Emissions >> Biodiversity >> Environmental Education >> Responsibility for product MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 24 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Efficient waste management In 2010, ArcelorMittal Juiz de to final disposal (recycling, reuse, Fora became the first unit of the industrial landfills, incineration ArcelorMittal Group in the world and stock control). At the same to standardize the operation time, information was submitted of byproduct and solid waste to technical, legal, tax, supply and management industrial processes logistics analyses, decreasing by using the Integrated SAP business risks and ensuring the Environmental, Health and Safety feasibility of the Integrated System. (EH&S) System. Some of the results were improved The project was born from the tax management, time optimization in need to standardize processes the operations, and a special regime relative to Company environmental for waste management in the Minas management in the industrial area. Gerais. Moreover, waste control Thanks to the system, management nomenclatures, descriptions, reports started to be shared between the and concepts were standardized, industrial and environmental areas. allowing better domestic waste consumption monitoring. Approximately 70 employees, divided into teams, participated in The project will be extended to the development of the module. other companies from the long steel They monitored the whole material segment, at first in Brazil and then in management chain, from generation South and Central Americas. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 25 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Environmental management ArcelorMittal Brasil strategic At ArcelorMittal Tubarão, power and natural resources. Also, planning systematically pursues the investments in environmental the units systematically monitor construction of a balanced relation environmental impacts and act to among the economic, social and equipment refurbishment promote the reduction, reuse and environmental dimensions in and maintenance were 90% recycling of waste arising from their the conduct of business, in line higher in 2010 as compared activities. with sustainable development to 2009 principles. With this commitment, Company units have invested in environmental control systems and At ArcelorMittal Tubarão, equipment, as well as education investments in environmental and training, environmental equipment refurbishment and management services, certification, maintenance (sleeve filters) were personnel for general activities 90% higher in 2010, from US$ 4 focused on environmental million in 2009 to US$ 7.6 million. Environmental investments per type in 2010 management, research & Investments to install modern Type Amount (R$ millions) development, among others. In technologies at ArcelorMittal 2010, the environmental investment Tubarão also registered a growth Waste management 44.2 made by ArcelorMittal Brasil’s greater than US$ 16.3 million, with Environmental management and prevention 10.0 industrial units was R$ 81.5 million, highlight for the Desulfurization of Environmental protection 27.3 28% more than the 2009 figures. Ammonia Vapors of the Coke Plant. Total 81.5 The total designed to environmental The Company is not limited to management at the unit (training, compliance with the applicable awareness, certifications, research legislation, and it permanently and development) was 70% greater Evolution of environmental investments invests in process improvement, than 2009. Value (in millions of R$) continuous modernization of 90 industrial facilities and preservation All ArcelorMittal Brasil units of biodiversity. All units have in are certified according to the 70 81,5 common a history of intensive international standard ISO 14001, 50 63,7 59,7 investments in the environmental assuming the commitment to 30 area, with actions recognized eliminate or minimize main 10 by their pioneering nature and environmental impacts, with a efficiency. more rational use of water, electric 2010 2009 2008 MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 26 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Materials Consumption of material per type in 2010 (t) Use of recyclable material* ArcelorMittal Brasil works to Input Volume Type of material used 2010 optimize the consumption Hydrochloric acid 4,344 Scale acquired 32,957.50 of materials in its production Chromic acid 4 Blast furnace post-material (acquired) 164,194.20 processes, systematically seeking to improve the use of Sulphuric Acid 1,917 Briquette 131,034 raw material and to increase Anti-foaming 3 Steel scrap (acquired) 1,996,881 the recycling of industrial Blind coal 94,984 Steel scrap: internal recycling 403,943.13 waste. In 2010, the Company Lime 382,735 Total 2,729,009.83 consumed 20.2 million tons of material, in a list including Limestone/dolomen 1,756,904 * Numbers referring to ArcelorMittal Long Steel and ArcelorMittal acids, coal (mineral and Scale 90,381 Tubarão. ArcelorMittal Vega uses no recycled material in its charcoal), ores and scraps. Mineral coal 1,842,855 production process. Approximately 2.7 million tons were composed by recyclable Mineral coal for PCI 701,904 materials, 13% of the total. Charcoal 223,786 Consumption of material (in millions of tons) Charcoal for PCI 35,621 30 Lead 506 25 Copper 125 20 Coke 2,899,738 20,2 15 18,2 19,5 Breeze coke 44,992 10 FEA electrode 2,786 Ferroalloy and other materials* 73,395 2010 2009 2008 Corrosion inhibitor 12 Iron ore 5,629,694 Consumption of recycled material Heavy oil 1,769 (in millions of tons) Pellets 4,424,401 5 Soap 702 4 Caustic soda 149 3 2,7 2,6 2,4 Metal scrap 2,053,462 2 Zinc 15,644 1 Total 20,282,813 2010 2009 2008 Eucalyptus forest of ArcelorMittal BioFlorestas, which produce the wood used to produce charcoal MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report• ArcelorMittal Brasil 27 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Waste ArcelorMittal Brasil is flexibility, resistance to considered a benchmark compression and nonskid in the steel sector for its capacity. Forty-one thousand management of industrial units have been used for the waste. The rate of waste pavement of five thousand recycling achieves an index square meters of lanes near 93%, above sector average the blast furnace of the Juiz – approximately 80%. But de Fora unit. The ecological recycling is not the only hexagonal small concrete guidelines: employees from blocks won the award for all units are committed to technological innovation reduce generation and of the 17th Concurso properly segregate/store Falcão Bauer, granted by these materials. the Brazilian Chamber of Construction Industry (CBIC). Critical waste such as slag Ecological blocks produced from slag are used for urban paving – deserves special attention. At ArcelorMittal Tubarão From the total volume of For example, in 2010 waste management is waste generated at the ArcelorMittal Juiz de Fora strategic, as it develops a unit in 2010, 26.1% were applications of byproducts urban roads, yards, parking lots, developed and had approved number of studies, researches generated in Tubarão. For warehouses, and also places forwarded to reuse and internal recycling. The by the Zona da Mata and new markets in order to example, slags are turned into with high concentration of water. trade index was 69.5% Regional Superintendence turn waste into byproducts hydraulic structures of protection The product resulting from this and internal stocking of Environmental and and innovating solutions. against the action of sea waves beneficiation, which is referred percentage was 4.3% Sustainable Development The objective is to eliminate (tetrapods), railway ballast, to as Revsol®, replaces natural (Supram) for production at or reduce waste generation, high performance concrete, resources (clay, gravel and industrial scale ecological encourage reuse, recycling, concrete artifacts for use in civil crushed stone), providing greater hexagonal small concrete trade and donation. On construction, such as fence stakes durability and low cost, 25% blocks for urban pavement. some occasions waste is and pressed bricks. The material below the traditional materials. Produced from Shredder forwarded to temporary is also used as a corrective tool One of the benefits is also the land (generated in the disposal seeking new for soil acidity in case of farming improvement of traffic conditions, beneficiation of metal scrap), applications and ultimately activities of economic significance, allowing the flow of agricultural electrical furnace and blast to final disposal in controlled with assessment of environmental production and easy access to furnace slags, the material landfills. In 2010, the unit risks. public services, such as garbage offers many advantages, invested approximately collection and circulation of namely: 25% cheaper than R$ 2 million in processes One important application is ambulances. traditional small concrete oriented to environmental the transformation of LD slag blocks, prevents the use research, development and (generated in the process of of non-renewable natural classification of waste, and turning liquid pig iron into steel) resources (sand and crushed team qualification. into a byproduct to be used stone), greater permeability, It is extensive the list of in unpaved rural, service and MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report• ArcelorMittal Brasil 28 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES The use of Revsol® is part million tons of production The Itaúna (MG) unit was technology used and cost. The of Novos Caminhos (New and application. The material focused on the reuse of oily solid materials used in the Created in 2005 for the Ways), a socio-environmental arising from steelwork slag waste. A group assessed production process are stowed purpose of decreasing cooperation program has been used in dozens of solutions to reduce the in appropriate containers in the solid waste generated in maintained between asphaltic pavement works. The generation of these byproducts production lines and sent for the industry based on its and observed it was connected final disposal and treatment ArcelorMittal Tubarão and Acerita® is present on streets reuse as raw material for to the use of sawdust to contain with external specialized other activities public authorities and private and avenues of a number of initiative, which provides Great Vitória municipalities, oil leakages. The alternative companies, as the unit has no benefits to communities, and also highways in the was to replace sawdust with final waste disposal system particularly rural communities. State’s countryside, such as mica, which has greater inside the facilities. In 2010 alone, 257 kilometers ES-248, which interconnects the capacity of absorption. As a of urban and rural roads were municipalities of Colatina and result, the unit achieved 66% of paved in 11 Espírito Santo Linhares. reduction of waste generated municipalities with the product. between 2009 and 2010. The Itaúna unit reduced The long steel unit of João Per year, the process of At ArcelorMittal Vega, the by 66% the waste Monlevade (MG) invests production of plates and coils by permanently in the reduction of disposal methods are generated between ArcelorMittal Tubarão results in the volume of non-recovered determined in accordance 2009 and 2010 the generation of approximately waste per ton of crude steel, with the classification of waste 250 thousand tons of Revsol®, which means greater reuse and taking into account the with around 40% of this volume in the industrial process. In going to the municipalities’ City 2010, 21 types of waste were Halls. The remaining is directed identified which could be reused to road construction companies in the industrial process. With and industries, which use the the work, the unit managed to material for pavement of yards decrease the generation of nonand internal circulation areas. recyclable waste by more than The Tubarão unit provides the 40% in four years, achieving city halls with technical support only 12 kg per ton of crude for the application, training of steel produced last year. At the personnel, and monitoring of ArcelorMittal Brazilian units, the performance of the material average index is 37 kilograms used. of non-recyclable waste per ton crude steel produced. The Another byproduct generated world goal of the ArcelorMittal in Tubarão with similar use is Group is 50 kilograms of nonthe Acerita®, which in 2010 recyclable waste per ton of Road in Espírito Santo paved with Revsol®, produced form plate and spool achieved the mark of one crude steel produced. manufacturing process at Tubarão MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 29 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES The Itaúna unit has been Waste generation at ArcelorMittal Brasil (in tons) working hard to reduce sending Non-hazardous Hazardous Total of waste to landfills. Metal waste waste scrap, main residue generated in the process, is totally directed Reuse (does not change the properties 701,030.74 22,322 723,352.70 to recycling in the steelmaking for use in other process) industry. Same occurs with Recycling (changes the properties 3,304,551.95 122,582.69 3,427,134.64 zinc sludge resulting from the and use as product) galvanization process, which Co-processing 2,002.27 818.1 2,820.37 returns to the zinc ingot supplier. Incineration (or use as fuel) 3,114.68 256.94 3,371.62 The iron oxide produced at the Acid Regeneration Unit is sold Landfill 3,243.62 34.49 3,278.11 as input in the magnet industry. Storage on site 80,536.95 19,706.57 100,243.52 Part of the oxide not sold is Industrial landfill 32,198.39 26,283.02 58,481.41 dumped into industrial landfills. Total 4,126,678.60 192,003.77 4,318,682.37 In 2010, the ArcelorMittal Brasil units of the long steel and flat steel segment generated Waste generated in 2010 (in %) approximately 4.3 million tons of waste, with 4.1 million tons Hazardous waste deserves special being non-hazardous material. attention at ArcelorMittal Brasil companies in the sense to minimize its generation and 4,5% transportation. No Brazilian unit imports or exports hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. ArcellorMittal Tubarão has a contract with a company specialized in Oily waste, lamps, batteries, residues contaminated with oil, paint and 95,5% response to emergency varnish situations Hazardous Non Hazardous MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 30 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Revenue source The successful management of waste and byproduct at ArcelorMittal Brasil units turned those materials into a source of revenue. In 2010 alone, ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal ArcelorMittal the long steel and flat steel segments generated approximately R$ 100 Long Steels (thousand tons) Tubarão (thousand tons) Vega (thousand tons) million with the sale of a number of byproduct modalities, a result of the Total weight of hazardous 27.9 63.7 2.2 beneficiation of waste arising from steel production. waste transported ArcelorMittal Tubarão is considered a benchmark in the ArcelorMittal Total weight of hazardous waste 27.9 42.1 2.2 Group on account of industrial byproduct and waste management. The transported outside the organization company has a management division designed for technical development of this type of material, which is responsible for the sale and development of new markets, and also actions ranging from beneficiation to final application. The unit sold in 2010, 2.2 million tons of byproducts, a revenue of R$ 69 million. In 2010, the long steel units in Brazil, Argentina and Costa Rica obtained an approximate revenue of R$ 30 million, around R$ 8 million more than 2009. Only the Brazilian units (particularly ArcelorMittal Monlevade and ArcelorMittal Juiz de Fora) were responsible for R$ 20 million, mainly with the sale of blast furnace slag to domestic cement industry. The material has been used in replacement to clinker, which provides significant reduction in CO 2 emissions in the manufacture of cement. Spillages No significant leakages or spillages of hazardous products were registered at ArcelorMittal Brasil units in 2010. However, the company is also prepared to deal with emergency situations such as these. For example, the industrial unit of Tubarão has a contract with a company specialized in the provision of services oriented to situations involving products classified as hazardous or non-hazardous, inside or outside company facilities, throughout the national territory. Acerita® Yard, in Tubarão The same behavior is required of suppliers of hazardous products and shared with clients of alienable byproducts or waste (hazardous or not), as they should also be able to respond to possible emergency situations. This requirement is expressed under contract and within corporate standards. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 31 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Water resources In 2010, the programs to reduce ArcelorMittal Brasil also invests The project developed since effluent disposal implemented in sewage treatment projects, 2000 – seeks to eliminate the at ArcelorMittal Brazilian units so that effluents may be reused discharge of industrial effluents ensured a water industrial in industrial process; rain into rivers in the region through recirculation index greater than water intake on the industrial reuse in processes. In addition 97%, one of the highest in the warehouses’ rooftops, to be to environmental benefits, the Brazilian steelmaking industry. used in machine and equipment result is also a general reduction This performance is a result cooling systems (where the in costs, namely: sewage and of the Group’s commitment greatest losses take place water treatment, electricity to sustainability and the through evaporation); and consumption and maintenance, preservation of a resource campaigns with the company’s as well as increase in the essential to life itself and also staff for a rational use of natural availability of water for steel the steelmaking process. Water resources. production. management is a strategic priority designed to minimize The long steel segment stands In another project developed water intake volume. So much out in this sense. In João in the city, the company so that in 2010 the volume Monlevade (MG), the Zero seeks to recover the ciliary obtained was 5% below the Disposal project allowed the forest and wellsprings of the 2009 figures. unit to obtain in 2010 a water Piracicaba River. Twenty-eight recirculation index of 99%. (28) wellsprings were chosen 2010 in m3 Evolution of water removal Surface water, including 417,832,315 (in million m3) humid areas, rivers, lakes and oceans 500 Municipal or concessionaire supply 1,191,586 400 419,9 442,6 423,3 Groundwater 854,798 300 Rain water collected or stored 73 200 Total 419,878,772 100 Treatment plants allow ArcelorMittal to maintain the quality of effluents used in 2010 2009 2008 industrial processes MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 32 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES and diagnoses were made long pipeline in observance ArcelorMittal potable, demineralized, are established on the for each of them. The of the statutory limits for Tubarão captures overheated, industrial and basis of waterway support recovery actions conducted discharge of effluents. The fire fight water. Thanks to capacity (surface water or in partnership with the water is used as refrigerant, 95% of the water the optimization of unit groundwater). community and public with no direct contact with the it uses from the processes, the current intake agencies included fencing, equipment in which it is used. ocean. index remains in 12 liters/s, reforestation, cleaning and significantly below the signage. Fresh water represents maximum pumping capacity, only 5% of the unit’s total After its use the water is up to 60 liters/s during In Itaúna (MG), the highlight consumption and is obtained submitted to treatment drought periods. is a project to reduce water from the Santa Maria da and made available to the intake for use in industrial Vitória River. In 2010, water Vega’s Utility Center, which is Both at ArcelorMittal Vega processes, which generated intake performed by the responsible for the provision and ArcelorMittal Long cost reduction, improved State Sanitation Company of all water related utilities Steel there are no sources management and lower (Cesan) – was 2,555 and inputs required for the significantly affected by consumption. With some m³/h, approximately 10% industrial process, such as water intake and all licenses adjustments in the process, greater than 2009. Specific the Company decreased by consumption remained in half its water consumption in 3.8 m3/t, above the goal 2010. Moreover, during the proposed for the year (3.5 rainy season (from November m3/t), impacted by the to March) there is no need to recovery of steel production use water obtained from the levels. river. Also in Itaúna, a project that reduced the consumption With regard to ArcelorMittal of potable water by 65% has Vega, the water used by been developed in 2010, the unit is provided by the through the installation of local concessionaire, the gauges, network inspections Santa Catarina’s Water and for possible leakages, and Sanitation Company (Casan), employee awareness. obtained from an affluent of Saí Mirinzinho River, located ArcelorMittal Tubarão obtains in the continental part of the approximately 95% of the Municipality of São Francisco water it uses from the ocean do Sul. The wellspring does by means of its own pumping not serve the cities from the station. After the water is used region, and for this reason in the production process, it was chosen by Casan to feed returns to the sea through a ArcelorMittal Vega. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report• ArcelorMittal Brasil 33 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Effluents Proper treatment and water. Tests with sensitive shall be made at a small reduction of the volume aquatic organisms, which station built at the unit. disposed are part of are cultivated specifically The expectation is to ArcelorMittal Brasil’s goals to such end, reveal the achieve a reduction in to minimize the impacts of potential toxicity of effluents water consumption of industrial effluents – and at different concentrations. approximately 156 thousand also sanitation effluents In addition to treatment and m³/year, which represents – on the environment. control of liquid effluents, 26% of the volume captured Prior to returning to the ArcelorMittal Vega conducts at the unit. The project shall waterways, the water preventive monitoring be completed by 2012. is treated according to of surface waters (Palha its characteristics at the River and Acaraí River) The Juiz de Fora (MG) unit Monitoring of waterways actual unit or specialized and groundwater, within reuses sanitation effluent, ArcelorMittal Tubarão has within the limits of its property a well field composed companies. Quality company land. which after treatment by 8 lagoons and 1 creek, supplied by precipitation, groundwater and external parameters are strictly returns to the production sources, such as Jacaré Creek. Since 2004, the unit conducts the hydromonitored, and in case of Reuse is an alternative process to be used for biological monitoring of its lagoons, with the follow-up and assessment of a deviation corrective actions that has been successfully cooling equipment and number of physical, chemical, biological and eco-toxicological parameters. are taken. used by steelmaking units products. Added to other The results indicate strong commitment to the water quality of two of these of the Long Steel segment, initiatives, the project led lagoons. In 2010, a small alteration considered a benchmark in ArcelorMittal Juiz de Fora to was detected in water management by the achieve circulation levels of Contamination is caused by external sources, in this case domestic water Ammoniacal Nitrogen at Group. And this is proved by 99% in 2010. generated by the community of the Novo Horizonte district. For the purpose of the ArcelorMittal Tubarão’s the fact that the Long Steel understanding the situation, ArcelorMittal Tubarão -, in addition to periodically Biological Treatment Station Segment got the second The Wire Drawing units, assessing the quality of water and sediments of surrounding creeks and (ETB) in the period from place, in the Furnas Ouro which dispose of liquid waterways – has searched solutions with the appropriate parties to eliminate September 4th to 17th. Azul Award, on Companies effluents, have innovated such sources and operated aligned with public authorities for mitigation of The deviation triggered Class, which was sponsored in water management and problems. immediate actions to return by the Estado de Minas invested in new forms of to levels acceptable by newspaper. use, such as rain water the legislation. Monitoring reports were forwarded In 2010, ArcelorMittal Brasil use for system make-up, mainly at the Belgo Bekaert Infraction notices and fines to the Espírito Santo was recognition on a Arames (BBA) plant in Throughout the year, impacts caused by the discharge environment agency, which national basis by achieving Contagem (MG), where the ArcelorMittal Tubarão received of sediments into the region monitored all the actions a position among the recirculation index has been two notices of infraction in the adjacent to the Barge Terminal, taken by the company. finalists in the National increasing and already amount of R$ 724 thousand. during the dredging of the intake Water Agency (ANA) Award. achieves 98%. One of them refers to the channel. The company has taken ArcelorMittal Vega also discharge of liquid effluents into containment measures and filed concentrates efforts to In Cariacica (ES), a study lagoon 4, not in compliance an appeal against the infraction study the impacts of indicated the possibility with conditions and standards notices, which by the time of the effluents on local fauna and of reusing rain water in set out in Conama Resolution closing of this report were under flora, both fresh and sea bathrooms. Treatment 357. The other one refers to analysis. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 34 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Energy management ArcelorMittal Brasil invests in Company temporarily ton to 363.28 kWh/ton. In GJ per month. Among them, the Porto de Praia Mole the reuse of process gases used compressed natural addition to pig iron, other replacement of original restaurant. for energy generation. For gas to adjust the plant to factors contributed to this fan coils with others of instance, ArcelorMittal operations with the fuel, and result such as reduction higher capacity, entailing Reduction of energy costs Tubarão is self-sufficient built a natural gas internal in the volume of slag, gas an increase in equipment is also a concern of support in electrical power and it control and distribution injection into the furnace, performance in relation areas, such as employee sells eventual surplus. In system. ArcelorMittal optimization of the metallic to the temperatures of transportation, which at 2010, the quantity sold in Monlevade already mix and O2 consumption. the electrical rooms of the ArcelorMittal Tubarão the energy market was 2.8 consumes approximately 50 Finishing Train and Cogging achieved the mark of 7.64 million Gigajoules (GJ). thousand m3/day of the gas With regard to ArcelorMittal Mill in the LTQ, and also GJ in 2010. it needs as a replacement Tubarão, energy savings actions to improve airThe ArcelorMittal Brasil for LPG. The project allowed arising from eco-efficiency conditioning equipment units also develop initiatives savings of approximately R$ measures achieved 403.9 control and operation at focused on the reduction 300 thousand per month in and rationalization of the unit’s operational cost, consumption, as well as in addition to decreasing replacement of fuels with the emissions of combustion less pollutant alternatives. particulates. An example is the replacement in Monlevade Other units have managed of Liquefied Petroleum Gas to reduce fuel consumption (LPG), petroleum fuel oil thanks to eco-efficiency and compressed natural measures. In Juiz de gas with natural gas (NG). Fora, average energy The change was possible consumption dropped after the construction of 20% in the last years a pipeline of around 330 thanks to the use of liquid kilometers of extension by pig iron – produced from Gasmig, a company from the charcoal – as raw material Government of Minas Gerais. for steel production. The The unit invested R$ 4.5 use of liquid pig iron as million to prepare its facilities input also helped to reduce to operate with natural gas. in 2010 average energy consumption in the electrical The supply with NG furnace at the Cariacica unit started in Q1 2010. The by 12%, from 413.15 kWh/ Gas meter in Tubarão: reuse of gases guarantees energy self-sufficiency MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 35 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Direct energy consumption (GJ) Source 2010 Compressed Air 128,367 Indirect consumption (Águia Branca Logística, Transportadora ANR, Transportadora Mila and Transportadora Logus) Argon -17,961 is also governed by the same principles and the Mineral coal 103,784,749 Companies hired for transportation – of choice of partners takes into account criteria in Charcoal 433,683 employees and products – by ArcelorMittal connection with environmental responsibility. The Tubarão strictly follow the unit’s and Group’s companies use biodegradable detergents in the Biological fuel (biodiesel) 106,487 guidelines to minimize the impacts of their vehicle washing process. The industrial effluents Diesel 658,787 activities. In 2010, there was a reduction in remain on a watertight floor, with trenches, sand Electricity 16,969,644 the consumption of diesel oil (approximately box, water/oil box, in addition to being submitted 8 thousand liters) and gasoline (more than 7 to periodical laboratory analyses that evaluate Natural gas 3,635,146 thousand liters) in the employee transportation the most stringent legislation parameters. The Gasoline 32,088 area in relation to the previous year. Such figures waste generated by transportation companies Hydrogen 21,155 are a result of demand adjustment and fleet providing services to ArcelorMittal Tubarão reduction measures for activity optimization. is segregated through a selective collection Nitrogen 123,981 process and disposed in accordance with a Fuel oil 0 To ensure compliance with legal requirements waste plan. On an annual basis, environmental High Purity Oxygen 1,144,174 and in order to preserve air quality, the noise analyses are conducted for purposes of Low Purity Oxygen 5,341 companies responsible for transportation, compliance with legal requirements, in which VIX Transportes (light transportation) and process improvements are evaluated so as to Total 127,025,641 Viação Satélite (collective transportation), reduce noise pollution levels. conduct periodic monitoring of black smoke in their vehicles. The commitment to ongoing For instance, Company Águia Branca improvement resulted in the Qualiar award, in responsible for internal transportation of coils 2010, offered by the Espírito Santo Transportation and barge loading – uses a fuel developed to Evolution of direct energy consumption Federation (Fetransportes) by means of the increase operational efficiency, generate higher (in million GJ) Programa Despoluir (Pollution Prevention savings, protect the engine, improve and reduce 250 Program). emission levels. The black smoke of its vehicles is monitored on a quarterly basis, having achieved 200 Other company that provides logistic services 216,7 optimal indexes in 2010. For its results, the 150 in Tubarão Vix Logística – also follows the company received for the third consecutive year 169,3 same guidelines. The company is certified by the Fetransportes Air Quality Award. 127,0* 100 ISO 14001 and in 2010 adhered to the program 50 GHG Protocol Brasil to make an inventory of its This indicator has become an increasing concern 2010 2009 2008 greenhouse gas emissions. for ArcelorMittal Long Steel and ArcelorMittal * Drop in consumption compared to Vega, and they are focused on the development previous years was caused by stop for The transportation of products and other of a calculation basis for reporting purposes in maintenance at energy generation units goods and materials, made by four companies future years. (thermoelectric plants) in Tubarão MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 36 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Emissions The steel industry is greater energy efficiency in measurements indicate that Greenhouse gas emissions in 2010 energy intensive and its production processes and the indexes of particulates, (in tons) activities are responsible co-generation of energy. NOx and SOx are below the for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) They seek to expand limits established by the Direct emissions, particularly sustainable use of fuels environmental legislation. Electricity, heat or vapor generation 68,526.00 carbon dioxide (CO2). To deriving from renewable Physical-chemical beneficiation 15,081,063.54 face this reality and in line sources; optimize the Indirect emissions 1,596,234.80 with its commitment to consumption of natural The Environmental environmental protection, resources, by means of Total emissions (direct and indirect) 16,745,824.34 Management Policy ArcelorMittal Brasil water recirculation and has an Environmental reuse in the process; and addresses the Management Policy in also use byproducts as development of MDL place, which contemplates inputs in other industries, projects among other aspects the such as blast furnace slag development of Clean in the manufacture of Development Mechanism cement as a replacement (MDL) programs, in for clinker. At the same compliance with the Kyoto time, they work to Protocol recommendations. maximize the recycling of Moreover, the Company steel internally; and also develops specific actions participate in the Ulcos focused on the physical Project (Ultra Low CO2 risks of climate changes Steelmaking), of which through the adoption of ArcelorMittal is coordinator. managerial practices to efficiently use natural All ArcelorMittal Brasil resources, reduce air units control fixed source emissions and liquid air emissions by means of effluents, and recycle/reuse periodical measurements industrial waste. made by specialized companies. Moreover, The ArcelorMittal units also the Company monitors dedicate time and effort air quality by evaluating to the implementation dust levels (total particles of programs and to the in suspension), nitrogen use of technologies with oxide and sulfur oxide. The Charcoal blast furnaces in Juiz de Fora: fewer emissions and more energy efficiency MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 37 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES NOx, SOx and other air emissions (in tons) 2010 Actions taken in 2010 expressively contributed to the NOx 6,850.49 reduction of greenhouse gas emissions: SOx 14,962.46 Persistent organic pollutants (POP) 3.91 • Inventory of Greenhouse Gas Emissions at industrial units: identifies all sources of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 63.03 greenhouse gas emissions associated to each production process. Fugitive emissions 444.78 • Methane Generation Reduction (gas 21 times more pollutant than CO2) at its Coal Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 1.13 Production Units: enabled by the use of circular type gas burners. By operating with Particulates 2,233.66 availability of 75%, the equipment is capable of reducing by up to 80% the methane gas released by specific sources generated in carbonization. • Reuse of gases in industrial equipment and for energy production: some ArcelorMittal Brasil units turn the gases generated in steel processes into energy. ArcelorMittal Tubarão, with its coke plant and thermal power stations uses 96% of all gas generated at its industrial facilities. Part of these gases are used to heat the blast furnaces, at the actual coke plant or as energy for rolling mills. Another part goes to thermal power stations, where it is transformed into mechanical and electrical energy. Thanks to the reuse of gases, the unit does not depend on petroleum derivatives as power source and it uses natural gas at reduced levels. Other experience is developed by ArcelorMittal Juiz de Fora, which reuses blast furnace gas (BFG) in the reheating of billets in rolling processes, in two ladle heaters, and in the heater of the melt shop’s liquid steel distributors. • At ArcelorMittal Tubarão, the change of mode of transportation of steel coils is also contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The methodology of the project implemented in 2007 proposes the use of oceanic barges instead of trucks and was approved in 2010. With the maritime route (1,170 km), costs are reduced by approximately 60%. Each of the four barges has capacity to carry 9.8 thousand tons of coils. In order to carry the same quantity of steel along highways, 300 carryalls would be required. The system was classified as Clean Development Mechanism (MDL) and it has potential to prevent the emission of 800 thousand tons of CO2 during seven years. Ocean barge used by ArcelorMittal Tubarão was considered Clean Development Mechanism MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 38 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES ArcelorMittal Tubarão Indirect emissions of implemented the Claus greenhouse gases System for Desulfurization were not accounted for of Coke Plant Gas, which at ArcelorMittal Brasil performs the desulfurization companies. ArcelorMittal of vapors of the ammonia Tubarão does not register its distillation columns (NH3), indirect emissions resulting reducing gas emissions from business travels and such as sulfur dioxide (SO2). employee transportation, It was the main investment as they do not represent in environmental control 1% of the company’s direct equipment in 2010. emissions. The system allows the No ArcelorMittal Brasil reduction of up to 88% company releases ozone of sulfur emissions in the depletion gases, including coke production process at CFC-11. the company and 25% at its whole industrial plant. Unprecedented in South America, it also ensures that all waste generated by the Facilities of Claus De-Sulfur System in Tubarão equipment may be reused by the chemical industry. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 39 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Biodiversity The preservation of of flora and fauna during the creation and maintenance Conservation category, biodiversity inside or drought season, particularly of RPPNs have contributed which is considered the main surrounding its industrial of endangered species. to protect and preserve the environmental recognition in units – is a commitment biodiversity. The study which the Southern region. Found in aquatic environments, rural to ArcelorMittal Brasil. The The initiative dedicates embodies the Company’s areas in the Cerrado region and forest environments, such as riparian, ciliary Company invests in the special attention to birds and commitment to environment or gallery forests located in Legal identification and monitoring mammals. In case of birds, was responsible at the Reserves and permanent preservation of areas and, based on observation points are used, beginning of 2011 for the areas (APPs – Cerrado and Atlantic studies that comprise risk and the animals are captured Company being granted Forest). scenarios, corrective and and marked. The work also the Expressão de Ecologia preventive actions are taken comprises vegetal species, Award, in the Wild Life in relation to environmental with the collection of samples impacts. in specific points in these two biomes. On the basis of the In addition to the programs data obtained, the company developed by the units, has taken actions to reduce ArcelorMittal Brasil has the impacts of its activities, Private Natural Heritage such as prevent work Reserves (RPPNs) in the operations during the night; municipalities where it post signs in low visibility operates. The Company areas (curves and hills); and undertakes natural resource avoid activities near inhabited protection projects in bird nests. partnership with public entities, always with a view Another fauna monitoring to protecting and preserving program is developed by the biodiversity. ArcelorMittal Vega. In the 220 hectares where its ArcelorMittal BioFlorestas São Francisco do Sul (SC) develops the Biodiversity unit is located, surveys Monitoring Program, which conducted by biologists and provides for the assessment other experts show that the Monitoring at ArcelorMittal Vega has contributed to protecting local biodiversity MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 40 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES The preservation of Institute (MRI), in the United In 2010 all maintenance The unit also has a plant biodiversity is also inserted States, which had already services in the Tubarão green nursery with Atlantic Forest in the list of main priorities made these measurements belt such as tree trimming, species, which once is fully Composed by a number of ArcelorMittal Tubarão. in 1998 and 2005, with fertilization and new planting developed will serve the of species, from exotic Currently, approximately similar conclusions. The test were performed in order to reforestation program in the species such as acacia and flamboyant to Atlantic Forest 2.6 million trees planted has proven that the natural increase the forest diversity areas of new operational species such as yellow and around the unit form a barrier is as efficient as the and efficacy of the belt to units, and it has also purple ipe. It is approximately green belt. The result was wind fence, a metal structure reduce wind velocity and as implemented initiatives 18 meters high and started proven in 2010 by a test closed by polypropylene a result the suspension of for the awareness of to be ‘mounted’ in the 80’s. of the Midwest Research screens. particulates. neighboring communities. In It reduces by up to 85% the the following years, efforts effect of winds on the raw shall be concentrated on the material piles, preventing the enrichment of forests located propagation of dust to the atmosphere. at the unit, favoring the increment of biodiversity. As to ArcelorMittal Monlevade, it started in 2010 the development of a stewardship plan for its Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN). The work shall be completed in 2011, with a boost of biodiversity management in the area. Green belt at Tubarão keeps dust out of atmosphere MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 41 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Protected areas with a high index of biodiversity Unit Characteristic of the protected area Unit Characteristic of the protected area BioFlorestas • Location: Southern region of Bahia (Prado, Caravelas and Alcobaça) BioFlorestas • Location: Mid-West region of Minas Gerais (Abaeté, Bom • Own land Despacho, Dores do Indaiá, Martinho Campos and Quartel Geral) • Region protected by Decree 750/93 • Own land. • Activities: forestry and production of charcoal • Activities: production of seedlings, forestry and bio-reducer production (bio-reducer) • Total area: 70,000 Km² • Total area: 63,614 Km² • Unit located in the Cerrado biome, with 20% of its area • Atlantic Forest Unit, with 46% of its area composed by composed by native vegetation. native vegetation Guilman-Amorim • Location: mid-course of Piracicaba River near the BioFlorestas • Location: Vale do Rio Doce region, in Minas Gerais Municipalities of Nova Era and Antônio Dias (Dionísio, São José do Goiabal, Marliéria and São Pedro dos Ferros) • RPPN located in area belonging to the hydropower station. • Own land • Activities: energy generation and transmission. • Protected by Decree 750/93, the region shelters the third • Operational unit area: 1,640 Km2 greatest lake complex of Latin America. The areas are limited • Biodiversity characteristics: RPPN, Legal Reserve, APP; by the State Park of Rio Doce. Classification of the Piracicaba River Class 2 (MG Legislation), • Activities: forestry and production o bio-reducer (charcoal) Atlantic Forest Biome. • Total area: 84,922 Km² • Scenarios of current environmental fragility of the Piracicaba • Unit located in the Atlantic Forest Biome, with 27% of its River Basin: aquatic ecosystems (medium); and onshore area composed by native vegetation. The fauna and flora monitoring ecosystem (from medium to high), according to the Ministry activity conducted in some native reserves indicates that the area of Environment. has an index of species compatible with the Rio Doce Park. ArcelorMittal • Location: Juiz de Fora – MG BioFlorestas • Location: Northern region (Carbonita, Senador Modestino Juiz de Fora • Own area managed by the organization. Gonçalves and Diamantina). • Activities: administrative offices and production area. • Own land. • Total area of 2000 ha, where 13.5 ha of built area, 382 ha * 6,700 ha of Private Natural Heritage Reserve inside the of Permanent Preservation Area and 400 ha of Legal Reserve Area areas of this regional unit. • Activities: forestry and charcoal production ArcelorMittal • Location: João Monlevade – MG • Total area: 134,800 Km² Monlevade • Own area managed by the organization. • Unit located in the Cerrado biome, with 33% of its area • Activities: administrative offices and production area. composed by native vegetation. The fauna and flora monitoring • Total area of 578.2 ha, where 60.2 ha of built area and activities conducted in some native reserves indicate indexes of 518 ha of RPPN. richness of species compatible with existing conservation units in the region. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 42 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Unit Characteristic of the protected area ArcelorMittal • Location: Cariacica (ES) Cariacica • Own area managed by the company. • Activities: administrative offices and production area. • Operational unit area: 113 hectares, where 0.78 hectares of built area and 59.81 hectares of protected green area. • Biodiversity characteristics: fragments of vegetation cover at early, medium and advanced stage. ArcelorMittal • Location: Sabará (MG) Sabará • Own area managed by the company • Activities: administrative offices and production area. • Operational unit area: 105.6 hectares, where 28.4 hectares of built area and of industrial use, and 77.2 hectares of green area. ArcelorMittal • Location: Serra (ES) Tubarão • Area belongs to the company: 1,338 ha • Permanent Preservation Area (APP) inside company site: 122 ha • Activity: administrative offices and industrial production in RPPN of Monlevade is in an area of 518 hectares 13.38 Km2 • Biodiversity richness: the company has on its site eight lagoons, with six of them interconnected forming the Praia Mole Creek. ArcelorMittal • Location: São Francisco do Sul (SC) Vega • Total area belongs to the company: 2.2 km2 • Area of the Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN) inside company site: 0.76 km2 • Restinga preservation area near the pipeline: 0.75 km2 • Activities: administrative and industrial • Operational unit area: 0.1 km2 • Biodiversity richness: the unit area shelters a Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN) covered by Atlantic Forest vegetation. The area maintains a plant nursery for the production of native species of the Atlantic Forest, condiments, vegetables and flowers, with annual average production of 500 thousand seedlings. • ArcelorMittal Vega also has another area not adjacent to the site where the industrial plant is located, of 0.75 km2, characterized as restinga and inserted into the State Acaraí Park. Considered the last intact restinga area of Santa Catarina. ArcelorMittal Sabará has 72 hectares of green area MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 43 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Protected or restored habitats Number of endangered species per risk level: At all of its units with incidents, if required. When Critically endangered Guiman-Amorim 1 RPPNs, legal reserve, required, the Company also BioFlorestas – 1 permanent preservation or develops emergency action Endangered Guilman-Amorim 4 forest stewardship areas, plans and recovery plans the long steel segment for areas degraded by its BioFlorestas -2 of ArcelorMittal Brasil industrial activities. Vulnerable Guilman-Amorin – 8 maintains private security, BioFlorestas -16 fire brigade and agreements with the Environmental Almost threatened BioFlorestas – 14 Police to prevent and fight Area Size Location Partnerships Guilman-Amorim (RPPN) 253.50 ha Antônio Dias (MG) Environmental Police Guilman-Amorim (Legal Reserva) 182.6 ha Antônio Dias and Nova Era (MG) Environmental Police Belgo Distribution Center Belo Horizonte 7 ha Belo Horizonte (MG) None ArcelorMittal Tubarão (Permanente Preservation Area) 102 ha Serra (ES) None Arcelor Mittal Tubarão (Environmental Education Center) 35 ha Serra (ES) None ArcelorMittal Tubarão (Green Belt) 27 ha Serra (ES) None ArcelorMittal Vega (RPPN) 76 ha São Francisco do Sul (SC None MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 44 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Description of impacts Significant impacts Nature of impacts Description of impacts Guilman Amorim • The mainly affected species are aquatic Hydro-Power Station microbiological and fish species of medium Piracicaba river. • Affects stretch of approx. 20 kilometers with changed flow rate in relation to natural flow. • The irreversible impacts last the whole extent of the Plant’s life cycle. BioFlorestas • Reduction of species Affected species: threatened, rare migratory • Changes to ecological processes out of endemic, and forest reserve dependent species. the natural level of variation, such as salinity, • Impacts on local fauna occurred in native changes to groundwater level. reserve areas, adjacent to the location under forest stewardship. The most sensitive areas are aquatic environments, riparian, ciliary or gallery forests and old threads with native woodlands colonized by the fauna. • The duration of the impact depends on its extension in the area or region, but usually recedes when the activities are over. The fauna impacts identified to date are reversible, as their magnitude generates no imminent risk of local extinctions. ArcelorMittal Cariacica Construction of new landfill for class type Suppression of vegetation other things by brachiaria, waste cover composed among eucalyptus, chestnut and oiti. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 45 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Environmental impact management Unit Action Results ArcelorMittal Tests for replacement of Reduction of 15% in the BioFlorestas agrotoxic with organic products purchase of inputs and ArcelorMittal Brasil’s strategic Therefore, the Group units when planting forests disbursements with planning incorporates the have tried to improve their manpower for application; business decision to build strategies to manage and reduction of the area applied a balanced relation among prevent any impacts on the with chemicals and specific the sustainability dimensions environment. See below consumption of agrotoxic in its conduct of business. some actions: products in forest planting ArcelorMittal Change of the dust removal Reduction of 50% in the Cariacica system’s sleeve filters emission of particulates ArcelorMittal Implementation of a Waste Directive Recycling index greater than Monlevade Plan (PDR), which provides for proper 98% disposal of waste generated by the operations ArceloMittal Implementation of collector by 100% of treated sewage São Paulo Sabesp, São Paulo water and sewage treatment company ArcelorMittal Deployment of specific plan Reduction in the levels of Tubarão during the summer to minimize emission of particulates by 19% fugitive emissions of particulates and installation of equipment and improvements in the environmental control systems ArcelorMittal Vega Reduction in the generation of Between 2008 and 2010, effluents generated in industrial specific generation of treated and sanitation processes. liquid effluents dropped from 0.21 to 0.18 cubic meters/ton of ArcelorMittal BioFlorestas has been reducing the use of agricultural chemicals in planting of its areas rolled steel. MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 46 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Environmental education The Company develops to award students who better environmental preservation ArcelorMittal Environment Award 2010 a series of actions to express their environmental into the academic framework Municipalities: 46 promote the diffusion of awareness, helping in the of hundreds of schools in knowledge and awareness formation of citizens well Brazil, and more than 500 Participating schools: 795 on sustainable attitudes. prepared to preserve and educational institutions Educators involved: 8,055 Internally, the environmental value the environment. created the ArcelorMittal Participating employees’ children and students: 303,258 education programs Environment Award Day in comprise the set of their academic calendar. employee capacity building In 19 years, the Award and qualification training managed to incorporate activities and are extended themes linked to to Contractors’ employees operating at the units. In the communities where it operates, the Company invests in environmental education programs in partnership with public and private education institutions. A traditional initiative is the ArcelorMittal Environment Award that in 2010 celebrated its 19th edition. Sponsored by the ArcelorMittal Brasil Foundation, it contributes to the environmental awareness of children and adolescents, highlighting relevant themes for their ethical formation. The initiative proposes the inclusion of environmental education in the schools’ pedagogical guidelines, and Children in activity in green area at ArcelorMittal Vega MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 47 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Responsibility on the product The Group adopts a number The product also receives the packages are made with Products receive of measures to ensure safety Quality Inspection Certificate, steel strapping, which may Quality Inspection and prevent incidents related with information on chemical be reused. Information on Certificate to its products. All of them are composition, mechanical handling and stocking of identified and can be tracked properties, dimensions, rolled products is supplied in in the production chain. There weight and radioactivity product catalogues published are procedures to prevent the absence certificate. Coil by the Company. change of material delivered to the client; transportation is made by trucks, carryalls and barges especially developed to carry Company products. Moreover, product information is ensured by trials in certified equipment, calibrated according to internationally recognized standards, and complies with domestic and international standards. The identification of products is made by adhesive labels (in case of hot rolled, pickled, cold rolled and galvanized coils). Label contents may be custom-made according to each client’s needs. Identification allows ArcelorMittal steel to be tracked in its production chain MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 48 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Customer satisfaction The Company’s flat and long This work is performed with actions to correct failures and steel segments develop Company’s regular customers improve customers’ perception. consolidated methodologies to and the results are compiled The ascertainment is made measure customer satisfaction per product line: steel plates, on a monthly basis and the in relation to product quality, hot rolled coils (ArcelorMittal result submitted jointly with compliance with delivery Tubarão), galvanized and cold client specific and general time and customer service, rolled coils (ArcelorMittal Vega). improvement plans. among other indicators. Customers are encouraged ArcelorMittal Tubarão and to give grades (from 1 to 10) By means of the Customer ArcelorMittal Vega have a for the quality of products Complaint Index, ArcelorMittal methodology for assessment and services, and make Tubarão and ArcelorMittal of customer satisfaction by an evaluation in relation to Vega control their products’ means of a questionnaire competitors (similar, better or non-conformities. In 2010, the with the characteristics of worse). flat steel segment registered products/services supplied. 0.07% of complaints, an index The questionnaire is formally In 2010, the accumulated result obtained by the Reclaimed delivered to the customer’s of the survey for all supplied volume / shipped volume ratio. representative during visits products and services achieved previously scheduled or sent by the goals, which means it was Ecological steel e-mail. Moreover, systematic follow-up is made of the considered. When an item receives scores below the Level of Evolution of Customer goal – or when its evaluation is At the end of 2010, products (MG), Itaúna (MG), Piracicaba Satisfaction through biannual below that of competitors – the of the long steel units added (SP), São Paulo (SP) and surveys. Company makes an analysis another certificate to their Cariacica (ES) plants. of the results and develops portfolio: the Ecological Stamp of the Falcão Bauer Quality Valid until 2013, the Falcão Institute granted after analyses and audits at the plants. It is an Bauer Institute certificate of conformity contemplates Package reuse environmental labeling program bars, welded screens, lattices, Within the scope of the Waste the highlight is the use of the transportation of loads in (ecolabelling), a voluntary nails, wiring, light profiles and Byproduct Management steel strapping and seals forklifts – are sold for reuse, methodology of environmental and rolled bars for use in Model, ArcelorMittal Tubarão 100% reused as scrap in the and wedges and boards performance certification civil construction. In practical develops techniques of Piracicaba and ArcelorMittal (33,918 units and 320 m³ in granted to civil construction terms, the certification attests application and reuse Tubarão plants (2,362 tape rolls 2010, respectively) are sold for products manufactured at to the products’ recycling index of packages used in the and 181,946 units of reused use as boiler fuel. ArcelorMittal de Juiz de Fora between 51% and 73%. manufacture process and metallic seals in 2010). As to transportation of its products the use of wood in Tubarão, to Vega plant. In this case pallets – structures used in MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 49 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Innovation in transportation automotive industry. The new system contributed to waste generation. The new The responsibility for the delivery of is composed by nine vehicles: carryalls system uses metallic berths with capacity products to customers also involves with capacity between 25 and 35 tons, to safely stow 20 to 30 bundles of bars investments in innovation to ensure trucks with capacity to carry 12 to 14 tons, of varied lengths. In addition to reducing greater efficiency, safety and productivity. and tocos, with capacity between 8 and possible cargo damage and loading An example is the special railroad car for 10 tons, all of them developed to carry time, it decreases the risk of accidents wire rod transportation, which made its bundles of drawn bars. and incidents with those responsible for first trip in November 2010, covering the the operation. stretch between João Monlevade, where The innovation is in the stowing method. the material is produced, and the Belgo Until then, wooden platforms put Bekaert Arames (BBA) unit, in Contagem together with nails were used, which (MG), where it is turned into wire. represented a risk of accidents and Developed in partnership with the Ferrovia Centro-Atlântica (FCA), the special car was designed so that wire rod coils are laid down without overlapping and secured with a strap, which ensures cargo integrity. Another advantage is the reduction of loading time: the common car with 45 tons is loaded within approximately 40 minutes; the special car with 39 tons takes only 20 minutes. Forty (40) special railroad cars are already in operation. The projection is for them to replace 150 carryalls, which will no longer cross the highways. Another project developed by the Sabará (MG) unit in partnership with the ArcelorMittal Brasil’s logistic cell -, is focused on the transportation of drawn bars, a material employed in the Special machine-thread car developed at Monlevade: guarantee of integrity of cargo MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 50 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES More than neighbors, communities located in the vicinity of ArcelorMittal Brasil units are considered partners of its corporate responsibility actions. Initiatives focused on programs in the areas of education, health and culture are planned in observance of demands and local particularities, so as to contribute to the formation of aware and participative citizens. ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES in this chapter >> ArcelorMittal Foundation >> Community relations >> Suppliers >> Commitment to society ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 51 Previous Next >> Visão de sustentabilidade >> Governança Transparente >> Investir em Nosso Pessoal >> Tornar o aço mais sustentável >> Enriquecer nossas comunidades Top priority ArcelorMittal invests in long-term A decrease in dropout rates was actions, considered to be relevant also one of the results achieved with for local development. One of the the project “Education in Human priorities is education, seen as the Values”, led by the mayor of Serra main factor for the sustainability of Municipality (ES), ArcelorMittal Brasil any community. In this sense, some Foundation and ArcelorMittal Tubarão. initiatives stand out, such as the Solidarity, respect and love were School Success project, developed in the main topics addressed in an Cariacica (ES) since 2009. interdisciplinary manner at municipal schools. The proposal is to contribute Thirty-two ArcelorMittal volunteers to the formation of children’s and dedicate two hours a week to assist adolescents’ character, taking to the students at the Professor José Leão classroom values such as peace, nonNunes State Elementary School with violence and love. their Portuguese and Mathematics schools works. Moreover, they In 2010, seven educational institutions administer lectures for the purpose entered the project, with support from of contributing to the improvement ArcelorMittal Brasil Foundation and of students’ school performance and ArcelorMittal Tubarão, adding to three self-esteem. These lectures, referred institutions which had the project to as “Transformando o amanhã” implemented, on an experimental (Changing tomorrow), take place basis, in the previous year by on unit premises and also show the public authorities. In its first year of Volunteer and student benefitted from School Success Program, awarded by the Education Office of Espírito Santo ArcelorMittal employees’ day-to-day. execution, the Program registered a decrease of 20% in dropout rates The initiative was recognized in 2010 and 10% in flunk rates at schools. In Education in Human Values in 2010 with the “Good Practices in Education 2011, additional 10 schools will adhere Award”, granted by the Education to the initiative, incorporating seven Educators involved: 269 Department (Sedu) of Espírito Santo. thousand students. Schools participating: 10 The project won in the category Students benefitted: 5,300 “School Management Good Practices – Reduction of Abandonment/ Dropout” and as a result the school received the amount of R$ 25 mil. The funds were applied in betterments at the school such as auditorium sound system, educational excursions and data show device. ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 52 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Social responsibility ArcelorMittal Brasil Foundation The ArcelorMittal Brasil’s In 2010, some initiatives Created in 1988, it is a nonsocial promotion. To identify the transfer of program social programs are originally developed in the profit organization focused the interests and needs of methodologies to the managed by different long steel segment such on developing permanent the communities where the communities served, which structures in the flat and as the Sexual Affective projects in the communities Company operates, the ensures the sustainability long steel segments. In Education Program where ArcelorMittal Foundation team conducts of the initiative. Thus, it the flat steel area (Tubarão (Peas Educação Afetivooperates. annual visits to the achieves long-term and and Vega), the actions are Sexual), See and Live (Ver municipalities and meets truly effective results. coordinated by teams of e Viver), Welding Cities Every year, approximately with public authorities the companies themselves, (Cidades da Solda) and 500 thousand people and ArcelorMittal’s local For the development and in response to actions Listen Well to Learn Better benefit from initiatives representatives. During of social programs, of dialogue with the local (Ouvir Bem para Aprender focused on the formation of these meetings, the the institution receives community, which is directly Melhor) were extended children and adolescents objectives of each of the ArcelorMittal financial impacted by Company to the municipalities of so that they become parties in relation to social support. Moreover, it invests business. influence of ArcelorMittal citizens who are more investments in the region in partnerships designed Tubarão (ES), while the aware, productive are discussed and the best to enable the deployment Tubarão and Vega ArcelorMittal Environment and participative. The option for each reality is of programs and projects also develop initiatives Award was incorporated Foundation’s programs defined. enrolled in tax incentive in partnership with by ArcelorMittal Vega (SC). comprise the areas laws. In 2010, R$ 6.5 million ArcelorMittal Brasil The mining and distribution of education, health, The activities of the were invested in a number Foundation, an institution areas have also started to environment, culture and Foundation consist in of projects. which was created at first develop social programs. to manage social projects in the long steel segment, Investments of ArcelorMittal Brasil Foundation in 2010 and in time extended its In 2010, R$ 6.5 million Own resources: R$ 1.4 million activities to the flat steel, were invested in sociodistribution and mining Funds from incentives (ICMS, Cultural Action Program (SP), R$ 5.1 million cultural projects Rouanet Law, Sport Law, ISSQN): segments. The local coordinators, professionals TOTAL: R$ 6.5 million who work at plants and offices help in the development of community actions. ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 53 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Sexual Affective Education Program (Peas) The Sexual Affective contributes to the formation Education Program (Peas) of youngsters who are more celebrated 10 years in 2010. aware, participative and The initiative is consolidated with safe behavior. in eight municipalities where the Company operates, and in some of them it was raised to the status of public Every year, policy. The program gives to approximately adolescents from 4th to 8th 500 thousand grades of public schools the people benefit from opportunity to discuss and ArcelorMittal Brasil reflect on themes related to Mobilization of Peas in Juiz de Fora: training aware and safe young people sexuality and health. Thus, it Foundation actions Peas 2010 Results Municipalities: 11 Qualified teachers: 180 Benefitted students: 7,000 Youth Entrepreneurship with children and young people from elementary and middle school ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 54 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Programs developed by ArcelorMittal Brasil Foundation in 2010 Program for Objectives People served Program for Objectives People served Teaching Helps public schools Municipalities: 4 Education with Qualifies teachers for proper Municipalities: 3 Quality – PEQ to perfect their pedagogic and Schools: 23 Diversity Program inclusion of students mentally Qualified teachers management processes in order Teachers involved: 1,050 handicapped at public schools. (120-hour course): 113 for them to provide a more efficient, Students benefitted: 15,389 Qualified teachers education with better school (continued formation): 46 performance among students and Digital citizenship Proposes the implementation of Municipalities: 3 lower dropout and repetition rates. Computer and Citizenship Schools, Graduates: 1,443 See and Live Focused on the diagnosis and Municipalities: 21 for the purpose of promoting treatment of visual problems. Students screened: 18,160 citizenship through digital inclusion. Glasses donated: 1,687 Pro-Volunteer Fosters and creates conditions Municipalities: 13 Listen well to Focused on the diagnosis and Municipalities: 17 for employees and their family Committees created: 10 learn better treatment of hearing problems. Students screened: 8,164 members to make volunteer work Beneficiaries: 36,127 Prosthesis: 16 in the communities where they Volunteers: 8,830 Always smiling Focused on the diagnosis and Municipalities: 1 are inserted. treatment of dental problems. Students served (preventive): 4,967 Citizens of Mobilizes employees, suppliers Municipalities: 27 Students served – healing: 822 Tomorrow Program and clients to allocate part of the Funds obtained: R$ 1,173,608.79 Welding Cities Qualifies youngsters in situation of Municipalities: 1 Income Tax annually due to the Participants: 8,760 social risk to work as welders Adolescents qualified: 39 Fund of Children and Adolescents. Institutions benefitted: 63 and welding torch operators. Youngsters benefitted: 10,301 Young Fosters the entrepreneur Municipalities: 5 Sabará Articulates actions focused on Municipality: 1 entrepreneurism spirit of youngsters still at school, Schools served: 6 Collaborative local development through the (in Sabará, in the districts of by means of theoretical-practical Participating students: 1,534 Network joint efforts of public, private agents Castanheiras and Nossa educational programs, applied Volunteers: 118 and communities. Senhora de Fátima) by Company volunteers. Beneficiaries: approximately 550 families. ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 55 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Community Relations ArcelorMittal Brasil makes A number of workshops of products increased R$ 300 a permanent work of have been conducted, as compared to 2009. relationship with the such as wood decoupage, In Cariacica (ES), ArcelorMittal communities where it fabric painting, ecological has contributed to the operates, so as to contribute costume jewel and sewing wellbeing of neighboring to their development and techniques, among others. communities through the strengthening on the They are offered by the Sesi “Projeto Digna Idade” basis of perennial and of Piracicaba. In 2010, more (The Worthy Age Project). sustainable projects. The than one thousand people Every Thursday, 45 elderly actions comprise a number participated in the activities. inhabitants go to the Jardim of programs of incentive to A survey performed by the América Health Center, which culture, improved education, Company indicated a 98% is managed by the local and promotion of health index of satisfaction of those authorities, to participate and life quality. All of them involved. in handicraft classes and take into consideration the leisure activities. The objective problems and demands of For the purpose of is to create a space for each region and they are contributing to the promotion socialization and reflection, developed in partnership of the handicraft produced contributing to improve Art in the Community Project offers courses in artisanal techniques to residents of with local organizations, so in the Serra municipality, in self-esteem and life quality. communities surrounding ArcelorMittal Piracicaba as to magnify the results Espírito Santo, ArcelorMittal With five years of existence, around a common objective Tubarão in partnership with the project won in 2010 the of improving the life quality of the local authorities, invested ArcelorMittal Performance the communities. in the construction of the Excellence Award, in the Lagoa do Juara Handicraft Environment and Social An example is the Center. The location will Responsibility category. Community Art Project, which shelter the production of includes the “Programa 22 artisans, who work with Somos Vizinhos” (We Are pieces made of “capimNeighbors), developed by taboa”, a raw material The investment ArcelorMittal Piracicaba largely used in the traditional (SP). The project was handicraft production of the made in handicraft created in 2005 and offers municipality. The project has in the Serra to the inhabitants of four great potential to become municipality neighboring communities self-sustainable and be contributed to craft technique courses. The responsible for the creation increase the income initiative was developed of job positions and the as a result of the demands generation of income. In of artisans. presented by the inhabitants 2010, the average income per themselves. artisan obtained with the sale ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 56 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES People who benefitted from social actions developed by ArcelorMittal Tubarão in 2010 Direct beneficiaries 23,440 Indirect beneficiaries 96,293 Total 119,733 In 2010, ArcelorMittal Vega know the impact of the actions invested approximately R$ 2.6 implemented and evaluate the million in social responsibility perception of the communities initiatives, benefitting more on the investments made. In than 20 thousand people. the 2010 survey, the favorability ArcelorMittal Tubarão supports artisans in the Every two years, the unit index was 89%. municipality of Serra (ES) conducts a image survey to In partnership with the community In 2010, ArcelorMittal Tubarão improvements in its of five different neighboring Throughout 2009 and 2010 contributing to promote a deployed a unique strategy of communication tools – Fale communities, starting February this methodology was applied deeper reflection with social involvement with inhabitants’ Conosco (Contact Us) and 2011. The practice of sports by allowing the NGOs to develop managers and those who associations from neighboring Portal do Solicitante children was one of the main such projects, perfect their benefit from the initiatives. communities, for the purpose (Customer Portal) – seeking to needs indicated by community information control and of meeting their demands. expedite answers to doubts representatives interviewed assessment tools. The work indicated that 30% Thirty (30) meetings were and questions from the during the visits made. of the social projects had held between the company’s communities and formalize It is a pioneer initiative in a relevant social impact, social responsibility team a specific channel to receive To enhance monitoring and the ArcelorMittal Group, according to the methodology and leaderships from the local social development strengthen the management which is being replicated applied. The index coincides districts of the Serra and Vitória support proposals. Also as of the actions the company at ArcelorMittal Vega. The with company’s expectations municipalities, where the a result of the community regularly supports, it was objective is to provide established in the Balanced company is located. meetings, it was possible to created with support from the parameters to identify the Score Card (BSC). develop – in partnership with Fundação Itaú Social a specific effective social transformation As a result of this approach, Sesi Estadual – sport and methodology to measure the generated at the communities the company implemented leisure projects for children social impact of the projects. served by the projects, thus ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 57 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Art and culture Adriana Focas The cultural initiatives The selection and approval Activities of the developed in the long steel of sponsored projects ArcellorMittal Cultural segment are sheltered in are the responsibility of the program ArcelorMittal the Culture Committee, Program benefitted Cultural and seek to composed by managers 105 thousand people expand the access of from different areas of the in 2010 the communities to a Company and ArcelorMittal number of manifestations, Brasil Foundation. Each encouraging and fostering business unit is responsible the formation of audiences, for monitoring the progress artists and managers. and evaluating the results The ArcelorMittal Cultural of the supported projects. program is based on the guidelines of the Group Cultural Investment Policy, which guides Fun activities in Belo Horizonte: ongoing programming for children and young people and standardizes the procedures for sponsorship of projects in the area. In 2010, the focus of area and the Foundation. It which was made feasible the Company cultural is objective is to contribute by the benefits of the State investment was “education to the dissemination Culture Incentive Law and Main selection criteria of cultural allied to culture”. As a of the Company brand Company’s own resources result, 57 projects were in Belo Horizonte, by will continue in 2011. projects: sponsored by ArcelorMittal. The activities benefitted means of ongoing cultural presentations for infantIn Espírito Santo, a Scope: it should and competence of from the project. 105,533 people, by means youth audiences. Over traditional activity is the include the communities the party responsible Pedagogical plan, of 502 events, among nine months of project, 27 ArcelorMittal Christmas where ArcelorMittal for the undertaking in in case of projects courses, workshops, theater groups performed Concert, organized by the operates. the execution of the comprising educational performances and shows. 31 plays, in a total of 108 Tubarão unit in partnership Adjustment to the objectives proposed. actions. The actions comprised 32 presentations to a crowd of with the Vitória Mayor’s relationship strategies of Access to cultural Idoneity of the party cities under the influence 27,345 spectators, which Office. It is a musical show ArcelorMittal units. goods and services. responsible for the of the long steel, flat steel, corresponds to 253 people presented every year in Enhancement A communication undertaking. wire and forest segments. per performance. the month of December, ArcelorMittal social plan suitable to the Approval of the in Camburi Beach. Free responsibility practices. disclosure of the unit involved and One of the highlights was All performances of charge, it provides a Priority to the use of activities scheduled and ArcelorMittal Brasil the “Diversão em Cena” are approved by the humanistic and social tax benefits. the diffusion of goods Foundation. (Fun on Stage), created ArcelorMittal Culture reflection. The 2010 edition, Proven experience and services resulting in 2010 and a result of Committee, according to the 16th in the history of the the partnership between the ArcelorMittal Brasil’s event received 30 thousand the ArcelorMittal Brasil’s Cultural Investment Policy. spectators. corporate communication The Fun on Stage program ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 58 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Social Promotion The purpose of the At the long steel segment Other actions performed in 2010 programs developed in units, 466 employees got Project Unit Results the Company’s social involved in 2010 in the Partnership with the ArcelorMittal Tubarão Funds for the CD “Liberdade para cantar” (Freedom to promotion area is to most varied activities, Social-Educational Sing), produced by adolescents of the Social-Educational incentive cooperation which consisted Assistance Institute of among private enterprises, Internment Unit (Unis) and Female Internment Unit (UFI) among other things in Espírito Santo (IASES) civil society and public the donation of toys, during music workshops sponsored by the company. authorities. The projects community lunch, and Holding of the II State Seminar of the Project Adolescence provide the employees electrical and hydraulic Without Bars with an opportunity to repairs at daycares. In “Restoration Justice”, with participation of more than 200 especially in volunteer all, 1,690 people were Brazilian experts in social-educational issues. initiatives. An example is benefitted. Construction of hospital ArcelorMittal Vega Company is the leader of a group of companies that V Day (Volunteer’s Day) in São Francisco is helping to provide equipment to the hospital under when the ArcelorMittal do Sul (SC) construction in the city. In 2010, the donation of equipment units in Brazil are amounted to R$ 1.4 million. mobilized to carry out Construction of family ArcelorMittal Vega Erected in the district of Paulas with investment of R$ 500 activities to the benefit of health unit thousand, it benefits more than one thousand families in São neighboring communities. Francisco Do Sul, totaling 4.3 thousand people. Project Schoolhouse ArcelorMittal Vega Partnership with Sesi, which consists in structuring a daycare unit for poverty-stricken families. It benefitted 60 children from 2 to 5 years old. Joahnna ArcelorMittal Vega Company invested R$ 548 thousand in institution which Stammerjohann Fischer shelters children in a situation of social vulnerability. Transition House “Education and ArcelorMittal Vega It offers training to the community. In 2010, 30 students Employability” Program graduated in Tourism Agency Services and Restaurant Services qualification courses. “São Francisco in ArcelorMittal Vega Promotion of movie sessions where the ticket is equal to 1 Cinema” Program kg of food, which is donated to charitable entities. In 2010, 8,894 spectators attended and 6,145 kg of food were collected. “Green with Life” ArcelorMittal Vega Environmental education program which fosters direct Program experiences and contact with nature. Record of attendance in 2010: 3,690 visitors enjoyed educational activities at the Environmental Training Center (Ceta) and in the Private Natural Heritage Reserve (RPPN). Blood donation in Monlevade, initiative encouraged by the volunteering program ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 59 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Value generation ArcelorMittal Brasil of shareholders and generated in 2010 added investors, and also to feed value of R$ 5.9 billion. This a vast production chain, amount was designed contributing to boost the to the compensation of development of the Country employees, payment and the locations where it of taxes, compensation operates. Part of the added value generated by the Company goes to employee remuneration Distribution of Added Value (In R$ millions) Empregados 2010 1,656 2009 1,483 2008 1,520 Suppliers Company inserted specific mechanisms in its contracts Tributos 1,724 59 2,224 to allow the assessment and Since 2009, ArcelorMittal is tracking of sources and inputs Financiadores 953 2,234 1,484 a signatory of the National used in the production of raw Acionistas 1,590 3,321 1,630 Compact for the Eradication material. Total do Valor Adicionado 5,923 7,097 6,858 of Slave Labor, an initiative of the Ethos Institute for Business Just to mention a few, regular and Social Responsibility, and systematic reference 2010 2009 2008 Instituto Observatório to sites indicated by the Social, NGO Repórter Brasil National Compact, invoice and International Labor sampling and monitoring of Organization (ILO). The charcoal suppliers. Moreover, 22% pact reunites Brazilian and ArcelorMittal Brasil will 28% 21% foreign companies which are incentive its suppliers to join 27% 24% 47% committed to maintaining the group of signatories of the 1% their product chains away Compact. from agents that use slave 16% 22% workforce. The partnership with its 31% 29% 32% suppliers shall be executed in With that in mind, the 2011. The initiative complies Company started in 2010 a with the ArcelorMittal work with its suppliers of pig Human Rights Policy which iron, which use charcoal as reaffirms among others the one of the main inputs. The commitment to the eradication Employees Financiers Taxes Shareholders ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 60 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES of forced or compulsory labor: Prodfor also comprises “ArcelorMittal opposes the use certifications in occupational of forced or compulsory labor. health, safety and environment We will also work with our management systems and an subcontractors and suppliers unprecedented certification to avoid indirectly benefiting in financial, tax and labor from or promoting such illegal management systems. The practices”. program gathered 21 suppliers in 2010, out of which 10 were Qualification certified in health, safety, environment management The Company also works systems by indication of the towards the qualification of its Tubarão unit. As to financial suppliers in the management certification, it achieved a area. One of the initiatives in group of seven suppliers, that progress is the “Integrated is, five in 2009 and two in 2010. Program of Suppliers’ Since its deployment in 1998, Development and Qualification” Prodfor already certified 429 (Prodfor). The program is companies, and 277 are still developed in Espírito Santo and has ArcelorMittal active. Sustainable business Cariacica and ArcelorMittal The long steel segment The program is structured Sixteen (16) meetings were Tubarão as major players. develops an initiative with in the form of meetings held in 2010. The work The purpose of the program companies that are part of among suppliers’ and with suppliers allowed the is to help small and mid-sized its business chain, in order ArcelorMittal Long Piracicaba unit to maintain companies implement a quality to create and incorporate Steel’s representatives, in 2010 the certification management system, so that into these organizations’ in which good practices with standard SA 8000 they can achieve the required management system a of sustainability are (social responsibility). With supply standards. sound sustainability and discussed and shared. The regard to lime suppliers, corporate responsibility suppliers are submitted a dissemination of policy. The initiative is to a self-evaluation at sustainability practices in the Sustainability and the beginning and end their production chains Corporate Responsibility of the Program, based was observed. Program (SRE), launched in on the seven themes 2004. In 2010 the program of the Ethos Institute: had the participation of 30 Values and Transparence, suppliers, being 21 of the Community, Government Piracicaba unit and 09 lime and Society, Internal Public, suppliers. Environment, Consumers and Clients and Suppliers. ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 61 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Audits In order to ensure a In 2010, 43 companies that Audit program sustainable relationship with third-party suppliers work on the premises of 05 units of the long steel seeks to ensure Commitment to society that work at its industrial segment were audited compliance by units, ArcelorMittal Long by the ArcelorMittal’s suppliers with their In 2010, ArcelorMittal was contemplated. Steel maintains an in-house Human Resources and obligations Brasil made financial Company units are free to audit program. The purpose Supplies teams. One donations to political work in conjunction with of the program is to ensure hundred employees were parties and candidates, the local candidates they suppliers’ compliance interviewed and more than which ran in the believe to be representing with their obligations, by two thousand items verified Brazilian elections for the community’s best means of regular visits to within the scope of the state representative, interests. companies and accounting companies and more than congressman, senator, firms, so as to verify the seven thousand among the governor and president. The choice of donation services at the workplace, employees. The number of All donations were made to a certain political interviewing suppliers’ non-conformities achieved in accordance with party also takes into employees, and to check 198; approximately 90% the Brazilian election account the proposals tax, labor, social security were corrected. legislation. They were submitted and if they are aspects and occupational registered with the in accordance with the health and safety Regional Electoral Court democratic principles and conditions. (TRE), which make them the core values practiced public and accessible to by the Company. Number of regular suppliers Amounts bought by the Flat and Long any citizen. Moreover, before the (Flat and Long) segments (in billions of R$) donation is made the The donations are candidates have their 14.000 10 9,7 governed by the Code political past analyzed 13.081 12.000 8 of Conduct. Thus, in the and those with court 12.033 7,1 2010 elections almost the convictions have their 11.140 10.000 6 6,8 8.000 4 totality of political parties requests disregarded. 6.000 2 2010 2009 2008 2010* 2009 2008 Of the total purchased in 2010, the flat segment spent 30% on local suppliers, for the long segment, it was 32% ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 62 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES REPORT PROFILE This report was developed from own parameters defined by a transversal workgroup of ArcelorMittal Brasil and based on indicators of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). The answers to the indicators comprise the period between January 1st and December 31st of 2010, including the results regarding the flat and long steel segments of the Brazilian units of the Company. ArcelorMittal Brasil considers itself at level B of GRI’s guidelines application. Profile Indicators Pages Profile Indicators Pages 1. Strategy and Analysis 3.8 Base for Reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Organization operations and other entities that could significantly affect the comparability of one on the relevance of sustainability for the Company. 5 period to another and/or among organizations N/R 1.2 Description of main impacts, risks and Opportunities. 5-6 3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis for calculation N/R 2. Organizational Profile 3.10 Explanation of effects of any restatement of information from previous 2.1. Name of the Organization Cover reports and reasons therefore N/R 2.2. Primary brands, products and/or services. 6-7 3.11 Significant changes compared to previous years in terms of scope, boundaries or 2.3. Operational structure of organization 7 measurement methods applied in the Report N/R 2.4 Location of organization headquarters 6 3.12 GRI table which identifies the location of the information in the report 63 2.5 Number of countries where organization operates 6 3.13 Policy and current practice for outside auditing and assurance. None 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 2.7 Markets served by organization 6 4.1 Governance structure 10 2.8 Scale of Organization 6-7; 12;16 4.2 Identification if president of highest governance body is also an executive officer N/A** 2.9 Significant changes during reporting period with 4.3 Number of independent or non-executive members of the highest regards to size, structure or ownership N/R* governance body, for organizations with a unitary executive structure N/R 2.10 Awards received during reporting period 70 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 3. Report Parameters to highest governance body N/R 3. Reporting period for the information provided 2010 4.5 Linkage between compensation of members of the highest governance body, 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2009 executive board and other executives, and organization’s performance including 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual social and environmental N/R 3.4 Contact point for questions on Report content 71 4.6 Processes in place in highest governance body to assure avoidance 3.5 Process for defining report content 4;63 of conflicts of interest. N/R 3.6 Boundary of the Report 6-7;63 4.7 Process of determining qualification and knowledge of members of highest governance 3.7 Statement of any specific limitations on report scope or boundaries 63 body to define issues related to economic, environmental and social aspects. N/R REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 63 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Profile Indicators Pages 4.8 Internally prepared statements on the mission or Values, code of conduct and principles of organization relevant for economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation 10; 12-13 4.9 Procedures for the highest governance body to oversee economic, environmental and social performance by the Organization N/R 4.10 Processes for the self-evaluation of the highest governance body N/R 4.11 Precautionary principle. N/R 4.12 Statutes, charters, principles, and other voluntary initiatives developed externally of a social, environmental and economic nature which the organization adheres to or endorses 12, 60 4.13 Membership in domestic / international associations N/R Engagement of stakeholders 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Organization N/R 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders for engagement. 11 REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 64 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Indicator Pages Indicator Pages Economic performance indicators EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 39 EC1 Direct economic value created and distributed 60 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant atmospheric emissions 38 EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for organization activities EN21 Total disposal of water N/R related to climate change N/R EN22 Total weight of waste 30 EC3 Coverage of organization’s benefit/ pension plan offered by the Organization N/R EN23 Number and total volume of significant spills 31 EC4 Significant financial assistance from government N/R EN24 Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated, deemed EC6 Policies, practices and ratio of spending on locally-based suppliers. 60-62 hazardous in accordance with the Bâle Convention13 31 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of members of upper EN25 Description of protection and biodiversity index of bodies of water management recruited in the local community N/R and associated habitats that are significantly affected by disposal of water N/R EC8 Development and impact of investments in infrastructure and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services offered principally for the public benefit 52-59 and the extent of impact mitigation 48-49 Environmental performance indicators EN27 Percentage of products and packaging material reclaimed N/R EN1 Materials used. 27 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and number of non-monetary sanctions 34 EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials 27 EN29 Significant environmental impact associated with transportation of products EN3 Direct energy consumption 36 and other goods and materials used in the Organization’s operations EN4 Indirect energy consumption 36 and transport of workers 36 EN5 Energy saved 35 EN30 Total investments and outlays related to environmental protection, per type 26 EN6 Initiatives to supply products and services with low energy consumption N/R Social Performance Indicators EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumed and the reductions obtained 36 LA1 Total workforce 16 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 32 LA2 Total number and turnover rate, by age bracket, gender and region 16 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by water withdrawal. 32-33 LA3 Comparison of benefits offered to full time employees and those offered EN10 Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water. 32 to part time or temporary employees, broken down by principal operations N/R EN11 Location and size of area owned, leased or managed within protected LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 16 areas or next to them 42-44 LA5 Minimum period for notice on operating After meetings with unions, EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity caused by activities, changes and whether this procedure is significant changes are announced products and services in protected areas 44-46 specified in collective bargaining agreements. and discussed. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 44 LA6 Percentage of employees represented on formal health and safety committees 19 EN14 Strategies for management of impacts on Biodiversity 40-41 LA7 Rates of work-related injuries, diseases, lost days, absenteeism EN15 Number of species included on IUCN’s Red List N/R and work-related deaths, by region 20 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 37 LA8 Education, training, prevention and risk control programs 21-23 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 38 LA9 Health and safety topics covered by formal agreements with labor unions 19 EN18 Initiatives to reduce emission of greenhouse gases and reductions achieved 38 LA10 Average of hours of training, by year 17 REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 65 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Indicator Pages Indicator Pages LA11 Programs for competency management and continuous learning SO5 Position taken with regard to public policies and participation in that contribute to continuing employability of employees and to preparation of public policies and lobbies 62 assist them in conducting the end of their careers 17 SO6 Total value of financial contributions and cash to political parties N/R LA12 Percentage of employees who regularly undergo performance analysis 17 SO7 Total number of lawsuits due to anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust LA13 Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and practices and monopolies and their results N/R proportion of employees by category and gender, age bracket, minorities SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary and other indicators of diversity N/R sanctions resulting from non-compliance with laws and regulations N/R LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women, by professional category. N/R PR1 Phases of useful life of products and services in which health and HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment contracts safety impacts are evaluated N/R that include clauses referring to human rights N/R PR2 Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary HR2 Percentage of Contractors and suppliers evaluated for compliance codes related to the impacts caused by products and services in health with human rights laws and regulations and measures taken 62 and safety during their useful life N/R HR3 Number of employee training hours on policies and procedures relative PR3 Type of information on products and services required by labeling procedures 48 to aspects of human rights that are relevant for operations N/R PR4 Total number of cases of non-conformity with voluntary codes and HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and measures taken. N/R regulations on product and service labeling N/R HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise the freedom to PR5 Customer satisfaction practices, including results of measurement surveys 49 associate and engage in collective bargaining may run a significant risk 13 PR6 Programs for compliance with laws, standards and voluntary codes HR6 Child labor 13 related to communication and marketing N/A HR7 Slave labor 13, 60-61 PR7 Total number of cases of non-compliance associated with regulations HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained on policies or procedures and voluntary codes related to communications and marketing N/A of the Organization relative to human rights considered relevant for PR8 Total number of proven complaints related to violation of privacy and operations N/R loss of client data N/R HR9 Total number of violations involving rights of indigenous people and PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-conformity with laws and measures taken 13 regulations related to the supply and use of products and services N/R SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of programs and practices to evaluate and manage impacts of operations on communities N/R *N/R: No answer SO2 Percentage and total number of business units submitted to evaluation **N/A: No applicable of risks involving corruption N/R SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Organization anti-corruption policies and procedures 9 SO4 Measures taken in response to incidents of Corruption. N/R REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 66 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES GLOSSARY Lost time accidents (LTA): work accidents which require Carbon Credits: or Certified Emission Reduction (CER). Slag: byproduct from the transformation of iron ore into temporary leave of the employee from their activities at These certificates are issued to a company which has metal, through the melting of impurities, jointly with the the Company. reduced greenhouse gas emissions by means of a carbon addition of dissolvents and coke ashes. credit project within the scope of the Clean Development No lost time accidents (NLTA): work accidents which do Mechanism (MDL), under the Kyoto Protocol. A ton of Effluent Treatment Station (ETE): unit for the recovery not require a leave of the employee from their activities. carbon dioxide (CO2) equals a carbon credit or CER. These and treatment of effluent water for reuse. credits can be negotiated at the international market. Balanced Score Card (BSC): performance measurement Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG): the popular kitchen system, used as methodology for strategic management. V Day: a day dedicated to volunteering. In Brazil, it gas is a mixture of hydrocarbon gases used as fuel It is based on four perspectives: financial, client-oriented, takes place every first Saturday of December. The for heating. Since it is an odorless product by nature, it learning and internal processes. It seeks to establish participants carry out solidarity actions, which involve receives a sulfur based compound to provide it with a goals and align strategic initiatives, plan and translate the non-governmental organizations, private companies and unique smell in order to facilitate leaking detection. company’s vision and balance the longand short-term the government. objectives. Natural Gas (GN): fossil fuel found in spongy rocks Added Value Statement (DVA): accounting statement underground. It has a number of applications, such as Benchmark: a reference in excellence, it is part of which highlights in a brief manner the values related to replacing diesel oil, alcohol, gasoline and LPG and it benchmarking, a management tool which looks for the generation of income generated by the company at can be used or not in association with oil. Composed the best practices in the industry in order to improve a certain period of time, and its respective distribution by inorganic gases and saturated hydrocarbons, with performance and achieve superiority in relation to to agents which contributed to its generation, such as prevalence of methane gas, and in lower quantities, competitors. employees, investors and shareholders. propane and butane. CEO: Chief Executive Officer, means the person with the Human Rights: defined as the core rights which allow GHG Protocol Brazil: named after the initials for highest responsibility or authority in a company. individuals to have a decent life. They include the right of Greenhouse Gas, it is an international tool also opinion and freedom of expression, the individuals’ right adopted in Brazil for the purpose of understanding and Internal Commission for Accident Prevention (Cipa): to have a salary compatible with the work they perform, quantifying greenhouse gas emissions. It was developed group composed by representatives appointed by the and right to education. in partnership with World Resources Institute and Company e members elected by the workers in an World Business Council for Sustainable Development, equitable manner for the purpose of preventing work Ecolabelling: kind of certification which classifies products which provide structure to companies, governments related accidents and diseases. and companies according to the measures taken for and environmental groups worldwide to build a new environmental and sustainability preservation. It works as generation of programs to fight climate changes. a reference for consumers. REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 67 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Global Executive Development Programme (GEDP): business management. It works with company leaders corporate program for the development of Company helping them turn their established goals into positive Millennium Development Goals: a series of employees, involving among other attributions, potential results. commitments listed in the United Nations Millennium and performance appraisals, individual development Declaration (ONU) of 2000, and adopted by the 191 plans, consultation on career perspectives, identification Instituto Aço Brasil (IABr): organization which integrates country-members of the Organization. The commitments, of talents and succession planning for strategic positions and represents steel producing companies, working in if complied with within the established deadlines, and functions. their best interests and for their development. according to quantitative indicators shall improve mankind destiny in this century. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): international Instituto Ethos de Empresas e Responsabilidade agreement oriented to the improvement and Empresarial: it is a non-profit organization created OHSAS 18001: standard managed by the British standardization of the Companies’ accounting by means in 1988 by a group of businessmen and executives Standard Institution (BSI), oriented to occupational health of the following indicators: organizational profiles, social, from private companies. It is a center of knowledge and safety. It certifies occupational health, safety and environmental and economic. They are applicable on organization, experience exchange and development hygiene management systems, which strive to improve a global and voluntary basis by companies willing to of tools to help companies to review their management their performance in compliance with the standard disclose their activities, products and services. The G3 practices and deepen their commitment to social requirements, with focus on accident prevention, risk version establishes more advanced guidelines, following responsibility and sustainable development. reduction and people’s wellbeing. a world standard for the development of sustainability reports. IS0 14001: certification of the International Organization Opacimeter: instrument used to measure the quantity of for Standardization (ISO), which establishes guidelines for black smoke emissions in automobiles. Corporate governance: it refers to how the companies environmental management of the companies. are managed and the decision-making models, in order United Nations Organization (ONU): international to increase company value and contribute to its continuity. Clean Development Mechanism: one of the organization created with the mission of facilitating flexibilization processes created by the Kyoto Protocol worldwide cooperation in matters such as security, rights, Group Management Board (GMB): committee in charge in order to help in the reduction of greenhouse gas development, human rights and social development. of making the main strategic and investment decisions at emissions (GHG) or carbon sequestration by industrialized Founded in 1945 to replace the League of Nations, it ArcelorMittal on a worldwide basis. Under the leadership countries which signed the Kyoto Protocol. Countries consists of 192 countries and has a number of associated of the Company’s CEO, the committee consists of which for any reason fail to meet the goals of reduction organizations to carry out its missions. executives who represent all business segments of the may acquire carbon credits arising from clean technology company. projects – based mainly on alternative and renewable energy sources – developed in countries that have not Hay Group: global consulting company focused on signed the Protocol. REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 68 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Global Compact: initiative of free participation suggested Gross Domestic Product (GDP): methodology used to by the United Nations Organization (ONU) to stimulate measure the economic activity of a region. It represents companies to adopt corporate social responsibility the sum of all final goods and services produced in a and sustainability policies, providing guidelines for the certain region (country, States, cities) during a determined adoption of ten principles related to human rights, labor, period of time. environment and corruption. Kyoto Protocol: international treaty with commitments National Compact for the Eradication of Slave Labor: towards the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, with a document signed by companies and associations, a view to preventing global warming. which takes the commitment of terminating commercial relations with institutions involved in cases of slave labor. SAP: management software which facilitates the automation of information that company creates or Profit Sharing Policy (PLR): managerial policy in which manages, comprising a number of processes. a company shares among its employees a previously defined portion of its profit. The amount disbursed is Stakeholders: people, groups or organizations which are calculated on the basis of net revenue. or may be, directly or indirectly, affected by a company’s objectives and policies. They are also called relationship Performance Excellence Awards: award granted groups or stakeholders. to ArcelorMittal in recognition for the best initiatives developed globally within the Group in the areas of World Steel Association: international organization Health and Safety, Operational Excellence, Innovation, which consists of 180 steel producers worldwide, Client Satisfaction, Margin Generation and Environment responsible for 85% of world production. and Corporate Responsibility. Climate Survey: survey which measures employees’ satisfaction regarding their work environment. It is based on the submittal of information which supports the identification of opportunities for improvement and the development of action plans. REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 69 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES Awards and Recognition Award Granted by Awarded Project Merit Performance Excellence Awards – PEA, ArcelorMittal Group ArcelorMittal Tubarão Time of operation above blast furnace average, Operational Excellence Category Performance Excellence Awards – PEA ArcelorMittal Group Project “Worthy Age” of ArcelorMittal Cariacica Space for socialization and reflection, focused on the improvement of self-esteem and life quality, Environment and Social Responsibility category Falcão Bauer Ecological Seal Instituto Falcão Bauer da ArcelorMittal Long Steel Environmental labeling program (ecolabelling), Qualidade (IFBQ) and Instituto which attests to the environmental performance of para o Desenvolvimento da civil construction products. It indicates that the steel Habitação Ecológica manufactured at the company has a high recycling rate Second place in the Furnas Ouro Azul award Diários Associados ArcelorMittal João Monlevade Water conservation projects Award “Good Practices in Education”, category Education Secretariat (Sedu) of Project “School Success” of ArcelorMittal Cariacica Tutoring and lectures offered by ArcelorMittal Good Practice of School Management– Reduction of Espírito Santo State volunteers which help decrease dropout rates and Abandonment/ Dropout increase school performance Social-environmental management initiatives Honorable Mention in the Novos Caminhos (ArcelorMittal Tubarão) and The seal identifies best practices of sustainability Brazilian Environmental ArcelorMittal Brasil Sustainability Program adopted by companies throughout the country. Benchmarking Program Presentation in the World Congress (Tokyo) World Steel Association (WSA) ArcelorMittal Brasil Sustainability Program Best practices of sustainability Third “most sustainable company”, according to the Revista Imprensa ArcelorMittal Brasil Development of sustainability practices media, of the steelmaking and metallurgy sector (Top 150 Companies to Work With” Revista Você S/A ArcelorMittal Brasil Management of people and benefits offered to employees and dependants Second place in the Contest Water: the Challenge of Agência Nacional de Águas ArcelorMittal João Monlevade Water resource management initiatives Sustainable Development. (ANA) Q1 Award Ford Motor Company ArcelorMittal Vega Granted to suppliers with high level of quality of their products and services 18th Award of Ecology Expression (Wild Life Editora Expressão Biodiversity indicators in the area of The Project identified species of wild birds, mammals Preservation) ArcelorMittal Vega industrial unit and plants native from the region. REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 70 Previous Next >> VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY >> TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE >> INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE >> MAKING STEEL MORE SUSTAINABLE >> ENRICHING OUR COMMUNITIES CREDITS ArcelorMittal Brasil Centro Corporativo: Avenida Carandaí, 1.115/19º andar CEP 30130-915 – Belo Horizonte – MG – Phone: 55 31 3219-1122 Coordination: General Management of Institutional Relations and Communications Editorial Production: BH Press Comunicação Graphic Design: Ícone Design Gráfico Layout: Flávia Guimarães Translation: Mader Traduções Ltda. Photos: ArcelorMittal Brasil Files Cover photo: Shutterstock Previous Report: 2009 Cycle of Report Issues: annual Specific or complementary information of each controlled company may be acquired on the Internet by accessing the website www.arcelormittal.com.br. In case of any doubts, suggestions, criticism or complaints please contact the General Management of Institutional Relations and Communications by the following e-mail comunicacao.corporativa@arcelormittal.com.br REPORT PROFILE 2010 Sustainability Report • ArcelorMittal Brasil 71 Previous Next
