United Nations Global Compact Österreichische Volksbanken-AG is participant of the United Nations Global Compact since 2010/03/25. GC Principles Actions Overarching Initiatives PrinciplesOverarching Initiatives of Socially Responsible Investments (SRI) are an 1 to 10: Österreichische important means for banks to foster sustainable Volksbanken-AG that development. SRI invest in companies and countries concern all principles of that respect human and labour rights, protect the UN-GC environment and are active in anti-corruption. Financial Markets at Österreichische Volksbanken-AG recognised this. The Financial Markets segment of Österreichische Volksbanken-AG offers a broad range of sustainable products. The volume of the money invested sustainably has continued to rise in the past few years, as has its proportion in the total volume of all funds and certificates. In 2011, sustainable investment products – several funds and a certificate – were certified with the Austrian Eco-Label and with the Transparency Code. Investors thus benefit from solid investments that conform to a demanding value and quality standard. Three funds with certification marks are currently available: Volksbank-Mündel-Rent, Volksbank-MündelFlex and VB-Ethik-Invest. All three funds were examined externally and were awarded with both the Eurosif transparency logo and the Austrian Eco-Label. Furthermore, the Fix Plus Garant 4/2011 certificate (and subsequent tranches) was the first certificate to be awarded the Austrian Eco-Label. Human Rights Principle Businesses should support Apart from Socially Responsible Investment (SRI – see 1: and respect the protection above) Österreichische Volksbanken-AG is member of of internationally the “Charta der Vielfalt” (Charta of Diversity) – an proclaimed human rights; Austrian business initiative to forster equal chances in Principle and make sure that they workplace situations. 2: are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle Businesses should uphold The focus in Human Resources was on the redundancy 3: the freedom of association programme agreed with the employee representatives, and the effective which was negotiated in connection with the necessary recognition of the right to restructuring and redimensioning measures. A focus on collective bargaining; the further development of the change expertise of Principle the elimination of all forms managers was adopted at the start of 2011. 4: of forced and compulsory labour; Österreichische Volksbanken-AG has been engaged in Principle the effective abolition of business mediation for several years. The shared 5: child labour; search for permanent and sustainable solutions Principle and the elimination of conforms to the idea of sustainability and cooperative 6: discrimination in respect of values of personal responsibility and participation. employment and Especially in times of upheaval, it comes down to an occupation. appreciative “how” in communication at all levels – internally just as much as with stakeholders. At the end of 2011 the first “Mediation and management skills in banks” course of Österreichische Volksbanken-AG was completed successfully. Twelve managers completed this intensive training. Heatlh, Safety and lifelong learning are basic rights. In 2011, preparations for the opening of the in-house Vitareal health centre, which will open in the first half of 2012, were continued. Alongside the Volksbank Akademie, the central training provider, the majority of bookings in 2011 were again concentrated on the free internal training initiative WIN (Wissen Intern Nutzen – Using Knowledge Inernally) as well as on services at external training providers and on specific in-house training courses. Environment Principle Businesses should support In 2011, VB Leasing Finanzierungsges.m.b.H. took 7: a precautionary approach measures to reduce the CO2 emissions of cars financed to environmental by leasing. Cooperation projects with car challenges; manufacturers as financing partners in the marketing Principle undertake initiatives to area have proved successful for VB Leasing and were 8: promote greater expanded strategically. Moreover, VB Leasing offers IT environmental customers the opportunity to recycle its obsolete responsibility; hardware. Principle and encourage the 9: development and diffusion In terms of environmental protection in our offices, as of environmentally friendly of the end of 2011 almost all heated office space is technologies. supplied by district heating. Wien Energie Vertrieb GmbH & Co KG provided Österreichische VolksbankenAG with a hydropower certificate for 2012 and 2013 that guarantees that only electricity generated from hydropower will be supplied. Double-sided printing was made the default setting for all printer pools at the Group headquarters and, at the same time, paper procurement for the floor printers was switched to 100% recycled paper with the EU eco label. Anti-corruption Principle Businesses should work Österreichische Volksbanken-AG is subject to the 10: against all forms of provisions of the Austrian Regulation on Compliance for corruption, including Issuers. On this basis, an internal Compliance Code extortion and bribery. was issued and a compliance department headed by a Compliance Officer was established some years ago. The Compliance Office reports directly to the Managing Board of Österreichische Volksbanken-AG. The Compliance Office defines and monitors the necessary processes and procedures for compliance with external and internal regulations in the areas of security compliance, management of conflicts of interest and the duties of care relating to the prevention of money laundering, financing terrorism and fraud. In 2011, Österreichische Volksbanken-AG further expanded its internal range of instruments for preventing and combating money laundering. The “Manual for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Financing Terrorism and Fraud” was created with the aim of not only providing a set of regulations, but also improving employee understanding of the topic by offering a wide range of practical examples. The technical infrastructure was also adjusted to reflect the continuously evolving monitoring requirements. Measurement of Progress Socially Responsible Investment At the end of the 2011, the proportion of sustainable certificates was almost 20% and sustainable funds made up approximately 14% of the total volume. Overall, the proportion of sustainable products amounted to approximately 17% of the total volume. Renewable Energy in the Corporate segment At the end of 2011, considerably more than 80% of all project financing is allocated to the renewable energy segment. A wide range of projects involving the energy of the future are primarily financed here: wind power plants, small hydropower plants, photovoltaic plants, biomass power plants and biogas systems. In total, the projects amount to a volume of approximately euro 500 million. The objective of the CR programme for 2011 – to provide financing of around euro 100 million for wind and photovoltaic power plants – was thus achieved. In total, the portfolio of plants and systems for renewable energy currently held by Volksbank AG – investkredit equates to installed electrical output of 616 megawatts. 59 megawatts were added in 2011 – 28 of which came from newly installed photovoltaic plants. Financing with a social focus Customers of Volksbank AG – Investkredit include 21 schools in 11 countries (the German Schools in Toronto and London were newly acquired). The current lending volume is approximately euro 75 million. Employment development The Group systematically pressed ahead with its restructuring and redimensioning in 2011. The number of employees within the Group (incl. disposal groups) was reduced to 6,196 as of year-end 2011. Of this figure 1,325 were in Austria and 4,871 abroad. Employee representation In Austria, the interests of 87.9% of all employees are currently represented by elected works councils (2010: 88.4%). Training In the Österreichische Volksbanken-AG Group, around 2.7 training days per employee were used on average in Austria. The figure was 4.2 days for management and 2.4 days for nonmanagement staff. Energy Consumption For additional information, please contact: Mirjam Ernst mirjam.ernst@volksbank.com | Tel: +43 (0)50 4004 3686
