S u s ta i n a b i l i t y Report 2011 who we are Contents Who We Are 3 Message from the General Manager 6 Our Social Responsibility 8 Respect for Law 10 Working Environment 12 Environmental Protection 18 Business Environment 22 Building a Sence of Community 24 The Company’s Numbers 26 The main activities of the Company are the following: zz printing self-adhesive labels and shrink sleeves; zz trade in packing materials; zz trade in packing and marking equipment; zz trade in gears and industrial automation systems; 2 W h o W e Ar e W h o W e Ar e Seeking to continually improve our activity we work in compliance with the highest international standards, apply the latest production management methods: PakMarkas, UAB started its activity on 14 February 1994 when a company printing Quality Environmental Good production Lean production self-adhesive labels started its activity in Vilnius city. Back in the day, we were one management system management system practice – from the system – from the of the first companies offering adhesive colour labels and stretch PVC films to the ISO 9001 – from ISO 14001 – from year year representatives of the Lithuanian food industry for packing food products. Soon the year the year afterwards, on 19 October 1995, we registered a subsidiary company PakMarkas, SIA in Riga, Latvia. 2002 2003 2009 2010 In the course of time, the Company grew, started using up-to-date technologies, and the range of products and services expanded on a yearly basis: We are happy that our works are recognized and appreciated: every award is jj in 1997 the first high-standard packaging equipment produced under the license a driver for us to go further. of the Italian firm MacDue were assembled; jj in 2001 a strategic cooperation agreement with a company Siemens for The Company was awarded for implementation of distributing electric motors and other electric installations in Lithuania was signed; Successfully Operating Company 2008 new technologies, investment into production and improvement of efficiency. jj in 2006 PakMarkas purchased a flexographic printing machine (seven colours) (The nominee appointed by the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists) and commenced a massive production of shrink sleeves; The award for good working conditions and informal jj in 2008 PakMarkas moved to its own newly constructed, modern production attitude towards employees was granted in the Top Employer of the year 2009 category of small and medium enterprises. and administration premises. (The nominee was appointed by the United Nations Development Programme in Lithuania and the Ministry of Social Security and For the time being, PakMarkas has been operating for 18 years. By offering cuttingLabour of the Republic of Lithuania) edge packing and labelling solutions we provide our services to a wide range of The Company won an award of the Lithuanian Lithuanian companies operating in the industries of food and beverages, household Printing Industry for retained jobs during the chemicals, pharmacy, cosmetics and other. Socially Responsible 2009 economic slow-down, social projects and other Printing House practice of responsible business. Our products and services were recognized not only by the Lithuanian companies but (The nominee appointed by the Lithuanian Printers’ Association) those from Poland, Latvia, Belarus, Ukraine, Great Britain and other as well. The Company won an award in the category of small and medium enterprises for the initiative in searching Our Company actively participates in the economic and social life of Lithuania. We Environmental Enterprise 2010 for innovative recycling solutions and mature attitude towards the impact of business of the environment) are members of the following organizations: (The nominee appointed by the United Nations Development Programme in Lithuania and the Ministry of Social Security and Labour of the Republic of Lithuania) Lithuanian Vilnius Industry Corporate Social The Lithuanian The Lithuanian The award was granted for strategic cooperation with The Most Socially Active Company of Packaging and Business Association (LPA) – Association (VPVA) Responsibility network United National Responsible Printers’ Association (LISPA) – from the the year 2011 the interested groups and public spirit in the category and small and medium enterprises. from the year – from the year Nations Development Business Network year (The nominee appointed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) (NAVĮT) – from Programme in Lithuania and the Ministry of Social Security and – from the year the year Labour of the Republic of Lithuania) The award was granted to General Manager of Second Class Order of Duke 1995 2000 2005 2005 2006 Gediminas 2012 PakMarkas, UAB, Virginijus Gumbaragis, for achievements in formation of the public capital. (Business Employers’ Confederation of Vilnius city and district) 4 M e ss a g e f r o m t h e G e n e r a l M a n a g e r M e ss a g e f r o m t h e necessary decisions in an easier manner. As for the company, it conforms itself to new requirements very successfully. General Manager Regular vocational trainings contribute extensively to the prediction of future changes. The working environment has a direct impact on our qualitative results. We would like to express our sincere gratitude to our clients for taking a particular To the best of our believe, it is worthwhile to make consistent investments in the interest in reading our Report on Social Responsibility. development of working conditions including travel expenses to and from work. Being engaged in a process of cooperation with a number of companies we have been Despite the fact that such a kind of investments understate the current performance of under the impression that all those enterprises which demonstrate fast growth and a the company and slow down the company’s growth, however they do provide added very rapid geographic expansion struggle to adapt to the extreme market changes as value in a long run of time. well as cope with difficult economic times. Companies, which are able to establish proper cooperative relations with local communities and put in best effort in pursuance of the company’s goals through combining it with development of good working conditions for employees, obtain a Yours sincerely greater degree of resistance to negative consequences. Virginijus Gumbaragis Employees, who are not tired because of the increasing flow of orders, make General Manager 6 Our Social Responsibility we joined the voluntary initiative of the United Nations Global Compact, a network of socially responsible Signatories to the 2005 enterprises, and publicly declared our commitment to embrace the principles of this global platform in our United Nations Global everyday operation. In the same year we joined the Lithuanian National Responsible Business Network Platform (NAVĮT). we have participated in the Competition of the National as of Responsible Business (NAVA) held by the United Nations 2007 and the Ministry of Social Security and Labour of the Republic of Lithuania by submitting reports for the accounting period. We have specified the to ensure that all principles of social main groups of the responsibility, environmental protection and SHAREHOLDERS transparency are strictly adhered to in all interested parties and activities of the Company; set the directions for social responsibility to: to ensure safety, healthcare and welfare of EMPLOYEES employees at work; to work fair and with respect, supply and CLIENTS provide high-quality products and services; Our Social SUPPLIERS to cooperate with partners contributing to compliance with principles of social Responsibility responsibility; to encourage mutual cooperation, ensure to respect human rights, maintain open COMMUNITY proper quality of environment in the area relationship and the community and contribute to where our activities are carried out. SOCIAL its development, invest in our communities. We have set the Every year we submit an updated social responsibility report for the accounting period following goals to efficiently use of waste products and natural of 12 months (from 1 January to 31 December) to the organization of the United to comply with resources, perform systemic observation of Nations Global Platform and all the interested parties of the Company. The report ENVIRONMENTAL environment, comply with the environmental principles of social legislation, be a lead for suppliers. includes review of compliance with all the Ten Principles of the Global Compact: responsibility: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. to create value for shareholders, satisfy needs of our Everyone interested in the social activity of the Company can find the annual progress clients, create high-quality workplaces, improve reports of the Company publicly available on the website of the Company at http:// ECONOMIC products and services, foster innovation. www.pakmarkas.lt/socialine_atsakomybe/. Also, feedback, ideas and comments are welcome via e-mail pm@pakmarkas.lt or by phone (8-5) 205 28 71. 8 R e s p e c t f o r L aw We share our social business principles with suppliers and hope that they will also comply with the global standards of human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption and environmental protection not only at their company level but in the whole value chain as well. Our suppliers must meet strict requirements and selection of suppliers is based on the criteria of economics, competence, integrity and social responsibility. Actions in 2011 Standard SA 8000 The Company has started implementation of the social responsibility Standard SA 8000. Certification of this Standard will confirm that social responsibility system of PakMarkas has been verified by a certification institution of a third party in compliance with the standard of best global practice and meets its requirements. The period of implementation is August 2011 – December 2012. Management and other related staff attended 32-hour training of SA 8000 which were organized by the certification company Bureau Veritas. During the training the concept of standard and benefits of application to the company and staff were introduced to the employees, standard requirements and opportunities for spread in the supply chain were analyzed in detail. Social responsibility in the supply chain Development of suppliers’ understanding of what social responsibility means has started in 2011 when we sent questionnaires of social responsibility evaluation to the major R e s p e c t f o r L aw suppliers. By signing this document suppliers confirm that they do not benefit from employment of minors and does not use forced labour, they comply with safety and health requirements, provide with conditions for activity of professional unions, they We respect rights and freedom of every individual, and recognize our corporate do not discriminate or punish their employees, they comply with the Labour Code and responsibility for protecting and realizing these rights. In our everyday activity we other legislation governing labour and they assume responsibility for management of comply with the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. their supply chain. According to PakMarkas, UAB approach of ethical employment and working conditions, we ensure that all our employees are treated fairly and respectfully: we Goals for 2012 do not benefit from employing minors, we do not use forced or compulsory labour, In 2012 we plan to perform the first detailed outer certification audit of social we ensure safe and healthy workplaces, we do not practice or tolerate any forms of responsibility and obtain certification in accordance with requirements of the social discrimination, we fulfil all employer’s liabilities to our employees as it is laid down by responsibility standard SA 8000. laws of the Republic of Lithuania. Guidelines for Social Responsibility SAA 8000 explain how the company’s compliance with requirements is achieved in eight (8) areas of social responsibility, which elements of the management system are used in order to efficiently implement the Company’s social responsibility policies and comply with requirements. 10 Working Environment Responsible person have been appointed to control that requirements of safety and health at work were observed in the Company. Actions in 2011 Equal opportunities We are in favour of equal opportunities for all employees because we believe that differences among people provide creative working environment, healthy competition, helps to become more flexible in communication with our clients. No one must be discriminated in terms of their race, age, religion, sex, nationality, sexual orientation, disability etc. Therefore, we create equal opportunities to everyone willing to work for our Company to demonstrate their knowledge and skills. Social dialogue We do understand importance of the social dialogue and we support various types of information exchange among management and employees regarding common economic and social issues. Accordingly, we have implemented a procedure for submitting and considering complaints/proposals (as it is described in Procedure for Social Responsibility Proposals) according to which employees can submit messages related to working conditions, issues of discrimination and vulnerability, other issues important to employees, and to share ideas. In order to assure anonymity, boxes for complaints/proposals were installed in both the production and administrative premises as well. A special e-mail box was created in order Working Environment to preserve anonymity. Each department of the Company elected a representative of employees for SA 8000 PakMarkas, UAB has high expectations in respect of its employees. However, related issues using the principle of secret ballot. According to order of the Managing employees have high expectations in respect of PakMarkas, UAB as well. Our goal is Director of the Company, a representative of the management was appointed to assure to build work culture based in mutual trust and understanding. We do not put up with compliance with requirements of the standard SA 8000. routine, mismanagement and wasting and with any deviations from moral principles. Employment and employment relationship We pay special attention to welfare of our staff by creating creatively productive and We recognize importance of long-lasting employment relationship and we avoid using motivating environment, variety, involvement, balance of working hours and leisure short-term or irregular employment, except for cases when work is seasonal or the purpose time, healthy and safe workplace. of which is to substitute for employees on maternity leave. In 2011 the Company had two employees under the age of 18 employed on the basis of Pursuant to the Labour Code of the Republic of Lithuania, the Company has prepared fixed-term employment contract. Legislation effective in Lithuania allows employing “Work Regulations” which lay down the general and work regulation in the Company: persons under 18 years old and, at the same time, lays down strict requirements to employment and termination of employment, business trips, working hours and leisure employers. Therefore, special attention is paid to safety of workplace and schedule of time etc. These rules are introduced to everyone newly employed and these rules these employees. Experienced responsible persons were appointed to assist these young are compulsory. We strictly comply with requirements of safety and health at work. employees. 12 Working Environment Education of staff We pay special attention to raising qualification and development of professional skills of staff. Training courses are attended by employees of all categories: managers, white collar and blue collar staff. Every year professionals of all fields attend exhibitions to gain knowledge and new ideas. The Company has a library for individual studies of its employees, which consists of books, journals and audio material. The contents of library is updated on a yearly basis and new books are added according to suggestion of employees. In May, in cooperation with partners Public Enterprise Kitokie Projektai, we have started implementing a project “Prevention of occupational burnout syndrome”. During the project workshops were organized for the administrative and production staff, which resulted in better mutual understanding and understanding of problems which are faced. Also, employees’ mutual communication and emotional condition became better. Monitoring of social indicators We continually monitor progress in fields according to the confirmed indicators. Comparison of social indicators in 2011-2012: Indicators 2010 2011 We respect the employees’ right to comply with common or agreed working hours as it Ratio of male and female (%) 26 & 74 23 & 77 is laid down by legislation: we apply flexible working terms so that our employees had a possibility to balance their working hours, family and private interests. Upon necessity, Number of employee truancies (times) 0 3 all employees are able to take a day off with a prior consent of direct manager, to go on vacation together with his family members, or in accordance with studies, or work Number of disciplinary actions (times) 4 2 according to a convenient schedule (e.g. from 7 a.m. until 4 p.m.) Accidents (times) 3 2 Every year we participate in remuneration market survey on the basis of which we can offer a competitive salary to our employees, ensure inner equity. Based on the received Employee turnover (%) 7,50 14 results, in 2011 salaries were adjusted according to both career level and the increased economic results of the Company. Employee trainings (%) 50 64 Transparency Share used for trainings (of the operating expenses) excluding 0,87 1,22 We support transparent salary policy. Our salaries are paid twice a month, in due time the European funds (%) and officially, in compliance with laws of the Republic of Lithuania. Remuneration package includes competitive base salary and a variable amount, and additional bonuses Incentives amounts of which depend on results of the Company, its departments or individual General incentives for employees and additional social benefits are described and results. approved by the board in the local acts of the Company. All employees of the 14 Working Environment In case of accident in the Company, an entry is made in the journal of accidents. Once circumstances and reasons of the accident have been identified, preventive actions are taken to minimize the risk. In 2011 the Company registered 2 accidents. In 2011, in response to suggestions of consultants and employees how to improve workplace in production section, we performed the following actions: in order the air was cleaner in the premises, we installed ventilation system in the workplace of paint technologist; electrical cords were hidden under special casing in order to preserve employees from danger; dislocation and height of some equipment were changed in order to improve working conditions near the equipment. Goals for 2012 In our everyday activity we are guided by our corporate values which were created and described a number of years ago. However, economic, technological, social and cultural evolution which occurred in the Company during the current decade encouraged transformation of values. Therefore, in 2012 we plan to review and update our corporate values so that they were upheld and reflected in our everyday activity, relationship of employees and services rendered, and became a mile stone to turn to when making decisions. Continuing implementation of our project “Prevention of occupational burnout syndrome”, we plan to carry out employee survey which allows assessing psychological climate at work. In the end of the project we plan to prepare recommendations which will allow planning further actions in order to help our employees to reduce factors Company are entitled to additional assistance: in case of disaster (fire etc.), major complicating their everyday life. thefts, death of parents, spouses, children, life-threatening diseases of employees, in case of employees’ death or serious injuries, wedding. We plan to organize periodical fire safety trainings for employees during which they will gain theoretical and practical knowledge of how to act in case of fire in order to Various incentives are used in all departments of the Company: social awards of avoid injuries. “Man of the Year”, “Employee of the Month” etc.; material/non-material car, computer, mobile phone, a thank you certificate, public praise etc.; financial bonuses Having analyzed cases of accidents in the Company, we intend to specify actions which for good performance etc. would allow reducing the number of actions in the Company to 0. One of the additional benefits mostly appreciated by our employees is Christmas and summer parties. This is a good tool for building our organizational culture, improving/ supporting climate. Employee safety and health Upon employment all employees are instructed in respect of general and safety and health matters. Those working with potentially dangerous equipment, instructions are carried out on a regular basis, once a year. All instructions are registered officially in the journal on the site of instruction. 16 E n v i r o n m e n ta l Pr o t e c t i o n The Company’s environment protection policies are the following: %%Comply with environmental protection laws and provisions of other legal acts; Working Environment %%Use the least environment polluting technologies in our activities, seek pollution Pr o t e c t i o n prevention and continuous environmental improvement; We are a manufacturing company, located in a beautiful historic area of %%Organize effective system for consumption of raw materials, energy and non-renewable Nemėžis. The territory of PakMarkas is surrounded by green fields, maples and natural sources, reduce waste and organize lakes. Thus, we confidently consider us to be an environmental company, since recycling; we discuss issues related to preserving our environment inside the company, with our partners or environmental agencies on a daily basis. %%Educate employees’ responsibility and understanding of the idea that environmental Clean environment is our Company’s top priority. We have implemented protection and preservation or resources is not the environmental management system ISO 14001 and we assure that all only a responsibility of the Company but of requirements of this standard are met. Also, our activities are guided by principles every individual as well; laid down by environmental policies, we constantly review them so that they %%Become professional consultants for our were well-timed. customers and assist them in choosing environmentally friendly packing methods, equipment and materials. 18 E n v i r o n m e n ta l Pr o t e c t i o n Actions in 2011 Goals for 2012 Environmental protection One of the main environmental goals of the Company is efficient use of materials and Quality Department of our Company is responsible for performance of environmental reduction of production waste. Therefore, in 2012 we have planned particular actions protection functions, compliance with legislation and environmental protection to achieve these goals: procedures. Independent external auditors carry out external audit on a yearly basis. Once a year an environmental report is prepared and submitted to the Department of llIncrease efficiency of paper use in label production up to 77%; Environmental Protection. Employees of the Company are continually encouraged llIncrease efficiency of film use in label-sleeves production up to 82%; to contribute to reduction of pollution and, if possible, save electricity, water, fuel and other natural resources. llEnsure that efficiency of polymers use were at least 80%; Pollution prevention llDecrease volumes of waste resulting from adhesive paper and films by four times We continually monitor the environmental impact: we keep track of quantities of air and use it efficiently; and water emission, consumption of paper, films, photopolymers, electricity, gas. llReduce quantities of hazardous waste; We monitor quantities of hazardous waste during the process of production: llImprove the motivation system of production staff which would encourage them to Year 2010 (g/sq m) Year 2011(g/sq m) use raw materials efficiently. We will seek to reduce paper use in document management. In 2012-2013 we plan to Waste from cleaning the production 1,08 1,02 create an integrated information system in the Company which will allow not only equipment simplifying business management processes but significantly contributing to reduction of paper use for office needs as well. Packages and package materials 0,42 0,42 Recycling We sort waste from production: corrugated cardboard, BOPP (biaxially oriented polypropylene film), PE (polyethylene), PVC (polyvinyl chloride) and deliver them for recycling. In 2011 we decided to print our special newsletter for clients PakŽinios and envelopes used for sending the newsletter on 100% recycled paper. Celebration initiatives In 2011, for the first time our Company celebrated the World Environment Day and organized the environment week called “Don’t be a destroyer, be a creator”. Our staff took a quiz, played games, participated in the “green” competition of photos and demonstrated their knowledge about nature and surroundings in such way. Every year a spring comes cleaner for us, as we organize a cleaning initiative called PakDarom. A large group of employees willingly clean the territory of the Company and its surroundings. After all the work has been done, everyone is invited for a picknick to discuss what has been done and spend some time together. 20 B u s i n e ss E n v i r o n m e n t  The main principles of mutual relationship is respect to each other and businesslike communication;  One of the top priority goals of the Company is full-scale quality management. Actions in 2011 Business ethics We are against corruption, bribery and other illegal actions limiting competition. In our everyday activity we are engaged in fair and ethical business practice. Employees of PakMarkas must not require for or accept any payment, or offer payment or any other type of pay which can be considered as improper to individuals, organizations or companies. Employees must not take advantage of their position in order to receive benefit for themselves at the expense of the Company, clients or business partners. Users’ safety and health Our products provided to business clients also have an influence on the society, therefore, by offering new products to the market we analyze how they will affect the end user. We use only tested materials and paints from reliable manufacturers in production of labels and packages which meet the strictest food packaging requirements. Clients’ feedback B u s i n e ss Results of customer satisfaction survey carried out in 2011 showed that when selecting Environment a packaging company as a supplier business companies pay more and more attention to its environmental activity. According to customer survey carried out in 2009, the Our business culture is based on honesty, respect to clients and focus, which factor of importance of environmental activity was 4.01 while in 2011 it went up to helps our clients to cooperate with us easily. All employees assume serious 4.28. responsibility for both the Company‘s business and that of our clients. Also, customers’ opinion about efforts of PakMarkas to preserve clean environment is We have implemented the international quality standard ISO 9001, we work better, whereas in 2009 this indicator was at 4.33 and in 2011 it was at 4.44. in accordance with requirements of good practice, we are guided by quality policy which is based on the following principles: Goals for 2012 In order to ensure continuance of social responsibility activity of PakMarkas and  The fundamental principle of quality policy is to meet expectations of monitoring of impact in relationship with business partners, suppliers and other our clients by supplying high-quality and up-to-date packing and labelling interested parties, we plan to establish the main indicators related to social activity of solutions; the Company.  The key factor in achieving goals of quality policy is continuous raising of employees’ qualification and individual development; 22 BUILDING A S EN S E OF COMMUNITY As every year, we brought gifts to the community of Vilkpėdė centre of visually impaired and blind people in Vilnius and attended their Christmas event, said a warm welcome word and spent some time with members of the centre. We also cooperate with Public Enterprise Viena Šeima and created some moments of happiness to the smallest patients. A lot of toys was bought in order to contribute to fulfilling at least some of their dreams. We have built especially strong relationship with the community of Nemėžis: primary and secondary school students of Nemėžis St. Rapolas Kalinauskas Gymnasium visited our Company. We showed our production and administrative premises to the students, made a short presentation about production of packages and printing of labels. We established warm relationship with the community of old Tatars based in Nemėžis town. We understand the importance of preserving unique cultural heritage and old traditions for national communities, therefore, we contribute to their preservation. On 12 November 2011,during the culture festival of the Lithuanian national minorities and ethnic Lithuanians the Tatars community of Nemėžis organized a chess tournament to commemorate 6oo year anniversary of Žalgiris battle. We supported the event financially by funding production of the transitional cup. We were recognized and awarded for the Company’s social activities: during the ceremony of Duke Gediminas order the Managing Director of PakMarkas was awarded second place under the nominee “For achievements in development of community (public spirit) capital”. BUILDING A S EN S E OF Goals for 2012 COMMUNITY We have set a goal to continuously communicate with education institutions and nongovernmental organizations being a company open to society, to maintain transparent We could live focusing on ourselves only in case we live alone, on an endless desert relationship with public servants and political representatives without bribery and or high up in the mountains. However, we would hardly be happy, since people can political pressure. express themselves, reveal creativity and be recognized only being together with others. Realizing that individual welfare is welfare of everyone, the Company is getting more actively engaged in community activity. Actions in 2011 In 2011 we will continue cooperation with the youth organization “Lietuvos Junior Achievement”. Seven students from Rudamina F. Ruščicas gymnasium spend a day in our Company, talked to our staff, found out peculiarities of chosen profession, gained new practical knowledge. Students’ feedback and positive emotions make us strongly believe that in such way we contribute to formation of skills of young people and we help them to make a decision regarding their choice of profession. 24 T h e C o m pa n y ’ s N u m b e rs Number of employees 2009 2010 2011 Lithuania 157 159 154 Latvia 21 21 22 Ratio of male and female staff 2009 2010 2011 Lithuania W – 28 % W – 26 % W – 23 % M – 72 % M – 74 % M – 77 % Latvia W – 48 % W – 48 % W – 41 % M – 52 % M – 52 % M – 59 % T h e C o m pa n y ’ s N u m b e rs Ratio of male and female staff 2009 2010 2011 Sales income(excluding VAT, 2009 2010 2011 thousand Litas) Lithuania 33.3 34 34 Lithuania 46,34 49,84 50,45 Latvia 39 40 42 Latvia 8,05 9,05 10,40 Consolidated 49,35 53,06 54,52 26 Your feedback is most welcome! We appreciate all feedback from our interested parties as important assistance in improving social responsibility practice of our Company. Please, express your opinion, comments and other feedback via e-mail: pm@pakmarkas.lt or contact us by phone (5) 205 28 71. Contact person is Jurgita Radžiūnaitė, Marketing manager. PakMarkas, UAB Daržininkai village, Nemėžis township, Vilnius district, LT-13034, Lithuania Phone (8-5) 205 29 00 E-mail: info@pakmarkas.lt www.pakmarkas.lt
