KPN Sustainability Report 2011 – Sustainably connected KPN, a leading supplier of ICT services in the Netherlands, offers consumers fixed and mobile telephony, internet and television. In the business market, KPN provides a broad range of ICT products and services, making it the market leader in the Netherlands. And thanks to our successful Challenger strategy and multi-brand policy, our market share in the German and Belgian mobile markets has grown steadily in recent years. KPN has a clear aim of being the best-in-class service provider. We aim to offer products and services that are simple to use and help customers achieve personal goals or business objectives. We’ve been bringing people together for over 125 years. Our technologies and our services enable people to share the special moments in their lives. That’s where our strength lies. CONTENTS Introduction 2 Quality of service 30 4 Energy-efficient 42 6 Our people and suppliers 58 Introduction by the CEO 2 2.1 Our vision: better service 4.1 Our vision: 6.1 Our people 61 is crucial for KPN 32 is indispensable for an 2011 at a glance 4 energy-efficient future 45 6.2 Our suppliers 64 2.2 Improvement initiatives 33 Who we are and what we do 6 4.2 Solutions for customers 45 6.3 Challenges and dilemmas 65 2.3 Our core values: personal, Key Figures 10 Simplicity and trust 34 4.3 Saving on energy at KPN 45 7 Scope 66 Strategy 2011–2015 12 2.4 Challenges and dilemmas 35 4.4 Transparency and collaboration 48 8 Independent 1 Our role in society 16 3 T  he New Way of Living 4.5 Challenges and dilemmas 48 assurance report 67 and Working 36 1.1 Our vision: ICT is vital to a thriving, 3.1 Our vision: saving 5 People connected 50 sustainable society 19 money, time and energy all within a single concept 39 5.1 Our vision: Our strength 1.2 Embedding corporate lies in connecting people 53 social policy within 3.2 Solutions for customers 39 the organization 21 5.2 KPN Mooiste Contact 3.3 The new way of living Fonds 53 1.3 In discussions with and working at KPN 40 our stakeholders 22 5.3 Social engagement in 3.4 Challenges and dilemmas 41 Germany and Belgium 55 1.4 Our infrastructure 24 5.4 Sponsorship 55 1.5 Healthcare of the future 25 5.5 Other social initiatives 56 1.6 Security and privacy 26 5.6 Challenges and dilemmas 56 1.7 Compliance and integrity 28 How to read this document This Sustainability Report describes KPN’s role in society and provides a record of our efforts, performance and challenges. The first two chapters are devoted to the interaction between the ICT industry and society. They describe the social relevance of the industry in general and of KPN in particular. You will read how, based on its strategic reorientation, KPN has arrived at a renewed focus in its social policy. Chapter 1 sets out our views on the newly raised issues such as the quality of our infrastructure, healthcare, privacy and safety. It will also feature our most important stake holder: the customer. The following chapters feature the objectives, efforts and results relating to the CSR themes we have been basing ourselves on until now. In conclusion, we give details of the stakeholders that make our services possible: our employees and our suppliers. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 1 Introduction WE HELP OUR CUSTOMERS TO MEET THEIR PERSONAL GOALS OR BUSINESS OBJECTIVES KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 2 Introduction by the CEO Introduction TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY, WE HAVE TO IMPROVE RELENTLESSLY, DOING THINGS BETTER TODAY THAN YESTERDAY, AND EVEN BETTER TOMORROW Eelco Blok, CEO 2011 was in many ways both turbulent and inspiring. We announced our strategy for 2011–2015, in which our ambition to become the best service provider in the Netherlands takes center stage. And we continued with our successful Challenger strategy in Germany and Belgium. Through our high quality networks we will give even more value to customers and society. The departure of Ad Scheepbouwer in April signaled the For KPN Group, the first part of 2011 was dominated by the start of my period as CEO. Mr. Scheepbouwer’s retirement preparations for the 2011–2015 strategy that we presented marked an impressive ten-year period in which KPN was in May. In the months leading up to it we held extensive transformed into one of the best-performing telecom discussions with customers, employees, shareholders and companies in Europe. analysts. This consultation process gave us valuable and refreshing insights, helped us to see our Company in I am proud to have the opportunity of steering the KPN the way others look at us and confirmed our view that a ship. More than ever before, we want to gain a reputation new direction is absolutely essential if we are to remain as a genuine service provider that puts its customers first, successful in the years ahead. The 2011–2015 strategy while remaining one of the best-performing telecom is one of evolutionary change, preserving the strengths companies. The contribution of teamwork cannot be of our heritage. The new direction of our Company will overemphasized; I am convinced that all KPN employees enable us to respond to market trends and the wishes of together determine KPN’s successes. KPN is a healthy our customers. Additionally, we plan to make our position company with stretching customer and social ambitions. in society even stronger. As part of our ambition to KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 3 Introduction by the CEO Introduction become the best service provider in the of the total sales of the KPN Group in 2011. Those activities and our recalibrated social Netherlands and to continue to be a strong In the years to come we will continue our ambitions, which we aim to gear more closely Challenger abroad, we have expanded Challenger strategy so as to further strengthen to our everyday operations, confirm our role our investment programs, focusing on a our position. And, we see opportunities to in society and the contribution we want to turnaround in the Netherlands to improve apply some of the Challenger mentality in make. Our financial results and corporate our quality, service and technology. the Netherlands as well. In November, we social responsibility go hand-in-hand with this. confirmed this intention by appointing Thanks to the wide range of our products and The ailing economy had an adverse effect on Thorsten Dirks to the Board of Management. services, we make a vital contribution to the our sector. In the business market, companies He made a substantial contribution to the Dutch economy, of which we are very proud. postponed or reduced their ICT investments. Challenger formula in Germany. The unique combination of our staff, our In the consumer market, our market shares knowledge and our resources will enable us and revenues were under pressure. We saw KPN has some of the best networks in the to make a difference for our customers and a further rise in the use of mobile apps, so sector and we aim to utilize the quality of society; we have to improve relentlessly, doing consumers sent considerably fewer SMS our networks to support our customers. things better today than yesterday and doing messages and made fewer calls. With our new Guaranteed security of ICT facilities is them even better tomorrow and thereafter. mobile tariffs, we were the first Dutch provider becoming increasingly crucial, and we are to respond to that trend. Some of the initial helping organizations to empower their Eelco Blok results of the new propositions are positive, people to be able to work independently Chairman of the Board of Management and CEO however more time must elapse before their of time and place, which is the norm at KPN. impact is fully visible. The sharp growth in the Despite the economic downturn, companies’ number of Interactive TV and the Fiber-to-theinterest in green ICT and energy-saving ICT Home customers was positive, thanks in part applications has remained high. In the to several product and service innovations. Netherlands and Belgium we only purchase The explosive growth in data traffic brings us green power. And thanks to the many KPN commercial opportunities on the one hand, employees acting as volunteers, we have and makes our climate neutrality target for brought thousands of people in touch 2020 a great challenge and an absolute with one another via the KPN Mooiste necessity. In 2011, compliance was an Contact Fonds. important theme both inside and outside KPN, including an investigation by NMa and We signed on to the United Nations increased OPTA supervision. For 2012, we Sustainability Platform, the Global Compact, decided to intensify our compliance programs. herewith taking on the obligation to contribute towards achieving the Millennium The growth figures for our mobile activities Development Goals for 2015 set by the in Germany and Belgium were once again United Nations. excellent: more customers, higher service revenues and increased market shares. This success is the result of the Challenger strategy that we introduced five years ago, enabling the two countries to generate between them 30% KPN’s strategy 2011–2015 targets three principles: 1 2 3 STRENGTHEN SIMPLIFY GROW We will strengthen We will create a We aim to increase our our market positions nimble organization customer base for fixed in the Netherlands by by simplifying the and mobile telephony and an enhanced focus on organizational structure we see particularly good product and service and by offering a clearer opportunities for the fiber quality, a more efficient set of products and network. We will continue organization and a services in both the our Mobile International tighter policy on costs. business and consumer Challenger strategy in markets in the Netherlands. the coming years. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 4 2011 at a glance Introduction At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, Eelco Blok is appointed KPN’s new CEO, in succession to Ad Scheepbouwer who led the Company for the previous ten years. Eelco Blok announces KPN obtains first prize in the that improving customer 2010 Transparency Benchmark service is one of the key of the Ministry of Economic areas he will focus on. Based on the principles Affairs, Agriculture and Strengthen, Simplify Innovation, winning De and Grow, Eelco Blok Kristal, the award for the announces the strategy most transparent social for 2011–2015. Greater report in the Netherlands. customer satisfaction and a leading role in the radically changing ICT market are top priority. KPN is the first telco to participate in the Climate Savers Program of the World Wildlife Fund. In this program, companies agree ambitious targets on energy savings and the use of renewable energy. In 2011 KPN uses 100% renewable electricity in the Netherlands and Belgium. Accelerated change in customer behavior in the mobile market, increasing price pressure and rationalization in the business market and insufficient cost Roll-out of the mobile reductions adversely impacted broadband networks is performance in the Netherlands. accelerated to support KPN has to issue an adjusted the growing data use EBITDA outlook for 2011. by customers in Belgium and Germany. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE 2011 was an eventful year for KPN, alternating between news of major and minor importance. We published our strategy for the coming years, we announced an outlook adjustment and our activities were frequently the subject of public debate. These two pages feature a selection of KPN news. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 5 2011 at a glance Introduction KPN welcomes its 500,000th customer for Interactive TV. KPN acquires the high frequency At the beginning of 2011, license for the Belgian market, customer numbers stood at allowing it to pursue its roll-out of only 300,000. KPN now has fast data services for customers and a TV market share of 17%. partners. The license lasts for 15 years and takes effect on July 1, 2012. KPN announces new mobile propositions NMa starts an investigation for consumers, in a move marking KPN’s regarding possible collusion response to the sharp rise in mobile Getronics disappears of mobile operators on internet usage. Later in the year, KPN as a separate brand name in propositions in the mobile also announces new tariffs for the the Netherlands. The Getronics market. business market. activities are rebranded to KPN Corporate Market. Regulator OPTA announces to put KPN on close supervision further to alleged violations of obligations based on the Telecommunications Act. In the third quarter of 2011, E-Plus welcomes its 22 millionth customer. Our German subsidiary continues the rapid upward trend of the last few years. In November, KPN announces its intention to acquire four fiber service providers and also KPN wins the Sponsor of the Year trade confirms new arrangements to prize, testimony to the fact that various expand its stake in Reggefiber forms of sponsorship across a variety of in the coming years. The With its listing on the Dow Jones categories can create effective mutual number of households that Sustainability Europe Index, KPN is reinforcement. In the ‘community’ KPN can serve with fiber ranked amongst the most sustainable category, KPN’s Mooiste Contact services has grown sharply. European telecommunications Fonds obtains the First Prize. In December, KPN connects companies for the second year in a row. its 100,000th fiber customer. JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 6 Who we are and what we do Introduction In a world in which communication is ever more advanced, more accessible and faster, we aim to go on doing what we have been doing well for over 125 years: enabling contact, empowering people to connect with each other. Our mission is to provide our millions of Organizational structure KPN GROUP IN 2011 consumer and business customers with KPN’s organizational structure that was in high quality communication products place until the end of 2011 is shown over The Netherlands and services. these two pages. We deploy a multi-brand policy to meet the In the summer of 2011, we began work on the Consumer: needs of different customer groups. This detailed arrangements for the plans for a new With fixed and mobile telephony, permits us to differentiate by price, product divisional structure which we implemented on internet and television, KPN and service and allows the customer to select January 1, 2012. The new divisional structure offers consumers a wide range the brand and tariff that suits them best. In is run by the Executive Committee where of communication, information, addition, we offer our business customers a all Dutch and international operations are entertainment as well as wide range of ICT services, whether they are represented. The new structure will facilitate commercial services. a locally based small or medium enterprise a more direct and efficient management and business or a multinational corporation is in line with the strategic plans for a simpler operating across the globe. organization that enables us to respond better to changes in the ICT world. A key change Satisfied customers create the basis for is the split of the Consumer Segment into Mobile International profitable growth, which in turn allows us to two new Segments, Consumer Residential create value for our shareholders. We believe (internet, television and fixed telephony) that, with proud and motivated staff, we can and Consumer Mobile (mobile telephony Germany: achieve excellent quality and great customer and mobile internet). ITNL and Wholesale E-Plus is the successful Challenger satisfaction. Only then can we offer our & Operations are combined into the network operator with its own customers the best products and services. segment NetCo. brands (such as E-Plus and BASE) and partner brands in Germany. We are very aware of our responsibility to society. An optimally functioning and reliable ICT infrastructure is crucial for the efficient running of a modern society: without the internet everything grinds to a halt. This places a major social responsibility on KPN. Security and privacy are top priorities. We also realize that we can use our technology to enable contact for those for whom contact is not, or no longer, a given. We promote the New Way of Working, i.e. flexible working hours and location, and so helping our customers save time and money. We have made the New Way of Working KPN’s standard approach to work, as much as possible, in the same way as we make unceasing efforts to save energy and to ensure its renewable sourcing. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 Who we are and what we do 7 Introduction Business: Wholesale & Operations: KPN Corporate Market: iBasis: KPN offers its small and medium Wholesale & Operations KPN Corporate Market (formerly Via iBasis, KPN is a leading player sized business customers a is responsible for KPN’s Getronics in the Netherlands) in the international wholesale voice complete portfolio of services, operational activities for offers KPN’s largest corporate market. iBasis carries international from fixed and mobile telephony the Dutch networks (both customers global ICT services phone calls worldwide. and internet to data networks, fixed and mobile) and for and is the market leader in the workspace management and KPN’s wholesale customers Netherlands in the area of data centers. in the Netherlands. end-to-end infrastructure and network-related ICT solutions. Belgium: KPN Group Belgium is the successful Challenger network Rest of the World: KPN Spain, KPN France (sold in December) and Ortel Mobile Revenues €,m (: €,m) operator with its own brands are virtual network operators Consumer % (such as BASE) and partner offering mobile services Business % brands in Belgium. through own brands and Wholesale & Operations % partner brands. Ortel Mobile Corporate Market (Getronics) % iBasis % focuses principally on the Germany % multicultural market segments Belgium % in the Netherlands, Germany, Rest of World % Belgium, France and Spain, and recently started operating in Switzerland. EBITDA €,m (: €,m) Consumer % Business % Wholesale & Operations % Corporate Market (Getronics) % iBasis % Germany % Belgium % Rest of World % KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 8 Who we are and what we do Introduction WE TAKE PRIDE IN OUR NETWORKS THAT ARE RECOGNIZED AS THE MOST STABLE IN THE NETHERLANDS The KPN organization Customer is king Strong brands KPN is a public limited company formed In the 2011–2015 strategy, service provision We have a varied customer base, which calls under Dutch law (‘naamloze vennootschap’) is the focal point for everything we do. We for a suitable range of products and services. with a two-tier structure consisting of plan to continue improving our service, cut For this reason KPN has, alongside the KPN the Supervisory Board and the Board of waiting times and solve problems in one go. brand, a number of other consumer brands: Management. The Board of Management In short, we want to show customers that Hi, Telfort, XS4ALL and Simyo. German manages KPN’s strategic, organizational they are welcome and valued at KPN. For customers may choose from BASE, E-Plus, and financial matters and appoints senior that reason, our staff members with direct Simyo, Ay Yildiz and more. Belgian customers management. The Supervisory Board is customer contact will determine the success may choose, for example, BASE and Simyo. charged with the supervision and advisory of KPN more than ever before. Our 1,600 retail With Ortel Mobile we serve our mobile of the Board of Management. Membership staff, 3,000 contact center agents and 450 customers in the Netherlands, Germany, of the Board of Management went through service engineers are the public face of KPN Belgium, Spain, France and Switzerland. In the a number of changes in 2011: Eelco Blok took in the Netherlands. Via our website and social business market we also have a number of over the chairmanship from Ad Scheepbouwer media we approach our customers in a strong brand cards, such as XS4ALL, Atlantic in April. In November, Thorsten Dirks became personal way. Telecom, Yes Telecom, Gemnet and a member of the Board of Management. After Talk&Vision. Globally, we are one of the largest having been a member for five years, Baptiest The Net Promoter Score (NPS), with which providers of wholesale telephony services to Coopmans announced his intention to leave we measure customer satisfaction, helps us other companies with our iBasis brand. KPN on April 1, 2012. CFO Carla Smitsto make continuous improvements to our Nusteling announced at the beginning of service. The NPS figure shows the degree Our products and services January 2012 that she has decided to pursue to which potential and current customers For consumers at home, the fixed line her career outside KPN, effective April 1, 2012. allow themselves to be influenced by the telephone connection serves as the basis On December 31, 2011, the members of the recommendations and experiences of existing for our fixed services: internet, interactive Board of Management were Eelco Blok (CEO), customers when it comes to choosing brands television and fixed telephony. KPN also offers Carla Smits-Nusteling (CFO), Thorsten Dirks or products. The growing popularity of social television across the ether with Digitenne. and Baptiest Coopmans. media platforms and comparison websites With the roll-out of fiber in the Netherlands reinforce this. We view customer satisfaction by Reggefiber, more and more households are as being so important that the NPS is one of taking advantage of this advanced technology. the criteria used to determine the bonuses paid to employees. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 Who we are and what we do 9 Introduction KPN has 35 million mobile customers in Europe With the roll-out of the fiber network with Skilled, fit and talented who may choose between various types of our partner Reggefiber, the infrastructure We believe it is important for employees to mobile subscriptions. Thanks to the very in the Netherlands will change to a hybrid continue to develop themselves and to keep rapid growth in smartphone ownership and infrastructure over the coming years. Using their knowledge and skills sharp and up-tosmartphone features, mobile internet usage fiber as the main data conduit, KPN can offer date. We therefore offer them the possibility has become commonplace, driving explosive greater bandwidth and very high data speeds. of adding to or enlarging their skill set within growth in data usage. We are responding to At several locations in the Netherlands we can a specific area of skills. All members of staff this with new mobile propositions for the now achieve 500 Mb per second, much more coming under the KPN’s collective labor consumer and business markets. than cable could ever offer. We believe in fiber agreement in the Netherlands also receive as the network of the future. That is why, at their own annual deployability budget they In the business market, we help small and the end of 2011, we announced our intention may use for their permanent development. large companies with total ICT solutions. We to take over four fiber service providers and We invest in keeping all our staff members fit. offer them total integration of speech, data, confirmed new arrangements to expand our Any KPN employee may have his physical and fixed and mobile services. KPN also offers stake in our fiber partner Reggefiber in mental fitness tested and – dependent on the government and the healthcare and education the coming years. result – improve his health. sectors an array of ICT applications. Because a major part of the Netherlands has We run a talent program in order to attract KPN Corporate Market (previously known yet to gain fiber access, the existing copper and hold on to graduates and those with as Getronics in the Netherlands) assists network remains indispensable for the time higher professional education. We have also a multinationals with services such as being for the purposes of delivering fixed diversity program to improve the male-female workspace management, connectivity services. We have made major upgrades balance within our Company. solutions and data centers. We work using to our copper network over recent years the Global Service Delivery Model that is to enable high data speeds and we will designed to furnish an excellent, high-quality continue to do so. service across the world. Team KPN Everything depends on the quality We are convinced that the synergy of all of our networks individual employees determines success: We take pride in our networks that are team sense, team spirit and team work are recognized as the most stable networks in the key words. As an employer, KPN looks the Netherlands. It forms the backbone for all for commitment and professionalism from KPN’s mobile and fixed services. This has led its employees. We offer employees a package us to invest EUR 1.5 billion, out of total Capex of modern working conditions, with the investment of 2.0 billion, in our Dutch, German New Way of Working. and Belgian networks in 2011, anticipating in particular the major growth in data traffic, especially in mobile data traffic. OUR CORE VALUES Personal, Simplicity, Trust In our aim of being the best service provider, three core values are a common theme throughout the Group: personal, simplicity and trust. We strive for a simple organization that contributes to an uncomplicated, easy-to-understand range of products and services and optimal service levels. Every employee having direct client contact is expected to be available, accessible and clear. We give our customers help that is personalized, dedicated and that creates trust. We do what we promise our customers. And through our socially responsible activities, we demonstrate our involvement in society. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 10 Key Figures Introduction Customer satisfaction Putting KPN’s 2011 (NPS)      performance in N/A N/A – – perspective – Reputation (Ranking in the Netherlands)  th  th  th  th  th      Energy consumption (in petajoule) . . . . .      Performance indicators Customer satisfaction Energy consumption Every year, KPN sets itself a number of specific In 2009, we introduced the Net Promoter As a major energy consumer, KPN will do objectives. We measure our performance Score (NPS) as a tool for measuring everything in its power to increase its energy using financial and non-financial Key customer satisfaction. We regularly survey efficiencies. With the sharp rise in data usage, Performance Indicators (KPIs), which help a representative customer group in the setting energy consumption as a KPI is as us to manage the organization. They also Consumer and Business Market in the logical as it is imperative and efficient energy form the basis for the variable remuneration Netherlands to calculate this score. The consumption is indispensable. We see it as granted to the Board of Management and key question asked is whether customers our responsibility to inform customers about to senior executives. In 2011, we introduced would recommend KPN to friends or family. cutting down on energy consumed by our customer satisfaction, reputation and energy ICT equipment. consumption as new, non-financial KPIs that Reputation help us in monitoring if we are on track to An excellent reputation is a prerequisite for achieve our ambition to become the best us to become the best service provider in service provider in the Netherlands in 2015. the Netherlands. KPN uses RepTrak to monitor this KPI. RepTrak maintains a list of Dutch Furthermore, as part of this ambition, we aim companies and their reputational scores. to increase our ‘First time right’ score. We are developing a measurement tool to monitor ‘First time right’ performance in the end-toend service chains. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 11 Key Figures Introduction Revenues and other income EBITDA (in billions of EUR) Free cash flow (in billions of EUR) EBITDA margin (in billions of EUR) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .% .% .% .% .%                Earnings per share Capital expenditure Net debt/EBITDA (EUR) (in billions of EUR) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                Number of FTEs as of December  1) No data available prior to 2009. 2) Earnings per share in 2007 and 2009 include tax gains of EUR 1.2 billion and EUR 0.7 billion, respectively, regarding recognition of additional deferred tax assets at E-plus. , , , , ,      Financial KPIs Prospects for 2012 Healthy financial management of the business To strengthen our activities in 2012 we are 2012 will be lower than in 2011. At the same is critical to success and financial KPIs are going to expand and accelerate the initiatives time, the general macroeconomic picture is heavily weighted in the scale of management and investments that we announced in May very turbulent and uncertain. This increases compensation. Revenues and other income, 2011, thereby responding to the changing the need to maintain a good balance between EBITDA, EBITDA margin, free cash flow and market conditions. Consequently, 2012 will be strategic investments, remuneration to the number of full-time employees paint a a year of transition for our Dutch operations. shareholders and a solid financial position. picture of the size of the business and of At the end of 2012, we aim to stabilize our our financial performance. market share in the Dutch mobile consumer market, while it is expected that the broadband market share will bottom-out. The objective of the investments is to achieve Significant market shares 2011 2010 a sustainable profit level in the future for Broadband Netherlands1 40% 41% our Dutch operations. Additionally, we will TV Netherlands1 17% 15% continue to target quality improvements and Mobile Netherlands2 46% 47% simplification. In so doing we aim to raise Mobile Germany2 15.9% 15.7% customer satisfaction and our reputation to Mobile Belgium2 ~19% >18% a higher level. Due to market trends – which are putting our revenue model under pressure 1) Based on subscriber numbers at year-end – and our decision to speed up investment, 2) Based on service revenues profit and cash flow in the transitional year KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 12 Strategy 2011–2015 Introduction In May 2011, one month after taking up his duties as CEO, Eelco Blok presented the KPN strategy for 2011–2015, based on three principles: strengthen, simplify and grow. New opportunities, new ambitions, KPN will modify its organizational structure to KPN speeds up implementation major challenges realize all its plans and to achieve greater vigor of its strategic plans We use this corporate strategy to respond and efficiency. Employees will be given greater When KPN’s annual results were presented to the trends and new technologies in responsibility and an enhanced role to provide on January 24 of this year, CEO Eelco the telecom industry. Customers are customers with an even better service. A Blok focused on the changing external communicating more and more via social rigorous and responsible approach to costs is environment. Counterbalancing the media and increasingly advanced apps. a key part of the new strategy: investing where successes of Interactive TV and fiber Mobile internet is growing explosively, indispensable, saving where possible. Our services and the strong growth in the as is data usage, and the telecom and employees play a crucial role in our aim of German and Belgian markets, performance ICT landscape is continuously developing. becoming the best service provider, they in the Netherlands did not meet our embody the three core values of personal, expectations. Declining market share in the Paralleling this, we observe trends in society simple and trustworthy. Our aim is for these mobile telephony and broadband markets that significantly impact our industry. ICT is characteristics to distinguish us as a service in the Netherlands, and tough conditions the vital artery of our economy with more provider. This leads to our conviction that in the business market have impacted our and more information, often confidential, teamwork forms the basis of success. financial results. being processed across the internet. This places still higher requirements on continuity, We focus on our core qualities and outsource To tackle these developments, KPN is security safeguards and network privacy and non-core operations to specialized companies, accelerating its investment strategy in 2012 the internet, whether mobile or fixed. There in the Netherlands and abroad. This will result to strengthen the market positions in the is an aging population, placing greater strains in the reduction of between 4,000­–5,000 Netherlands. Additional investments will on healthcare. ICT can play an ever increasing FTEs at KPN by 2015. Some of these will be be made in the mobile and fixed networks part in creating greater efficiency in this recreated by our partners. Employees whose (copper and fiber). This decision benefits industry. People want to work efficiently, tasks are relocated abroad, for example to not only the service we provide to the free of the boundaries of time and place, India, will be given assistance and counseling customer, but also enables us to compete and to combine private and business tasks. in their search for new employment. with the cable companies and other mobile Here too, ICT has an important part to play. providers. Major cost reductions are also Our role in society plays an important part in an absolute necessity if we are to make the Against the background of these achieving our objectives. In line with the new organization more efficient. This means developments, the 2011–2015 strategy is strategy, we decided in 2011 to expand our that the number of jobs will still have to be directed at improving our quality, service and social focus. cut by 4,000–5,000 by the year 2015, but technology. In this way, we want to become we have accelerated the reduction the best service provider in the Netherlands Alongside our efforts in the New Way of program. Furthermore, there will be no and strengthen our market positions. The Working, Responsible Energy Use and People repurchase program in 2012. Through focus with Mobile International will be on Connected we see our social contribution as these measures, we are adopting our balancing revenue growth and EBITDA margin coming mainly from our network. With the plans so that KPN will come out of the and continued investment in the mobile quality of our network and with a focus on 2012 transition year a stronger company. broadband network. optimal security and privacy, we want to promote innovation and efficiency in healthcare. We think and operate through the perspective of our customers’ needs in our quest to realize our ambitions. Our aim is to offer an excellent service, delivering high-quality products and services. The KPN network, the Company’s backbone, is at the heart of this and we shall continue investing in our copper, fiber and mobile networks. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 13 Strategy 2011–2015 Introduction WITH OUR STRATEGY WE ARE FIT TO RESPOND TO NEW TRENDS AND TECHNOLOGIES KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 14 Strategy 2011–2015 Introduction On May 10, we presented our Strengthen, Simplify, Grow strategy and ambitions towards our goals in 2015. In 2011 we made the first steps towards these goals with our strategic initiatives. STRATEGY 2011–2015 AT A GLANCE Strategic initiatives Consumer Wireline • Improve, innovate and differentiate TV and broadband propositions • Improve customer service and delivery processes • Expand addressable market with VDSL upgrades and FttH roll-out in promising areas • Target commercial investment using a regional approach Consumer Wireless • Further development of data-centric propositions • Convergence of Fixed and Mobile offerings • Expansion of distribution footprint • Growth in value-added services (e.g. apps) Business / Corporate • Focus market footprint on the Netherlands Market • Develop SME/SoHo Challenger brand and improve distribution via Business Centers • Continued investment in fixed, mobile, and data center infrastructure • Invest in growth areas (unified communications, secure managed devices, private Cloud and service aggregation) • Targeted focus on verticals such as health and financial services Germany • Grow Challenger model through value for money data offerings and private label smartphone offerings • Roll-out mobile broadband network (HSPA+) and start with LTE pilots • Continue multi-brand strategy via own brands and partner brands • Further exploit regionalized commercial approach Belgium, Rest of • Grow Challenger model through value for money data offerings in Belgium World, iBasis • Accelerate growth of Ortel Mobile and assess options for KPN Spain • Focus on scale of iBasis in wholesale voice and build VAS capabilities for long-term value creation Cost Leadership • Start offshoring and outsourcing initiatives (back office, network and IT) • Accelerated implementation of efficiency programs to reduce FTEs Simplification, • Simplify invoices and letters to customers quality and • Reduce delivery times for broadband and TV reputation • Improve help desk experience and provide online self-care environment on KPN.com • Introduce XL-stores as local service points as well as ‘in-home’ integration services formula • Commitment to minimum credit ratings of Baa2 and BBB • Net debt / EBITDA ratio between 2.0x and 2.5x KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 15 Strategy 2011–2015 Introduction Objectives and ambitions 2015 Status 2011 • Regain broadband market share of >45% • Broadband market share remained under pressure • Growth of TV market share • Improved TV proposition and continued growth of TV market share • Increase in the number of Revenue Generating Units per connection • Copper network prepared for pair bonding, commercial launch from 1.9 to ~2.4 in Q2 2012 • Improve quality • FttH roll-out on track • Successful migration of voice-centric to data-centric propositions • Market position remained under pressure • Sustained mobile market share in the Netherlands of >45% • New data-centric propositions launched in September with positive initial results • Expansion of own distribution, 11 new shops opened • Step-by-step integration of Business and Corporate Market • Getronics rebranded to KPN Corporate Market in the Netherlands • Remain a leading business and ICT player in the Netherlands • Agreement to sell Getronics International to focus on core footprint • Continued impact from migration from legacy to IP-based portfolio • Business market size declining due to price pressure, continued rationalization and macroeconomic impact • Significant steps in outsourcing and offshoring in Corporate Market • Growth of service revenue market share to >20% • Mobile broadband network roll-out ahead of schedule • EBITDA margin of 35%–40% • Focus on strengthening backhaul, with backhaul sharing on regional level • Successful expansion of addressable market by developing new regions with additional shops • Growth of service revenue market share in Belgium to 20%–25% • Mobile broadband network roll-out accelerated in Belgium • EBITDA margin of 35%–40% in Belgium • Data growth in Belgium via own and partner brands • Accelerated growth of Ortel Mobile • KPN France sold • Maintain Top 5 position for iBasis • Reduction of 4,000–5,000 FTEs through outsourcing and offshoring • Accelerated restructuring program reducing ~1,400 FTEs at KPN • Capex efficiency and procurement savings with annual savings of Corporate Market ~EUR 100 million as of 2012 • Improve cost flexibility in the Netherlands • Increased ‘First time right’ score in service chains to 85–95% • Initial progress in 2011: improving delivery process in IPTV, less calls • Large step-up in customer satisfaction to call centers and simplified letters to customers • Reduce number of customer complaints • Top 10 reputation ranking in the Netherlands • Commitment to attractive dividend policy • € 0.85 dividend proposed for 2011 • Returning excess cash to shareholders • EUR 1 billion share repurchase program finalized in September • Sustainable financial framework • Net debt / EBITDA at 2.3x at year-end 2011 KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 16 OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY ICT IS VITAL TO A THRIVING, SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY 17 18 Our role in society 1. OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY KEY SOCIAL OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Theme KPI Result 2011 Target 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Transparent, Net Promoter Score (NPS) -14 -7 +15 in 2015 reliable service provider in the Netherlands Reputation based on Position 12 – Position 10 in 2015 position in the RepTrak The New Way Percentage growth in the 71% in comparison 10% in comparison – of Living and Netherlands of the use of with 2010 with 2011 Working services that make The New Way of Living and Working possible Energy-efficient Own energy consumption −4% growth in comparison Max. 3% growth in Max. 5% growth in KPN Group (in petajoules) with 2010 comparison with 2010 comparison with 2010 in 2013 Energy consumption in the KPN Reduction meter Customers: apply and In 2020, save as much value chain developed measure effects of KPN energy annually in the Reduction meter value chain as KPN itself uses – Suppliers: develop technique for measuring CO2 New themes: New themes in 2012 New themes for 2012 Set targets for 2013 and – • Best ICT determined beyond in consultation infrastructure with our stakeholders • Healthcare of the future • Security and privacy Our people Percentage of women in 17% 18% – senior management at KPN Nederland Percentage of women in 17% 18% – middle management at KPN Nederland KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 19 Our role in society 1.1 OUR VISION: ICT IS VITAL TO A THRIVING, strategic development. We asked ourselves the SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY following questions. What are the new expectations and possibilities in society that are open to KPN today? KPN aims to be the best service provider. We offer Which are the issues facing society where KPN can truly products and services that are simple to use and that help make a difference? How can a renewed social policy customers achieve their personal or business goals and make a contribution to corporate strategy? wishes. We’ve been bringing people together for over 125 years. Our technology and our services enable people Taking the perspective of our strategic reorientation we to share the special moments in their lives. That’s where took our three original CSR themes and recalibrated them our strength lies. in line with the following social themes: • Best ICT infrastructure As the best service provider, KPN wants to be closely • Healthcare of the future and actively linked to society. This is the core of our new • The New Way of Living and Working strategy. Our social themes, in which our size and our • Energy-efficient ICT portfolio can make a difference, contribute to that • Security and privacy. strategy. Over the past years we have expended much effort into three CSR themes that manifest this strategic These social themes are important both to society and direction: New Way of Working, Responsible Energy Use to KPN’s business success. This new social policy takes us and People Connected. Within KPN Nederland, we have towards a phase in which, to a greater extent than before, made the New Way of Working our standard approach we will be confronted by dilemmas that relate to an to work and at the same time we have promoted this in organization moving from being a technical network society. With our second theme, Responsible Energy operator to a transparent service provider. Use, this year we achieved 100% procurement of green electricity in the Netherlands and Belgium. Our Transparent, reliable service with the best proprietary metering tool, the KPN Reduction meter, ICT infrastructure allowed our clients to see immediately that the New Way The core of our new strategy is our aim of becoming the of Working saves time, energy and money. KPN Mooiste best service provider: the one with the best network and Contact Fonds was the vehicle we chose to manifest our the best service. That is also how we want society to see third theme, People Connected. As in previous years, us: as a transparent and reliable service provider that is thousands of KPN volunteers lent a helping hand to those closely linked to society and that delivers on its promises to the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds is designed to help. They customers. The promises we make to our customers relate too discovered for themselves how ICT helps promote to the quality of our service. Clarity, honesty and reliability contact between people. are the guiding principles. We want to offer our customers and other stakeholders transparency. A significant Our listings on the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index characteristic of our company, the largest network in the and the Transparency Benchmark (first position in 2010, Netherlands, places an additional responsibility on us. ICT fourth position in 2011) show that we are on the right is playing an ever-growing part in society. Whether for track in the area of sustainability. The CSR themes we citizens, government, consumers or companies, internetchose in 2007 were primarily targeted at the way we run based services are becoming increasingly crucial to society. our business. As we pursued these paths, the very As the largest service provider in the Netherlands, much of maturity of these themes opened up scope for linking that responsibility lies with us. our CSR themes to our corporate strategy. This year, KPN’s position in society played a key part in the Company’s Figure 1: Social themes 2008–2011 2012 AND BEYOND AMBITION From 3 themes, led by the To 5 social themes, each led by an Transparent, reliable CSR Steering Committee, ExCo member, supervised by the BoM service provider in the chaired by a BoM member Netherlands, challenger 1. Best ICT infrastructure in Germany and Belgium 1. The New Way of Working 2. Healthcare of the future 2. Energy-efficient 3. The New Way of Living and Working 3. People Connected 4. Energy-efficient 5. Security and privacy KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 20 Our role in society A good ICT infrastructure stimulates the economy. A with virtually all healthcare players places upon us the number of recent studies show that access to the internet responsibility of putting the promise of ICT into practice. and to mobile telecom services contribute to economic This has forced us to focus in particular on measures development. Additional broadband connections create designed to enhance the customer’s autonomy and more jobs and a more innovative economy. KPN aims to self-care, while at the same time skilled professionals must make a contribution here by offering the best network in be accessible to them. the Netherlands. For this reason, we invest about EUR 1 billion each year in ICT infrastructure in the Netherlands. The New Way of Living and Working By way of comparison, the Dutch authorities invest EUR 2.5 We play a major social role for our customers in their billion each year in highway maintenance and new roads. working environment. We want to enable them to work when and where they want. This allows them to achieve a We want the quality of our network to qualify us as the work-life balance that fits today’s society: the New Way of partner of choice for organizations and industries in Working. But it is also a new way of living in relation to which reliability, security and privacy are of critical work, that is why we increasingly refer to the New Way importance. Those organizations include financial of Working as the New Way of Living and Working. This institutions, healthcare organizations, the police and results in clear advantages for both the individual and government. Over 90% of all companies use the internet society. Research performed by accountancy firm PwC for services such as online banking. By offering safe and in 2011 showed that if 20% of the labor population in the reliable ICT services, we wish to ensure that these Netherlands works one day a week from home by 2015, organizations and industries are in a position this will yield EUR 2 billion yearly. If the same percentage to fulfill their vital role in society. works from home for two days each week, the benefit amounts to EUR 3 billion. The number of cars on the Healthcare of the future road then falls by 180,000 every week day, meaning less In the healthcare sector, we see major options for congestion, reduced air pollution and fewer traffic victims. promoting innovation and for keeping healthcare Less money needs to be invested in roads and offices. accessible and affordable. ICT can play a crucial role The New Way of Living and Working is an attractive in these vital innovations whether in the domestic proposition for companies as well. Productivity and environment of the healthcare customer or in the efficiency increase while the costs of office space fall. professional environment of the healthcare dispenser. The fact is that, faced with an ever-growing aging population The New Way of Living and Working inspires new triggering an increase in demand for healthcare services approaches to offices and work. Offices become meeting this industry is facing enormous challenges in coping with places and temporary work spaces. Total office capacity the forecast labor shortage. Despite all the options offered is better distributed across all knowledge workers by ICT, we believe the process of change is proceeding too irrespective of the organization for which they work. The slowly. This may be the consequence of the multiplicity of average amount of office space required per employee falls players required to arrive at the optimal design of a care thanks to the New Way of Working, a development that facility. Healthcare institutions, healthcare professionals, reduces the demand for total office capacity. This can put insurers, technology operators and customers need to a hold on new office construction, thereby reducing the innovate collectively so as to achieve changes for the entire amount of countryside needing to be sacrificed. At the health industry. Lack of overall guidance and control blocks same time it now seems that the New Way of Working speedy implementation of technological innovation. In the is easier to apply in new build and this may help promote light of the social urgency, society cannot permit itself such new build. delay. KPN wishes to commit itself to achieving the desired acceleration. Our network, technical skills and connections The New Way of Living and Working will therefore remain one of our social themes over the coming years. Over the past years we have placed the emphasis on developing Figure 2: Approach to social themes our portfolio and applying it within our own organization, over the coming years our emphasis will shift to promoting the New Way of Living and Working among our customers. 1. Naturally, we want our own approach to business What is the management to act as a template for the New Way of social theme? Living and Working. The primary focus over the coming years will move towards the behavioral and cultural 5. aspects, with less focus on ICT itself. We want to inculcate What can we among our managers a positive approach to the New Way do ourselves? 2. of Living and Working and encourage them to rely more specifically on results and less on employee presence. Why should KPN be involved? Energy-efficient A CUSTOMER-ORIENTED The energy and climate challenge remains on society’s SERVICE PROVIDER agenda. Energy shortages, energy security and climate 4. change are topics that affect us, our customers and society. We are sticking to the target we set ourselves in 2008, to What are the products and 3. be climate neutral by 2020. The sharp growth in data traffic services for our What does this makes this a challenging task. customers? mean for our stakeholders? KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 21 Our role in society We think it even more important to contribute to the Sections 3, 4 and 5 of this report provide details of our energy savings our customers can achieve. We do this, progress in achieving the targets relative to the three CSR for example, by using energy-efficient data centers, by themes we set ourselves in the 2010 Sustainability Report. making use of teleconferencing (less vehicle usage) and This section features the initiatives and targets for the new by stimulating working at home (less office space). In social themes we have outlined. Next year’s report will this area too, our interest is shifting over the coming provide details in line with these new themes. years from managing our own business to managing that of our customers. 1.2 EMBEDDING CORPORATE SOCIAL POLICY WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION Security and privacy When recalibrating the social themes in 2011, we In 2011 we worked on embedding CSR even further into pinpointed security and privacy as a new social theme the KPN Group. The Board of Management, the Executive given the steadily higher demands in these areas. More Committee and the task force ‘KPN in society’ (formerly and more data, often containing many personal details, called the CSR Steering Committee) jointly draw up the CSR is being sent by internet. Society entrusts the careful and policy and CSR targets. KPN in society is chaired by a safe processing of this data to ICT service suppliers. We member of the Board of Management, has want to offer this confidence at all times to our customers. a coordinating task and meets every six weeks. To our regret it was discovered in January 2012 that a Five project teams, one for each social theme, operate digital break-in had taken place: one or several hackers under this task force. They develop plans and ensure had succeeded in accessing a single server domain within implementation of ongoing activities. E-Plus has its own KPN’s ICT network in the Netherlands. Needless to say, KPN CSR Steering Committee that tailors KPN’s CSR policy to the deeply regrets this situation. We took immediate steps to German market and target groups. E-Plus and KPN Group protect our customer data and to ensure that we can Belgium each have their own CSR manager who facilitates continue to provide our services securely and without the project teams in Germany and Belgium respectively. interruption. KPN is cooperating fully with the authorities to track down the hacker(s). Additional measures have Every quarter, the Board of Management reviews the been taken to protect systems and data even better. KPN progress achieved towards the goals set out in the has consistently disclosed details of its conduct on the Sustainability Report. The Supervisory Board also regularly matter to government and other relevant parties such as reviewed CSR issues in 2011. the National Cyber Security Center (NCSC), the Dutch telecommunications regulator (OPTA), the Dutch Data Organization of CSR was given sharper definition in Protection Authority (CBP), the Ministry of Economic Germany in 2011. This was reflected in the publication of Affairs, Agriculture & Innovation, the Ministry of Security the first social report issued by E-Plus, specifically targeted & Justice and the Public Prosecution Service (OM). Based at the German market and society. Next year, E-Plus will on an in-depth analysis of the hack, KPN will determine draw up this report in accordance with the guidelines of how its clients and servers can be better protected against the Global Reporting Initiative and an external audit will be attacks in the future. performed. A member of the E-Plus Board of Management heads up the CSR program. We want to be leading in these five social themes. We also observe a second category of social issues in which we In organizational terms we ensured that our approach conduct ourselves in a demonstrably socially responsible to embedding CSR was better aligned with our company. manner but where we do not by definition wish to take Each member of the Executive Committee (ExCo) has been the leading role. There is a third category of social issues to made responsible for a social theme to be made visible which our contribution is limited. We follow these carefully both inside and outside KPN. but do not see an active, solution-oriented role for KPN in them. Figure 3 illustrates this. Figure 3: Assessment of relevance of social themes for the telecom industry Monitor: Demonstrable corporate Leadership: High – biodiversity responsibility: – best ICT infrastructure – hunger – industrial and customer – healthcare of the future – shortage of clean waste – The New Way of Living Influence of drinking water – reliable invoices and Working KPN on theme – competition – transparent, reliable – corruption challenger in Germany – employee diversity and Belgium Expectations of – electromagnetic fields – transparent, reliable stakeholders for KPN – young people and debt service provider in the – chain management and Netherlands sustainable procurement – security and privacy – pricing – energy-efficient – remuneration BoM – social media and social participation Low High – employee rights Possibilities for KPN KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 22 Our role in society Extending this approach, in 2011 we improved the linkage We have already integrated parts of the data stream that between the management of our CSR policy and our we need for our Sustainability Report into our financial reputation management. A task force, Reputation, reporting. This year we have been able to report part of has been set up to cover this. In order to link reputation the data set out in this report under the regime of and CSR through better organizational coherence, the reasonable assurance. Our 2011 Annual Report describes Reputation task force is chaired by a member of the Board at various points the initiatives and results achieved in the of Management. The Director Corporate Communications area of sustainability. is secretary of both task forces, in which senior managers from Human Resources, Marketing, Customer Affairs and 1.3 DIALOGUE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Public Affairs take part. Renewal of our core social themes was not an exercise we Non-financial targets have been part of the criteria for conducted alone: we set the priorities in the context of a long-term bonus awards made to senior executives since dialog with the community at large. January 1, 2011. Achieving the energy-saving targets earns 12.5% of the bonus and a further 12.5% can be The CSR Advisory Board earned by improving KPN’s reputation. This underlines In 2011 we launched a major initiative: we set up an our desire both to obtain good financial results and Advisory Board tasked with advising the Company on to develop a long-term relationship with society. The corporate social responsibility. The four Board members section on Remuneration in our Annual Report goes into are drawn from the world of science, the investment this in greater detail. The Annual Report also describes community and well-respected figures in the field of KPN’s risk management, including the key risks to which sustainability. The Board met twice with the CSR Steering attaining the targets are subject. CSR risks are weighed Committee to discuss KPN’s social policy. The Board felt up and assessed in the light of their importance relative comfortable with the result of KPN’s strategic orientation to other business risks. and made four suggestions: • Put a clearer emphasis in the policy on the social Dow Jones Sustainability Index contribution that is made by providing a service We treat our listing and our score on the Dow Jones and fortify the linkage with the added value, both Sustainability Index (DJSI) as a major indicator of the commercial and business, that KPN enjoys. degree to which our sustainability policy is embedded • Make absolutely certain that management focuses within the Company. In 2010 we were listed on both the its attention on security and privacy given the everDJSI Europe and the DJSI World indices. Our target was to increasing importance of these themes. maintain these listings in 2011. We succeeded in doing so • Make sure that procurement is demonstrably on the DJSI Europe listing, but lost the DJSI World listing. sustainable, that supply chain management is socially Although our score was higher than in the previous responsible and that suppliers are monitored for respect year, the keener rates of improvement posted by other for human rights. Given that KPN will be outsourcing telecommunications corporation meant that we were more and more, this is increasingly important. unable to maintain our listing. Nonetheless, our increased • Direct more focused communication to customers score demonstrates that we have further improved about sustainability and what KPN has achieved in the ourselves in the field of sustainability. Our target for 2012 area of sustainability. Customers should be able to judge is to maintain our listing on the DJSI Europe. and value KPN for what it does in this field. The DJSI scores show that we improved our performance Customers in the areas of environment (climate policy, environmental/ We researched the views of 1,300 consumers, both KPN energy management), society (social responsibility and and non-KPN customers, to identify the social themes they employee development), stakeholder policy and supplier considered important and the significance they put on KPN management. Because we failed to achieve our targets for making a contribution to that theme. The survey showed service quality in 2010, we failed to score points for this key that they placed importance on the issues of a transparent component in the Index. Improving the quality of service is and reliable service provider, security and privacy, part of the 2011–2015 corporate strategy. customer focus and saving energy. While two-thirds of the respondents placed importance, or even great importance, Integrated reporting on KPN actively shaping CSR policy, only 12% cited an Further embedding of CSR within the organization is also example of KPN. We read this as a sign confirming our evidenced by the ever closer paths of the Annual Report need to communicate far more over the coming years to and this Sustainability Report. As of today there is a single our customers about our social endeavors. Renewal of introduction, a single section on strategy and integrated our social policy is the first step in this direction. communication, such as a single internet version of both reports. However, for 2011, we have decided not to issue BASE, our German and Belgian brand, runs regular panel a single integrated report in the light of the differing discussions with customers about subjects such as rates readerships. We certainly think that efficiency advantages and issues concerning young people. can be obtained from further integration of the reports, and we will review the matter in 2012. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 23 Our role in society Figure 4: KPN sentiment and buzz volume in social media in the Netherlands1 % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % % . . . . . . . . . . . % % % % % % % % % % % February March April May June July August September October November December Positive Neutral Negative Volume 1) Measurements started in February. 2) Profit warning and new strategy. 3) Discussions on Deep Packet Inspection (DPI). 4) Announcement new subscriptions. Shareholders internet neutrality. Usage of DPI revealed a dilemma of The Annual General Meeting provided us with a forum freely available internet against payment for specified for a dialog on CSR. A Dutch lobby group for sustainable services so that a provider can continue investing in good development (Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame ICT infrastructure. We received many questions on the Ontwikkeling or VDBO) made a plea for more explicit subject from the media and Bits for Freedom, a social reporting about our foreign subsidiaries. This year’s organization, joined the debate. report devotes greater attention to them than was the case in former years. We were asked to raise our target of In a dialog with stakeholders and external specialists we 50,000 for the collection of used mobile telephones and examined the crux of the dilemma; the rapid increase in used smartphones. However, as our priority and social mobile data traffic and free applications replacing text influence bear more strongly on the implementation of messages (WhatsApp, pinging) oblige us to ask ourselves other CSR themes, the target figure remains unchanged. how we could finance our network investments. We The VBDO also called on us to make increased efforts in publicized the question of whether we would be obliged the direction of supplier sustainability policies. This is set to offer some subscriptions that would block specified out in the section headed ‘Our People and Suppliers’. We free services, while offering them as part of more asked a number of shareholders whether they thought expensive subscriptions. This, however, is at odds with KPN’s renewed social policy was logical and benefited the principle of net neutrality which holds that a provider KPN; they did. may impose no restrictions on internet offerings. Stakeholders indicated they attached great importance to Dialog with suppliers net neutrality. As an alternative solution to the question This year we organized a dialog with several suppliers, of financing the investments needed for the very major business customers and social bodies. The report significant growth in data traffic, much of it for mobile (in Dutch) can be found on www.kpn.com/csr. The dialog usage, KPN launched subscriptions with rates that varied focused on the statement that “sustainable selling is in line with quantity and speed of data usage. We were sustainable purchasing”. One of the conclusions for advised in the stakeholder dialog of June 30, 2011 to KPN was that sustainability had to be given greater communicate these new variants of subscriptions actively attention in the retailing channels and in marketing to the press and to our customers. Net neutrality remains communications. This would enable KPN to empower our leading principle and this has now been set down in its customers to rate sustainability as a criterion when the Dutch Telecommunications Act. selecting an ICT service provider. We are investigating how best to follow up on this recommendation. In our Social media marketing and general communications, statements about For us, a stakeholder dialog means above all listening sustainability compete with other relevant issues such as carefully. All the more true given the speed at which price, subscription type and special offers. But, given the possibilities and expectations develop within our increasing interest in sustainability, on behalf of both KPN industry. Privacy, net neutrality and revenue models and customers, our aim is for more social themes to be a are rightly the subject of wide-ranging discussion. We visible part of our marketing strategy in 2012. sometimes find it difficult to satisfy all expectations, for example, when these are based on circumstances Stakeholder dialog: privacy and net neutrality derived from the past that have since drastically changed. We ran a fifth social dialog to review our privacy policy. We notice this when analyzing social media such as April 2011 saw commotion in the media about the Facebook, Hyves and Twitter. These highly accessible application of Deep Packet Inspection (DPI), a technique means of communication enable people to air their for analyzing data traffic in widespread use in the ICT opinion in every conceivable way. In early 2011, we began industry, so igniting a debate within the industry about following in a structured fashion what was being said KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 24 Our role in society about KPN in social media. We track customer complaints Netherlands have an active profile on TEAMKPN Online. In and observations to take fast action. The section ‘Quality total these generate some 500,000 page views per month. of Service’ provides more details. Social media also gave TEAMKPN Online makes it easier for people to locate each us a picture of how KPN ‘lives’ in terms of both content other and that leads to speedier problem-solving. and emotion in society at large. TEAMKPN Online played a part in the formulation of the Every week we analyze what social media users are saying new 2011–2015 strategy. The Board of Management used about us and whether the general direction is positive, a strategic online dialog to find out what employees neutral or negative. In 2011 we used this technique to thought was important in a new corporate strategy. analyze 400,000 postings about KPN. 8% of the reports were positive about KPN and 30% negative. The remaining 1.4 OUR INFRASTRUCTURE 62% of the reports were neutral in character. This was average, relative to the competition. In the course of the We want both society and our customers to be able to rely year several changes could be observed in the sentiments on KPN offering excellent service in addition to the best expressed in the postings. The adjusted EBITDA outlook, network. This positions us as the logical partner for those the debate about Deep Packet Inspection and the new industries that place the highest demands on the reliability, subscription variants generated a negative sentiment quality and security of ICT networks. These include online. Negative comments also followed the on-site government, the police, the healthcare industry and investigations carried out by the Netherlands Competition financial institutions. These industries, that process large Authority. The launch of Interactive TV online, free Spotify volumes of confidential information, are vital to keep the and the “Playlist of your life” promotion generated community operating effectively. positive reactions in social media. We are also aware that those participating in social media and discussion forums Each year, we invest about EUR 1 billion in maintaining do not necessarily provide a representative picture of the and improving our Dutch ICT infrastructure. We made way society as a whole views us. major investments in extending the capacity of the network so as to cope with the explosive growth in data Figure 5: KPN sentiment and sector sentiment (consumer) traffic. This led us, amongst other things, to expand the in social media the Netherlands number of mobile transmission masts from 4,800 to 5,200. Almost 98% of the Dutch territory enjoys UMTS coverage from KPN, a figure that is the highest amongst all the % % % % telecommunications operators. We also ensured that all KPN’s frequencies were activated on all masts, allowing us to increase the number of ‘lanes’ for data traffic. In 2011 we also took measures on the fixed network to % % deal with the growth in data traffic. An increasing number of customers have HD television and watch films pulled down from the ‘Cloud’. In both cases, greater capacity KPN Total consumer from the fixed network is required. We also put in place market a duplicate television network to create a back-up in case Positive Neutral Negative a connection should fail. We invest large sums in order to bring higher internet Social media are very good at communicating to specified speeds to large groups in the Netherlands. Our target target groups. Hi, our young people’s brand, has a much for 2012 is for 70% of the Netherlands to have a minimum visited page on Facebook and in the fourth quarter of 2011 speed of 40 MB per second (MBps) at its disposal. The we launched a Facebook page for the KPN brand. Telfort figure at the close of 2011 was 40%. is also active in this social medium and within E-Plus a stakeholder dialog was pursued via social media in 2011. Figure 6: Percentage coverage by minimum internet speeds in the Netherlands1 Employee dialog: TEAMKPN Online Where this concerns our own fixed networks, KPN has In-house social media is the vehicle used to promote % % an active dialog amongst KPN employees. KPN’s < MBps communications platform is designed to create room % % > MBps % for dialog, discussion and interaction, the most important % ~% preconditions being 24/7 accessibility for all and transparency. TEAMKPN Online is the social media % > MBps ~% platform that serves as the basis for all in-house communication. Employees can locate their peers by skill, % % department, interest or other subjects. Specified themes ~% Fiber are actively moderated and hence attract more comment.     Managers or other interested parties are encouraged to join in and give their opinions. 1) Network capacity based on 7.4 million consumer addresses (source: Index by Statistics Netherlands). Other companies often ask us to come and talk to them at conventions and training courses about TEAMKPN Online. chosen a twin-track strategy to offer these services to an This feature also attracts many outsiders to come and take increasing number of customers. We are upgrading the a look at it on-site. About half of all KPN employees in the copper network and are rolling out the fiber network on KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 25 Our role in society a regional basis thanks to our joint venture with carried out on healthcare premises. They can be offered Reggefiber. In 2011 we put in place almost 400,000 new from home or from another location. This may save on fiber connections, thereby taking the total of fibertravel time for both patient and healthcare professional. connected households to over 800,000 in 2011. This means that healthcare providers must be able to access safely their data files and applications from locations We monitored on a permanent basis whether these efforts other than the practice or the healthcare institution. Over truly lead to the desired quality and whether we in fact the past years, some 350 pharmaceutical chemists and have the best ICT infrastructure in the Netherlands. We general practitioners have concluded mobile telephone do this in two ways. Firstly, we check actual quality by subscriptions that include a secure access facility. This reference to technical parameters. This includes factors allows them to work from home and when traveling – such as disruptions, speed, coverage ratios, download between making house calls, say. A service has been in speed on smartphones, mobile dropped-call ratios and existence for quite some time that enables secure access the time it takes to download a home page. We seek from home in a way that is comparable to using a pin code continual improvement across these parameters which for internet banking from home. This service, which some are monitored by an external, independent agency every 600 healthcare providers now use, relies on the home quarter. We succeeded in doing so yet again in 2011. internet connection and equipment. It allows us to offer Secondly, the customer’s experience of our network is healthcare providers a safe way of working: at any time, just as important. We measure this using the same from any place and with any device. We expect usage of methodology as that used in the Net Promoter Score these services to take off seriously over the coming years. where we are focused on ensuring that our network is ranked as the best. ZorgSamen: fewer errors in healthcare Two-thirds of Dutch hospitals are connected to 1.5 HEALTHCARE OF THE FUTURE ZorgConnect, the closed network that KPN has developed for the healthcare sector. ZorgConnect offers a menu of The healthcare sector faces major challenges. Life services that participants can take on the basis of their own expectancy and average age are both on the rise and this needs, the purpose being that of fostering information creates rising demand for the provision of healthcare. It is exchange among healthcare professionals. This yields forecast that, if the current strategy remains unchanged, by quality improvement and diminishes the likelihood of 2025 a quarter of the Dutch labor force will be employed in error. It can also promote speed of diagnosis and the healthcare industry in order to keep the service at the treatment. In the diagnostic area there are multiple options desired level of quality. Since 1972, healthcare expenditures for, say, exchanging x-ray photographs or other diagnostic have been increasing ceaselessly and will continue to rise tools. Remote second opinions also become a possibility. sharply over the coming decades. The E-Zorg network has been designed to facilitate In addition to the social imperative, healthcare consumers the exchange of healthcare information between look for greater transparency in the care they receive pharmaceutical chemists and general practitioners. coupled to a greater degree of independence. People Some two-thirds of all general practitioners and all want to go on living at home for longer or want to leave pharmaceutical chemists are connected to the closed hospital sooner to recover at home. environment of E-Zorg, for sending prescriptions directly from GP to chemist, for exchanging patient files between As the largest service provider in the Netherlands, we GPs, for sending mail to GPs and for exchanging believe that we are the best qualified party to promote medication data between chemist and hospital. innovative solutions for improving quality and efficiency in the healthcare sector. KPN Nederland has a business unit ZorgVrij: from supply to demand targeted at offering services to this industry. In 2012, we Our third track targets the healthcare consumer, the client, will perform a detailed review of our position in the Dutch for whom we want to combine care with comfort. KPN healthcare sector and will set targets for the coming years. ZiekenhuisMedia is one of the initiatives that we further developed in 2011. It is an interactive service allowing Solutions for healthcare institutions patients to receive their medical information by audioOur most significant contribution to the healthcare visual means, such as a treatment they are to follow. industry lies in innovative ICT services that both reduce the ZiekenhuisMedia allows patients to watch an instructional load on the healthcare supplier and raise the quality for the clip at whatever time that suits them. Because the clip can user. The point of departure we have taken is that of giving be watched more frequently (with partner, friends or back to the healthcare supplier as much time as possible so family), patients can ask the specialist more pertinent that they can offer more actual care. For this, we have a questions. In 2011 we put this service into operation at six triple track approach: hospitals, and we want to increase this number in 2012. • ZorgSlim: using more ICT as a means of saving on labor (more time for healthcare). A second initiative that we further developed within • ZorgSamen: improved mutual communications (fewer ZorgVrij in 2011 is KPN’s DiabetesStation. There were errors in healthcare). about one million diabetes patients in the Netherlands • ZorgVrij: enhanced patient comfort (from supply to in 2011. The Diabetes Fonds is assuming this number will demand). double by 2025. Such rapid growth means that good healthcare cannot be guaranteed if the strategy remains ZorgSlim: more time for healthcare unchanged. We can avoid this thanks to DiabetesStation. As is the case for other knowledge workers, the New Way DiabetesStation allows patients to perform most of the of Working and Living also offers healthcare professionals measurements themselves, as a result of which they can options permitting them to use their time more effectively better manage their condition. The data is transferred to and more efficiently. Not all tasks need necessarily be the ICT systems of the hospital or GP. This can be done KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 26 Our role in society using multi-lingual variations with interactive clips, Achmea, TNO, Rabobank and the Zorginnovatieplatform meaning that such clips can be used in any environment (www.ehealthnu.nl) joined forces in 2009. eHealthNu is in today’s multicultural community. The time saved allows targeting nationwide availability of e-health services by the doctor or nurse to devote greater attention to 2020. We are developing services for patients with specific customized treatment of the patient. The DiabetesStation conditions, such as chronic coronary problems, that allow has been developed in the context of a Public-Private them to monitor themselves. Partnership with the Erasmus MC and KPN’s subsidiary, IPT Telemedicine. KPN supplies the technical expertise Our experience with the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds has and builds the stations. Last year we installed the first given us good knowledge of the sector. Three quarters of DiabetesStation in the Netherlands, following which we the initiatives taken by the fund are directed at healthcare. evaluated the findings of users and physicians involved in The section entitled ‘People Connected’ provides further 2011. Based on this we are planning to position more such details about the fund. stations in the Netherlands and abroad in 2012. These e-health services give physicians more time for treating Naturally, we realize that we are under an obligation to and devoting attention to the patient. create an attractive and healthy working environment for our employees. Only then can we be a credible and reliable The role of ICT in monitoring thrombosis patients is partner in healthcare. To this end we started a vitality another example permitting us to illustrate innovation in program in 2011, one of the objectives being significantly healthcare. There are 370,000 thrombosis patients in the lower rates of sick leave. The paragraph entitled ‘Our Netherlands. The fluctuating pathology of thrombosis People’ gives further details on this program. means that patients frequently need to have their blood checked at a thrombosis service. In 2011, 200 patients of 1.6 SECURITY AND PRIVACY a GP practice in Heerlen were the first to have access to a virtual thrombosis service. This service makes it unnecessary KPN customers must have the assurance that the internet to go to a particular location to have one’s blood sampled. operates safely and that the privacy of their data is assured The ICT component of the virtual thrombosis service at all times. consists of four parts: the very secure environment of Getronics Trusted Services (GTS), the Telepas, the Telepas Security card reader and a Tele-ID application. Using the Telepas, There are many aspects to ICT security and the internet. card reader and ID application the patients may themselves Take words and images on the internet, for example. transmit their blood levels from their homes through a Specific content and activities on the web, such as protected website. The GP has access to the patient data child pornography, illegal gaming sites and the illegal and can respond immediately. The virtual thrombosis distribution of music and films, are banned by law. service extends to the provisions of items such as computers And often the content shown must be especially secure. and dongles, so minimizing client stress. Hackers must find it impossible to hack into websites and data dispatched must only be accessible by the intended In addition to these ICT services in healthcare institutions, receiver. KPN, as the Netherlands’ biggest service provider, we also take part in projects promoting healthcare has a major responsibility in this matter. facilities in a residential environment. In 2011, we continued to work on further development of the If the authorities order us to assist in tracing operations, Lokafoon: a warning system in the form of a watch for we are obliged to lend assistance. Examples may include those with incipient dementia. The Lokafoon, that saw its listening into telephone conversations or tapping data first use in 2011, enables remote supervision and increases traffic. We ourselves take initiatives and use our ICT the user’s freedom of movement. A family member or knowledge to combat unlawful conduct on the internet. friend receives a text message if the user goes beyond, In 2008 a code of conduct for the industry was drawn up say, the municipal limits. An online map shows where the defining intervention, where appropriate, in cases of Lokafoon user is located. By the end of 2011 the system unmistakable and unlawful infringements of copyright or numbered 2,500 users, and we are looking to double the trademark rights. Persons observing a breach of his rights number in 2012. on the internet can report this to KPN. We contact the person said to be in infringement and in so doing we check We are developing these initiatives together with other whether rights have indeed been breached. If so, then the healthcare parties (insurers, suppliers, patient infringer is asked to modify their website. These matters organizations, and institutions), for we are very sensitive are almost always resolved without recourse to the courts. to the point that launching new facilities means a There were only a handful of cases in 2011. different way of working for those involved. In this way, we are seeking to strengthen our market leadership We now see a switch in the debate from individual position in the Netherlands. trademark breaches to cracking down on intermediaries such as hosting organizations. This would often concern Collaboration in the field of healthcare issues of trademark rights relating to music, images or As one of the initiative-takers behind eHealthNu, we made film. Certain disputes were taken to court. Cable operator a major commitment in 2010 to self-care management. Ziggo and KPN subsidiary XS4ALL applied to the courts Dozens of partners and participants who have since then for a review of an order issued by BREIN, the copyright been connected up to this open platform are looking to holders’ organization, to shut down The Pirate Bay remove a number of stubborn barriers that stand in the website. Such cases define for the community at large way of remote care and autonomous healthcare the boundaries that ICT service providers must adhere management programs. The barriers can be in the areas of to in law in cases where, say, issues of copyright or financing, culture and support from professionals, together trademark are at issue. with legal and regulatory provisions. Philips, Menzis, KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 27 Our role in society In order to prevent the illegal downloading of music as KPN Corporate Market issues similar security certificates. and films, we offer consumers legal and easily accessible After the hacker attack on DigiNotar, the Ministry of the alternatives. In autumn 2011, we launched the Spotify Interior and Kingdom Relations designated us as one of service that allows KPN internet customers to listen to the alternative companies for DigiNotar. music at no charge. Our investigation showed that there were no reasons Although we cannot be held liable for content placed on for believing that the internet environment in which we the internet, we can make available our knowledge and were creating new certificates had in fact been penetrated. experience to take measures against incorrect or malicious The subsequent, more intensive investigation that we content on the internet. We do this by participation in the commissioned showed that a server may have been used internet Security Platform (Platform Internet Veiligheid) to mount an attack on third parties a few years earlier. This on which the Dutch Ministry of Safety and Justice and the prompted us to take the precautionary measure of halting Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation the process of application for and issue of new certificates are also represented. for a few days. Only after external investigation had shown that it was impossible to use the website in question to KPN sponsors the Mijn Kind Online foundation which was gain access to the security certificate production founded in 2004 by KPN and Ouders Online, the largest environment and that this had not happened in the past, community in the Netherlands for parents on the internet. did we start issuing certificates again. We took care to The foundation is a knowledge and advice center ensure that all relevant bodies were kept fully informed regarding young people, the media and new media. of the progress and results of the different investigations. Within the Platform Internet Veiligheid, we are members Combating cybercrime remains of crucial importance for of the Anti-Child Pornography Task Force. An example of KPN, as KPN CEO Eelco Blok’s chairmanship of the Cyber our involvement is a survey conducted into the effect of a Security Council underlines. digital curtain cutting off access to child pornography sites. The government wanted a safety cordon placed around We will pursue these activities in 2012. websites hosted from abroad. Together with Meldpunt Kinderporno, a site for reporting child pornography, Privacy we used our research to show that these sites might be Privacy policy is taking on an increasing significance withdrawn from view by such a measure but the source for ICT companies because more and more confidential would not be eliminated. This would even hamper the fight information is being sent across the internet. KPN has set against child pornography. After discussions with various down its privacy policy as part of its Business Control experts, the Dutch authorities decided against blocking Framework, which takes as its starting point the Dutch the sites. Similar discussions are being held in a European Telecommunications Act and the Personal Data Protection context. We take part in them and see these issues as Act. In some areas KPN is, in the Netherlands, in advance important elements of the European Digital Agenda. of certain EU legislation, such as our Data Leaks Reporting Point (Meldplicht Datalekken). We also respond Hi, our young people’s brand, devoted especial attention to what society expects of us by communicating in a in 2011 to secure internet usage and developed a special concrete, clear and transparent fashion about how we information package for schools. There are special pages deal with personal data. on Hi’s website devoted to secure internet usage. KPN offers and promotes to its customers MyBee: a children’s As part of our program of upgrading our privacy policy free web browser in which parents can let their children we appointed privacy officers in our largest Dutch surf the net in safety. In 2011 MyBee was downloaded operating units and at E-Plus in 2011. Acting as the point almost 70,000 times. of contact for employees and management, they answered between 30 and 40 questions every day in 2011. At the Network security close of 2011, we appointed a corporate privacy officer for In 2011 we put much effort into combating botnets: the KPN Group. This executive is tasked with monitoring attempts by hackers to use software permitting the hacker KPN’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements to take remote control of a user’s computer operating and with its in-house policy, and advises management on system. Together with other operators, we made major privacy-related issues and incidents. The corporate privacy efforts to track down these botnets. If a large quantity of officer reports to the Group compliance officer who in spam mail is coming from a single IP address it is likely that turn reports to the CEO. this IP address has been hacked. In such a case, we contact the customer and place the computer in digital quarantine. In 2011 we recorded 425 incidents having a possible The customer can clean up his files and once again secure connection with our privacy rules. In each case we assessed his computer. Situations like these occur thousands of the cause and, where necessary, took measures. In cases times a year. To avoid this we regularly warn our customers where a customer’s personal data may have been at issue of the danger of botnets and the need for optimal security and we feared the customer’s personal private life had been to protect both computers and the network. compromised we informed the customer concerned. In September 2011, the security of many government In 2011 we repeated the e-learning program for privacy websites and systems could not be assured after the awareness for all KPN employees in the Netherlands. This websites of DigiNotar had been hacked. The digital security was supplemented by target group training sessions for certificates turned out to be vulnerable to simple hacking those KPN units where privacy is of special importance, attempts with the result that many government websites such as departments performing market analysis, customer no longer satisfied the required standard of security. This service and retail. We deployed in-house communications prompted us to make a thorough check of our own systems media to highlight privacy issues at different times in order KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 28 Our role in society to keep reminding employees of the crucial importance So as to gain an understanding of whether our privacy of this topic. We organized special employee workshops policy has triggered greater awareness of the topic at which privacy case studies were examined and we amongst our staff at the close of both 2010 and of 2011, developed a Q&A application for privacy that we put on we conducted surveys measuring privacy perception at the intranet. KPN Nederland. They show that our employees have become more aware of the privacy theme. 87% of the In May 2011, a discussion arose in the media about KPN’s employees, which is more than a year earlier, believe they use of Deep Packet Inspection (DPI). This technology work in line with KPN’s privacy statement. A majority enables the analysis of data traffic for various purposes. believes that KPN is making sufficient efforts to protect • Charging: proper routing for traffic payment issues. MMS its customers’ personal data. One-third of the employees usage is not posted twice and customers can upgrade believe that KPN should be more transparent towards its their prepaid data credit balance without charge. customers in terms of how personal data is used. Almost • Network management: transparent network load to half of the staff believe KPN is sufficiently transparent. allow this to be calculated in network maintenance. • Analysis of the data traffic: monitoring of data usage to We shall repeat this survey in 2012 with the object of be able to respond to developing products and services. securing further improvement. Individual user data is not analyzed. 1.7 COMPLIANCE AND INTEGRITY For analyzing mobile network data traffic we have been using a technique comparable to DPI since November 2010. Compliance, integrity and compliance with the This was prompted by the launch of the iPhone as major Dutch Telecommunications Act use of this smartphone was expected to put a heavier load In 2011, we transferred our most important operations on the network. The technique enables the distinction in the field of compliance and risk management to a new of data traffic by category, which is unconnected to the department, KPN Group Compliance & Risk Management. content of the data traffic. We can see, for example, that We believe this will lead to an improved execution of risk WhatsApp or other apps are being used, but we cannot assessments across the entire Group. It will also make it read the messages. The data volume alone is analyzed; the easier to gain a picture of how law and regulation are number of messages sent is not counted. being implemented and of compliance and integrity issues. Employees of all business units now have a single address At a meeting held with investors and analysts we made to which to direct inquiries about risk management. Nine no secret of the fact that we were applying the DPI people work in Group Compliance. Group Compliance has method, a disclosure that provoked much discussion in stationed business compliance officers drawn from its own the media. KPN was criticized after the media suggested ranks at major business units at KPN Nederland, E-Plus and that we would access the content of the data traffic. We KPN Group Belgium to act as points of contact for responded by stating that this was not so: We use DPI only compliance and integrity issues. The Dutch business to ensure that our investments and our service remain in units also have their own risk management departments sync with the characteristics of network usage. charged with shaping the execution of compliance and integrity policies. KPN Nederland reports each quarter Following the reports in the media, three independent to OPTA, the lead regulator. investigations were performed with a view to determining whether we were operating in breach of privacy. The Dutch Integrity and ethics: corporate culture Public Prosecutor and OPTA concluded that KPN was not KPN has a Company Code and other internal codes. operating in breach of privacy legislation. At the time this Based on our core values – Personal, Simplicity, Trust – report was being written the result of the investigation by these lay down the approach we must take to each other the Dutch Data Protection Authority had yet to be published. and to our stakeholders. Our own investigation has thrown up no trace of infringements of policy, codes of conduct or of procedures. Every year we draw up a checklist of how the integrity of the organization has developed. This involves putting all The debate about DPI has taught us the importance of our employees into several dilemma scenarios. One such being aware of the speed with which privacy issues can scenario might be the tension between commercial targets affect public perceptions even though these may be and compliance with the rules. Reporting abuse and fear unconnected to what we actually do. Our aim is therefore for the consequences of a report are also monitored. to be even more transparent and clear about the way in which we safeguard our customers’ privacy. The integrity measurement survey we performed in 2010 prompted us to place special focus on certain topics in We consider it important that we share our views on 2011. We did so using blogs and ‘statements of the week’ privacy with those parties for whom privacy is crucial. on our in-house social media platform. Our own This has led to KPN taking part in organizations involved whistleblower policy was one such topic. Based on in privacy issues as well as industry-wide associations the integrity measurement survey of 2011 we will put covering the same subject, such as the privacy committee special focus on the following topics in 2012: the Dutch of VNO-NCW, the Dutch employers’ federation and Telecommunications Act, the whistleblower policy and the ICT-Office. We review privacy issues regularly with tension between commercial targets and compliance with government, the regulators and social bodies. the rules. An additional integrity workshop was organized for senior management in 2011. The major theme was that of promoting exemplary conduct by senior management and leadership integrity. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 29 Our role in society In December the Netherlands Competition Authority (NMa) Management of compliance risks and incidents carried out investigations at the premises of KPN, T-Mobile KPN has a procedure in place designed to minimize the and Vodafone. The NMa stated that it suspected that the risks of a breach of the rules. We identify new compliance providers had made agreements between themselves risks, we update known risks and we formulate new about consumer tariffs for mobile telephony and internet. measures to minimize compliance risks. For this reason, At the time this report was written nothing was known in 2011 we adopted additional rules in respect of roaming, about the results, even provisional, or the anticipated privacy and telephone canvassing. Every quarter the duration of the investigation. KPN is of course cooperating business units report on the degree to which compliance fully with the investigation. risks are managed. Knowledge of the rules KPN offers its employees a variety of in-house reporting KPN has incorporated content of the Telecommunications options which they may use to report, openly or Act, the Data Protection Act and competition law in its anonymously, suspicions of breaches of the rules or of in-house codes. There are other internal codes covering abuse. Potential breaches of the Telecommunications Act safety and information security, and we apply a fraud are always reported to OPTA and investigated internally. policy. Supplemental to these codes are a whistleblower policy, an integrity review protocol and a code covering In 2011 there were 18 instances in which the whistleblower insider trading. These last three are featured together policy was applied. On three occasions they concerned with our Company Code on www.kpn.com/corporate reports of suspicions of theft or embezzlement. Three (only in Dutch). cases involved suspicions of fraud. Allegations of abuse and misconduct were at issue in six cases, while there KPN Nederland employees must know the content of were six cases of reports of another nature. these codes and conduct themselves accordingly. We use conventional courses and e-learning to make this as easy as possible. 74% of Dutch employees had taken note of the Company Code by the close of 2011. There are no figures for employees outside the Netherlands. In 2011, we expanded the training program with e-learning about the privacy rules. In addition to this training program, specific courses were given on particular subjects such as regulations forbidding telephone canvassing and competition law. In 2012, fraud and corruption will be given more attention across the entire KPN Group following the coming into force of the British Bribery Act 2010. Sanctions In 2011, KPN was issued with six definitive and nonappealable sanctions. These sanctions totaled EUR 8.2 million. Three sanctions were issued by Dutch regulators and three by German regulators. Four related to failures of compliance with telecommunications or consumer protection legislation. The largest penalty (EUR 7.9 million) related to the decision taken in 2011 by the Netherlands Competition Authority in what has been called ‘the dealer compensation scheme’ dating back to 2001. There was also an environment-related penalty of less than EUR 1,000. KPN Group is still conducting objection and appeal procedures against six sanctions imposed for alleged breaches of the Dutch Telecommunications Act. Their values vary between EUR 500,000 and some millions of euros and they were imposed during or before 2011. In addition to these matters, in 2011 KPN Nederland was involved in nine legal actions relating to its having been deemed a party enjoying significant market power in a market, or relating to obligations thereby having been imposed or relating to compliance therewith. In 2011 the Dutch Advertising Code Committee issued its verdicts on 16 complaints about advertising statements made by KPN Nederland. In ten cases the Advertising Code Committee ruled that these advertising statements were in breach of the Dutch Advertising Code. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 30 31 QUALITY OF SERVICE BETTER SERVICE IS CRUCIAL FOR KPN 32 Quality of service 2. QUALITY OF SERVICE OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Result 2010 Target 2011 Result 2011 Target 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Transparent, Score -13 of Net Score -5 of Net Score -14 of Net Score -7 of Net Score +15 of Net reliable service Promoter Score Promoter Score Promoter Score Promoter Score Promoter Score in provider in the 2015 Netherlands Loyalty leader in 11 Loyalty leader in 16 Loyalty leader in 13 – – of the 24 product of the 25 product of the 25 product market segments market segments market segments (NPS) (NPS) (NPS) – – Recommendation Recommendation Recommendation score of 6.4 score of 6.7 score of 7.0 in 2015 – – Position 12 in – Position 10 in RepTrak in the RepTrak in the Netherlands Netherlands in 2015 2.1 OUR VISION: BETTER SERVICE IS In 2011 we set ourselves the target of taking the loyalty CRUCIAL FOR KPN leader position in 16 out of the 25 product market segments, in other words: of attaining the top score. Over the coming years we wish to achieve a sharp increase We also wanted to attain a NPS score that was eight in the quality of the service we provide in the Netherlands, percentage points higher than the figure we achieved because quality improvement is a precondition for us to in 2010. Unfortunately we failed to achieve this target. increase our market share. Our focus on quality also brings We were loyalty leader in 13 of the 25 product market with it major value creation. Yet the most important reason segments and our overall NPS score fell by one point to is simply this: we want to do a better job for ourselves and -14 points. Our NPS score having stabilized and not grown for everybody else. Not because competition or the further can be explained by the fact that brand preference ‘market’ obliges us to do this, but because this creates the is ‘merely’ a reflection of customer satisfaction, while NPS basis for achieving the key target we have set ourselves: measurements go further than this. NPS asks the customers to become the best service provider in the Netherlands. whether they would recommend KPN to others. The customer decides whether we are the best service We have investigated the question of why we failed to provider. His or her experience of the service provided achieve our NPS targets. On the one hand, the reason lies serves as the direction we must follow on the road to in a number of events in the ICT industry that generated improvement. One of the tools we use to determine major media attention. On the other hand, our service whether we succeed in achieving this goal is the Net provision can and must be further improved. Promoter Score (NPS). This is a measure of client loyalty that applies to all business units. Brand image and price perception The ICT industry is changing very fast. This calls for unremitting change in order to safeguard the continuity of the industry. We find ourselves regularly obliged to make choices about revenue models, privacy protection and data traffic. Each change has consequences for the parties involved which were used to the existing situation. Sometimes that leads to very lively debates. Communication is crucial to winning confidence and communication in the industry is in need of improvement. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 33 Quality of service At the close of 2010, media reports about KPN were 2.2 IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES negative in the light of our minutes-based invoicing system rather than a seconds-based one. Spring 2011 saw a debate Below are some examples to illustrate our intention about net neutrality and subscription variants for mobile of improving our services. data, while the issue of Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) also garnered much interest. In the business market our Avoiding network and equipment faults intention of extending the notice period from one month Between 10% and 20% of our clients’ queries or to one year was badly received. These subjects had a complaints are about faults. Some of these concern a negative effect on our image and on our NPS, given that fault within the client’s own equipment but sometimes brand image and price perception account for about half the cause is to be found in the network. Our aim is to of the NPS result. We see the same effect from initiatives bring the number of faults down and to resolve them that customers rate positively. more rapidly by deploying additional capacity and improving the provision of usage information. Figure 7: NPS drivers Over the past year, we have made major improvements to the process of replacing defective modems and other peripherals in the consumer market. Customers were previously obliged to hand in their defective apparatus at the Post Office, but practice showed that only a quarter of the customers did so. The new exchange system calls for us to collect without charge the defective equipment directly from the customer’s home or business premises. This is beneficial for us as well, because the equipment, once Price/Quality Service repaired, is often reusable. Cost reductions and – Value for money – Do as you say environmental savings go hand in hand. – Insight in costs – First Time Right – Invoice matches expectations – Helping to solve problems Queries and complaints and queries Brand/Trust – Competent staff Our analysis showed that customers with a complaint – Brand you can trust or query would regularly be put through to a series of – Valued as a customer Product/Network different departments at KPN. To avoid this we want to – Network stability design our processes in such a way that the customer – Network speed – Image quality (CM) / is immediately and in one go helped by the first KPN High-quality products (BM) employee. Our in-house term for this is the First Time Right approach. We began large-scale implementation of this approach in the second quarter of 2011. Product, network and service The NPS scores also serve to highlight the areas where we A second initiative is targeted at customers who call us can improve our services, and this is another reason why several times over a short period. We ourselves contact we pursued our program of quality improvement in 2011. these “frequent callers” who have not been given the Management and coordination functions are dealt with at right assistance for far too long. This shows the customers a high level: the Quality steering committee that is chaired that we take the initiative. We ensure that the right directly by the Board of Management. The steering departments work together to resolve the problem as committee, on which all business units are represented, quickly as possible and inform the customer about our reviews quality progress every week. progress. The customer is assigned a single contact person. We have observed that this way of working increases At the close of 2010 and during the first quarter of 2011, customer satisfaction. the emphasis was on investigating and determining those aspects that make up quality. Despite differences between Delivery times the market segments we can apply most improvements to A third element we wish to improve is the delivery both the consumer market and the business market. This times of services that we offer across the fiber or copper is in line with our brand approach: in our marketing and network such as internet, television and fixed-line communication we want a single KPN brand to come more telephony. Our aim is to bring delivery times down and more to the fore. to a few days in the course of 2012, where it currently stands at over two weeks. The managers of these units are responsible for the execution and results of the Company-wide improvement Customers also considered the time needed to repair a program that the steering committee has developed. mobile phone or smartphone – an average of two weeks The Board of Management assesses the progress of the – to be too long. We have now brought this down to one improvement initiatives each month. week. Combining this with a number of services, we have succeeded in halving the delivery time for an order for a business ADSL service from 16 to eight working days. Service engineers Our service engineers do not always succeed in resolving the problem in the course of their first visit to the customer. The reason would often lie in restrictive responsibility given to the engineer and insufficient information. The service engineer might also lack the KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 34 Quality of service right equipment. We have therefore enlarged the scope experimenting. We also constructed a Hi community that of their responsibilities with a view to speedier and we expanded and activated in 2011. In addition to monthly more effective resolution of faults. Hidols sessions during which marketing executives go out on the road with young people, Hi has built many In the interests of better preparation, we also want to connections using social media. Our young people’s brand ensure that our service engineers are given better advance has over one 100,000 Facebook friends, the Hi website is information about the customer’s query or complaint. visited each month by between 100,000 and 150,000 Customer communication was improved in 2011. Service unique visitors and Hi messages are now read 1 million engineers now leave the customer with a business card times a month. Hi also has over 5,000 followers on Twitter. when they leave. If the problem has not been fully Further improving its online service, on 1 November 2011 resolved, the customer knows whom to call. We have Hi opened its own forum on www.hi.nl/forum. very specifically tightened up the clauses in our contracts defining the quality of service that we expect in cases KPN Corporate Market where the works to be performed are outsourced. The In 2011 KPN Corporate Market, formerly Getronics, First Time Right approach applies to this service as well started using a standard benchmark for measuring and we expect to score a higher percentage in 2012. customer satisfaction: the promoter scores. The scores operate using a ten-point scale. This is the standard Moving house and migration technique of measurement used in the major corporate In 2011 we paid an extra degree of attention to improving market and facilitates comparison with competitors. our service for clients moving house. This program, which We scored 6.4 in 2011. has now been completed, has allowed us to bring down the advance notice requirement for moving house from We renewed and intensified our efforts in the area of four to two weeks in most cases. quality in 2011 in order to raise our promoter score. Here again, a high-level quality steering committee was In 2011 a new area of attention gained greater visibility: appointed, meeting every month. The steering committee consumers who wished to switch from a consumer to a focused on analyzing customers. Analysis of the 75 largest business contract. Complaint reports revealed that this customers led us to formulate a number of quality process did not always run smoothly. By way of example: improvements. We also contacted the ten least satisfied KPN Consumer Market sent a customer a letter regretting customers in order to raise the quality of the service we the decision that had prompted him to leave KPN while were giving them. shortly before KPN Business Market had welcomed him as a new customer. We have now created a transfer Our purpose is to achieve a 6.7 recommendation score service to avoid this embarrassing kind of error. in 2012 and raise this to 7.0 by 2015. With such results we forecast that KPN Corporate Market will assume a leading Clearer information position in the area of quality of service relative to its Studies have showed us how to clarify and simplify the Dutch competitors offering a comparably broad portfolio. information we give our customers. This has prompted us to carry out an in-depth examination of the written In 2012 we shall further pursue the track we have started communications we provide to customers, from invoices, down so as to attain this target. We will simplify our letters of confirmation and user manuals to FAQ internal organization and make it more customer-oriented. information. Our first step was to assess this information A single business unit will take full responsibility for all for consistency and clarity following which we went to customer service activities while the customer himself is work on simplifying it. given a single point of contact within Corporate Market. We are standardizing our services and simplifying our Web care, online customer self-help service and in-house processes. We shall maintain our quality steering social media committee as well as the Promoter program in 2012. Our customers feel that the internet customer service needs improvement. Our first task will be to add some 2.3 OUR CORE VALUES: PERSONAL, functionalities to www.kpn.com, KPN’s #1 contact and SIMPLICITY AND TRUST sales channel in the Netherlands so that customers can do more themselves. We have already upgraded the In 2010 we formulated our brand manifesto in which online customer self-help service on our website. we put forward our three core values for our customers: personal, simplicity and trust. We aim to deliver on these In the fourth quarter of 2010, we launched the web care three values and make sure they shine through everything team that tracks all the reports circulating about our we do. The new strategy that we launched in May 2011 products and services in social media. We use the weekly underscored yet again the importance and relevance of analyses they prepare to improve our business. We use the these core values. We have translated these three values information from the analysis to optimize the help we give into three customer undertakings which we shared with to customers who come to us with queries and complaints. our employees. We will make these tangible to our Where possible or necessary, we make direct and proactive customers in 2012. contact with individual customers. In 2011, we were able to deal with 5,500 problems and queries in this way. We are aiming to raise the First Time Right percentage in stages. This stood at between 40% and 80% in 2010; we We want to use our young people’s brand, Hi, to stay close aim to raise it to between 85% and 95% by 2015. Over the to this target group with a strong and ever-present dialog. same time span we are targeting a reduction in the number Our target is for Hi to become the most social telecom of customer calls made to our service desks by 25%. We brand in the Netherlands. In 2009 Hi began using social believe this to be necessary as many customers call because media, in 2010 we were mainly listening, learning and our products or services are unclear or flawed in some way. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 35 Quality of service These improvement initiatives are also designed to improve Self-evidently we are a commercial undertaking and wish our NPS. In 2012, we want to achieve an NPS of -7 which to operate successfully and generate revenues, but we find means raising the result by 7 points relative to 2011. In 2015, it undesirable for customers to go over budget. This is we are targeting an NPS of +15. good neither for the customer, his social environment nor, finally, for KPN. In 2011 we took a variety of steps to Figure 8: Net Promoter Score (NPS) prevent or reduce debt among young people. At Hi we launched two apps, Belstatus and MB status, that allow young people to keep track of their credit balance of call  units and data consumption at any time. These were the first apps of this type in the Netherlands and they were downloaded 142,000 times in 2011.     KPN views cutting off customers who do not or no longer – pay their bills as a last resort. Before deciding to cut a customer off we send reminder text messages and letters – – with payment details. If he has not paid after receiving several warnings we cut the customer off in one direction: he can no longer call, send text messages or go online, but he can still receive telephone calls. This prevents the 2.4 CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS accumulation of further debt. If a customer has not paid after three months, the cut-off is made complete and any The ICT industry is dominated by large numbers: millions unpaid bills are forwarded to a collection agency. In 2011 of people use our ICT services. We attempt to satisfy our we were eventually obliged to perform 6,700 cutoffs of customers’ expectations and wishes. We are encouraged customers under the age of 21 who were calling using KPN by the fact that, for the vast majority of our customers, or Hi. This happened 4,700 times in 2010. we succeed in doing so. Such enormous numbers of customers and our high visibility mean that it is a major Over the past years the age of children with a mobile challenge for us to satisfy everybody’s expectations telephone has gone down. This took us into a rather under every circumstance. difficult internal debate: while there is a need in the market, children are a vulnerable target group where A visible market leader in difficult public debates caution is of the essence. This thinking led us to launch Our position as the Netherlands’ largest service provider Hi PrePay Young, a prepaid subscription for children aged with the most extensive network has led us to assume a between 6 and 12, in June 2011. Hi PrePay Young has a prominent if not leading role in the debate within society number of extra features protecting children from about ICT. Developments affecting our industry often unpleasant financial surprises. We use film clips and games affect us first. Dutch society justifiably expects us to take to get the message across that call credits can run out. on an exemplary, indeed leading, position in order to There are also tips and tricks they can use to make smarter arrive at a sound ICT policy for the entire country, as the and better use of call credits. The subscription also blocks new subscription arrangements and the discussion about calls to commercial 0906 and 0909 numbers as well as all net neutrality show. We perceive it as our responsibility to paid text messages. engage in dialog about the future revenue model for the ICT industry, but observe at the same time that this is not Hi PrePay Young works together with Nibud. In 2011, always well received by the public at large. Part of the Hi PrePay Young was a partner in ‘Money Week’ in explanation lies in the complex nature of the issue and which, together with bodies such as Rabobank, the lack of clarity surrounding the revenue models of Consumentenbond and Ouders&Coo, we advised the some of the new apps. audience about how to manage their money. Although our participation in tricky public discussions may sometimes depress our customers’ perception of KPN and may prejudice our reputation over the short term, we see it as our responsibility to disclose our intentions in dialog with society and to identify the social interest that this serves. Young people and debt The debt issue, particularly among young people, is another dilemma that is closely linked to our services and our customers. The organization tasked to help people manage their financial affairs, the Nationaal Instituut voor Budgetvoorlichting or Nibud, has calculated that 16% of young people in secondary vocational education always exceed their set telephone budget. 12% of young people aged between 12 and 18 often use an amount in excess of what the bundle or credit balance permits. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 36 THE NEW WAY OF LIVING AND WORKING SAVING MONEY, TIME AND ENERGY ALL WITHIN A SINGLE CONCEPT 37 38 The New Way of Living and Working 3. THE NEW WAY OF LIVING AND WORKING OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Result 2010 Target 2011 Result 2011 Target 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Engaging in KPN participated 50% of the No reliable – – debate with 50 times in debates 500 largest measurement society with society about organizations in the New Way of the Netherlands Working consider KPN Corporate Market opinion leader for the New Way of Working The New Way No reliable data Develop a technique KPN Reduction – – of Working for % peak-hour for measuring CO2 meter developed at KPN kilometers savings for the New Way of Working 10,407 KPN 11,000 KPN 11,540 KPN 85% of KPN – Netherlands Netherlands Netherlands Nederlands employees can work employees can work employees can work employees feel in accordance with in accordance with in accordance with they can work in the New Way of the New Way of the New Way of accordance with Working Working Working the New Way of Working The New Way Sharp increase in 15% growth in 71% growth in 10% growth – of Working number of contact usage by customers usage in the in usage in the at customers persons (outside of of 3 typical ‘New Netherlands by Netherlands of ICT procurement) at Way of Working’ customers of 3 services that make business customers services typical ‘New Way of ‘New Way of Living Working’ services and Working’ possible KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 39 The New Way of Living and Working 3.1 OUR VISION: SAVING MONEY, TIME AND In 2011 we also approached the wholesale market about ENERGY ALL WITHIN A SINGLE CONCEPT switching to the New Way of Working. We started a new web site, www.hetnieuwewerkenbeweging.nl, in which The services we provide have helped to make the New we invited organizations to visit our Experience Center in Way of Working possible. Our aim is to enable people to Zoetermeer to experience the New Way of Working for arrange their work so that it fits in with their lifestyle, themselves. Last year about one hundred organizations which is why we refer to this concept as the New Way of took us up on the invitation, visited the Experience Center Working and Living as well. We promote an optimal, and experienced for themselves the benefits of the New productive work-life balance both for our customers and Way of Working. for our own employees whilst saving time and reducing CO2 emissions. In 2011 we assisted major customers in launching the New Way of Working within their organizations. We 3.2 SOLUTIONS FOR CUSTOMERS introduced the office concept of an online workplace (WerkplekOnline) to ten thousand employees of PostNL, In the areas of teleconferencing, videoconferencing thanks to which this company reaps major energy and cloud computing we are well equipped to make savings each year. Similar projects were also the New Way of Living and Working possible for other implemented at Achmea and the Ministry of the organizations. Our target for 2011 was to achieve a growth Interior and Kingdom Relations. of at least 15% in the services that characterize the New Way of Working. Active promotion of our campaigns for We continued to take a visible part in the debate within the New Way of Working has allowed us to exceed this society about the New Way of Working. We share our target comfortably: we achieved 71% in 2011. experience on a platform designed to facilitate knowledge exchange among 50 trend-setting employers (B50). These We wanted half of the five hundred largest organizations employers intend to be or already are in the forefront of to rate KPN as the opinion leader in the area of the New taking a smart approach to work and travel. A smart Way of Working in 2011, but we were unable to measure approach to work and travel helps improve accessibility this reliably. in the Netherlands. It also contributes to the competitive position of the Netherlands, to improving its ranking as In 2011 we placed a greater emphasis on linking the a desirable business location and to increasing rates of advantages to be gained from the New Way of Working. workforce participation. In this context we carried out We developed our proprietary metering tool, KPN a study into the options of swapping work places: the Reduction meter (www.kpnbespaarmeter.nl) that allows ‘working while traveling’ initiative or Werken Onder Weg. companies and other organizations to see how they can use ICT to make savings. The KPN Reduction meter As board member of an organization that promotes the analyzes the benefits in terms of saving energy, time and benefits of an information society, ECP-EPN, Platform voor money. The tool calculates the savings in terms of work de Informatiesamenleving, we promote the New Way space, mileage traveled and time. The tool goes on to of Working. This is a platform on which government, calculate the savings organizations will make if they businesses and social organizations exchange knowledge transfer to KPN their total ICT system, including cloud and work together to promote the development of the computing, housing and hosting. This highlights the information society in the Netherlands. In 2011, the benefits to be obtained from our green data centers and platform commissioned a study designed to identify the green network. In 2012, we intend to make active use the areas that would potentially benefit from large scale of the KPN Reduction meter on the market. introduction of the New Way of Working. If by 2015 20% of the workforce population in the Netherlands works from In 2011 we carried out a study in collaboration with home one day a week, this will yield almost EUR 2 billion partners such as Telewerkforum, Rabobank, Philips yearly. If two days a week are spent working at home, the and TNO to find out whether the New Way of Working savings amount to almost EUR 3 billion. The key reason has a positive effect on productivity, vitality and the for this is that 180,000 cars get taken off the road every environment. The findings were positive. The major working day: less mileage traveled, less pollution and a conclusions of the study were that managers and fall in the costs of office space. hierarchical superiors who know how to motivate people contribute the most to company objectives. ICT tools As a member of ICT-Office, a trade association for the ICT had a positive influence on employee enthusiasm and industry, KPN took the initiative to set up Binas, a reference productivity. We intend to make this investigatory tool work that tracks the environmental effect of ICT products available to Dutch companies and organizations in 2012. and services. This enables the ICT industry to draw up a record of its contribution to the environment and to ensure In the first quarter of 2011, our advertising campaigns honest, transparent information. We use these figures in highlighted the practical savings to be gained from the our customer communications such as the KPN Reduction New Way of Working and the advantages entrepreneurs meter referred to above. can reap from working anywhere they choose. Our various campaigns promoting the New Way of Working prompted dozens of customer queries. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 40 The New Way of Living and Working At the close of 2011, we organized a stakeholder dialog 3.3 THE NEW WAY OF LIVING AND about the New Way of Working in which the stakeholders WORKING AT KPN left us with five key messages: • Take a leading part in the New Way of Working, It should come as no surprise that the New Way of for which a new and broader definition is needed. Working is being actively shaped within our own Place greater emphasis on the cultural aspects; organization. We already employ 11,000 of these ‘New • Link more closely the New Way of Working to the Workers’. In spring 2011, we ran a survey amongst 5,000 promises made to customers; KPN employees to evaluate their experience of the New • Use the technology that drives the New Way of Way of Living and Working. Some 60% of those employees Working. Connectivity and sustainability (i.e. energy) contacted completed the survey. The positive aspects that distinguish KPN from other providers; they cited most frequently were independence, vitality, • Show that KPN is ready by launching an ambitious work-life balance, enjoyment and the resultant challenge. communications program directed at the world outside The savings in time and mileage turned out to be that also discusses being an attractive employer; significant as well: New Workers save a staggering 131 • There is a lack of awareness, or insufficient awareness, minutes and 86 miles of rush hour traffic each week. This of many of the good things that KPN does. also constituted a contribution to the 2008 Haaglanden Covenant in which we undertook to cut rush hour mileage In 2012 we will continue putting every effort into by 5% by 2012. Employees rated their physical work station promoting the New Way of Working amongst companies as more than sufficient, but their managers’ style had not and organizations. We expect a growth of at least 10%. changed, or had not changed enough. Nor were We will direct our efforts primarily at knowledge workers employees sufficiently aware of the resources that had and the healthcare sector where the New Way of Working become possible thanks to the New Way of Working. We lends itself to easy application. We shall specifically target are going to work on this and in the course of the Dutch the user, the employee within the organization. We will New Way of Working Week, we will launch an in-house position the New Way of Working to them as an campaign focusing on the resources that are possible attractive alternative, our expectation being that demand thanks to the New Way of Living and Working such as for the New Way of Working will arise in parallel within flexible workstations, videoconferencing, cloud computing the organization. and teleconferencing. Another avenue we are examining is improving the In Belgium, we made an important step in the New Way linkage between ICT services and hardware. We are of Working in 2011 for which we gained recognition that exploring the options for ‘bring your own IT’: employees same year. Getronics Belgium was awarded the prestigious are free to buy their ideal laptop, PC or tablet that is fitted IFMA Facility Award 2011, a prize for the best facility with the employer’s software and applications. This management project of the year. Two years previously, reduces cost and the burden on the environment because Getronics Belgium relocated to new multi-functional the employee no longer needs to have both private and premises that operate according to the principles of the business equipment, and it has the additional advantage New Way of Working. The premises provide us with annual of delivering greater convenience. However, it requires a savings of EUR 1 million. major shift in the way ICT is set up within an organization and raises challenging issues in terms of security. We want to use our ICT knowledge and experience to make the best possible contribution. The study referred to above, conducted with Telewerkforum and TNO, helps us make the argument for these investments. We will communicate this more and more to the market, combined with the benefits in terms of cost and environment upon transfer of their ICT operations to KPN. Customers will then also profit from the advantages of our green, safe and cost-efficient data centers. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 41 The New Way of Living and Working 3.4 CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS Involvement in the organization The New Way of Working has its limits. In one of our call centers we ran an experiment with almost full time working from home. Work productivity may have gone up, but the employees missed personal contact with their colleagues to such a degree that they would not recommend this approach. This means for us that the New Way of Living and Working must not lead to working only at home, but must be combined with working at locations where employees can interact with their colleagues. Keeping work and private life separate We are also aware that the New Way of Working can result in people focusing continuously on their work, making it more difficult for them to keep work and private life separate. We recognize this phenomenon, but do not know how widespread it is. Working with our stakeholders, we intend to start a study in 2012 to investigate and identify the conditions under which the New Way of Working helps promote the work-life balance and when it has the opposite effect. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 42 ENERGYEFFICIENT ICT IS INDISPENSABLE FOR AN ENERGY-EFFICIENT FUTURE 43 44 Energy-efficient 4. ENERGY-EFFICIENT OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Result 2010 Target 2011 Result 2011 Target 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Energy – – -4% growth in Max. 3% growth in Max. 5% growth in consumption comparison with comparison with 2013 in comparison KPN Group 2010 2010 with 2010 Fixed and Electricity Max. 2% more 3% less electricity – mobile network consumption electricity consumption in the identical to 2009 consumption in 20% absolute Netherlands comparison with 2010 energiereductie t.o.v. 2005 in 2020 Measures that save Measures that save Measures that save Measures that save 38 GWh 32 GWh 40 GWh 30 GWh Mobile network Annual targets set Germany: 5% more Germany: 8.6% more Germany: 9% more in Germany and energy-efficient in energy-efficient in energy-efficient in Belgium comparison with 2009 comparison with 2009 comparison with 2009 20% more energyefficient in 2020 in comparison with – – Belgium: 5% more 2009 energy-efficient in comparison with 2009 Data centers in 23% more energy24% more energy27.6% more energy28% more energy30% more energythe Netherlands efficient in comparison efficient in comparison efficient in comparison efficient in comparison efficient in 2020 in with 2005 with 2005 with 2005 with 2005 comparison with 2005 Green electricity 60% green electricity The Netherlands and 88% green electricity 91% green electricity 100% green for KPN Group Belgium: 100% green for KPN Group for KPN Group electricity for (Netherlands: 77%, electricity, (Netherlands and (Netherlands and KPN Group Belgium: 34%, Belgium: 100%, Belgium: 100%, Germany: 29%) Germany: 50% green electricity Germany: 63%) Germany: 75%) – – – The Netherlands : 1% Biogas wherever biogas possible in 2013 CO2 emissions – – 135 kTon reduction of 35 kTon reduction of Net zero emissions CO2 emissions in CO2 emissions in in 2020 comparison with 2010 comparison with 2011 Energy 12.5 GWh saved at 25 GWh structural 31 GWh structural Customers: apply and consumption in customers savings at customers savings at customers measure effects of KPN the value chain thanks to more thanks to more Reduction meter In 2020: save as energy-efficient energy-efficient much energy equipment equipment annually in the value chain as Green tip in the Develop a technique KPN Reduction meter Suppliers: develop KPN itself uses consumer market for measuring CO2 developed technique for savings for Green ICT measuring CO2 Vehicle fleet 35 kTon CO2 – 3% absolute CO2 6% absolute energy 35% absolute energy emissions in the savings in the Dutch savings in the Dutch savings in the Dutch Dutch vehicle fleet vehicle fleet in vehicle fleet in vehicle fleet in 2016 in comparison with 2010 comparison with 2010 comparison with 2010 KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 45 Energy-efficient 4.1 OUR VISION: ICT IS INDISPENSABLE FOR Network in the Netherlands AN ENERGY-EFFICIENT FUTURE Our network needs to expand in order to facilitate the sharp growth in mobile and fixed internet traffic and in Our customers can save a lot of energy by using ICT, interactive TV. Nevertheless, in 2011 we saved 40 GWh – but the rapid growth of ICT also puts a burden on the equivalent to the energy consumption of 11,000 environment through higher energy consumption in other households – by replacing old equipment with new, more parts of the chain. We take our responsibility seriously in energy-efficient devices. This result surpassed our target of terms of greening and minimizing energy consumption 32 GWh and ensured that the energy consumption of our – ours, our customers’ and our suppliers’. No later than network fell by 3% in comparison with 2010, despite the 2020, KPN aims to be climate-neutral, in other words to sharp increase in data traffic in the same period. We produce no net CO2 emissions. The efforts made by our therefore realized our target for 2011, namely a maximum customers and ourselves enable us to put the concept of 2% increase in energy consumption. ‘green ICT’ into practice: we make our infrastructure ever more energy-efficient, and our customers save energy by Networks in Belgium and Germany using our ICT. Because of the growth in mobile internet traffic we are expanding our networks in Belgium and Germany. We are 4.2 SOLUTIONS FOR CUSTOMERS using more energy-efficient equipment to minimize the increase in energy consumption. We are also using more KPN Reduction meter energy-efficient cooling. As the networks are relatively Smart ICT services and The New Way of Living and new and efficient, replacement of equipment by more Working can make a significant contribution to energy energy-efficient models is not yet needed there. saving. We can save a lot of energy by reducing servers and data storage area. Working from home eliminates These measures enabled us to surpass our annual energy travel time and fuel consumption and flexible working efficiency targets for Germany in 2011. By the end of 2011 reduces the need for office buildings. In 2011 we we were operating with 9% greater energy efficiency than developed the KPN Reduction meter, an online tool for in 2009, against a target of 5%. In Belgium we aim to calculating potential energy, time and cost savings. This achieve this 5% improvement in energy efficiency in 2012. enables us to give current and potential customers an understanding of the financial benefits of Green ICT and Figure 9: Energy consumption KPN Group and growth in The New Way of Living and Working. In 2012 we will data traffic promote the KPN Reduction meter in the business market in collaboration with the World Wildlife Fund, in the . . . context of the Climate Savers Program. . . % % Apps for viewing data consumption Greater capacity is now required of the network because of the growth in data traffic (MBs) with mobile devices such % as smartphones and tablets. In our experience, many users are insufficiently aware that MBs cost energy and money. To enhance this awareness KPN, Hi and Telfort have % launched special apps with which customers can track of their data consumption. Through these apps we aim to % raise the awareness of our customers about network load and their personal costs. A second initiative is the online      ‘MB Advieswijzer’, which customers can use to calculate their mobile internet usage before choosing a subscription. Energy consumption (petajoule) Growth in data traffic relative to  These new tools complement the existing tools that help customers chose a suitable type of subscription and give customers details of their consumption. Data centers in the Netherlands 4.3 SAVING ENERGY AT KPN We measure the energy efficiency of our data centers by calculating the relationship between the energy Energy saving consumption of the ICT equipment and that of the In 2011 we once again made strenuous efforts to save other energy-consuming equipment, such as cooling, energy within KPN. This is essential, because the sharp air conditioning, emergency generators and lighting. increase in data communication means that we consume We use the international benchmark PUE (Power Usage more energy. Without additional measures, our in-house Effectiveness) for this purpose. We have emphasized the energy consumption will be around 20% higher in 2015 relevance of energy saving by also applying the KPN than in 2010. This is the reason that in 2011 we set up a collective energy savings targets to the data centers. comprehensive program for those parts of the group The data center managers each have a personal target that consume the most energy: our networks in the for the energy performance of their data centers. One of Netherlands, Belgium and Germany, our data centers and the improvements achieved is higher capacity utilization, our vehicle fleet, which together account for 81% of the which has resulted in improved energy efficiency. We energy consumption of the KPN Group. We expect the also applied a ‘cooling-heating separation technique’ planned savings to ensure in the coming years that our in the data centers, which caused a drop in the energy energy consumption in 2013 is no more than 5% higher consumption. Additionally, in our data center in Haarlem than in 2010. The progress of these measures is to be we began the construction of KyotoCooling, an innovative discussed quarterly with the Board of Management. cooling method that we will go into service in 2012. In KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 46 Energy-efficient Figure 10: Realized and target electricity consumption (GWh)                       (base year) Offices in the Netherlands Network in the Netherlands Data centers in the Netherlands Retail in the Netherlands Offices outside the Netherlands Network outside the Netherlands Data centers outside the Netherlands Retail outside the Netherlands 2011 our efforts led to an improvement in the PUE of all Growth in data traffic and energy consumption the data centers of almost 28% in comparison with 2005. We also took steps to cut back unnecessary growth in These developments enabled us to achieve with ease our data traffic. To this end, we reduced the file size of our target of operating at 24% greater energy efficiency in electronic invoices by a factor of 8 in 2011. Such measures 2011 than in 2005. can also be applied successfully by our customers. In 2012, we will explore how this can be done. In November we underlined our commitment to saving energy in data centers by signing the European Code of Vehicle fleet Conduct for energy saving in data centers. This obliges us Finally, we aim to reduce the energy consumption of our to implement best practices in the domain of energy saving Dutch vehicle fleet. To facilitate this, in 2010 we imposed in data centers and to issue reports on the progress. additional requirements on the maximum CO2 emission of our vehicles, over and above the criteria that already Offices and technical buildings applied (exclusively A, B or C energy label). We applied We continued to introduce The New Way of Living and these requirements for the first time in 2011, resulting in Working in our own offices. This led to an additional a reduction of 3% in CO2 emissions. We have also improved saving of 94,000 square meters of office space, reducing the way we record the use of the vehicles and the the energy consumption of our offices by 17%. kilometers driven, so we now have a better understanding of the pattern of consumption. In 2012 we aim to influence In 2011, the final parts of our new Teleport building in the users’ driving style by analyzing consumption figures Amsterdam were completed and taken into use. The and giving feedback. Our ultimate goal is to achieve an transparent glass building with a large indoor garden absolute energy saving of 35% in 2016 in comparison resembles a self-sufficient island: it heats and cools its with 2010. We plan to realize 6% of this saving in 2012. entire 25,000 square meters with an independent thermal energy storage facility (TES). Our total electricity consumption in the Netherlands in 2011 was 840 GWh. Figure 11: Green electricity (% of total energy) % % % % % % % % % % % %    The Netherlands Germany Belgium KPN Group KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 47 Energy-efficient Figure 12: Realized and target net CO2 emissions (kTon)                       (base year) In the Netherlands scope  In the Netherlands scope  In the Netherlands scope  Outside the Netherlands scope  Outside the Netherlands scope  Outside the Netherlands scope  Scope in accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol Green electricity CO2 compensation In 2011 we further increased the proportion of green Even in spite of these efforts, a certain volume of electricity. In the Netherlands, since the beginning of 2011 CO2 emissions remains. The total CO2 emissions in the we have procured only green electricity that is generated Netherlands in 2011 were 56 kTon. KPN will compensate its virtually entirely in the Netherlands. In Belgium we had CO2 emissions in the Netherlands as from 2012. We will use already switched to 100% green electricity in 2010. In the Gold Standard climate compensation for this. In 2009 Germany, 63% of our electricity is green and that the former Ministry of Housing, Spatial Planning and the percentage will rise to 75% next year. Environment called this variant the best form of climate compensation; the World Wildlife Fund also advises the E-Plus commissioned the first mobile telecommunication use of this form of compensation. mast in Europe that is not connected to the electricity grid. The facility uses only solar and wind energy. The fuel In 2011 we realized a CO2 reduction of 135 kTon compared cells that serve as back-up are charged by solar and wind with 2010. We aim to cut his figure by another 35 kTon energy. E-Plus is studying the possibility of using this next year. We expect to have to compensate a further 110 technique elsewhere in its network. kTon of CO2 emissions after 2012, so that the KPN Group can be climate neutral in 2020. We undertook a new initiative in 2011 to encourage the use of green electricity by KPN employees working from Environmental management home. We offer them a collective green electricity contract Structural energy and environmental improvements with extra favorable conditions. In addition, we are can be realized only if there is a guarantee of adequate preparing an offer entailing the installation of solar management attention within the organization. We panels at home. In 2012 we will make this offer to all KPN therefore introduced the ISO 14001 environmental employees and retired employees in the Netherlands. management system through the organization. E-Plus, The Netherlands is one of the countries in which the Getronics Hungary and Getronics UK had already been production capacity of green electricity lags behind the ISO 14001-certified and we set ourselves the target of European targets. By promoting the use of green electricity achieving this goal in 2011 for KPN Nederland. We by our company and by our staff we want to encourage succeeded: in May 2011 we received the certificate, producers to install additional capacity. which relates to the whole of KPN Nederland. Now that we have ‘greened’ the power we consume in the Netherlands and Belgium, we are going to focus in 2012 on replacing natural gas by biogas, which is generated by methods such as the fermentation of agricultural waste. We want 1% of our gas consumption in the Netherlands to be biogas in 2012. We will then be one of the biggest biogas users in the Netherlands. We aim to use biogas wherever we can in 2013. The aim of these targets is to stimulate the development of the green gas market in the Netherlands. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 48 Energy-efficient 4.4 TRANSPARENCY AND COLLABORATION Newsweek Green Rankings In 2011 KPN became the second Dutch company, after WWF Climate Savers Philips, to be included in the Green Rankings of the In 2011, we started collaborating with the World Wildlife prominent American magazine Newsweek. KPN is the Fund to lessen our impact on the climate. We joined the sixth greenest telecom company of the world. The ranking Climate Savers Program because of our ambition to operate for 2011 lists the five hundred largest companies. climate neutrally in 2020 and because of the energy savings that we have realized up to now in the network and the Chain partnership data centers. The Climate Savers Program is an international A large part of the energy consumption in the ICT chain leadership program for companies, designed to show is affected by user behavior and the capacities of ICT that economic growth and a significant reduction of CO2 equipment. We are endeavoring to link these together. emissions can go hand in hand. By reducing their ecological Consequently, we organized a stakeholder dialog with footprint, these leading companies can prove that they are suppliers and corporate customers in 2011. They key players in the transition to a completely sustainable encouraged us to share our sustainability performance energy supply program. more actively with customers, so that they can take it into account when making purchasing decisions. In 2011 we developed a Climate Savers implementation plan, which shows how we are going to achieve our In 2011 we further tightened our energy requirements climate goals and how we can help our customers in this. for consumer equipment. Customers need devices such The plan describes the measures that are outlined in this as modems and routers for fixed internet and interactive section. From this partnership also emerged the intention, TV. KPN often supplies these devices as part of the service, along with the World Wildlife Fund, to stimulate The New but the customer pays the energy bill. By ratcheting up Way of Working, and therefore energy savings, in the the purchase specifications for routers and modems, we Netherlands. Interestingly, a consumer survey revealed that enabled our customers to save 31 GWh of electricity in consumers know very little about this initiative, but that 2011. This equates to the electricity consumption of they are very positive when they hear about it. We are 9,000 households. therefore going to involve it more actively in our marketing next year. In 2011 we analyzed the CO2 emissions in our chain. This analysis revealed that 67% of the CO2 emissions can NABU partnership be traced back to ten of our suppliers. Such information E-Plus continued its partnership with the German nature helps us to determine where in the chain the CO2 conservation organization NABU. The partnership has measures will be the most efficient, so that we can take several key features; E-Plus champions sustainable those measures there. procurement. To this end, E-Plus replaced 90% of its plastic SIM card holders with recycled paper in 2011. 4.5 CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS New mobile phone customers are offered a ‘NABU environment tariff’, enabling customers to make Data growth and energy consumption climate-neutral calls. We expect this service to become Our greatest challenge in the field of energy is to combine commercially viable in 2012. the energy savings targets with the explosive growth in data traffic. It is a tough task to be able to make energy NABU and E-Plus have drawn up a ranking of mobile savings, especially at a time when unlimited data traffic phones, based on environment, health and social policy. and use of internet, both fixed and mobile, are becoming NABU receives around three euro from E-Plus for every increasingly commonplace. By maintaining a constant old mobile phone that E-Plus collects. In total, 14,512 dialog with suppliers, customers and employees we aim phones were collected in 2011. Furthermore, in 2011 to ensure that energy forms an integral part of our E-Plus commissioned the University of Münster to study business operations. the relationship between mobile communication and sustainability. These results are expected in 2013 and Recycling old phones will be used in shaping the sustainability policy of E-Plus. Collecting mobile phones, a few million of which we sell every year, remains a challenge in the telecom sector. Carbon Disclosure Project We believe that cast-off devices should not end up in the The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a joint initiative of household waste because this makes it impossible to global investors that asks publicly quoted companies for reclaim rare metals. Justifiably, stakeholders hold the details of their approach to climate change. Our target sector accountable for this. However, returning them for 2011 in the Carbon Disclosure Project was to improve to our shops or elsewhere has had little effect in our our transparency score (80 points in 2010) and our industry. We are examining ways of achieving a higher performance score, and to retain our ‘A’ ranking. In recycling rate. fact, we did manage to improve our disclosure in 2011. However, because the CDP changed its assessment method and applied the criteria more strictly, we slipped back one point to 79. The stricter method was also instrumental in our performance score dropping to ‘B’ ranking. Not a single telecom company achieved ‘A’ ranking in 2011. We succeeded in maintaining our position in the top five of the Telecommunications section of the Global 500 Leadership Index, however. Our goal for next year is to improve our disclosure score and regain the ‘A’ ranking. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 49 Energy-efficient Radiation from mobile transmission masts and integration of mobile transmission masts into the landscape The increase in mobile data traffic necessitates more transmission masts and that raises issues such as integration into the landscape. Transmission masts are not particularly attractive. Nowadays people demand mobile phone services whenever and wherever they want, but would prefer not to look out onto a transmission mast in their immediate vicinity. That is a dilemma for us, because we will never manage to satisfy everyone’s interests. We are therefore in regular contact with local stakeholders so as to accommodate as many of their interests and wishes as possible. Another issue relating to transmission masts is the effect of electromagnetic fields, known popularly as radiation. Reports and results of research into how radiation affects people and nature appeared in 2011. The studies failed to give a clear picture of the effects of radiation. Mobile telecom technology on this scale has been used only for about twenty years. The long-term effects are being studied, but are not yet known. We take our responsibility seriously and abide by the strictest legal standards. Furthermore, we welcome any study that provides new insights and can contribute towards sound decisionmaking. We listen to and respect the views, wishes and complaints of individuals and organizations, wherever possible in conjunction with the other network operators. In the Netherlands, the Monet organization is the point of contact for mobile telecom sector stakeholders regarding questions and information about transmission masts. The equivalent association in Germany is the Informationszentrum Mobilfunk and in Belgium the Radio Infrastructure Site Sharing platform. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 50 PEOPLE CONNECTED OUR STRENGTH LIES IN CONNECTING PEOPLE 51 52 People connected 5. PEOPLE CONNECTED OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Result 2010 Target 2011 Result 2011 Target 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Motivating KPN volunteers lend KPN volunteers lend KPN volunteers lend 2,000 KPN – employees in a hand 2,213 times a hand 2,000 times a hand 2,012 times volunteers lend a the Netherlands on Mooiste Contact on Mooiste Contact on Mooiste Contact hand on Mooiste Fonds projects Fonds projects Fonds projects Contact Fonds projects Target group 116 children with 350 children with 441 children with 400 children – coverage in the autistic traits autistic traits autistic traits with autistic traits Netherlands participate in provided with provided with provided with SociaalOpStap smartphone with smartphone with smartphone with application application application – 300 KPN volunteers 412 KPN volunteers – – for SociaalOpStap for SociaalOpStap – 15 meetings 13 meetings at – – at schools for schools for SociaalOpStap SociaalOpStap 192 children with ICT – 282 children with – – set for KlasseContact ICT set for KlasseContact Preliminary review Develop a method Insufficient data to – – of methods for measuring the develop a reliable available for contribution made method measuring the by the KPN Mooiste contribution made Contact Fonds to by the KPN Mooiste reducing social Contact Fonds to isolation reducing social isolation KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 53 People connected 5.1 OUR VISION: OUR STRENGTH LIES IN In 2011, in partnership with Erasmus University Rotterdam, CONNECTING PEOPLE we carried out a survey to measure the effect of KlasseContact. Because of the small target group and low For mankind, contact is one of life’s essentials. We enable response rate the data collected is not representative of all contact through our products and services. On the one the chronically sick children that use KlasseContact. hand we ensure that our fixed and mobile networks Nevertheless, several important conclusions can be drawn: provide virtually full coverage, on the other hand we make • Pupils in primary and secondary education are more ICT financially accessible for every budget through targeted positive about their contacts with classmates when portfolio management. But our digital participation using KlasseContact. stretches beyond that. Contact is not yet a given for • The pupils’ parents say that KlasseContact has had everyone, despite the availability of ICT. Through no fault a positive effect on the social contacts of their child of their own, people can sometimes lose contact for all with classmates. kinds of reasons. We are searching for ways in which ICT can help these people; the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds and Resto VanHarte ‘Digitale Chancen’ in Germany are instrumental in this. We In 2011, KPN once again gave its support to the Resto support relatively small projects that have the potential to VanHarte initiative: affordable neighborhood restaurants become big and to which KPN employees can provide that aim to promote social contact in residential areas. For voluntary help. The risk of solitude is waiting in the wings a small sum, local residents can enjoy a meal while getting for people that having difficulty making contact. We want to know or staying in contact with other locals. As well as to contribute towards combating solitude by using our making a financial contribution, we ensured that KPN knowledge of and the availability of ICT resources. employees could work as volunteers in the restaurant or the kitchen. KPN employees volunteered for this project In the Netherlands, the elderly are using the internet 552 times in 2011. more and more. Elderly people use the internet mainly for e-mailing and as a source of information about goods and In every province, we organized a Resto VanHarte evening services. In the Netherlands and Germany around 60% of at which KPN employees gave a presentation about the pensioners were online regularly in 2011; that is twice as opportunities afforded by the internet. This is a way to many as in 2005 in the Netherlands. In other countries the make people enthusiastic about the internet and to show percentage is considerably lower. We are continually how it can improve their social life. developing special services and products for the elderly. For instance, via our subsidiary SimPC computers we Resto VanHarte has become a major initiative, partly offer special internet subscriptions for elderly people. thanks to our contribution. The number of restaurants In Germany, we are collaborating with Digitale Chancen grew last year from 13 to 27. We will be ending our to make it easier for people to utilize the opportunities partnership with Resto VanHarte in 2012; the current afforded by the digital world. large number of restaurants allows us to take our leave with a clear conscience, and we will now focus on 5.2 KPN MOOISTE CONTACT FONDS another social initiative. The KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, founded by KPN, runs the SociaalOpStap projects KlasseContact, Resto VanHarte, SociaalOpStap and In 2010 we launched SociaalOpStap, an initiative geared GeneratieTV. In 2011, we worked hard to recruit volunteers to children with autistic traits. These children are generally for the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. Our target was for KPN unable to deal with difficult and unexpected everyday employees to participate as volunteers 2,000 times in 2011. situations. We teach them to cope with these situations At the end of 2011, 1,528 KPN employees had participated by giving them advice on their smartphones. We have a total of 2,012 times in volunteer projects. This means that developed a special app for this purpose: by typing in a 8% of KPN employees in the Netherlands took part. question using keywords the smartphone gives practical tips for dealing with these situations. The KPN Mooiste KlasseContact Contact Fonds and the National Autism Network are Through KlasseContact we bring chronically sick children in working together on this. We are carrying out this project contact with their classmates via ICT-sets. These sets consist at special schools for autistic children. In addition to of a camera and screen, which are mounted on a chair in the making a financial contribution, we make smartphones classroom. The class and the sick child can see and hear available free of charge and KPN volunteers help the each other thanks to a laptop with a webcam at home and children to use them effectively. a screen at school. The child uses a mouse to operate the camera in the class and can therefore decide who or what Having developed the software for this application he/she wishes to see. In 2011, we brought 282 chronically and carrying out a pilot scheme in 2010, we rolled out sick children in contact with their classmates via ICT-sets. SociaalOpStap in 2011. KPN volunteers support the project by spending a day with a child. We want to improve the Most of the organizational tasks have been transferred to application so as to get a better understanding of how our partner organization Edventure, the Dutch association much ICT contributes to ameliorating the social contacts for educational service agencies. A specialist electrical of children with autistic traits. installation company makes the technical connection. This makes the project less dependent on the KPN Our aim for 2011 was to provide 350 children with a Mooiste Contact Fonds, although KPN continues to smartphone using the special application; we exceeded provide volunteers and finance. this target with a figure of 441. A teaching package has also been developed for schools for children with autistic traits (‘Passer’ schools). KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 54 People connected To enhance the effectiveness still further we will evaluate Interchange of knowledge the usage of the package in 2012. Our aim is that at the Our core competence is connecting people with each end of 2012, all the Passer schools will be using the other, and we want to use it to expand knowledge about teaching package and fostering the use of the application. loneliness. We helped to arrange the Anti-Solitude Week In 2012, we aim to provide 400 children with a smartphone for that purpose. In that week, we organized a symposium containing the SociaalOpStap application. entitled ‘Solitude among young people. Can ICT do anything to help?’ In the Netherlands, one in five SociaalOpStap not only receives the plaudits of children, youngsters experiences feelings of loneliness. Research parents and teachers, but it has also been nominated for was carried out on the role that ICT can play in preventing the Accenture Innovation Prize and ‘Het Pittigste Project’. or solving this problem. One of the conclusions was that Additionally, KPN won the IPON Award 2011, which aims although ICT does not solve the problem of loneliness, it to stimulate businesses to innovate and improve their does offer ways of combating it. The KPN Mooiste Contact products. ICT companies that focus on educational projects Fonds recognizes these results and wants to bring lonely receive the IPON quality mark, which is the only quality young people closer together via ICT, one of the methods mark in our sector. It enables the education sector to see being the project SociaalOpStap. which companies distinguish themselves in term of innovation, quality and originality. KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds events We organize annually two major events related to contact GeneratieTV and the fight against loneliness. Every year on June 21 – the In 2011 we launched, together with the Dutch Red Cross, longest day of the year – the volunteers of the KPN Mooiste a new initiative geared to elderly people: GeneratieTV. Contact Fonds put together a mega-spectacle: the XL Day. We install a simple TV application in the homes of elderly On this special day we invite people, young and old, from people, offering them extra contact channels in addition throughout the Netherlands to meet one another in a to the familiar TV channels. Using these contact channels surprising manner. After all, on the longest day people they can chat to friends, family or neighbors. Here too, have extra time for special contacts. Thanks in part to the KPN volunteers help the residents of old people’s homes efforts of 450 volunteers, this XL day was once again a and nursing homes to get to grips with this facility and success in 2011. they then keep in regular contact with them. Our aim for 2011 was to recruit 200 KPN volunteers for this project, but managed only 174. The efforts of volunteers are desperately needed, because the launch of GeneratieTV has proved trickier than we originally thought. Not only has the technology turned out to be complex, but it is also apparent that the rollout occurs in stages. First of all we look for old people’s homes and nursing homes that recognize the possibilities and benefits of GeneratieTV, and then we introduce the product to the residents themselves. The KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds in India KPN outsources part of its technology and service activities to ICT companies in countries such as India. We expect this outsourcing to increase in the years ahead. We therefore feel it is appropriate for the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds to contribute towards social development in India and to set up a department of the Fund there. As well as making a financial contribution to an orphanage, in 2012 we want to allocate 20 KPN volunteers to help out for a day in the orphanage in cooperation with the KPN company NetCo. We also want to enhance the understanding of KPN employees of the culture and procedures in India and to increase their involvement. Consequently, we expect KPN employees in the Netherlands to be able to collaborate better with our partners in India. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 55 People connected 5.3 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT IN GERMANY 5.4 SPONSORSHIP AND BELGIUM There are three components to KPN’s sponsorship policy: E-Plus sports sponsorship, cultural sponsorship and social E-Plus has also carried out a variety of social projects. sponsorship. In 2011, we donated more than 10 million For example, E-Plus has become a partner of the ‘Digitale euro to social charities. Organizations we supported Chancen’ foundation. The foundation, an initiative of include the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, the KNSB, the the German Ministry of Economics and Technology, is football club Standard Liège, De Kindertelefoon, the developing a program to assist people who find it hard Rijksakademie and Meldpunt Kinderporno. to adjust to the digital society. The foundation is oriented mainly to groups such as the young, the elderly and Lead sponsor of the KNSB skating association immigrants. To underline its commitment, E-Plus has Since the summer of 2010, KPN has been lead sponsor of taken a seat on the board of the foundation. In 2011, five the Royal Dutch Skating Association (KNSB). We consider round-table discussions were arranged, covering subjects skating to be a wonderful, typically Dutch sport that fits in such as primary education and the information society, with us well. As a major Dutch service provider we have and the rights and obligations of children, parents and been connecting people for over 125 years. By supporting immigrants in the digital world. With 1,200 volunteers skating in all its forms, KPN wants to expand the sport still trained in digital connection, 15 million page views and further and connect skaters and skating in the Netherlands. a newsletter with a circulation of 5,000, the foundation We do this by putting four key beliefs into practice: the increased its ability to reach its target groups. The sport comes first, we embrace skating in all its forms, we foundation is continuing its activities in 2012. help the KNSB to do what it does best, and we do it all for KPN. Our sponsorship contributes to our customer loyalty, KPN Group Belgium brand empathy and preference among the six million In common with KPN Nederland, KPN Group Belgium Dutch skating fans in the Netherlands and it makes KPN again championed safe internet for children in 2011. staff proud. Together with five other ICT providers, KPN Group Belgium signed the Child Focus e-safety charter in The KNSB and KPN launched www.schaatsen.nl in 2010. June. This foundation promotes the interests of missing Skating fans can find all the information about their sport and sexually exploited children. By signing the charter, on this portal. In 2011 there were more than 600,000 content and internet providers undertake to make different visitors to the portal. Skating champion Sven young people and adults aware of online risks. These Kramer played the lead role in our advertising campaign ICT companies also want to offer young people a safe for Interactive TV. Together with the Fonds internet environment, make technical resources available Gehandicaptensport we organized the KPN Skating Friends and cooperate with police and the judiciary in the domain Day for the disabled. Along with their parents and friends of internet safety. This commitment ensures that children they enjoyed a day of skating at FlevOnice in and young adults are better protected against unwelcome Biddinghuizen. It was a great success: in 2011 the KPN or criminal internet content. Skating Friends Day drew as many as 2,000 enthusiastic participants. We will organize this day again in 2012. The e-safety charter also focuses on commercial aspects: the six companies promise to approach young people An example of the splendid combination between skating commercially in an appropriate manner, so that they sponsorship and social engagement is the party that KPN do not become victims of the lure of advertising. The organized in November 2011 for Resto VanHarte visitors, a signatories carry our regular evaluations and jointly worthy end to three years of partnership between the KPN examine what improvements can be made. At the same Mooiste Contact Fonds and Resto VanHarte. Thanks in part time Child Focus started a helpline, which can be to the efforts of two hundred KPN volunteers, 1,200 guests accessed via the website www.clicksafe.be, for everyone of Resto VanHarte enjoyed the KPN National Single with questions about the online safety of children and Distances Speed Skating Championships at the Thialf young people. stadium in Heerenveen. In 2011, a campaign was started on the Belgian coast Children too had a great time in 2011 at the KPN Junior for armbands to stop children getting lost. By means of Skating Club. This initiative of the KNSB and KPN makes these armbands, which show the parents’ mobile phone children aged between 6 and 12 enthusiastic about ice number, KPN Group Belgium enhances the safety of small skating and inline skating. The KNSB works with local children and parents on the beach with the use of mobile skating associations on this. telephony. During the year 360,000 armbands were handed out at over 300 distribution points, such as ‘IKW-redders’, the Red Cross, tourist offices and deckchair rental companies. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 56 People connected Cultural sponsorship 5.5 OTHER SOCIAL INITIATIVES KPN supports the Rijksakademie, a fine arts college in Amsterdam. The two organizations support the mission of KPN Nederland supports several customer groups that the Rijksakademie: ‘to develop talent at the highest level’. need extra help in communication, by providing services In this way, KPN supports talented young artists in the such as the Teksttelefoon, a special texting service for Netherlands, for instance by refreshing its own art the deaf and hearing impaired. Besides this, in 2011 KPN collection with their works. The KPN Kunstprix (Art Prize) supported De Kindertelefoon, which enables children forms part of this partnership. Another example is and young people to call the agency free of charge on sponsoring a fellowship for a promising artist. their mobile phone. The vast majority of the calls to De Kindertelefoon, 96%, are made by mobile phone. We The Prix de Rome is the oldest and most generous Dutch will continue to support De Kindertelefoon in 2012. ‘state prize’ for artists and architects aged under 35. The prize is oriented to excellence and professionalization Along with our subsidiary SimPC, we provide elderly in an international context, and to spotting talent and people with a computer with internet subscription. This identifying trends in the Netherlands. makes e-mailing and using the internet simpler for them. SimPC was specially developed for elderly people and Sponsorship by KPN Group Belgium consists of a user-friendly computer (the SimTouch), For many years, KPN Group Belgium has sponsored the maintenance and support. soccer club Royal Standard de Liège. In 2010 we decided to sponsor a second soccer club, Zulte-Waregem. KPN Group 5.6 CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS Belgium has also been sponsoring the basketball club Okapi Aalstar, a prominent team that plays in the highest Measuring the effect of social projects basketball league, for several years. Last year we tried to measure the effect of our initiatives relating to loneliness because we believe that our efforts In recent years KPN Group Belgium has become should produce demonstrable results. This turned out increasingly active in sponsoring cultural events. Many to be harder than we expected. We considered it music festivals, such as Suikerrock, Marktrock, the Cactus appropriate to give our social partners a role to play in Festival and the Lokerse Feesten, can count on the support the measurements, since they know the target groups of KPN Group Belgium. KPN Group Belgium also supported better than anyone. Not every social organization had the the Ghent Flanders Festival and Théâtre de la Place. capacity to perform this task, a fact that we completely understand, as such measurements are an administrative SponsorRingen activity whereas our partners excel in tangible projects. Our sponsorship activities have been recognized: KPN was In the end, we were unable to gather sufficient data to named Sponsor of the Year at the annual SponsorRingen publish statistically sound results. awards. The SponsorRing is the prize awarded by the Dutch sponsorship industry to the year’s best sponsorship cases. We have decided that in 2012 we will not measure The jury felt that KPN had proved that it is possible to carry the effects of the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds in depth, out sponsorship successfully in different categories – sport, because we want to work with our partners specifically on entertainment and society – which complement the other. tangible projects. It is our conviction that our initiatives are The jury chose KPN as Sponsor of the Year because we valuable for KPN employees and stakeholders, even if the carry out sponsorship in such a wide-ranging and effects are not measured. successful manner. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 57 People connected Promoting internet usage ICT offers society a variety of possibilities and innovations. It is increasingly simplifying the access to information and facilities. At the same time, other forms of service are becoming less essential. More and more people are shopping and banking online. This is reducing the number of opportunities for personal contact between consumers and suppliers of products or services. To function successfully in society, ICT skills are therefore becoming increasingly important. There are signs that certain groups in the community, such as the elderly and non-natives, are having difficulty with these skills, so they risk being put at a disadvantage. Last year, our policy for digital connection focused mainly on maximum accessibility to ICT facilities and optimal mobile coverage. We are now entering a new phase: how can we further promote internet usage among groups of people for whom this is not self-evident? We aim to research this more in 2012. We are going to take an in-depth look at the problems and find out what contributions we, as a market leader in ICT, can make to solving them. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 58 OUR PEOPLE AND SUPPLIERS SUSTAINABLE RELATIONSHIPS MAKE US THE BEST SERVICE PROVIDER 59 60 Our people and suppliers 6. OUR PEOPLE AND SUPPLIERS OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Result 2010 Target 2011 Result 2011 Target 2012 Target 2013 and beyond Our people 74% of the 70% of the 69% of the 69% of the In 2013, 70% of employees agree employees agree employees agree employees agree the employees that KPN Nederland that KPN Nederland that KPN Nederland that KPN Nederland agree that KPN follows CSR follows CSR follows CSR follows CSR Nederland follows principles in principles in principles in principles in CSR principles in its business its business its business its business its business 16% of senior 17% of senior 17% of senior 18% of senior – management at management at management at management at KPN Nederland KPN Nederland KPN Nederland KPN Nederland are women are women are women are women 16% of middle 17% of middle 17% of middle 18% of middle – management at management at management at management at KPN Nederland KPN Nederland KPN Nederland KPN Nederland are women are women are women are women 23% of employees – 24% of employees – In 2015, 30% of at KPN Nederland at KPN Nederland employees at are women are women KPN Nederland are women Our suppliers 94% of the high-risk 95% of the high-risk 90% of the high-risk 90% of the high-risk In 2013, 95% suppliers signed suppliers and 80% suppliers and 73% of and medium-risk of the high-risk the Supplier of the medium-risk the medium-risk suppliers sign and medium-risk Company Code suppliers sign suppliers signed the Supplier suppliers sign the Supplier the Supplier Company Code the Supplier Company Code Company Code Company Code 37% of the 95% of the 50% of the 80% of the – high-risk suppliers high-risk suppliers high-risk suppliers high-risk suppliers took part in the and 50% of the and 50% of the take part in the self-auditing system medium-risk medium-risk self-auditing system suppliers take suppliers took part in the selfpart in the selfauditing system auditing system – 5 on-site audits at 15 on-site audits at 35% of the high-risk In 2016, 90% of the high-risk suppliers high-risk suppliers suppliers are audited high-risk suppliers on site are audited on site KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 61 Our people and suppliers 6.1 OUR PEOPLE A lot of our outsourced work originates from KPN Corporate Market (formerly Getronics). In mid-2011 our Our vision: our people make us the best service Indian partner MindTree welcomed its 50th employee for provider the Offshore Delivery Center. This section of MindTree The primary responsibility of KPN line management is to carries out work for the Desktop Management create an optimal work climate. The line management is department, data centers and Getronics UK among others. supported in this by the corporate department Human MindTree, based in Chennai and Bangalore, will contribute Resources (HR). In 2011, this department devoted a lot of increasingly to the service we provide to our customers. its attention to harmonizing the HR policy throughout the We demand the same privacy and safety standards that KPN Group. In principle, the same HR policy is being we demand of our own divisions. applied everywhere. This is unequivocal and transparent for the KPN employees, enhances efficiency and fosters Outsourcing also fits in with our endeavor to make our internal mobility. workforce more flexible. In 2011, we therefore focused on jobs for which we can use our own employees, tasks Leadership, mobility and talent development that agency staff can perform and activities that other In 2010, we concentrated most of our leadership personnel can carry out. This enables us to respond better development efforts on training and education. to market developments and therefore to be more in line We continued actively on this path in 2011. The key with the trend in society towards greater flexibilization of development in leadership relates to the new corporate the workforce. In areas where we plan to outsource more, strategy. Twenty KPN senior managers each took charge such flexibilization demands higher quality of our demand of a specific strategy task force, armed with the management: to formulate the requirements and wishes foundations for the new strategic course. Around 100 with respect to the contractor in an effective and resultmanagers were involved in developing the new strategy specific manner. We will continue to improve this process. and they put leadership into practice. Among the senior A key part of this process is setting social and executives, this forged greater cohesion between the environmental requirements to be observed by any various parts of the organization. The formation of the parties that take over work from us. Executive Committee (ExCo), which starts its duties formally on 1 January 2012 and in which all the business In 2011, KPN Corporate Market launched the program segments and several corporate functions are represented, ‘Quality, Efficiency and Outsourcing’, the purpose of which signifies the organizational approach to the strategy. is to further improve the efficiency of our business operations. This program has an effect on the number of Outsourcing policy jobs at KPN Corporate Market. Specifically for employees In the new strategy we have stated our intention to of this KPN division we founded FlexforceExternal, which outsource a number of tasks. We already started this in helps employees to find a new job outside KPN. 2011 by outsourcing various back office functions. Our criterion is that we will outsource tasks that are not Collective Labor Agreement in the Netherlands among our core activities and that other organizations Regrettably it was not possible in 2011 to reach agreement can perform better and more (cost) effectively. We will with the trade unions on a single Collective Labor pursue this policy in 2012. Agreement for KPN Nederland, KPN Contact and KPN Corporate Market. We therefore concluded two separate Collective Labor Agreements (one for KPN Nederland and KPN Contact, and one for KPN Corporate Market). Figure 13: Number of employees and FTEs (x 1,000) Collective Labor Agreement negotiations were delayed considerably because it took a long time to reach a  national pension agreement in the Netherlands. We held intensive talks with the works council and the trade unions  about the new strategy, the social plan, the new senior management structure and the reorganization. We asked  the works council for its advice on the new organization of KPN in the Netherlands and how it should be implemented.  Pensions were another key discussion topic and attention was paid to the vitality and deployability of employees.  The New Way of Working  In 2011 we continued promoting The New Way of Working at KPN in the Netherlands. We have made  FTE Number FTE Number FTE Number strenuous efforts in recent years to set up the framework    for The New Way of Working, but our main focus in 2011 was on stimulating management skills. Managers were KPN Nederland* therefore encouraged to make result-oriented KPN Corporate Market* agreements with their staff in planning meetings and KPN Group Belgium E-Plus no longer to place the emphasis on arrangements about Getronics International working times and places. We also want to find out Other subsidiaries whether employees feel that KPN managers are actually implementing The New Way of Working accordingly. * From 2011, KPN Corporate Market is reported as a part of In 2011, 82% of our employees in the Netherlands gave KPN Nederland a positive response to this survey. Our aim is for that figure to grow to 85% in 2012. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 62 Our people and suppliers Employee engagement Diversity Every year we carry out an employee engagement survey We want our workforce to be reflection of society, so in all divisions of the KPN Group. Benchmarking this that we are better able to recognize signals and changes against similar international companies reveals that in society and to apply them in our company. In addition, KPN scores well in terms of the quality of an employee’s KPN wants to be a company where everyone with the same immediate manager, work environment and teamwork. qualities is offered equal opportunities. We believe this On the other hand, employees say that we should improve will make us a more attractive employer. Moreover, it is our senior management, as well as externally oriented essential to retain and recruit highly qualified personnel issues such as the balance between quality/costs and now and in the future. time, innovation in products and service, response to the market, customer focus and external reputation. In KPN Nederland does not currently exhibit a representative general, KPN Corporate Market received a lower score social reflection with regard to the gender ratio. We aspire than other divisions of KPN Nederland, which could be to a workforce that is 30% female in 2015. In 2011 the explained by the fact that the name of this division percentage of women rose slightly to 24%. One of the changed shortly before the survey started and by the reasons for such a meager growth is the hiring freeze at ongoing reorganizations and outsourcing programs. several of the larger divisions. Our target was that 17% of our middle and senior management in the Netherlands in In 2011 69% of KPN Nederland employees endorsed 2011 would be women. We achieved that target. In 2010 the statement: ‘I think that KPN operates in line with CSR we took measures aimed at stimulating this, including a values.’ The figure for 2010 was 74%. We believe this drop coaching program for women, a study of issues that can was caused by the media debates about net neutrality, new help or hinder career prospects, and a better supply of subscriptions and price rises, and by the reorganizations. information. A number of high-profile top positions were occupied by women in 2011, including several positions on It emerged from a survey in 2011 that there is a significant the Executive Committee. There was one female member relationship between communications about CSR and of the Board of Management in 2011. positive working behavior among KPN employees. Employees feel more committed to their company if the Not only do we want to attract women for management outside world has a positive image of it. The potential jobs, we also want to retain talented women. One of the offered by The New Way of Working also appears to ways we do this is by defining potential career progression be a key factor in positive working behavior. For us this in advance, so that around three years later we can discuss underscores once again that our CSR policy has added the next suitable management position. value and is to the benefit of KPN. In 2011 we examined whether there are any salary For the fifth successive time E-Plus was on the list of top differences between male and female employees of KPN German employers, due in part to the care taken by E-Plus Nederland that would require us to take action. In the to provide a suitable work/life balance. Collective Labor Agreement pay scales men earned an Figure 14: Gender of employees (in percentages)  Employees   Middle management   Senior management    Employees   Middle management   Senior management    Employees   Middle management   Senior management         Male Female KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 63 Our people and suppliers average of 1% more than women. Age and experience step, in 2011 we took a look at which parts of KPN have the account for differences in the non-Collective Labor highest rate of absenteeism and what the causes are. Seven Agreement scales (senior management). We carried out an departments, which between them employ roughly a third in-depth analysis wherever the salary difference in the of the workforce, exhibit above-average absenteeism. Collective Labor Agreement scales at segment and scale These include departments with a comparatively large level was greater than 5%. This showed that the differences number of older employees or where physically are due entirely to variables such as age and length of demanding work is carried out (e.g. by ‘underground employment. Consequently, we took no immediate mechanics’). In some of these departments we suspect measures to reduce the differences in salary between male that mental aspects such as work pressure and stress may and female employees. We will perform the analysis again be the cause. in 2012. We will continue to prioritize the realization of gender equality within our company. A steering committee will take measures to reduce health-related absenteeism. Half of the members of We want women to be able to resume work in an committee are KPN staff and half are employees of the agreeable and productive manner after childbirth. To get Health and Safety Service. The line organization is a better picture of this, KPN Nederland measures the exit hierarchically responsible for reducing health-related figures after maternity leave. In 2010, 81% of the focus absenteeism. A monthly progress report is presented to group remained at work from the end of their maternity the management. leave through the whole of the next calendar year. The figure for 2007 was 56%. We improved the information Table 1: Health-related absenteeism supply and lactation rooms in 2011. 2009 2010 2011 In 2010 we expanded the diversity policy with a new KPN Nederland 4.4% 4.4% 4.2% focus group: people who are at a disadvantage on the KPN Group Belgium 4.3% 4.7% 3.5% labor market because of a physical and/or mental E-Plus 4.6% 4.9% 6.2% impairment. At the end of 2011, 18 people with health KPN Corporate Market* 3.6% 4.0% 4.0% impairments were in the employment of KPN, 16 more than at the end of 2010. These include young people in * Formerly Getronics Nederland the Wajong scheme, people on WIA benefit and people without a specific status. We aim to take on more people On the basis that preventing health issues is better than with an employment disadvantage in 2012. Candidates will curing them, about 800 KPN staff underwent a health be recruited in collaboration with UWV (Employed Persons check that KPN offers via the intranet in 2011. If the Insurance Administration Agency) or CAP100, an initiative KPN employee’s score is green, he or she is living a of the Lucille Werner Foundation, or they may apply healthy lifestyle. If the score is orange or red, health independently to KPN. As well as undertaking the recommendations are given. For example, the consequence above-mentioned activities, KPN wants to convince other of an ‘orange diagnosis’ could be lifestyle coaching employers to do likewise. KPN organized a symposium on provided by KPN. A ‘red diagnosis’ is followed by care this subject in 2011 and we share our experiences in task advice, which involves finding the best method of forces and at symposiums and congresses. treatment. The outcome of the health check necessitated a further meeting with more than half of the employees. We want to expand our efforts to foster a diverse Consequent measures consisted of individual lifestyle workforce in 2012. We want to make even greater efforts coaching or additional medical treatment. for people of different cultural backgrounds, for those with a physical impairment and for the elderly. The policy lines The participants consider coaching to be positive: 90% of 2011 will be pursued in 2012. say they will recommend coaching to colleagues. We compared the lifestyle of the employees before and after Health and safety, employee vitality the coaching process. This comparison showed that the KPN cares passionately about guaranteeing safe working majority adopted a healthier lifestyle after the coaching. conditions. The KPN Security department develops and The study demonstrates that a lifestyle improvement is carries out the policy for this. The HR department possible and that the employees concerned are now fitter coordinates and facilitates the health and vitality policy. and lead a healthier life. Guidance on and prevention of absenteeism Vitality policy In 2010 we set up a long-term program to control and We have been operating various vitality initiatives within prevent absenteeism, with a view to reducing healthKPN for several years. These used to be scattered across related absenteeism. At KPN Nederland (excluding KPN the organization and focused mainly on promoting Corporate Market) health-related absenteeism is 4.2%, physical well-being and exercise. In 2011 we expanded this which is higher than the benchmark we use, the ‘Verbaan policy by adding mental, emotional and spiritual aspects of norm’. Using the Verbaan norm, we have calculated that vitality. After all, every employee has a different approach the absenteeism ought to be 3.4% in this part of KPN. We to vitality. aim to achieve this percentage at the end of 2012. As a first KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 64 Our people and suppliers We will publicize our new vitality policy more explicitly To complement E-TASC, audits were performed at 15 to the staff in 2012, focusing specifically on those hardware suppliers in 2011. Visits were made to a total of employees that have the most to gain by extra vitality 22 different production locations. These are carried out by initiatives. We will also carry out a vitality scan the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), in which we participate throughout the organization and, where necessary and along with Belgacom, Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom, possible, we will adjust our policy. Our aim for 2012 is Telecom Italia, Swisscom and Vodafone. Cooperating with that a few hundred employees will complete the intake other operators enables us to expand our influence while for the vitality program. enhancing the efficiency and clarity of our procurement conditions. In 2012, the scores of suppliers will be With a view to interchanging knowledge and experience evaluated on E-TASC. Suppliers that have not yet provided about fostering health and vitality, KPN is a member of the their data receive priority visits. Pre-announced audits are consortium healthy@work. Along with the Delft University performed in accordance with a joint JAC audit protocol of Technology and the Radboud University Medical Center, that is based on international standards, such as ISO 14001, we launched a partnership at the TEDx Maastricht congress SA 8000 and OHSAS 18001. The principal findings of the ‘The Future of Health’ in 2011. We are going to offer health audits are violations in the domain of work hours, health improvement programs so as to improve the well-being of and safety, and salary levels. Based on the findings, details the staff and the people directly involved. We believe this of which we will receive in the first quarter of 2012, we will participation to be important because our role as a partner discuss improvement plans with the suppliers. An analysis in healthcare innovation is growing. You can read more will then be made of the content and progress of the about this in the chapter ‘Our role in society’. In the improvement programs. These programs target an Executive Committee, the HR director is responsible improvement in the social and environmental conditions for fostering vitality at KPN. prevalent in those companies. We have no intention of immediately breaking the ties with suppliers that do not 6.2 OUR SUPPLIERS comply with our requirements: we offer them the opportunity to make improvements. The participating Our vision: sustainable value chain management JAC companies will discuss their findings in 2012 at a joint KPN encourages suppliers to practice corporate meeting of the board chairs or senior management of the sustainable responsibility in their production. This is laid audited companies. Fourteen new audits are planned for down in our Supplier Code of Conduct (see www.kpn. 2012, as well as nine follow-up audits. com/supplier), with which all suppliers have to comply. The code is applicable throughout the KPN Group. 1,327 This puts into practice the suggestion made on 7 June 2011 of our suppliers are responsible for 94% of our at our suppliers-stakeholders dialog: to act in unison with procurement volume. Within that group we have the sector wherever possible. identified certain risk suppliers: companies in low wage countries in Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe, and Central and One of the dilemmas faced by our sector is how to deal South America. We regard them as risk suppliers because with ‘conflict minerals’ that are used in the manufacture of good working conditions, environmental protection ICT equipment. We do not want to use conflict minerals in and compliance with human rights are not self-evident our mobile phones, but we are still trying to decide exactly in these countries. In 2011 we introduced a stricter how and where to take action. This is a complex issue definition of high-risk and medium-risk suppliers. involving many interests, and we are a small user of these High-risk suppliers – 60 in total – produce goods in low minerals in global terms. This does not discharge us from wage countries. Medium-risk suppliers – 15 – provide our responsibility, however. Areas in which conflict services in or from low wage countries. The group of risk minerals, such as tin, tantalum (coltan), gold and wolfram, suppliers has grown because of our stricter criteria. They are extracted include war zones in the Congo. Some of the are responsible for 55% of our procurement expenditure revenue reaches warring parties in these areas. Together and supply mainly network equipment, computers and with other international ICT companies that are members software. KPN obliges these companies to comply with of the EICC and GeSI organizations, KPN supports initiatives the Supplier Code of Conduct and to sign it. This forms to prevent human rights violations and the financing of an integral part of our procurement process. Up to now, armed conflicts by mineral extraction. A mineral mapping 64 of these 75 high and medium-risk suppliers have program, which can show systematically the origin of signed the Supplier Code of Conduct. We are in minerals, is currently being drawn up in cooperation discussions with the remaining eleven suppliers. with social organizations. KPN can also make use of this program when it has been finalized, thereby responding We have asked the high-risk suppliers to carry out to the call made by MakeITfair, an organization which is self-assessment via E-TASC, an online tool that questions campaigning for the ICT sector to be more transparent the suppliers about their approach to social and about the origin of minerals. environmental aspects. Half the high-risk suppliers are members of E-TASC and two-thirds of these have completed the self-assessment. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 65 Our people and suppliers Additionally, we have developed the Sustainability Tool for 6.3 CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS hardware suppliers. This tool asks them for information about the energy consumption, recyclability, packaging Outsourcing and employment and raw materials consumption of the products they The labor market in the ICT sector is developing rapidly. supply. It is our standard practice to use the Sustainability To respond optimally to those rapid changes, we need Tool when procuring products. Suppliers are obliged to to concentrate on our core tasks. We assess whether respond to it. Suppliers then know that we evaluate their external parties can perform these activities better and bids also on the basis of sustainability aspects. Modems, more cheaply than us. Outsourcing, which we will use TVs and other consumer equipment account for almost increasingly frequently in the future, has an effect on 0.5% of the electricity consumption in the Netherlands, direct employment at KPN. We will employ fewer people, so we can help our customers make significant energy while the number of jobs at our partners and suppliers savings. In 2012 we will apply the Sustainability Tool to increases. Current KPN employees may in the future find the procurement of services as well. another employer or may lose their job because their work is transferred to a country outside Europe. We are A good relationship of mutual trust with our 25 strategic very aware that this is a drastic process and can suppliers is essential. Consequently, every year we evaluate sometimes be an emotional one for employees. At the what our suppliers think of us, and where and how we can same time we realize that outsourcing is necessary to improve as a buyer. We also evaluate what we think of the ensure business continuity in the longer term. We discuss performance of our suppliers. A survey carried out in 2011 this regularly with the works council and the trade unions revealed that 65% of our strategic suppliers are satisfied so as to respect the interests of all parties concerned. with KPN as a partner; 18% were dissatisfied. The suppliers say that we communicate well and make clear agreements, Transparency of the electronics value chain but that we could make improvements in the areas of Another dilemma is our limited influence on major innovation, pro-activity and flexibility. We intend including suppliers. Some hardware and software companies are sustainability in these evaluations in 2012. so big that our procurement volume generates too little influence to be able to empower our social and To ensure that our entire procurement procedure is environmental wishes. In such situations, we join forces sustainable we have set up a Sustainable Procurement with industry peers in GeSI so as to collectively expand steering committee for the whole of the KPN Group, with our influence. the corporate procurement officer as chairperson, that reports to the Board of Management. As well as KPN There is too little transparency in the electronics procurement professionals this steering committee value chain. We have no knowledge of companies or comprises sales managers and product developers from organizations that are able to fully comprehend the all business units of the company. In this way we make complex combination of raw materials, semi-finished certain that attention is paid to energy and other products, final assembly and recycling. We and our sustainability aspects throughout the chain. partners in the chain have therefore been unable to make major permanent social and environmental changes, even We want to ensure not only that new products are though we are very keen to do so. To foster transparency sustainable, but also that discarded products are processed in our sector, we became a partner of Fairphone in 2011, in a sustainable manner. In our sector most of the complementing initiatives like GeSI and the Joint Audit discarded products are mobile phones. In the Netherlands Cooperation. This non-profit mobile phone developer – and Germany, customers can return old mobile phones to the world’s first – wants to prove that it is possible to our shops or send them to a freepost number. Our target produce phones in a fully sustainable manner. We make for 2011 was to collect 50,000 mobile phones in the our chain competence available to Fairphone and have Netherlands. With a figure of well over 30,000, we failed promised to sell the first Fairphones in our shops. to achieve this target. We paid too little attention to collecting old mobile phones. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 66 Scope 7. SCOPE The purpose of this Sustainability Report, which covers the GRI Application Level Grid. The GRI Application Level calendar year 2011, is to inform our stakeholders about Grid specifies where G3.1 core indicators have been KPN’s role in society. We count as stakeholders all those omitted from the report as a consequence of these having persons and organizations affected by our operations or been assessed as not material. In the interest of brevity, with whom we maintain a relationship, namely customers, this report confines itself to a reference to the Annual employees, shareholders, banks, suppliers, journalists and Report for those material indicators set out in that report. social organizations. The scope of this report covers the In this Sustainability Report there are no departures of any KPN Group including its subsidiaries in which it has a significance from the GRI indicator protocols. This report majority shareholding. Unless otherwise stated, references shows the performance indicators applicable to the KPN in this report to KPN should be read as referring to the KPN Group. Where relevant, the appendices contain specified Group. References to E-Plus are to be read as references data per KPN business unit, that is, KPN Nederland, KPN to E-Plus Gruppe. In this report, KPN Nederland refers to Group Belgium, E-Plus Gruppe, Getronics and other all the activities of the KPN Group in the Netherlands, subsidiaries of the KPN Group. Where available, the report including KPN Corporate Market (referred to in the 2010 includes data for 2009 and 2010 as well. Unless specified report as Getronics Nederland). Outside the Netherlands separately in the text, no adjustments to the data have the principal divisions are Getronics, KPN Group Belgium, been made relative to the data set out in the 2010 E-Plus Gruppe, iBasis, Ortel Mobile and SNT. In 2011, KPN Sustainability Report. sold its French mobile subsidiary KPN France. Getronics’ service partners come outside the scope of this report Quantitative data concerning the workforce and financial as KPN does not have a majority shareholding in these results in 2010 and 2011 set out in this report has been companies. The partners coming under the ‘Workspace collected using our financial data management system. Alliance’ of Getronics are covered by the scope of this The remaining data set out in this report has been report. KPN announced in January 2012 that Getronics collected using a standardized questionnaire that was International is to be sold in 2012. The Getronics completed by the KPN business units in question. The International data is nevertheless included in this report. Internal Audit and Corporate Control departments used The data in this report refers to KPN’s performance and not the criteria of consistency and availability of supporting to that of our subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. This evidence as the basis for its assessment of the data report specifically reviews developments and performance reported at group level. Validation criteria set out in in 2011. More static elements, such as the description of advance were also used to assess the data. This report has our CSR organization at KPN, our list of relevant outside been reviewed by KPMG Sustainability which has issued memberships, our stakeholders and the like, are featured ‘limited assurance’ report for certain indicators and in the GRI Index on www.kpn.com/csrreport. ‘reasonable assurance’ report for other indicators. The key social and environmental figures, which are available The Sustainability Report appears every year at the same in the annexes on www.kpn.com/csrreport, time as KPN’s Annual Report. A six-monthly report is also are also part of this report. published. This report is based on the third generation guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (G3.1) and has a GRI application level of A+. The GRI Application Level Grid on www.kpn.com/csrreport specifies which GRI indicators are set out in the Sustainability Report and which indicators are only featured on our web site. In addition to these G3.1 guidelines, KPN has taken as its point of orientation the draft GRI Telecommunications Sector Supplement. The GRI Application Level Grid sets out where indicators from the sector supplement have been included. Indicators that only require the statement of a position are only to be found in KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 67 8. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the readers of the Royal KPN What did we do to reach our conclusions? Sustainability Report Our work included the following activities: We were engaged by the Board of Directors of Royal • A media analysis and internet search on environmental, KPN N.V. (‘KPN’) to provide assurance on the information safety and social issues for KPN in the reporting period, in the Sustainability Report 2011 – Sustainably connected in order to deepen our insight in relevant sustainability (‘The Report’). The Report, including the identification of issues and questions in the reporting period. material issues, is the responsibility of the company’s • Interviews with members of the CSR Steering management. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance Committee responsible for the implementation of report on The Report. the CSR strategy and other staff at corporate level responsible for providing the information in The Report. What was included in the scope of our • A review of design and implementation of the systems assurance engagement? and processes for information collection and Our engagement was designed to provide: processing, including the aggregation of the data for • Limited assurance on whether the information in the information in The Report. Report, in all material respects, is fairly presented in • A review of internal and external documentation, based accordance with the GRI G3.1 reporting criteria. on sampling, to determine whether the information in • Reasonable assurance on whether information for The Report is supported by sufficient evidence. the electricity consumption and net CO2 emissions • Checking the consistency of other reported information for the Netherlands for the financial book year 2011, with external information such as the Annual Report 2011. as explained on pages 46 and 47 of The Report, is presented, in all material respects, in accordance with In addition, for the electricity consumption and the net the reporting criteria as defined by KPN. CO2 emissions for the Netherlands in The Report for the book year 2011 and related notes, we performed amongst Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of others the following activities: assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility • Testing the application of internal accounting policies of information and are less extensive than those for and internal controls, which were used in the preparation a reasonable level of assurance. To obtain a thorough of the reported data and accompanying notes. understanding of the financial results and financial • Reviewing the design and existence and testing of position of KPN, the reader should consult the KPN the operation of the systems and processes for audited financial statements in the KPN Annual Report information registration. for the year ended 31 December 2011. We do not provide • Auditing internal and external documentation to any assurance on the achievability of the targets, determine whether the information in the report expectations and ambitions of KPN. is adequately substantiated. • Analysing the reported data and related disclosures. Which reporting criteria did KPN use? KPN applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines During the assurance process we discussed necessary (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for changes in The Report with KPN and reviewed the final The Report as detailed in chapter 7 of The Report. version of The Report to ensure that it reflects our findings. The information in The Report should be read in conjunction with this explanatory information. What is our conclusion? Based on our procedures for limited assurance, nothing Which assurance standard did we use? came to our attention which indicates that the information We carried out our engagements in accordance with in the Report is not, in all material respects, fairly presented Standard 3410N ‘Assurance engagements relating to in accordance with the GRI G3.1 reporting criteria. sustainability reports’ of the Royal Netherlands Institute of Register Accountants. This Standard requires, amongst Based on our procedures for reasonable assurance, we others, that the assurance team possesses the specific conclude that the information for electricity consumption knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to and net CO2 emissions for the Netherlands for the financial understand and review the information in The Report, and book year 2011, as explained on the pages 46 and 47 of that they comply with the requirements of the IFAC Code of The Report, is presented in accordance with reporting Ethics for Professional Accountants, including independence. criteria defined by KPN. Amstelveen, 21 February 2012 W.J. Bartels, partner, on behalf of KPMG Sustainability, part of KPMG Advisory N.V. KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 68 KPN | Sustainability Report 2011 The Sustainability Report is published in Dutch and English. In case of differences, the Dutch version prevails. Contents and organization KPN N.V. Corporate Communications www.kpn.com DHV Adviesgroep Duurzaam Ondernemen www.dhv.nl/mvo Design Addison www.addison.co.uk Feedback If you would like to give your opinion about this report and our social performance, please send an e-mail to mvo@kpn.com. Koninklijke KPN N.V. Maanplein 55 2516 CK The Hague The Netherlands P.O. Box 30000 2500 GA The Hague The Netherlands T: +31 (0)70 343 43 43 www.kpn.com
