CSR Communication on Progress 2011 Our full CSR CoP 2011 experience is available. Visit csrr.adecco.com CSR CoP 20 11 Contents 3 The Adecco Group 7 Message from the CEO 9 Our business and CSR 12 Our corporate social responsibility 14 Selected CSR activities 2011/2012 26 GRI content index 32 Further reading 35 Glossary 38 CSR Governance 40 Imprint The ­Adecco Group We inspire individuals and organisations to work more effectively and efficiently, and create greater choice in the domain of work, for the benefit of all concerned. As the world’s leading provider of HR solutions – a business that has a positive impact on millions of people every day – we are conscious of our global role. CSR CoP 2011 3 33,000+ 700,000+ 100,000+ 5,500+ full-time equivalent associates on clients BRANCHES in over 60 employees 1 assignment daily 2 every day 2 countries & territories 1 Key figures Revenues EBITA Net income attributable Employees FTE (year-end) in EUR billions in EUR millions to Adecco shareholders in thousands in EUR millions 21.1 20.0 14.8 18.7 20.5 1,081 908 299 722 814 735 495 8 423 519 37 34 28 32 33 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 2011 Revenue split by segment in % France 30% Italy 5% North America 18% Nordics 4% UK & Ireland 8% Iberia 4% Japan 7% Australia & New Zealand 2% Germany & Austria 7% Switzerland 2% Benelux 5% Emerging Markets 7% LHH 1% 2011 EBITA split by segment in % (operating units) France 24% Italy 7% North America 18% Nordics 2% UK & Ireland 4% Iberia 3% Japan 9% Australia & New Zealand 2% Germany & Austria 12% Switzerland 5% Benelux 5% Emerging Markets 5% LHH 4% 2011 Revenue split by business line in % Office 26% Medical & Science 2% Industrial 52% Solutions 1% Information Technology 11% 1 Year-end 2011 Engineering & Technical 5% 2 Average 2011 Finance & Legal 3% Share price performance comparison 2011 in CHF 80 60 40 20 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Adecco Basket of competitors 3 SMI 3 Share information Tickers SWX Europe ADEN Share price in CHF Bloomberg ADEN VX • Year-end 39.35 Reuters ADEN.VX • Average 49.84 ISIN CH0012138605 • High/low 66.05/32.15 Historical data for the fiscal years in EUR millions (except shares) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Statement of operations data Revenues 20,545 18,656 14,797 19,965 21,090 Gross profit 3,566 3,329 2,649 3,673 3,927 EBITA 4 814 722 299 908 1,081 Net income attributable to Adecco shareholders 519 423 8 495 735 Other financial indicators Cash flow from operating activities 524 455 477 1,054 1,062 Free cash flow 5 415 350 385 948 971 Net debt 6 892 751 110 617 866 Key ratios (as % of revenues) Gross margin 17.4% 17.8% 17.9% 18.4% 18.6% SG&A ratio 7 13.4% 14.0% 15.9% 13.8% 13.5% EBITA margin 4.0% 3.9% 2.0% 4.5% 5.1% Per share figures Basic EPS in EUR 2.72 2.20 0.04 2.82 3.97 Diluted EPS in EUR 2.72 2.17 0.04 2.71 3.80 Cash dividend in CHF 1.80 8 1.10 0.75 1.50 1.50 Number of shares Basic weighted-average shares 190,671,723 192,113,079 177,606,816 175,414,832 185,107,346 Diluted weighted-average shares 190,805,080 195,596,325 177,613,991 184,859,650 195,279,053 Outstanding (year-end) 170,448,401 174,702,026 174,079,431 174,188,402 182,647,293 3 SMI and Basket of competitors (Manpower, Randstad and Kelly Services market capitalisation weighted in CHF) relative to Adecco’s share price: 1.1.2011 = CHF 61.25. 4 EBITA is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and is defined herein as operating income before amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. 5 Free cash flow is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and is defined herein as cash flow from operating activities minus capital expenditures. 6 Net debt is a non-U.S. GAAP measure and comprises short-term and long-term debt, less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. 7 Excluding amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. 8 Proposed by the Board of Directors. Our business at a glance Adecco Group HR solutions and services TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT STAFFING SERVICES HR PROCESS MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS General Staffing Professional Staffing Workforce Management Career Transition & Talent Solutions Development Solutions · Office · Information Technology · Managed Services · Outplacement · Industrial · Engineering & Technical Programmes (MSP) · Leadership Development · Finance & Legal · Recruitment Process · Career Development · Medical & Science Outsourcing (RPO) · Change Management · Vendor Management Solutions System (VMS) · Training  · Consulting CSR CoP 2011 6 Message from the CEO Dear stakeholder, Helping people to achieve ‘better work, better life’ is our comrecruitment provider to the upcoming London Olympic Games, mon purpose and defines how we contribute to society every we have created a Disability Talent Pool to guarantee interday. Work is a source of dignity. It gives people a sense of view and job opportunities for disabled applicants; we also purpose and belonging. extended our involvement in a global series of workshops with the ILO International Business and Disability Network. We recognise work as a basic need and right, and the foundation of personal, family and societal well-being. Helping A new aspect of our activities to help people acquire ‘Skills’ millions of associates find their best possible job as well as is our leading role in ‘Unlocking Britain’s Potential’ campaign, building talented, flexible teams for companies is a motivating including an action to help businesses to foster closer links force for Adecco employees. We reinforce this role through with schools, therefore bridging the gap between education our CSR strategy centred upon Integration, Skills and Exceland work; we are participating in the 2012 European Year of lence. This is explained in depth in our full 2010 CSR Report Active Ageing through the ‘Golden Workers’ project, helping and updated upon in this Communication on Progress 2011. mature workers gain IT skills needed for employment; in addition, over 17,000 of our employees volunteered their time Ongoing economic uncertainty brings into sharp focus our to cycle in our Win4Youth initiative, raising a large donation commitment to enable ‘better work, better life’. We are experito charitable foundations helping young people acquire skills encing high and rising unemployment, particularly amongst for a better life. young people, as well as jobless recoveries. At the same time, talent shortages are growing in markets as diverse as the US Our recent CSR activities focused upon ‘Excellence’ involve and China. This paradox reflects widespread skill mismatches meeting increased expectations of clients and reporting inbetween education/training systems and the needs of the dices in regard to our environmental, social and governance labour market. We can clearly see that there is an underlying (ESG) performance: in 2011, Adecco became a constituent of structural labour market crisis as well as economic challenges the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) World & Europe; which need to be addressed. we were amongst the top 250 companies of the 2011 Newsweek Green Rankings; our Carbon Disclose ranking improved. As the global leader of HR Solutions, we accept our responsiNot least, Adecco again met the corporate responsibility bility to take action and also partner others in a drive to tackle standards of the FTSE4Good Index Series. these issues and improve the world of work. Some of these initiatives are reflected in our latest highlights: Linking our environmental ‘Excellence’ to ‘Integration’, we participated in the United Nations Environmental Programme Progress highlights (UNEP) conference on Green Jobs for Youth. In support of our Our REDvolución project began in Spain, supporting our ‘Intesustainable business success, we also launched the Adecco gration’ efforts for those excluded from the workforce. Adecco Academy, thus strengthening our Group’s global training and employees took to the streets to offer 70,000 people practical development programmes. job-finding support, including local workshops; as official CSR CoP 2011 7 Our role As the global industry leader, we feel it is our job to improve the world of work. We use our expertise to shape the industry agenda and bring innovative workforce solutions in order to broaden work opportunities for millions of people. Our CSR strategy of Integration, Skills and Excellence brings added intensity to our core commitment to enable ‘better work, better life’ for the benefit of all our stakeholders. Thank you for reading our Communication on Progress. Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer CSR CoP 2011 8 We unlock potential for individuals, businesses and economies reinforced by our CSR strategy centred upon Excellence, Integration and Skills. Our business and CSR Prioritising activities Board of Directors ­Adecco Group: three main global programmes in our strategic areas Corporate Governance Committee Executive Committee Experts Groups Excellence CEO Adecco Group Head Group Communications Sustainable workplace How CSR relates to our business In our global organisation, spanning over 60 countries, a concerted managed approach to CSR is required. CSR is recIntegration Skills ognised as an integral part of our business by the Board of Directors and by the Executive Committee. Our programmes and activities are a designated responsibility of management throughout our business operations. Stakeholders Global programmes We communicate and report regularly to meet our internal Employees Excellence and external stakeholders’ expectations. We respond to the Customers & Shareholders Excellence Awards Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, the Carbon Disclosure Society Project, and the FTS4Good Index Series. We also submit our Integration IOC Athlete Career Programme Communication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the IPC Athlete Career Programme UN Global Compact and apply the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Guidelines. Skills Win4Youth Our responsibility – as the market leader in HR services – is to unlock and match existing potential on both sides. Work is the foundation of personal and family life, corporate and organisational success, social stability and economic development. Work is a basic need and should be a basic right of all people. Choice in the domain of work supports people to develop and apply their talents and it gives a purpose to peoples’ lives by building a sense of inclusion in society. CSR CoP 2011 9 How HR services benefit labour markets Economies ADECCO GROUP Enterprises Individuals Our stakeholders Our stakeholder groups are manifold reflecting the pervading importance of work. Amongst our employees and associates, all socio-economic backgrounds, ages and abilities are represented. The spectrum of roles and occupations we offer is vast, as is the diversity of our client base. This encompasses industry sectors such as Office, Industrial, IT, Engineering & Technical, Finance & Legal, Medical & Science, HR Process Management, including Career Transition and Talent Development Solutions. Our services and knowledge around work brings us into constructive dialogue with governments, labour organisations and related bodies such as the UN, the ILO, the EU and national staffing federations, amongst others. Through established partnerships and activities with leading universities such as INSEAD, IMD, LBS and other academies around the world, we are a key source for individuals, organisations and governments seeking to understand and shape the future of work. We strive for an open dialogue with the financial community and the media to enhance understanding of our business. This involves explaining our business and implied risks as well as opportunities through the release of our comprehensive quarterly results and through meetings with our management at roadshows, industry and market conferences. Being a service sector industry with a network of over 5,500 offices in more than 60 countries, we consider our environmental impact to be relatively minor. However, we are conscious of the increasing importance of reducing our Carbon Footprint and have implemented an emission calculator to measure and reduce our impact within our major markets. With this report, we provide an overview of our three-pillar CSR strategy centred upon Excellence, Integration and Skills. CSR CoP 2011 10 Our main stakeholder groups and their major concerns (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) Our main stakeholder groups Concerns Our employees Employees, candidates and associates, all socio-economic back• Work as income, fulfilment of a dream, as a basis for indepengrounds, ages and abilities dence • Work as basic need, which often is difficult to meet • Work as opportunity, as pathway into a personal future • Work as social value, which creates and foments relationships Our clients Small and large, private and public employers • Human Resources management as a key factor for competitive from all industry sectors ability and growth • Top talents for top jobs • The right person at the right time • Flexibility in the ever evolving markets Our investors Individual and institutional investors, • Profitability and return on investment analysts and stock market index providers • Sustainable growth • Corporate Governance The concerns we learn • Risks and opportunities • Socially and environmentally responsible investments from stakeholder dialogue, surveys and Society at large scientific research help us Communities, governments and related bodies, media, • Employment rates research institutes, etc. • Equal opportunities priorising our CSR core • Work as social integration for vulnerable groups • Undeclared work as burden for social costs subjects and issues (see • Decent work conditions materiality matrix). Materiality matrix (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) High Environment Community involvement Human rights • Resource use • Labour integration • Discrimination & • Climate change • Job creation vulnerable groups • Income creation • Fundamental rights at work Labour practices • Human development • Health & safety Stakeholder concern • Decent work ­conditions Fair operating practices How we prioritise the ISO • Fair competition • Anti-corruption 26000 core subjects and issues related to our Consumer issues business and the con(HR services do not relate to consumers cerns of our stakeholders. but to employees and Based on this, we corporate clients) designed our three Significance & relevance for Adecco Group operational focus areas Low High (see chart on page 13). CSR CoP 2011 11 We unlock potential for individuals, businesses and economies reinforced by our CSR strategy centred upon Excellence, Integration and Skills. For more information, read our latest CSR Report: csrr.adecco.com Our corporate social responsibility Unlocking potential environments and enhance their adaptability to different roles and teams. In many cases, they are a stepping stone to a perAt Adecco, we unlock potential in the domain of work for the manent position for individuals who otherwise could become benefit of all stakeholders. Thanks to the commitment of more marginalised. 37% of all temporary workers are officially than 33,000 employees, around 700,000 associates work registered as unemployed before working with an agency. through Adecco every day, amounting to more than 3 million This proportion falls to less than half that level (15%) twelve people in the workforce each year. months after working as an agency worker 1. Their income supports many families’ lives. Their talent, skills Adecco is involved in various public-private initiatives such as and efforts contribute to the productivity and sustainable sucthe ILO Global Business and Disability Network relaunched in cess of over 100,000 Adecco clients. Employment reduces the 2011 and the Golden Workers project. The latter was started in welfare burden and enables people to contribute to society October 2011 and is one of several initiatives that have been at large. At the same time, it gives individuals independence, undertaken by the EU Commission in support of the ‘Year of a purpose and may even fulfil a dream. Active Ageing and Solidarity between Generations 2012’. The main goal of Golden Workers is to identify emerging technoloHelping individuals and clients throughout their career and gies and socio-economic trends, new models of extending business life cycle and optimising our positive impact without professional active life and novel application scenarios in the compromise is our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). area of Information and Communications Technology (ICT) for The Corporate Governance Committee and the CEO oversee active ageing at work. our CSR strategy which is focused on three pillars in the world of work: Integration, Skills and Excellence. A centrepiece of our integration efforts is the IOC and the IPC Athlete Career Programmes. The International Olympic ComA range of specific programmes and activities underpin each mittee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) pillar and are the designated responsibility of management Athlete Career Programmes are designed to help high-­ throughout our business operations. We submit our Commuperforming athletes, as well as Olympians and Paralympians, nication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the UN Global to address their education, life skills and employment needs in Compact and apply the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Guideorder to enhance their prospects for success beyond competilines for our CSR reporting. In 2011, the Adecco Group became tion. The focus of Adecco’s role is to provide career developa constituent of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) ment and job placement support to help ease the challenges World and Europe. that athletes face while they transition into the workforce. Adecco also works with employers to help them identify and The effectiveness, efficiency and choice that we bring to the understand the qualities athletes can bring to their business. world of work are exemplified by a number of highlights The programmes have been in place since 2005 (IOC) and presented here. 2007 (IPC) respectively, reaching out to more than 8,500 Olympic and Paralympic athletes around the world. New landmarks Integration Integrating people into the workforce through were achieved in 2011 with the participation of more than temporary work is a central part of our business. Jobs offer 2,000 athletes in the programme. Adecco has hired athletes people work experience and an income. Consecutive assignfrom 13 countries, being a strong believer in the transferable ments provide people with diverse work experiences and 1 Source: Ciett Economic Report 2011. CSR CoP 2011 12 Our three operational focus areas address the material CSR core subjects and issues (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) Focus areas ISO 26000 CSR core subjects and issues Our key ambitions Excellence Human rights • We stay alongside our clients, associates and employees • Discrimination & vulnerable Groups throughout their life cycle • Fundamental rights at work • We are a great place to work • Whatever we do: we act responsibly, to meet the highest Labour practices • Health & safety standards • Decent work conditions Fair operating practices • Fair competition • Anti-corruption Environment • Resource use • Climate change Skills Labour practices • Unlocking potential • Human development • We support people to apply talents and contribute to society With our three focus areas, • Training • We connect top talents with top jobs • Further training • We offer a future with opportunities for personal development we integrate the material core subjects relevant to our • We see work as a basic needs, which should be a basic right for Integration Community involvement • Labour integration business from both – the UN all people • Work creation • We contribute to social integration of disadvantaged individuals Global Compact and the ISO • Income creation • We create new jobs • We reduce unemployment 26000 – throughout our organisation and operations. skills athletes can bring to the corporate world. Strengthening Excellence Striving for and measuring excellence is central to the Olympic Movement’s responsible approach to athletes, the our ethos and operational practices. It enables us to sustain IOC in cooperation with Adecco also delivered career developour business success and industry leadership but at the same ment advice to over 250 young athletes and volunteers during time furthers our team spirit and maximises our positive contrithe 1st Winter Youth Olympic Games in Innsbruck in January 2012. bution to society. Since October 2011, the Adecco Academy has been running our Group development programmes aimed at As Official Recruitment Services Provider to London 2012, Adecco excellence in leadership, services & sales and operations. UK & Ireland is working as an integral part of the London Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games In 2011, we ran our third Adecco Group Excellence Awards. (LOCOG) to achieve the commitment for the Games to be the Eight winning teams were recognised and rewarded for outmost diverse and inclusive ever. By the time the Games start, standing results achieved through applying our four core Adecco UK & Ireland will have recruited 7,000 people. values of team spirit, customer focus, responsibility and entrepreneurship. Whilst Adecco Eastern Europe was the overall Skills The acquisition and ongoing development of skills is a winner, Adecco Spain received an award in recognition of the passport to employment, income and a sustainable career. highest retention rate – one of Adecco Group’s key strategic Providing and guiding our associates, as well as employees, priorities. Other winners included Adecco South America, to suitable training and development opportunities is an Adecco Italy, Adecco US Staffing, Tuja Germany, Adecco Brazil essential part of our business approach. and one of our international account teams. Helping disadvantaged people acquire the skills they need Many of our advances in the social, economic and environis a real passion that unites the Adecco Group. This is highmental aspects of the CSR arena were reflected in internationlighted by the participation of 16,500 employees in our 2011 ally recognised assessments in 2011. The Dow Jones SustainWin4Youth initiative. At more than 2,300 events in 63 counability Index (DJSI), in cooperation with Sustainable Asset tries, our employees and 4,000 clients cycled a total of Management (SAM), recognised the Adecco Group as one of 1,565,528 kilo­metres. Over 84,000 kilometres of this total were the sustainability leaders in the Industrial Goods and Services achieved during our worldwide Solidarity Day raising funds for sector based on performance across economic, environmental the victims of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami. and social criteria. Additionally, Adecco retained its inclusion as a member company of the FTSE4Good Index, For every 5 kilometres completed – on road bike or even spinthe responsible investment index calculated by global index ning machine – the Adecco Group donated USD 1 to a grand provider FTSE Group in its Semi-Annual Review 2011. We were total which was shared between three foundations: Brazil – named among the top 250 companies on the 2011 Newsweek Social Circus in Rio de Janeiro; Philippines – The Cebu boys Green rankings. This is in step with our increased focus on home; and in Greece we supported ‘The Smile of the Child’ environmental performance which we track through the ‘myclidedicated to providing community homes giving shelter and mate’ emission measuring platform and our involvement in the safety to children. The highlight of the 2011 project – which Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Through our participation in built upon a running-themed Win4Youth project in 2010 – was the World Economic Forum as a strategic partner, we support the successful cycling ascent of Mont Ventoux in France by the Forum’s commitment to improving the state of the world by 74 employees from around the world. creating greater choice in the domain of work and by unlocking potential in individuals, enterprises and society in general. CSR CoP 2011 13 Milestones Selected CSR activities 2011/2012 Integration Annual Athlete participation in the IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programme between 2006 and 2011 Integrating people into the workforce through temporary work is a central part of our business. Jobs offer people work ex2500 perience and an income. Consecutive assignments provide 2000 people with diverse work experiences and environments and 1500 enhance their adaptability to different roles and teams. In many cases, they are a stepping stone to a permanent posi1000 tion for individuals who otherwise could become marginal500 ised. 37% of all temporary workers are officially registered as unemployed before working with an agency. This proportion 06 07 08 09 10 11 falls to less than half that level (15%) twelve months after working as an agency worker. In Programm Placed The IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programme A centrepiece of our integration efforts is the IOC and the IPC Athlete Career Programmes. The International Olympic ComProgramme (IOC ACP) by agreeing to an eight-year extension mittee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) of its cooperation agreement with the Adecco Group. Athlete Career Programmes are designed to help high-perwww.olympic.org/athletes-space forming athletes, as well as Olympians and Paralympians, to www.paralympic.org/athletes address their education, life skills and employment needs in order to enhance their prospects for success beyond competiIPC Inclusion Summit during London 2012 tion. The focus of Adecco’s role is to provide career developIn September 2012, during the Paralympic Summer Games in ment and job placement support to help ease the challenges London, Adecco together with the IPC is co-hosting the 2nd IPC that athletes face while they transition into the workforce. The Academy Inclusion Summit. The event is a natural extension of programmes have been in place since 2005 (IOC) and 2007 the current IPC ACP services as it will focus on inclusion and (IPC) respectively, reaching out to more than 10,000 Olympic accessibility from a community, sport, and labour perspective. and Paralympic athletes from more than 100 countries with Adecco has focused on integrating Paralympic athletes and career training and job placement. New landmarks were people with disabilities into the workplace for many years with achieved in 2011 with the participation of more than 2,000 many companies. The Summit represents an important opporathletes in the programme. tunity to share our experience in helping people with disabilities to be able to integrate into the workforce and society. The On July 5, 2012, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Inclusion Summit will be an opinion-leading debate with a underscored its firm commitment to the IOC Athlete Career. focus on inclusion and accessibility from a community, sport, and labour perspective. www.ipcinclusionsummit.com CSR CoP 2011 14 People with disabilities integrated into the labour market Information on number of individuals 12,000 Other business units 10,000 (DE, UK, AR, TW, JP, USA, etc.) 8,000 Adecco Belgium 6,000 Adecco Italy & Adecco Foundation Italy 4,000 Adecco Spain & 2,000 Adecco Foundation Spain Adia France 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Adecco France Extended involvement with the Global ILO Business and Olympic and Paralympic Games – Adecco UK & Ireland Disability Network helps achieve diversity for London 2012 People with disabilities make up around 15% of the world’s In January 2009, the London Organising Committee of the population. This amounts to over 1 billion people, making them Olympic Games and Paralympic Games (LOCOG) named the largest minority group. As an employer of over 10,000 peoAdecco UK & Ireland as their official recruitment services prople with disabilities per year, we bring considerable experience vider. Rising to the challenge, Adecco UK & Ireland developed to the Global ILO Business and Disability Network through our a unique diversity tracking software that measures the six membership and role on the Steering Committee. The Network streams of diversity (age, ethnicity, faith, gender, disability and is comprised of representatives from multinational enterprises, sexuality) in every department. Recognising that disability is a employers’ organisations and business networks, and selected major recruitment challenge, we devised a number of pronon-governmental and disabled peoples’ organisations. It asgrammes to assist with the process; including a guaranteed sists companies with the inclusion of people with disabilities interview scheme that helped candidates with the right skills into the workforce from the perspectives of business and to get the best possible chance of a role in London 2012. human rights cases. Adecco UK & Ireland also developed a disability talent pool that ensures talented candidates with a disability – that may The Network held a special session on June 11, 2012 in Gennot have been offered a role initially – are mentored and eva, Switzerland, in order to formalize its structure, strategic tracked in case opportunities should arise. plan and membership commitments. This marks a significant advance in the Network, moving on from its start point as Our charitable Foundations purely being an informal group of like-minded businesses and Adecco Group and its Foundations – often in partnership with employers’ organisations. respected organisations – are involved in a range of international, national and local programmes to help groups ‘at risk’ The Network’s event which was attended by several Heads of of exclusion from the workforce because of disabilities, age, States – took place during the 101st session of the International ethnicity or gender. Labour Conference (ILC) of the ILO. It was a valuable opportunity to raise the profile of the Network, increasing its visibility Our Adecco Foundations in France, Italy and Spain are funded among employers, unions and government representatives. by contributions from Adecco and other companies and organisations committed to supporting our integration efforts. Global network meetings conducted since 2010 with Adecco’s participation include: Europe (Paris), US (New York), India Adecco Foundation France, created in 2002: (Bangalore), Argentina (Buenos Aires) and South Africa (Jo• Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training disadvantaged hannesburg). Watch the video. people for labour integration. www.businessanddisability.org • Activities: Develop social partnerships with various nonprofit organisations in three fields: education, career orientation and professional integration. As a result, every year, 50 non-profit organisations are supported and 200 Adecco employees volunteer to participate in a local solidarity initiative. It also provides the French Athlete Career Programme devoted to help Elite, Olympic and Paralympic athletes to find their place in the labour market. CSR CoP 2011 15 Global engagement Win4Youth 2010 (cumulative) 1,600,000 1,400,000 1,200,000 1,000,000 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 1,565,528 Total distance in KM • Employees: 5. Country highlights at a glance • Annual donation by Adecco Groupe France: approximately EUR 300,000. REDvolución project in Spain During 2011, • Budget Foundation: EUR 550,000. over 5 million people – or close to 23 percent Adecco Fondation Groupe France of the working population – were out of work in Spain. Adecco Spain took unprecedented Adecco Foundation Italy, created in 2001: action on the streets of Spain on October 27, • Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training disadvantaged 2011. The aim was to use its expertise to help people unlock people for labour integration. their potential, make a step into work, and integrate into soci• Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships and iniety in an innovative and high-impact way. Driven by the belief tiatives to integrate people with disabilities, single women that work is a fundamental right and a basic need, Adecco’s with family charge, long-time unemployed, people over REDvolución initiative focused upon combating Spain’s rising 40, elite Olympic and Paralympic athletes. unemployment. Adecco’s branch network in Spain set up 300 • Employees: 7. ‘hot spots’ around the country where 1,100 colleagues who • Annual donation by Adecco Group Italy: approximately took to the streets for the day offered practical job-finding supEUR 500,000. port to 70,000 people. In addition, 500 workshops on interview • Budget Foundation (in kind donations): EUR 300,000. techniques and CV writing took place in November and Adecco Fondazione December across the nation with a total of 4,000 attendees. www.laredvolucionadecco.com Adecco Foundation Spain, created in 1999: • Purpose: Assisting, supporting and training disadvantaged people for labour integration. • Activities: The foundation runs several partnerships and iniSkills tiatives. As a result, it finds employment for about 1,800 disThe acquisition and ongoing development of skills is a passabled people, over 230 single mothers, more than 670 port to employment, income and a sustainable career. Providpeople aged over 45, as well as 20 elite Olympic and Paraing and guiding our associates, as well as employees, to suitlympic athletes. able training and development opportunities is an essential • Employees: 78. part of our business approach. • Annual donation by Adecco Group Spain: approximately EUR 520,000. • Budget Foundation 2011: EUR 10,536,588. Adecco Fundación CSR CoP 2011 16 Hours of training by tenure 76 26 21 100 80 60 40 20 1–2 3–5 5+ Caption: Training hours per year per colleague in 2011 by tenure (years of employment). 81% of all training comes from a classroom environment vs. 19% online. Win4Youth helping young people succeed This global initiaAdecco Academy – Service Excellence Course tive which started back in 2010 gives all employees the opporThe Academy, launched at our Management Conference in tunity to cycle and raise funds that help give children and January 2011 has started with courses to train thousands of young people in challenging situations a future. In 2011, we colleagues each year, at various levels and with various areas reached an astounding 1,565,528 kilometres – cycled by over of focus. Colleagues from Germany, Spain, Italy, France and 16,500 colleagues and 4,000 clients at more than 2,300 the UK, attended the first Service Excellence course in October events in 63 countries around the world. Over 84,000 kilome2011 in Zurich. It was all about unlocking the desire and expertres of this total were achieved during our worldwide Solidarity tise to become more customer service oriented. Participants Day raising funds for the victims of the Japanese earthquake explored their behaviours and their impact on the perception and tsunami. of service – it is all about awareness and choices. The design and development phase involved interviewing 136 customers A rounded-up figure of 330,000 US dollars was given to our from 14 different countries to include their needs, expectations three foundations: and even desires in the course content. We aim to create con• Se Essa Rua Fesse Minha (Brazil). www.seessarua.org.br sistency across the globe to provide our customers with a • The Smile of the Child (Greece). www.hamogelo.gr great experience. No matter which branch a client or associ• Roter Keil (Philippines). www.roterkeil.net ate makes contact with, he or she will know that it is Adecco and that the service received is the great experience he or she Win4Youth 2012 was officially launched in January 2012 due to can expect from the world’s leading provider in HR solutions. our employees’ efforts in meeting the 2011 goal. In 2012, all Sessions are a blend of breakout workgroups conducted in Adecco colleagues around the globe are swimming, cycling either English, French, German, Spanish or Italian and plenary and running for youth in order to foment great team spirit and sessions with all languages groups together. In 2012, a total of stay fit but most importantly to continue help youngsters get a 10 Service Excellence Courses will take place in Asia, Australia, better start in life. North America and Europe. Adecco has selected four new foundations in China, Morocco, New Zealand and Belgium which will benefit from our Win4Youth donation in 2012. Marc Herremans, the chosen godfather for the Win4Youth 2012 project, was twice Belgian Champion in triathlon over an Olym‘Unlocking Britain’s Potential’ campaign launched in 2011 pic distance. In 2001, he came in 6th at the Ironman of Hawaii This major initiative facilitated by Adecco Group UK was de– the toughest triathlon competition in the world. His dream signed to engage UK business, Government and broader was to one day win the Ironman, and despite a terrible accistakeholders in the debate on the action needed to realise the dent which left him paraplegic, he never gave up on that full potential of the UK workforce. We engaged with some of dream. He was the first wheelchair athlete to cross the finish the most forward-thinking, insightful and yet practical busiline at the Ironman of Hawaii in 2006 at the age of 33. We ness leaders, HR practitioners and key stakeholders, hosting have a godfather who is a true inspiration – in sport and in life. Read more CSR CoP 2011 17 four roundtable events during April, May and June 2011. Each Country highlights at a glance event focused on one of four key workplace topics for the future – education, technology, engagement and diversity. ‘Jardines de Cosecha’ in Argentina The initiative culminated in the conference held in London in ‘Jardines de Cosecha’ is a programme which contributes to February 2012, where we launched our Ten Point Plan (see the prevention and elimination of agricultural child labour. The under ‘Further Reading‘). programme grew out of the request from working mothers www.unlockingbritainspotential.co.uk/ who, during harvest, do not have appropriate places to leave their children, thus being forced to take them to work. Adecco The ‘Golden Workers’ Argentina has created child care opportunities where the project – building worker’s children receive food and emotional support as well a roadmap for ICT as recreational activities including medical assistance. 2012 has been designated by the European Commission as the ‘European Year for Active So far, the accomplishments include: Ageing and Solidarity between Generations. The objective of • The creation of 11 Jardines de Cosecha in Salta, Jujuy (Tothe ‘Golden Workers’ project is to help mature workers gain IT bacco harvest) and Tucumán (Lemon harvest), Mendoza skills needed for employment. Through the Adecco Foundation (Vine harvest), where children can be a safe learning envirSpain and Adecco Group, we are part of the Golden Workers onment whilst their mothers work. Consortium and specifically contribute to the evaluation of • 1300 children have been attended through the project. results, workshop organisation and participation, experts con• Social work was carried out with 550 rural families. sultation, study dissemination, media approach, our expertise • 10 work teams were created in order to train over 90 teachin the integration of the mature workforce to develop topics ers which all led to job creation and employment for like: expertise on job places, environment analysis, labour teachers, child care and maintenance personnel. market tendencies, human resources experience, companies requirements, social exclusion issues, foresight analysis. The proThe ILO praised the programme as a model of public-private ject has started in October 2011 and will end in December 2012. partnership. A video is available on Jardines de Cosecha. www.goldenworkers.org Germany: Children learn for their occupational future Jobs for Youth, Skills for Companies Adecco Group Germany through its cooperation with the charAs a summit partner of the European Business Summit, we itable association ‘Brotzeit e.V.’, which supports underpriviparticipated in the Jobs for Youth, Skills for Companies open leged children with breakfast and tutorial support, came up forum session in April 2012. A dual education system comwith a new project on how to get children engaged with the bines apprenticeships in a host company and vocational eduworld of work. The Adecco-Brotzeit initiative introduces youngcation at a vocational school in one course. This system has a sters to apprenticeship programmes at the Adecco training long tradition in several countries, e.g. Germany, Austria, center ‘TRAINICO’. Trainico GmbH is a leading provider of techSwitzerland, the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway. It has nical and commercial training for the aviation industry in Geralso been introduced, e.g. in the Czech Republic, France, Hunmany. Over 2,300 people aged between 25 and 50 graduate gary, Ireland, Poland and the United Kingdom. The dual edueach year on Trainico certified courses. A remarkable 92% of cation systems offer a great variety of apprenticeship occupagraduates from long-term training courses obtain work after tions. In Switzerland, there are around 230 occupations to their course, reflecting the targeted approach of training to choose from, in Germany more than 350. The precise skills address growing skill shortages. Already plans are underway and theory taught are generally strictly regulated and defined to extend Trainico’s offer outside the aviation industry and by national standards. The dual education systems create place it at the heart of the training, education and professional jobs for youth and provide the skills European companies placement offer of the Adecco Group Germany and its brands. need to remain innovative and competitive. For more informaThrough the scheme, DIS AG pays the apprentice salary and tion, look at the Adecco Group White Paper: ‘Two worlds acts as mentor, helping them acquire valuable skills and qualcollide? Bringing Copenhagen to Bologna’ (see under ‘Further ifications and enhance employment prospects. Reading‘). www.brotzeitfuerkinder.com Watch the video. CSR CoP 2011 18 Adecco Japan puts emphasis on early career education Our Values Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and Our colleagues in Japan launched a programme called ‘CarEntrepreneurship are the principles guiding all that we do. eer education for the next generation’ in 2011. At local elementary schools, classes were conducted with the objective to • Team Spirit Our work and best-practice exchange is based provide young children with the opportunity to get in touch on mutual respect and trust. We cooperate across boundawith different professions at an early stage. The classes were ries, branches and disciplines. Team, trust and talent are taught through role plays by Adecco colleagues from the sales our keywords. and planning departments. • Customer Focus Our expertise lies in customising soluAdecco Sweden joins network to reduce youth unemploytions and connecting the right people. We are committed to ment In order to support youngsters in Sweden, Adecco building long-term partnerships with our employees, assojoined a network initiated by Metro newspaper: Metro Future ciates and clients. The focus on people with a Warm Heart, Stars. The network aims to reduce youth unemployment and Cool Head and Working Hands is our core competence. reaches out to young professionals in particular. Jointly with the other companies in the network, Adecco looks to employ • Responsibility Our integrity leads to better work, better the young people supporting them with: CV’s, interview trainlife – and to a sustainable future. We are honest and fair ing including feedback and the whole process which is repartners to our stakeholders at all times. Promoting fairquired to apply for a job. ness, diversity, and equality is our corporate legacy. • Entrepreneurship Our passion is to lead through enterprise Excellence and innovation. We encourage initiative in decision-making and creative solutions. Our aim is always to go the extra Successful business operations imply we can help more indimile. viduals in their working careers and provide the flexibility and efficiency companies need for sustainable success and to creExcellence Awards ate employment opportunities. Excellence means achieving In 2011, we ran our third Adecco Group Excellence Awards. outstanding performances whilst applying our core values of Eight winning teams were recognised and rewarded for outTeam Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and Entrepreneurstanding results achieved through applying our four core valship as well as our leadership principles: Cool Head, Warm ues of Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and EntreHeart and Working Hands. preneurship. Whilst Adecco Eastern Europe was the overall winner, Adecco Spain received an award in recognition of the highest retention rate – one of Adecco Group’s key strategic priorities. Other winners included Adecco South America, Adecco Italy, Adecco US Staffing, Tuja Germany, Adecco Brazil and one of our international account teams. CSR CoP 2011 19 Acknowledgements of our Social • Pictet-Ethos Swiss Sustainable Equities Fund www.pictetfunds.com Responsibility – indices and funds • Natixis Impact Europe Equities Fund www.am.natixis.com/ Adecco added to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). • Vontobel Fund – Global Responsibility Swiss Equity In 2011, the DJSI, in cooperation with Sustainable Asset Manwww.vontobel.com agement (SAM), recognised the Adecco Group as one of the sustainability leaders in the Industrial Goods and Services Other ratings we have received: sector. Adecco was compared to almost 1,500 of the largest companies worldwide. The assessment consists of an inEnhanced rating in the Carbon Disclose Project (CDP): depth analysis of the companies’ performance across ecoAdecco’s efforts in measuring and reporting its greenhouse nomic, environmental and social criteria such as corporate gas emissions were acknowldegded in CDP's evaluations governance, environmental risks and stakeholder relations. 1 2011: Adecco improved from Band C (‘low / improvable’) to B (‘middle/appreciation’). The Adecco Group is included in the following sustainable investment indices, which select constituents by assessing BILANZ magazine CSR rating 2011 – Adecco scores high: environmental, social and governance criteria (further inforThe business magazine ‘BILANZ’ in cooperation with Inrate, an mation at http://www.sustainable-investment.org/). independent sustainability rating agency based in Switzer• DJSI World land, rated 20 companies of the Swiss Market Index (SMI) www.sustainability-indexes.com comparing them against 1,800 international companies from • DJSI Europe the same sector. As a basis for the rating, 100 criteria were www.sustainability-indexes.com defined and the ratings went from -6 to (least) to +6 (best). • FTSE4GOOD Global Index Adecco reached grade +5 and came in the top 5. www.ftse.com/ftse4good • FTSE4GOOD Europe Index Adecco has been named among the top 250 companies on www.ftse.com/ftse4good the 2011 NEWSWEEK GREEN RANKINGS® Global List. • ECPI Ethical Index Global Newsweek’s Green Rankings cut through the green chatter www.e-cpartners.com and compare the actual environmental footprints, manage• ECPI Ethical Index Euro ment (policies, programmes, initiatives, controversies), and www.e-cpartners.com reporting practices of big companies. Newsweek teamed up • ESI Excellence Europe with two leading research organisations, Trucost and Sustainwww.ethibel.org alytics to create the most comprehensive rankings available. • DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland Newsweek ran its first Green Rankings two years ago for the www.sarasin.ch first time. 1 Source: Press release CSR CoP 2011 20 Accident frequency rates 1.4 Adecco Australia Adecco Belgium Australia 1.2 Adecco France Belgium Adia France France Adecco Tuja Germany 1.0 France Adia DIS Germany 0.8 AdeccoGermany Japan Tuja Netherlands Germany DIS 0.6 AdeccoJapan Norway Adecco Sweden Netherlands 0.4 Adecco Switzerland Norway Adecco UK Sweden 0.2 Adecco USA Switzerland UK 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 USA CSR achievements in Morocco and Tunisia Our occupational accidents decrease In order to ensure a Adecco Morocco is the first temporary work and recruitment fair basis for comparison of our safety performance among company to receive the CGEM label that acknowledges their our country organisations, we look at the development of Corporate Social Responsibility policy. accident frequency rates (AFR), rather than comparing absoAdecco Morocco sees its social responsibility policy approved lute AFR values. This is due to the fact that our involvement in by receiving the CGEM label (Confédération Générale des Enthe various business sectors – and thus various risk potentials treprises du Maroc, i.e. General Confederation of Moroccan – varies significantly from subsidiary to subsidiary. Enterprises). Jérick Develle, General Manager of Adecco Morocco, and his team are acknowledged for putting the indiPreventing accidents and diseases Our standard measures vidual at the heart of the recruitment process. vary from country to country. The five main elements are: On September 12, 2011, Adecco Tunisia achieved ISO 26000 certified by Vigeo. 1. Health and safety coordinators and committees We have formal joint management-worker health and safety commitAdecco Group France assessed by EcoVadis tees in several countries. In the 2011 assessement, Adecco Group France reached a total score of 7 out of 10 points. This is 1 point above average 2. Risk assessment in the workplace Before placing our emof the ‘temporary employment agency activities’ industry. The ployees, we conduct workplace health and safety due diliassessment reviewed environmental, labour, fair business and gence checks on clients’ premises, with regular follow-ups supply chain policies and practices. thereafter. Safety at work The Adecco Group strives to prevent acci3. Employee testing, training and induction In all countries, dents, injuries and diseases in the workplace. Recognising the training or briefing in accident prevention is most commonly risks, our associates are exposed to when entering new and available to our associates in the construction or industrial unfamiliar workplaces, the Adecco Group meets all statutory sector. The actual briefing or training sessions are usually carhealth and safety obligations. ried out either directly by the clients or by Adecco. 4. Medical checks In accordance with local regulations, we conduct preliminary and periodic medical health checks, geared to the respective assignment, to protect associates health in high-risk working environments. 5. Personal protection equipment By contractual agreement with clients, the Adecco Group or the clients themselves supply our associates with personal safety and protection equipment. CSR CoP 2011 21 EU renewed CSR Strategy 2011–2014 Adecco, involved through its industry confederation CIETT, has Adecco fully supports the European Commission Communicaprovided input on the Discussion Paper for the Employment tion on a ‘Renewed Strategy 2011–2014 for Corporate Social and Recruitment Agencies Sector Roundtable. Responsibility’ as published in October 2011 in order to create conditions favourable to sustainable growth, responsible busiWe are currently undertaking and are involved in several ininess behaviour and durable employment generation in the tiatives through CIETT and its engagement with the EU Commedium and long term. Especially the need to give greater mission to develop guidance for the sector. This will support attention to human rights and to contribute to implement John us in implementing a meaningful policy on Human and Ruggie’s Principles (‘Protect, Respect & Remedy’) is one imporLabour Rights, a system to monitor compliance and auditing tant part of the Renewed Strategy 2011–2014. We strongly welof non-compliance within the Adecco Group. come the Commission’s decision to develop sector-specific Read more guidance to further enforce compliance regarding human and Labour Rights and anti-corruption for the employment and In November 2003, the Adecco Group became the first comrecruitment sector. If developed and implemented effectively, pany in its industry to sing the United Nation’s Global Compact this guidance will be extremely valuable in promoting compre(UNGC). This public endorsement underlines Adecco’s adherhensive, improved corporate responsibility practices in our ence to: sector, in qualitative and quantitative terms. • UN Charter of Human Rights Read more • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work EUROCIETT-UNI Europa project on ‘Transitions in the Labour • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning MultinaMarket‘ As an actively involved EUROCIETT member, Adecco tional Enterprises and Social Policy has been contributing to the Report ‘Temporary Agency Work • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and Transitions in the Labour Market‘ under the funding and guidance of the EU Commission researched and in coordinaAdecco Colombia & Human Rights As one of the ‘Countries tion with the German Institute ‘Wilke, Maack und Partner‘. The of Concern’, Adecco in Colombia engaged in a multi stakereport is due to be published at the end of 2012. Its focus lies holder initiative foreseen as a measure within the Free Trade on how temporary agency work can contribute to facilitating Agreement between the Columbian and the Swiss Governthe transitions in the labour market while at the same time ment, at the end of 2011. Various companies, the Swiss and fostering progression in the career paths of agency workers in the Columbian Government, an NGO ‘Fundación Ideas para line with the concept of ‘making transitions pay‘. Additionally it la paz’ signed the ‘compromiso ético’, focusing on the respect illustrates the added value of social partnerships, assessing of Human Rights by the adhering companies and organisathe potential of practice transfer and learning effects for other tions. Since beginning of 2012, two meetings took place, with countries and looking at the impact on working and employthe first meeting in April focusing on explaining the concept ment conditions, labour market transitions. and importance of International Humanitarian Law and the Read more second meeting focused on the ‘Guías Colombia’ on Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law which was led by Human Rights guidance for Employment & Recruitment the NGO ‘Fundación Ideas para la paz’. Agencies sector Shift and the Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) in a joint project with the European CommisNew CIETT Strategy – The Way to Work At the CIETT World sion are to develop human rights guidance for the EmployEmployment Conference staged in London in May 2012, CIETT ment and Recruitment Agencies sector as a member of the launched ‘The way to work: A job for every person, a person project’s multi-stakeholder Employment and Recruitment for every job’ as the new vision brought to life for the private Agencies Sector Advisory Group. employment services (PrES) industry. Building on the Adapting to Change report, CIETT is taking the industry to a next level. In The European Commission identified the development of guidMay 2012, CIETT unveiled the industry’s commitment to better ance on the corporate responsibility to respect human rights functioning labour markets through the 5 pledges Ciett memunder the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human bers will undertake at the global level, over the next 5 years: Rights as one of its priority actions in its recent communication on corporate social responsibility. Shift and IHRB were selected • Support 280 million people in their job life to carry out the project over the course of 2012, including the • Help 75 million young people enter the labour market recommendation on the sectors to be addressed, and now in • Upskill 65 million people, giving them more work choices developing the guidance for the three sectors chosen by the • Create 18 million more jobs Commission: Employment and Recruitment Agencies, ICT, and • Serve 13 million companies with the right talents to succeed Oil and Gas. CSR CoP 2011 22 The Way to Work A job for every person, a person for every job The Way to Work A job for every person, for every job People – Quality, Freedom, Inclusiveness, Serving Help Support 75 million Create 280 million young Upskill Serve 18 million people people 65 million 13 million more jobs in their job enter the people companies for people life labour market CIETT – The Voice of Labour Choice As a corporate member of CIETT, Adecco strongly supports the Adecco spurred its contribution at the B20 in 2012 held in Los industry pledges to improve the global labour market by supCabos, where the focus was put on finding solutions to Youth porting millions of people and companies. Unemployment, building on the 2011 B20 Working Group RecRead more ommendations. They emphasise the necessity to improve collaboration between business and educational institutions and World Economic Forum WEF – Adecco steps up engagement the need to scale internships and apprenticeships to facilitate to Strategy Partner In January 2012, the Adecco Group took transitions from school to work. Within the B20 – L20 efforts part in the World Economic Forum in Davos for the first time driven also by Adecco, the Joint Statements were complesince becoming a Strategic Partner in December 2011. Job mented by 2 Addendums on Developing Youth employment – creation was very high on the agenda of the Annual Meeting Apprenticeships and Internships and Developing the formal and we were represented by our management in several iniEconomy. tiatives and on the panel of ‘Future of Human Capital’, Adecco www.b20.org/employment.aspx contributed to the Talent Mobility report as a member of the Global Agenda Council and Steering Board on Skills & Talent Supplier Code of Conduct and questionnaire Mobility. As Strategic Partner, Adecco is also involved in a seThe Adecco Group expects its suppliers, vendors, contractors ries of regional WEF’s such as the one for Latin America, East and other entities with whom we conduct business to apply at Asia, Middle East, North Africa, and Eurasia, the WEF Annual least the same level of commitment towards responsible busiMeeting of New Champions in China, and the WEF India ness practices, as we do. This responsible business practices Economic Summit in India with our local leaders to further span across the ethical, social and environmental dimensions. co-shape the agenda on job creation. Therefore, we have launched a new Supplier Code of Conduct together with a questionnaire which will be sent to our major G20 – B20 – L20 Meetings in Cannes, France, in 2011 and suppliers going forward. Adecco recognises the variety of Los Cabos, Mexico, in 2012 Adecco for the first time joined legal and cultural environment in which its suppliers operate. the few Companies to represent Business at the B20 Summit However, our Supplier Code of Conduct should be understood in Cannes in November 2011. As a member of the ‘Employas the framework of minimum requirements, which are appliment and Social Dimension‘ Working Group, Adecco was incable in the vast majority of situations. The requirements set volved in the drafting of the Workings Groups Recommendaforth in this Code of Conduct are linked to the UN Global Comtions, focusing on better functioning labour markets, pact’s ten principles, to which Adecco is a signatory since 2003. measures to stimulate job creation and the interaction between social protection and job creation through social protection floors. Adecco also participated in the first encounter with global Trade Union representatives in the B20-L20 meetings, contributing to the B20-L20 Joint Statements on Employment, Social Protection, Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the coherence of actions in the multilateral system. CSR CoP 2011 23 Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (Based on the Greenhous Gas Protocol) Emissions metric tonnes CO2 e Coverage extrapolated to Group Data basis 1 (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (CO2 equivalent) level (% FTEs) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Own business cars 1 (direct) 81,423 85,683 100% 100% 16.15% 14.5% Electricity 2 (indirect) 62,609 70,663 2 100% 100% 1 27.73% 24.9% Electricity 3 (indirect) 27,275 30,615 2 100% 100% 1 27.73% 24.9% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 45,989 46,631 100% 100% 16.15% 14.5% Rental cars 3 (indirect) 2,060 3 1,956 100% 100% 20.95% 22.1% Air travel 3 (indirect) 7,372 6,407 100% 100% 82.90% 4 72.0% 4 Paper 3 (indirect) 2,368 2,458 5 100% 100% 33.96% 11.5% Toner 3 (indirect) 596 642 5 100% 100% 33.96% 11.5% New lap & desktops 3 (indirect) 2,497 2,446 5 100% 100% 100% 100% More details on emissions and measurement methodology are provided in our Carb Disclosure Project answers to be found under www.cdproject.net. Our materials and water consumption (GRI indicator EN1) Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis 1 (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) 2011 2010 2011 2010 Material Paper (office supply, does not include printed matters) 1,845 metric tonnes 1,898 metric tonnes 4 33.96% 11.5% Toner (modelled from paper consumption) 185 kg 189 kg 33.96% 11.5% Our electricity consumption Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis 1 (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) 2011 2010 2011 2010 Energy source Electricity (from national grids) 145,080,770 kWh 160,014,370 kWh 27.73% 24.9% 1 The respective figures in the CSR Report 2010 based on a coverage of 78%, which could be raised to 100%. Consequently, the emission values for 2010 could be restated accordingly. 2 Data stem from representative branches in FR, USA, UK, JP, DE, BE, NL, IT, NO, SW, ES, CH. 3 Data extrapolated from 2010 to 2011, as for 2011 no original data were available. 4 Data basis relating to total staff of all HQs Group-wide. More adequate, since air travelling mainly occurs amongst HQ staff. 5 Restated figures. The respective figures in the CSR Report 2010 were too high due to some calculation errors. CSR CoP 2011 24 Environmental performance dustry partners and certified training companies. Due to the proceeding on the job training, they become our professional Mitigating greenhouse gas emissions As the global leader in wind energy experts: As of spring 2012, DIS AG had 359 speHR services, we are conscious about the environmental imcialists involved in wind energy projects. pact our operations might have and the difference we can Read more make by acting responsibly. Therefore, in 2010 we started to collect the data with regards to our CO2 emissions in our 10 Country highlights at a glance largest countries including the global headquarters, stepping the reporting up to 12 countries in 2011 by adding Japan and Green lease plan for Adecco Belgium’s business car fleet: Sweden. With that information, and by benchmarking with As a result to the reviewed car policy, Belgium succeeded in similar industries, we now defined a company-wide reduction decreasing car carbon emission by 187 tonnes CO2. Taking target for our emissions going forward of 12% by 2022. the occasion of a renewal of the whole car fleet including 140 cars, Adecco has chosen the GreenPlan, offered be the leas1. Electrical energy consumption ing company. This included first of all an eco-friendly vehicle 2. Mobility: company car mileages and air miles flown selection but also integrated services to make sure the cars 3. Office supply: paper and toner consumption run in a most ecological friendly manner which includes peri4. Office equipment: computers bought and replaced odic tyre pressure checks, internal consumption monitoring etc. In order to assess this data in a consistent and structured Objective ‘zéro papier’ in France: Adecco Groupe France, manner, we are using the ‘myclimate’ platform to collect and representing 30% of total Group revenues worldwide, sucevaluate our carbon footprint. The ‘myclimate’ emission calcuceeds in implementing its ‘zero paper’ policy. The aim is to lator helps us to assess our emissions at any point in time, continuously substitute paper documents by electronic files. In covering close to 86% of our operations in terms of revenue 2011, Adecco Group France saved 18.3 tonnes of paper, inand it enables participant countries and the Global HQ to: cluding pay slips, work reports, contracts, etc. This results in saved carbon emission of more than 10 tonnes. The target for 1. Identify their Carbon Footprint 2012 is to have 60% of work reports sent to the clients in elec2. Use the data for any stakeholder inquiry tronic format only. 3. Start reducing our CO2 emission through targeted projects 4. Communicate about it accordingly to all stake­holders Car sharing service for all employees of Adecco Group involved. France Since April 2012, Adecco Group France offers its employees and associates and even its candidates, who actually We have set a long-term CO2 reduction target for the Group do not work (yet) for Adecco, a car sharing service for comby 2022 of 12%. muting. Adecco offers this service in partnership with ‘Covoiturage.fr’, the first carpooling site in France. The initiative Linking youth unemployment and the environment resulted from the fact that around 80% of workers commute Adecco took part in the United Nations Environmental Proby car, driving alone to work and back. gramme (UNEP) conference on Green Jobs for Youth. With one in three unemployed persons today between the ages of First detailed CSR reporting by Adecco Groupe France 15 and 24 years, governments are called on to shift priorities Adecco Group France, representing 30% of total Group revetoward greater investment in youth. The green economy as nues worldwide, publishes in 2012 the first time – and as the an approach to sustainable development may offer job first Adecco subsidiary – a detailed CSR Report. The CSR Reopportunities for youth. Support to national and international porting in France will become legally compulsory for compaefforts aimed at all-inclusive education, vocational training, nies with over 5,000 people, however only as of 2013. The skills upgrading, youth entrepreneurship promotion and Adecco Groupe France is taking the opportunity to already greening work place practices are key components of the engage now with the new reporting requirements. Main focus policy response. Adecco and in particular DIS AG focus’ lies in areas in the reporting include: equality for all – continued this area: DIS AG supports the whole value chain of alternafight against discrimination and promotion of diversity which tive energy sector, specifically wind energy with specialists. is tied to the ‘integration‘ pillar. Safety & prevention issues, DIS AG is involved nationwide in manufacturing, construction stakeholder dialogue as well as client and supplier relationand service of wind turbines onand offshore. We train or reship and environmental performance. All these topics belong train our employees to become wind energy experts with into the Excellence pillar. With regards to the Skills pillar, employability and professional development as well as citizenship and the Adecco Groupe France Foundation activities are emphasised. CSR CoP 2011 25 GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Communication on Progress index Content indices For detailed examples of the Adecco Group’s CSR at country level, please refer to the respective websites (links provided UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) on www.adecco.com), and in to the social and sustainability The various case studies featured in this report give an insight reporting of our subsidiaries. into our activities in line with the ten principles of the UN GlobIn particular, we recommend the new CSR Report of Adecco al Compact. For more details on our progress in relation to the Group France which is published in 2012 in line with Act UNGC principles, please refer to the GRI Content Index on next ‘Grenelle 2’, the law of July 12, 2010, which comes now into pages. effect and regulates public reporting on sustainable development. GRI application level The purpose of this report is to give an overview of our progress since the publication of our full CSR Report in July 2010. It is therefore limited in nature, concentrating on the material performance indicators for our business. For most GRI elements, there were no significant changes to report; in these cases we refer to the coverage in our last year’s reporting. It is based on the G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Based on our own assessment, this report achieves GRI application level B, as illustrated in the GRI applications level grid below. An in-depth account of our CSR strategy, initiatives and performance can be found on the relevant Adecco corporate webpages and in our next full CSR Report 2012. Application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement G3 Profile 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B ­Disclosures 2.1–2.10 1.2 3.1–3.8; 3.10–3.12 3.9; 3.13 4.1–4.4; 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13; 4.16–4.17 Not required Management Approach Management Approach G3 Management Disclosures for each Disclosed for each Approach Indicator Category Indicator Category ­Disclosures Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Respond on each core G3 Performance of 10 Performance of 20 Performance G3 and Sector SuppleIndicators & Sector ­Supplement ­ Indicators, including at Indicators, at least one ment* Indicator with due Performance least one from each of: from each of: Economic, regard to the Materiality ­Indicators Economic, Social, and En­vironmental, Human Principle by either: Environmental. Rights, Labour, Society, a) reporting on the Product Responsibility. Indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. * Sector supplement in final version CSR CoP 2011 26 Legend EC GRI core indicator Reported EC GRI additional indicator Partly reported Not reported, see reference AR11 Reference to page number in Adecco Annual Report 2011 ­provided for reason of omission CSR10 Reference to page number in last year’s CSR Report 2010 www Link to www.adecco.com Code UNGC Description Reference Principles or short answer Strategy and analysis 1.1 1–10 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 7–8 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Key impacts: 9–11; risks and opportunties: AR11 32–33 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Adecco S.A. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6; AR11 12–15 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR11 19; AR11 40 (>point 1.2) 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Glattbrugg, Switzerland 2.5 Number and names of countries in which the Adecco Group operates Over 60 countries; AR11 126 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR11 129–130 2.7 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and AR11 23-26 types of customers 2.8 Scale of the Adecco Group 4–5; AR11 43–49 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR11 4–5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 20–21 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2011 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2010, published in July 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding this report 40 3.5 Process for defining report content 11 (charts); 26 3.6 Boundary of the report CSR10 59 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report CSR10 59 3.8 Comparability from period to period CSR10 59 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations CSR10 59 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information CSR10 60 3.11 Significant changes from previous years in the measurement methods CSR10 60 3.12 GRI content index 27–31 3.13 Current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for this report This report has not been assured by external auditors, but the Annual Report: AR11 106–107. CSR CoP 2011 27 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including major committees AR11 136–148; CSR Management: 38–39 4.2 Executive functions of the Chairman of the Board The Chairman has no executive functions 4.3 Board members: number, gender, independence, (non-)executive functions AR11 136–148 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations CSR10 60, 64; AR11 149–151 to the Board of Directors 4.5 Elements of the compensation programme 2011 for the Executive Committee AR11 158–165 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts AR11 140 (point 3.5) of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise CSR10 60 (cf. AR11 143, point of Board members 3.5.3) 4.8 Internally developed charters and principles relevant to sustainable Values and Leadership ­performance Principles: 19, more detailed: CSR11 27–28. Code of Conduct: CSR11, 30 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing management of CSR10 60; AR11 144 (point 3.7) ­sustainable performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors’ own performance The Board of Directors discusses and assesses its own and its members’ performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle CSR10 61 is addressed 4.12 Externally developed, voluntary charters and sets of 22–23 principles which the organisation endorses 4.13 Principal memberships in industry and business associations CSR11 61–64 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 10–11 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 10–11 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder consultation CSR11 64 4.17 Key topics and concerns Stakeholders: 11 ISO 26000: 11 AR11 8–11 Economic Performance Indicators DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC AR11 16–19 EC1 Economic key data 4–5; AR11 43–49 – Investments in philanthropic activities 16 EC2 7 Financial implications of climate change 65 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligation AR11 87–91 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government CSR10 65 EC5 1 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum Reason f. omission: CSR10 65 wage EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers CSR10 65 EC7 6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from CSR10 65 the local community EC8 Development and impact of services provided primarily for public benefit 14–18; CSR10 66–69 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 13 (chart) CSR CoP 2011 28 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Environmental Performance Indicators (continued) DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN: 23; CSR10 70 EN1 8–9 Materials used by weight or volume 24 EN2 8–9 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Percentages not known EN3 8–9 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 24 EN4 8–9 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Not known EN5 8–9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Not known EN6 8–9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products CSR10 37: Work opportunities and services related to green energy EN7 8–9 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption CSR10 36–37 EN8 8–9 Total water withdrawal by source Not relevant. Cf. CSR10 70 EN9 8–9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Adecco Group runs an EN10 8–9 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used office-based business; its operations do not therefore EN11 8–9 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, have a significant impact protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected on any water sources, proareas tected areas, habitats and EN12 8–9 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas biodiversity. EN13 8–9 Habitats protected or restored EN14 8–9 Strategies, actions and plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 8–9 Conservation list species affected by operations EN16 8–9 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 24 EN17 8–9 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 24 EN18 7–9 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions CSR10 35–37 EN19 8–9 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant EN20 8–9 NOx , SOx , and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not relevant EN21 8–9 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant EN22 8–9 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not relevant EN23 8–9 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant EN24 8–9 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Adecco Group does not hazardous transport, import, export EN25 8–9 Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water or treat any waste, and therefore no waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII. EN26 7–9 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts CSR10 35–37 EN27 8–9 Percentage of products sold that have their packaging materials reclaimed Not relevant EN28 8–9 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations Adecco Group is not aware of any incidents of or fines for non-compliance with any applicable international declaration, or national or local regulations associated with environmental issues. EN29 8–9 Significant environmental impacts of transportation See EN24 and EN25 EN30 7–9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Adecco Group currently does not have any specific environmental protection budgets. CSR CoP 2011 29 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Labour Practices DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA: overview 13 (chart); AR11 27–29 • DMA on Health & safety 21 LA1 Total workforce AR11 47 (point 3.4) LA2 6 Total number of new hires and employee turnover AR11 28 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary CSR10 72 or part-time employees LA4 1; 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CSR10 72 (more details to come in next year’s report) LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes CSR10 72 LA6 1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – CSR10 73 worker health and safety committees LA7 1 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work-related fatalities 21 LA8 1 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases Reason f. omission: CSR10 73 LA9 1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Reason f. omission: CSR10 73 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 17 (chart) LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 16–19; AR11 27–28 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 60–100%, depending on development reviews employee categorisation LA13 1; 6 Composition of governance bodies AR11 29; AR11 136–148 LA14 1; 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Reason f. omission: CSR10 73 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender CSR10 73 Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR: overview 13 (chart); 22–23 • DMA on human rights as part of our day-to-day responsibility CSR10 30 HR1 1–6 Significant investment agreements that include human rights CSR10 74 HR2 1–6 Screening of suppliers, contractors and other business partners CSR10 74 on human rights HR3 1–6 Employee training on policies and procedures, concerning aspects CSR10 30 of h ­ uman rights HR4 1; 2; 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken CSR10 74 HR5 1; 2; 3 Operations in which the rights for freedom of association and collective CSR10 74 bargaining are at significant risk – and actions taken HR6 1; 2; 5 Operations in which child labour is identified as significant risk – CSR10 74 and m ­ easures taken HR7 1; 2; 4 Operations in which forced labour is identified as significant risk – CSR10 74 and measures taken HR8 1; 2 Percentage of security personnel trained in human rights Adecco Group is not in need of specific security personnel to protect its offices. HR9 1; 2 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people See HR4 HR10 1; 2 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to HR10 and HR11 are new indi­human rights reviews and/or impact assessments cators, introduced with G3.1 HR11 1; 2 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and (launched in March 2011). In ­resolved through formal grievance mechanisms our 2011 Communication on Progress, we cannot report on these indicators yet. We however intend to do so going forward. CSR CoP 2011 30 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Society DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO: overview 13 (chart) • DMA on business ethics CSR10 30 • DMA on community involvement 15–16 • DMA on compliance AR11 55 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, CSR10 74 impact assessments, and development programmes SO2 10 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption CSR10 74 SO3 10 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies 96% (Compliance & Ethics and procedures online training) SO4 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption To date, we are not aware of any incidents of corruption. Cf. CSR10 74 SO5 1–10 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and 22–23; CSR10 33–34 lobbying SO6 10 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and CSR10 75 related institutions SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly No such legal actions in 2011. ­practices and their outcomes SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and In 2011, there were no signifi­regulations cant fines or sanctions. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local In 2011, we are not aware of communities any Adecco Group oper­ations with significant negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Not applicable, see above ­negative impacts on local communities SO9 Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR 9 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of services are CSR10 75 ­assessed for improvement PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety To date, we are not aware of impacts of products and services any significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations in this context. PR3 8 Type of product and service information required and services subject to CSR10 75 such information requirements PR4 8 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and CSR10 75 service information PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including surveys measuring CSR10 28 customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws and standards related to marketing The Adecco Group adheres to communications laws and applicable standards related to marketing communications. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing The Adecco Group is not ­communications aware of any relevant ­infringements of the law in this context. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and CSR10 75 losses of customer data PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning In the HR services industry, products and services PR9 comes up to SO8 (see above). CSR CoP 2011 31 Further reading Publications by the Adecco Group Adapting to Change, Better Labour Markets and Decent Work (2011) and other industry-related studies This Boston Consulting Group/Ciett study finds that the private employment sector stands for a number of characteristics that For more and further knowledge resources, please visit help labour markets to remain and become more efficient, Adecco Group’s ‘Industy Insights’ on: www.adecco.com and making it a valuable employment partner for governments, companies and workers in the decades to come. Global insights http://www.ciett.org/fileadmin/templates/ciett/docs/Stats/ Adapting_to_Change/CIETT_Adapting_to_Change.pdf Ciett Economic Report 2012 Ciett has published its 2012 Annual Economic Report, based It’s time to manage age (2011) on figures available for 2010. This report is the fifth of its kind This Adecco Group White Paper coincide with the EU Year 2012 to reveal that the agency work industry is one of the largest of ‘Active Ageing and Solidarity Between Generations’ and private employers in the world today, boasting just under 10.4 provides an overview of labour market practices affecting oldmillion workers employed on a daily basis, and global annual er workers in Europe. It also gives evidence on how to support sales revenues in excess of EUR 247 billion. active ageing policies and promote age diversity within comhttp://www.eurociett.eu/fileadmin/templates/ciett/docs/ panies. Stats/Ciett_econ_report_2012_final.pdf http://www.adecco.com/en-US/Industry-Insights/Documents/ mature_workers_2011.pdf Talent Mobility Good Practices – Collaboration at the Core of Driving Economic Growth (2012) Two worlds collide? Bringing Copenhagen to Bologna (2011) This WEF report was prepared in collaboration with Mercer, This white paper, initiated by the Adecco Group, looks at what is based on 55 case studies from around the world. It shows is done to increase the proportion of highly educated people concrete actions that organisations – including companies, in the workforce. Policymakers in the European Union initigovernments, academic institutions, and non-profit entities ated the Bologna Process, which aims to increase the number – have implemented to address talent challenges. Among the of university graduates and to harmonise higher education case studies, the featured solutions to these problems are certificates. At the same time, comparable policy measures for varied, ranging from shaping academic curricula to better vocational education have had hardly any impact. Vocational meet an industry’s talent needs to training underskilled workeducation in a dual system, which is widespread in Germany, ers for employment. The report concludes with recommendaSwitzerland and Austria, is often presented and discussed as tions on how individual stakeholders can advance successful one way to successfully meet the growing needs of the inforcollaborative talent mobility practices. mation society. http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_PS_TalentMobility_Rehttp://www.adecco.com/en-US/Industry-Insights/Pages/Isport_2012.pdf sues.aspx#Generation-Z Unlocking Britain’s potential (2012) Disability: Dispelling the Myths – How People With DisabiliDriven by ongoing economic uncertainty, inspired by the ties Can Meet Employer Needs (2012) promise of a diverse and inclusive Olympic and Paralympic Disability: Dispelling the Myths is a resource for businesses. Games, and spurred on by the unrelenting rise of economic It provides information on successful strategies used by emsuperpowers such as China and Russia, Britain felt it was imployers to meet their labour force needs and includes practical perative to develop a blueprint for future business success examples and commonsense approaches for hiring and reand competitiveness. Education is failing to equip the future taining people with disabilities. Chambers of commerce can workforce effectively. Many believe that the role of education use this publication to educate and advise local businesses should be to focus more on ‘employability’ skills in young and their partners on workforce development strategies. people, and less on qualifications. As a nation, we place inhttp://www.ncsu.edu/dso/general/disability_myths.pdf sufficient value on the basic tools of employability, such as behaviour, attitude and communication; not just in the classroom and the workplace, but in the home too. http://www.unlockingbritainspotential.co.uk/download/ CSR CoP 2011 32 ILO World report on Disability (2011) Local insights The first ever World report on disability, produced jointly by WHO and the World Bank, suggests that more than a billion Adecco Switzerland HR-Barometer 2011 people in the world today experience disability. People with The Swiss Human-Relations-Barometer 2011 is the sixth edition disabilities have generally poorer health, lower education of a yearly study which looks at work relations, work condiachievements, fewer economic opportunities and higher rates tions as well as work ethics and behaviour of employees in of poverty than people without disabilities. This is largely due Switzerland. The developments over the past six years are to the lack of services available to them and the many obstabeing exemplified and discussed. cles they face in their everyday lives. The report provides the ISBN: 978-3-03823-648-9 best available evidence about what works to overcome barriers to health care, rehabilitation, education, employment, and Adecco Swiss Job Market Index support services, and to create the environments which will The Adecco Swiss Job Market Index ‘ASJMI’ is the only comenable people with disabilities to flourish. bined job market index in Switzerland, providing information http://www.who.int/disabilities/world_report/2011/en/index.html about the entire Swiss job market in all branches and across all regions. It is made up of the three sub-indices Company Accessibility Guide for Companies (2010) Websites, Job Portals and Media, which display job offers Just a little over a decade ago, it would have been surprising from all the important advertising channels. to find companies that were interested in adapting their buildhttp://www.adecco.ch/en-US/about-adecco/sponsoring-partings, environments, and positions for people with physical, nerships/university-of-zurich/Pages/PublicationsASJMI.aspx sensory, or psychological disabilities. Things are no longer that way. This is not only due to the current laws and regulaGuía ‘Diferentes’ (2012 Spanish) tions that preserve and promote the incorporation of disabled OHL (Obrascon-Huarte-Lain) and Fundación Adecco created workers in the workforce, but mostly due to the cultural ‘Diferentes’, an illustrated guide for children between the age change where principles of plurality and equality have beof four and eight on diversity and disabled people. The guide come stronger in daily life and at the workplace. was illustrated by the renowned artist Miguel Gallardo and http://www.csr360gpn.org/uploads/files/resources/Acceswritten by Angels Ponce, a family therapist and specialist on sibility_Guide_for_Companies.pdf disability. The guide aims to remove social barriers and normalise disability at an early stage. Future Jobs – How does work look like in Europe 2020 http://www.fundacionadecco.es/SalaPrensa/PublicacionesEs(2011, German) tudioCasos.aspx?Est_Id=163 This study by DIS AG and the German ‘Zukunftsinstitut’ looks at work as a central theme. Work is not only about earning Study on Corporate Social Responsibility in Spain (2010, money and is far more than just an economic transaction. Spanish) Work provides a status, an identity and gives a sense of beThe study, conducted by ‘El Club de Excelencia de Sostenibililonging. So how will work develop over the coming years? dad’ and Adecco Fundacción, elaborates on why companies What are the trends across industries and regions? should engage in community projects. It makes it clear that http://www.dis-ag.com/dis/Presse/Documents/1104_DIS_ such an engagement is much more than a one-way benefit Studie_FutureJobs.pdf but it actually contributes greatly to achieve corporate objectives leading to a more stustainable way of doing business. Social Media @ Human Resource Management – A study http://www.clubsostenibilidad.org/main.asp?id_pagina=26 about social networks (2011, German) A study initiated by DIS AG and conducted by the University of 2012 US Job market perspectives Applied Sciences in Dresden and the Leipzig University of ApThis report examines both the current and future state of the plied Sciences found out that 18 million people in Germany labour market while also exploring how trends in U.S. ecohave a profile on Facebook and around 3.8 million Germans nomic development, as well as the upcoming presidential are on XING. Social media are belonging to everyday life for election, will impact America’s workforce. Topics discussed in many people in the private and professional domain. This has the report include: Significant workforce trends of 2011 and been acknowledged by many companies in recent times. 2012 including the unemployment rate, sector growth and the More and more, social media is becoming a tool for them to global economic impact on the US workforce; the role of the access talent. But what do employers need to think and be labor market on the 2012 presidential election; and insight into aware of when using social media? anticipated job trends for 2012 by geography and industry. http://www.dis-ag.com/dis/Presse/Documents/DIS_AG_ http://www.adeccousa.com/Documents/flipbook/2012-jobSocial_Media_Studie_2011.pdf market-perspectives/index.html CSR CoP 2011 33 2011 US Job market perspectives The phrase ‘job growth’ was happily welcomed back into the American vernacular in 2010. Following one of the most challenging time periods for the US economy and job market. What is now referred to as the ‘Great Recession’ this past year introduced a level of stability which helped to nudge the economic pendulum in a new direction. http://www.adeccousa.com/Documents/flipbook/2011-jobmarket-perspectives/index.html Adecco Group Australia Temporary Labour Report (2012) The second edition of the Adecco Group Temporary Labour Report. On behalf of the Adecco Group, economist Dr Chris Caton presented on ‘The Global and Australian Economy and the role of Temporary Employment’ and commented on how the Australian economy will fare in 2012 and beyond. http://www.adecco.com.au/en-AU/our-services/temp-labourreport/Documents/temporary%20labour%20report%202012.pdf Adecco Group Australia Temporary Labour Report (2011) The world’s leading recruiter presents Australia’s first temporary labour market report, revealing findings from the Adecco Group ‘Temporary Labour Employer Survey and Temporary Labour Employee Survey’. The report is the first of its kind in Australia to focus on this important aspect of the nation’s labour market. A copy of the report can be ordered by sending an e-mail to: marketing@adecco.com.au CSR CoP 2011 34 Glossary Adecco Group Foundation The Adecco Group foundations day-to-day operations. At the same time, companies are reare not-for-profit organisations that directly or indirectly help quired to issue an annual Communication on Progress (CoP), disadvantaged groups enter the labour market. The foundaa public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in imtions can concentrate on the needs of target groups, and plementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and build an important basis for the Adecco Group’s social comin supporting broad UN development goals. mitments. Corporate culture The inherent personality of a company or Affinity group A small group of individuals responsible for a business. This includes a company’s values, vision, principles, given activity, issue, role or skill. traditions, operating methods and work environment. The Ageing workforce The next few decades will see substantial company places equal value on its associates, customers, demographic changes due to the ageing of the workforce. shareholders, suppliers and communities, because all these This development will reshape all aspects of our lives, includelements are important to the company and its business. ing businesses, workplaces, health and education systems, Corporate governance Corporate governance encompasses requiring active intervention by all concerned. the full range of principles directed towards shareholders’ Baby boomers Individuals born between 1946 and 1964. interest seeking a good balance between direction and conBranch Where we offer our products and services to canditrol and transparency at the top company level while maindates and clients. taining decision-making capacity and efficiency (source: Swiss Candidate Any person interested in becoming an associate Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance). or having a permanent placement. Corporate (Social) Responsibility (CR or CSR) The definition Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Independent not-for-profit CR/CSR is still evolving. It addresses the concept that, beyond organisation holding the largest database of primary corpormerely conducting its business and adhering to legal guideate climate change information in the world. lines, an organisation has obligations such as looking after Carbon footprint The sum of all emissions of CO2 (carbon the welfare of its employees, the community, society at large dioxide), which are induced by activities in a given time frame. and the environment. CR encompasses corporate governance, Career management Addresses the needs of both employers economic, social and environmental responsibilities. CR is and employees throughout their working lives. backed by UN initiatives such as the Global Compact and is Change management The development of a planned apthe subject of several standardisation initiatives such as the proach to changing a method of management or business GRI, the AA1000 series and the ISO 26000 guide. practice in an organisation. Typically, the objective is to DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland The DAXglo­ maximise the collective efforts of everybody involved in the bal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland Index tracks Swiss comchange. panies with sustainable performance. The Swiss index is Ciett The International Confederation of Private Employment based on the 50 largest companies in terms of market capAgencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the italisation and on the sustainability criteria defined by the common interests of the agency work industry and consists of Sarasin Sustainability Matrix, which combines an industry rat40 national federations from EU and EFTA and 6 of the largest ing and a company rating, and takes into consideration direct staffing companies worldwide. Its main objective is to help its and indirect ecological and social effects. www.sarasin.ch members, which include Adecco Group, Olympia Flexgroup, Decentralisation Significant decision-making delegated Kelly Services, Manpower, Randstad, and USG People. throughout the organisation, down to regional, national and Client A buyer of Adecco Group’s HR services. local management levels. CO2 equivalent (CO2-e) An accounting value for greenhouse Diversity A range of visible and invisible differences that exist gas (GHG) emissions: These are generally expressed as a between people. By managing diversity, we can take advanweight of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e). This is because tage of these differences and create a productive environment other GHGs may have a different global warming potential in which everybody feels valued, where talents are fully utilfrom carbon dioxide and it is usual to combine the effect of all ised, and in which organisational goals are met. greenhouse gases into one number for CO2-e. Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI Launched in 1999, the Code of Conduct A document referring to companies’ policy Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes are the first global indexes statements that define ethical standards for and proper practracking the financial performance of the leading sustain­ tices for individuals and the organisation. ability-driven companies worldwide. Competence-based training Training that focuses exclusively EIRIS A leading global independent, not-for-profit organisaon teaching the skills, facts and attitudes associated with a tion which conducts independent research into the environspecific job. mental, social, governance and ethical performance of comCoP Business participants in the UN Global Compact make a panies. commitment to comply with the Global Compact’s ten princiESI Ethibel Sustainability Indices provide a comprehensive ples, including theim into their business strategy and their perspective on the financial performance of the world’s leadCSR CoP 2011 35 ing companies in terms of sustainability, for institutional invesand inclusive global economy. It has two objectives: to encourtors, asset managers, banks, and retail investors. Ethibel Susage the adoption of its ‘ten principles’ in business activities tainability Indices list the pioneering companies, as well as around the world, and to help achieve the UN’s human and those whose performance is rated within the average for the labour rights goals. www.unglobalcompact.org sector and which meet certain financial criteria. The ESI are GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An independent institution owned by Vigeo. www.ethibel.org dedicated to developing and disseminating globally applicEthical Index Euro The Ethical Index Euro is part of E. Capital able Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI seeks to Partners’ ECPI Index Family. The development of the underlying elevate sustainability reporting to the same level of rigour, criteria for the indices is based on client consensus, sustaincomparability, credibility and verifiability expected of financial ability and good business behaviour, the UN Declaration of reporting, while serving the information needs of a broad Human Rights, the ILO Protocol, as well as the work of acarange of stakeholders from civil society, government labour demic institutions and NGOs involved in human rights and and the private business community. There are strong links environmental questions. www.e-cpartners.com between the GRI and initiatives such as the United Nations Eurociett The European Confederation of Private Employment Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational EnterAgencies. See under ‘Ciett’. www.euro-ciett.org prises and many others. www.globalreporting.org Eurofound The European Foundation for the Improvement of Human resource business process outsourcing (HR BPO) Living and Working Conditions is a European Union body. SpeTotal or partial outsourcing of HR duties (e.g. payroll, recruitcifically, it was set up to contribute to the planning and design ing, training, benefits, employee orientation, staffing). of better living and working conditions in Europe. Eurofound’s ILO The International Labour Organization (ILO) is the tripartite core business is both research and communicating the results UN agency that brings together governments, employers and of that research. www.eurofound.europa.eu workers of its member states in common action to promote Flexicurity refers to the combination of labour market flexibildecent work throughout the world. www.ilo.org ity in a dynamic economy with security for workers. Flexicurity Intergenerational programme Programmes that bring tois a three-sided mix of flexibility in the labour market, comgether participants of different ages. bined with social security and an active labour market policy ISO 26000 A Guidance on social responsibility issued by the with rights and obligations for the unemployed. International Organisation for Standardisation. It aims to be FTSE4Good The FTSE4Good Index Series is a series of bencha first step in helping all types of organisation in both the pubmark and tradable indices for socially responsible investors. lic and private sectors to consider implementing ISO 26000 as The indices are used as a basis for regional and global index a way to achieve the benefits of operating in a socially tracker funds – a range of structured products – and as a respon­sible manner. The guidance standard was published in stock selection platform for actively managed funds. The index November 2010 as ISO 26000 and is voluntary in character. It inclusion criteria have been designed to identify companies does not include requirements and thus is not a certification that meet globally recognised and accepted, socially responstandard. sible criteria as they evolve. www.ftse.com/ftse4good Key performance indicator (KPI) A parameter used to deterGeneration X Individuals born between 1965 and 1977. mine whether the desired input or outcome has been achieved. Adecco describes generation Xers as being influenced by Leadership development The development of leaders within technology, television, day care and divorce. They represent an organisation. Companies may implement programmes an age of accelerated schedules, multitasking and the inforthat instruct and guide employees on how to become leaders mation revolution. in both their professional lives and their communities. Generation Y Individuals born between 1978 and 1989. Learning styles Different approaches to learning. Recognised Adecco describes generation Yers as pragmatic and hardstyles include visual, auditory, kinaesthetic and intrapersonal. working, as well as wanting independence and job satisfacLifelong learning In an era of rapidly evolving knowledge and tion. They are a generation of volunteers who seek such opever-increasing globalisation, patterns of working, learning, portunities outside the workplace. and living need to change with the times. Lifelong learning is GHG Greenhouse gases are those gases which are supa continuous process of formal and informal learning to keep posed to trap the heat in the atmosphere and thus to cause a employees up to date. global warming. The principal greenhouse gases that enter Mentorship Relationship between a (usually) senior and the atmosphere because of human activities are: carbon a junior employee. The senior employee instructs and guides dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (NO2) and various the junior employee on a company’s work practices, skills, fluorinated gases. as well as career choices and decisions. Global Compact Launched at the UN headquarters, New Multigenerational workplace Refers to today’s workforce, York, in July 2000, the Global Compact is a voluntary corpor­ which for the first time in history includes at least four generate citizenship initiative with a vision of a more sustainable ations: the silent generation, baby boomers, generation X CSR CoP 2011 36 and generation Y. According to Adecco Group, the multigenSecondment The assignment of an Adecco employee (not an erational workplace provides a strong impetus for businesses associate) to a client, with the employee remaining on to take a closer look at the generational distribution of their Adecco‘s payroll, but fully integrated into the client‘s organisaworkforce and understand each group’s needs, enabling them tion. to run a more efficient and effective workplace. Secondary suppliers Other recruitment agencies, which OECD The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and DeAdecco Group, in the role as first human resources supplier to velopment (OECD) is to promote policies that will improve the a specific client, may use for staffing procurement. economic and social well-being of people around the world. Skill shortage Is an economic condition in which there are Outplacement The process of placing employees in other insufficient qualified candidates/employees to fill the marketpositions or training courses following loss of a job. place demands for employment at any price. Outsourcing The practice of using external workers and/or SRI Stands for socially responsible investment, an investment machinery for certain business tasks. strategy that takes into account a company’s ethical, social Peer review An assessment conducted by a person of the and environmental performance as well as its financial perforsame level. mance. Permanent placement The placement of a candidate (potenStakeholder Individuals in, or representatives of, a group who tially an associate) for an indeterminate period. have for various reasons an interest in a company such as the Project staffing/consulting The assignment of an employee Adecco Group. This includes people who are directly or indir­ or a team from the Adecco staff (potentially complemented by ectly affected by the Company and its actions. associate[s]) to the client for the execution of a project, with Stretch assignment A career development tool which puts an the resources remaining on Adecco‘s payroll and integrated employee in a new function, which overstrains his or her capinto Adecco‘s reporting structure. abilities and thus challenges him or her to pick up new skills. Public-Private Partnership (PPP) All forms of cooperation Sustainability The principle that we must meet the needs of between public authorities and the private sector. PPP is bethe present without compromising the ability of future gener­ coming an increasingly important factor in the labour market ations to meet their own needs. Sustainability, corporate reowing to the need for greater flexibility on the part of com­ sponsibility and CSR are often synonymous. panies, safeguarding of social security for employees and the Talent management The management of an organisation’s growing importance of career changes. employees or workers. Talent management requires that a Recruitment process outsourcing (RPO) Is the transfer of opcompany recognises the individual strengths and weaknesses erational responsibility for one or more recruiting functions for of its employees or workforce, as well as strive to revise and permanent labour (including recruitment administration) from improve the talents and skills of its workforce. the client to a services provider. Temporary placement The placement of human resources for Ruggy Guidelines The United Nations Human Rights Council non-permanent employment needs. Placements may be endorsed a new set of Guiding Principles for Business and defin­ite or indefinite. Human Rights designed to provide for the first time a global Thought leadership The process of providing specific, predestandard preventing and addressing the risk of adverse imtermined information on a certain subject. Individuals or en­ pacts on human rights linked to business activity. The Guiding tities can be ‘thought leaders’ and can drive or lead discusPrinciples are the product of six years of research led by Prosions on a certain topic. fessor Ruggie from Harvard University, outlining how outline Training The development of a company’s human capital. States and businesses should implement the UN ‘Protect, UNI Global Union The global union for skills and services. It’s Respect and Remedy’ Framework. the biggest grouping of individual trade unions in the world SAM Investment boutique focused exclusively on Sustainabilwith more than 900 affiliated unions in 150 countries and 20 ity Investing since 1995. The firm’s offering comprises asset million affiliated members. www.uniglobalunion.org management, indexes and private equity. Work-life balance A situation where an employee’s work and Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The conpersonal life are balanced. Employees may be given options cept of ‘Scopes’ defines the boundaries between three differsuch as telecommuting, flexible work schedules, maternal or ent types of indirect and direct emissions: Scope 1 are direct paternal leave to accommodate their personal lives with their emissions, Scope 2 are emissions associated with the generacareers. tion of electricity, heating/cooling, or steam purchased for 360˚ feedback A performance review method that allows an own consumption, and Scope 3 are indirect emissions other employee to get feedback from supervisors, peers, staff memthan those covered in Scope 2. bers, co-workers and sometimes customers. CSR CoP 2011 37 CSR Governance within the Adecco Group Board of Directors Rolf Dörig Chairman of the Board of Directors Andreas Jacobs Vice-Chairman Responsibilities at committee Andreas Jacobs, Chairman Audit Committee Alexander Gut David Prince Dominique-Jean Chertier Andreas Jacobs, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee Thomas O’Neill Wanda Rapaczynski Wanda Rapaczynski, Chairwoman Corporate Governance Committee Alexander Gut Didier Lamouche Thomas O’Neill Corporate functions Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer Stephan Howeg Head Group Communications & CSR Christian Vasino Chief HR Officer Patrick Kleffel General Counsel Hans Brütsch Head Compliance Reporting Pierlaurent Barbieri Head Group Internal Audit Adecco Group Global Diversity Business Council Ken Graham Canada Bruce Roch France Claudio Soldà Italy Lois Cooper North America William T. Rolack Sr. David J. Maldonado Esq. Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba Spain Steve Girdler United Kingdom & Ireland Salvador de Antuñano Mexico Adecco CSR country contacts Australia & New Zealand Rick Khinda Director Marketing & Communications and CSR Belgium Geert Van Droogenbroeck Marketing Manager & CSR Denmark Vibeke Jacobsen HR Manager & CSR Eastern Europe Evangelia Isari Marketing Manager and CSR Finland Marko Pajula Sales & Marketing Director and CSR CSR CoP 2011 38 France Bruce Roch CSR Director, Adecco Group France Jean-François Connan Director Insertion, Adecco Group France Jerôme Gérvais General Manager, Adecco Group Fondation Iberia & LATAM Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba General Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM David Morales Communications Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM India Rashi Chaturvedi Marketing & Communications Italy Claudio Soldà General Secretary Adecco Fondazione & Public Affairs Adecco Italy Japan Hirotaka Yamanami Corporate Planning and CSR Japan & Asia Netherlands Rinus Wittenberg Marketing Manager and CSR Norway Reidun Brekke Regional Director & CSR North America Lois Cooper Vice President CSR & Inclusion Tyra Tutor Corporate Development and CSR Pauline Gebon Supplier Diversity Rachelle Chapman ‘Career Connections Programme’ Switzerland José M. San José Marketing Director and CSR Sweden Fred Lafquist Sponsoring and CSR Charlotte Norden Director Marketing and CSR UK & Ireland Brian Jeal Procurement Manager CSR CoP 2011 39 Imprint Registered office Adecco Group S.A. (Holding) CH-1275 Chéserex Contact details Adecco Group management & consulting S.A. Sägereistrasse 10 P.O. Box CH-8152 Glattbrugg T +41 44 878 88 88 F +41 44 829 88 88 Group Communications T +41 44 878 87 87 F +41 44 829 88 39 sustainability@adecco.com Investor Relations T +41 44 878 89 89 F +41 44 829 89 24 investor.relations@adecco.com http://investor.adecco.com Adecco Group on the Internet www.adecco.com Imprint Publisher: Adecco management & consulting S.A., Glattbrugg July 2012 CSR CoP 2011 40 adecco.com
