Annual Communication on Progress A. Statement of continuing support to the Global Compact. The Executive Head Global Compact. In continuation with the confirmation already made, we reiterate our continuing support for the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. Our Communication on Progress is attached. Bhaskar Bhat Managing Director Titan Industries Limited April 2012 1 UN Global Compact – “Communications on Progress” – April 2012 Titan Industries Limited Principles Company’s Policy Remarks Data collected from (GRI indicators to help & Direction the internal correlation) (Approach / Process Departments / / Deployment) functions Process facilitator A. HUMAN PRINCIPLES Principle 1 Titan Industries Ltd Continuous dialogue Businesses should follows the and feedback from support and respect the International employees / protection of Declaration of partners. Surveys internationally Human Rights. Our from third parties proclaimed human HR policies reflect, are done for rights: pursue and review corrective action, if these on a periodic any. The dialogue basis. process is continued All rights are fully with the Franchisee protected and and Contract respected. employees and Trade Partners. Employee Engagement / Dealer Satisfaction Surveys indicate good scores. Principle 2 Our HR / IR Ensuring a healthy HR / Senior Make sure that they are processes by way of and congenial Management not complicit in human consultative atmosphere of a rights abuses. committees are at “Great Place to all times constantly Work”. The and proactively Company continues addressing issues in to be rated as among possible areas of the best employers in conflict with the Country. employees. Stakeholders are consulted frequently in a transparent manner. B. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 & 4 As stipulated in the HR / Senior Business should uphold various laws in India Management the freedom of and as per our association and the Company policy, we effective recognition of have a process of Periodic 2 the right to collective ‘collective communication with bargaining. bargaining’ with the Unions and employees’ Union. harmonious The elimination of all Annual / Periodic relationship with forms of forced and dialogue / employees has led to compulsory labour. negotiation continuous processes are in improvement in place, since the productivity levels . inception of the the company does Company. not encourage forced or compulsory Open Houses and labour. ‘Tell Me Surveys from the MD’s office ’and Employee Engagement Surveys through third parties are in practice and encouraged as forums of feedback and discussions Principle 5 All supply contracts Integrated Supply The effective abolition through the entire Chain team of child labour. supply chain include a clause that clearly expresses that the Company shall take serious note if the contractor in any way employs child labour directly or indirectly. We also communicate to our Sales and Marketing Trade Partners functions highlighting appropriately the clause in the contract that child labour is not to be engaged either in direct or indirect form. Principle 6 The Company’s The Company HR / IR The elimination of policy on selection, employs 122 persons discrimination in respect recruitment and with disability, based of employment and confirmation of purely on merit and occupation employment qualification and as includes an explicit per rules and understanding that processes of the we are an equal Company. opportunity 3 employer as per the Our Company’s policy Tata Code of meets the Disability Conduct. Act norms, which With respect to though not mandated disability, the are followed both in incumbent shall get letter and spirit. We the job if she or he support this policy fulfills the basic through external requirements. industry forums too. Diversity is encouraged. Employees are encouraged to report any violations of the Code of Conduct. Titan also strives actively to implement the Requirements of Affirmative Action guidelines for the SC/ST community. 1. Studies by UN supported international students, on embedding Human Rights in Titan Industries Limited have been made and is available on request. 2. Titan has a specific project – MEADOW (Management and Development of Enterprise in Women) has significantly enhanced the quality of life in more than 400 underprivileged women of Krishnagiri District in Tamil Nadu, India. The performance of the project has been tracked and measured through the Tata Index of Human Development C. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 7 The Company is The Company is Environment and Businesses are asked traditionally procertified under the Safety Departments to support a environment and IS) 9001:2008 Quality precautionary and specific policies and Mgmt. Standards as proactive approach guidelines exist to well as ISO to environmental set direction that 14001:2004 challenges. addresses these Environmental Principles and go Management System beyond compliance. Standard and is preparing the report Pirnciple 8 & 9 Third party audits in line with the Undertake initiatives are conducted and Global Reporting to promote greater the Company Initiative guidelines. environmental conforms to ISO responsibility and; standards. Specific Opportunities For Encourage the The Company has Improvement have development and also received been identified and diffusion of Environment Awards action plans are environmentally for exceeding drawn. friendly compliance. technologies. 4 D. ANTI – CORRUPTION AND PREVENTION OF BRIBERY Principle 10 As a TATA Group The Chief Ethics Chief Ethics Officer Company there is an Officer presents an / Location Ethics Business should work elaborate system Annual Report on Counselors. against corruption in and process on the Ethics issues, all its forms, ‘Management of compliance and including extortion Business Ethics’ and action taken to the and bribery. all employees sign Chairman of the the TATA Code of Ethics and Conduct (TCOC). Compliance The Company has a Committee (Board of Chief Ethics Directors of TIL). Counselor and The Codes of location Ethics Conduct have been Counselors in place adequately displayed across the and is also on the Company. Programs Company’s Intranet. are conducted periodically for Specific ‘Gifting’, reinforcing TCOC ‘Anti-Sexual awareness. Harassment’ and ‘Internet’ policies The Tata Code of are also in place and Conduct booklets made available to are also presented the employees on the to all suppliers / Intranet for easy Trade Associates accessibility. with the appropriate clause included in the Contract / Agreement for their perusal and compliance. The Company follows a ‘zero tolerance’ policy regarding this. The above policy and our compliance are periodically communicated to employees at various forums. 5
