To The United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) From November 2011 – November 2012 Submitted by MENTOR FZ LLC, Dubai, UAE Published 2012/11/03 Time period 11/2011 – 11/2012 Format Standalone document Differentiation Level This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes Statement of continued support by the Managing Director When MENTOR joined the United Nations Global Compact three years ago it had a solid believe of the ten principals in its four dimensions. Ever since MENTOR has been trying to instill these principals wherever it can and whenever it is possible. And today, this Communication on Progress is a confirmation that although we are a small company, MENTOR leadership and team is still committed to the ten principals’ of the Global Compact and will expand more on it in this brief report. Sincerely yours, Malek Moubasher Managing Director Dubai 3rd of Nov 2012 MENTOR FZ LLC | Dubai Knowledge Village, Block 6, Office F07, =97143644583, +971508767979, admin@MentorMiddleEast.com Human Rights Area Assessment, policy and goals MENTOR values together with its standard operating policies are aligned to the Human Rights Principals of the UN Global Compact especially the areas related to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and making sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses or any else that might lead to any un fair treatment to any human being. Implementation MENTOR is a management consulting company, who give advice by word and by example, in this respect MENTOR was able to instill many of the principals outlining the Human Rights principals in the UN Global Compact while it was delivering Advise, Consultancy and Training Workshop. One example of influencing the supply chain was that MENTOR introduced a one page introduction to the UN Global Compact in each first communication to its clients, thus introducing UNGC to people around it. Another example in the area of core activities was that MENTOR has linked some of the Human Rights Principals to the Best Practices in Leadership and Management training workshops it has delivered. Measurement of outcomes MENTOR team was able to sense a growing understanding of the UNGC. MENTOR has observed several positive interactions within its influence circles in core activities and in its supply chain in terms of awareness of UNGC principals. MENTOR FZ LLC | Dubai Knowledge Village, Block 6, Office F07, =97143644583, +971508767979, admin@MentorMiddleEast.com Labour Area Assessment, policy and goals MENTOR as a human resources consultant feels itself most attached to the Labor principals of the UNGC. MENTOR preaches and focuses with all its clients on fair and proper labour practices. MENTOR has spread the word and instilled the best practice in this area over all its 40 clients’ portfolio. MENTOR has been able to include the four principals on UNGC in its advisory and training role in the area of human resource management. Implementation MENTOR consider itself as a role model and a messenger for people best strategies that brings fair treatment to the labor workforce and to the organization as well. MENTOR was able to discuss and demonstrate in many of its client engagements the importance and relevance of UNGC labor principals to proper Human Resources Management Measurement of outcomes In many cases MENTOR witnessed enhanced labor and workforce practice among its clients. MENTOR training workshop participants were able to show their understanding of the labor UNGC principals in a better way MENTOR FZ LLC | Dubai Knowledge Village, Block 6, Office F07, =97143644583, +971508767979, admin@MentorMiddleEast.com The Environment Area Assessment, policy and goals MENTOR is strong believer in the preservation of earth resources and minimizing the human life style impact of the good healthy stand of our mother earth. MENTOR thus has introduced its green policies to meet with the three UNGC principals. Implementation MENTOR has moved to a complete paperless company, we don’t use or print paper except in the very need situation. Moreover, in its consulting project related to real estate, construction and industrial activities, it is always encouraging its clients to go green and consider sustainable solutions. MENTOR moreover has introduced the following communication in all its emails: MENTOR Goes Paperless: Join Us and Do It! Please consider the environment. You control climate change: Print Less. Turn down. Switch off. Recycle. Walk. Measurement of outcomes MENTOR was successful for a 90% implementation of its paperless policy. Moreover, MENTOR is encouraging its influence circle to accept electronic communication when this is possible rather than sending papers. MENTOR FZ LLC | Dubai Knowledge Village, Block 6, Office F07, =97143644583, +971508767979, admin@MentorMiddleEast.com Anti-Corruption Area Assessment, policy and goals MENTOR believes and strives for a world free of corruption. MENTOR believes corruption will only lead to injustice and lose to all scenarios at the end. The MENTOR has gone stricter in implementing anticorruption policies and introduced it in its hiring procedures. Implementation MENTOR is fighting corruption whenever and wherever it can. MENTOR is communicating its anticorruption stand to each person in its supply chain and making sure to get a consensus from them Measurement of outcomes Externally MENTOR is an advocator of ant corruption and keep communicating it to all its stakeholders and people it deals with. MENTOR has a zero corruption incident during this year. MENTOR FZ LLC | Dubai Knowledge Village, Block 6, Office F07, =97143644583, +971508767979, admin@MentorMiddleEast.com
