136 Seorin-dong, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-729, Korea Tel : 82-2-399-6800 Fax : 82-2-399-6598 http://www.ksure.or.kr ANNUAL REPORT 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Let’s Grow TOGETHER KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION CONTENTS K-sure Profile 04 K-sure History 05 2011 Highlights 06 CEO Message 08 Export Environment and Outlook 10 2011 Trade Environment and Performance 12 2012 Outlook 13 Major Business Achievements 14 Operational Performance 16 Medium and Long-Term (MLT) Insurance 18 Short-Term Export Credit Insurance 22 Export Credit Guarantees 25 Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance 27 Claims and Recoveries 28 Buyer and Seller Credit Ratings 30 Sovereign Credit Ratings 31 Risk Management (RM) 32 K-sure and the Community 34 International Cooperation 36 Ethical Management 38 Customer Satisfaction 40 Corporate Social Responsibility 41 Financial Section 42 Auditors’ Report 43 Statement of Financial Position of K-sure 44 Income Statement 45 Statement of Changes in Capital 46 Organizational Structure 47 Management 48 Domestic and Overseas Network 50 KOREA TRADE INSURANCE CORPORATION Annual Report 2011 K-sure Profile Korea Trade Insurance Corporation or K-sure was established in July 1992 with the goal of boosting the national competitiveness of Korea through the promotion of trade and overseas investment. We are an export insurance agency (ECA) that extends various trade (export/import) insurance and overseas investment/credit guarantee programs. As a trade and investment insurer under the Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s supervision, we are responsible for the following roles: • We extend diverse trade insurance programs to cover the risks related the exportation and importation of goods (including capital goods), overseas construction works and investments, management of foreign exchange and interest rate fluctuations, export of cultural goods and services, and other overseas transactions. • We offer credit information services including credit research and buyer/seller credit information management and overseas debt collection services. • We work as a “public corporation trusted by the people of Korea” with the emphasis on customer satisfaction through ethical and innovative management aimed at Integrity, Transparency, Sharing, and Communication. • We duly commit our business volume approved by the National Assembly each year and responsibly invest the ‘Trade Insurance Fund’ entrusted by the government of Korea. • We boost the role of trade insurance aimed at strengthening the national economy and contributing to economic development that leads trade and overseas investment activities. K-sure transforms with the changing global trade environment by developing various trade insurance products and value-added services to promote the nation’s exports and global trade. As of December 2011, a total of 443 K-sureans support trade from the headquarters in Seoul, 13 domestic branches, and one local office in Korea. Its international presence includes 11 representative offices and two resident representatives. 4 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation K-sure History • 1968 • 1996 • 2008 Dec. I The Export Insurance Act is adDec. I K-sure joins the OECD ECG and GOP Mar. I Carbon Insurance Wrap is launched. opted and proclaimed. Committee. Apr. I SME Plus+ Insurance is launched. May I Commodity Price Fluctuation Risk • 1969 • 2000 Insurance is launched. Feb. I Korean Reinsurance Company Feb. I Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance is (Korean Re) takes over the export credit launched. July I Agro-Fisheries Export Package insurance business from the government Insurance is launched. of Korea. • 2003 Sept. I K-sure business volume exceeds Mar. I Reliability Insurance is launched. KRW 100 trillion. • 1977 Oct. I Trading Claim Insurance is Jan. I The Export-Import Bank of Korea • 2004 launched. takes over the export credit insurance Jan. I Overseas debt collection services business from Korean Re. are launched. Dec. I Comprehensive Overseas Resource Development Insurance is launched. • 1979 • 2005 Jan. I The governing authority of the July I Service Export Credit Insurance is • 2009 export credit-insurance business transfers launched. Apr. I Export Financing Facility (EFF) is to the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry launched. Sept. I Resource development programs of Commerce and Industry. May I The Customer Service Center under Overseas Investment Insurance are launched. opens. • 1992 July I Korea Export Insurance Corporation • 2006 • 2010 (KEIC) established to take charge of the July I KEIC assumes the new name, Nov. I Overseas Resources Development export credit insurance business. Korea Trade Insurance Corporation or Fund Insurance is launched. Nov. I The Export Credit Guarantee is K-sure, and NEW VISION 2020 is proclaimed. Dec. I Overseas Business Financing launched. Insurance is launched. • 2011 • 1994 • 2007 Trade Finance Magazine names K-sure as Nov. I The Short-Term Export Credit Best Asian ECA. Dec. I Cultural Export Insurance is Insurance, Agro-Fisheries Export Insurance, The business volume of K-sure tops KRW launched. and Market Development Insurance are 190 trillion. launched. Overseas Marketing Insurance is launched. •1  995 Dec. I The business volume of Export Credit Insurance exceeds KRW 10 trillion. Annual Report 2011 5 2011 Highlights Organizational Restructuring New President inaugurated (July) Organizational realignment for the era of USD 1-trillion in trade volume (September) • Mr. Cho Kye-Ryoong inaugurated as the 8th CEO, who led K-sure in its establishment ef• Expansion of SMEs Business Departments to better support SMEs (3 teams under SMEs Busiforts and served as its president. ness Department 1, and 4 teams under SMEs Business Department 2) • The Customer Support Department was established (responsible for customer services and corporate social responsibility activities) • The Risk Management Group was established to expand risk management activities to reduce losses (introduction of Risk Management Group) • T he Corporate Restructuring Department was established as the sole department to manage debts from restructuring enterprises • T he Trade Business Department’s sales and evaluation functions were integrated to better serve customers 6 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Strengthen Global Competitiveness of Korean Companies Through New Product Development and Better Support The operation system of More liquidity pumped to SMEs The operation of Trade Champs trade insurance overhauled (July) through the MOU concluded Club improved and more members with domestic financial institutions nominated (November) • The operation of the trade insurance sys(October) tem was totally overhauled to boost K• A custom-tailored support system was sure’s global competitiveness and advance • We secured more trade financing for outadopted to foster outstanding SMEs into its operational system. Our product portfostanding SMEs through the MOU with Inglobal companies that receive customized lio was revised, the risk management orgadustrial Bank of Korea (IBK) and we extendservices through K-sure’s relations managnization was expanded and restructured, ed more liquidity to reduce interest burden ers (RM) (the Trade Champs Club members an integrated risk management system on exporters. increased from 37 in 2010 to 70 in 2011). was set up, and various programs were introduced to foster the work of project finance (PF) experts. Measures to support strategic overseas markets implemented (September) • Among emerging markets, 69 countries in Africa and 4 other strategically important regions were chosen as strategic markets and different measures of support tailoring for each region were adopted. Major events and awards Letter of Intent (LOI) concluded with K-sure selected as Best Asian ECA Hankyung financial daily newspavarious financial institutions for by Trade Finance Magazine (June) per nominated K-sure as the best project finance support (February) public corporation in the advertisK-sure named as a leading organiing category (December) • The co-financing support system was set zation in implementing anti-corup with the conclusion of an LOI with 27 ruption measures (December) different domestic and global financial • K-sure was selected as an outstanding orinstitutions to facilitate project financing ganization in the anti-corruption prevention to Korean companies involved in overseas measures category surveyed by Anti-Corrupprojects. tion and Civil Rights Commission of Korea. Annual Report 2011 7 CEO Message Dear Clients, In 2011 we are once again reminded that the words ‘risk’ and ‘opportunity’ are just two sides of the same coin. The world economy was sucked into the turmoil of another financial crisis stemming this time from Europe as it was struggling to step away from the global financial crisis, which originated from the U.S. Nobody could tell what the future held as one crisis followed another, including unrest in the MENA region. Nonetheless, the Korean economy did not falter much despite all these external blows. Korea overcame the odds by becoming the 9th country in the world to attain the 1-trillion dollar trade mark. Amid these difficult times, we K-sureans strived to serve our exporters behind the scenes, and I am proud that we have achieved this milestone. Take a giant step toward When the global financial crisis hit in 2008, we changed gears by strategically exUSD 2 trillion in trade panding our trade insurance support and proactively countering risk to transform ‘risk’ into ‘opportunity’. Concluding that the world economy will continue to face various risk factors, we persevered in extending active support for our exporters. As a result, our total business volume hit a record high at KRW 192 trillion in 2011, a 2.7% increase from KRW 187 trillion in 2010. 8 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Not satisfied with the quantitative Thirdly, we boosted support for meDear Valued Clients, growth, we went for qualitative growth as dium and long-term (MLT) project finance well to strengthen the Korean export com(PF) in the future growth engines including The year 2012 is more meaningful to petitiveness by linking trade insurance to the engineering, procurement & construcK-sure than any other year. It is the first actual exports. tion (EPC) and resource development secyear for Korea to take a giant step toward tors. Amid the tightening global liquidity achieving the USD 2 trillion mark in trade All along the way, we had four goals in situation, we cooperated with other global and is the 20th anniversary of K-sure’s esour mind. ECAs from China, Japan, and Middle Eastern tablishment. Therefore, we promise to put countries through our global network and forward new missions and strategies toFirstly, K-sure pursued new markets in successfully extended KRW 14 trillion in MLT ward achieving this hallmark and to fulfill the post-China era as the world economy project finance. Our efforts were recognized our goals. seemed likely to falter long-term in both by Trade Finance Magazine that named Kadvanced and emerging economies. Thus, sure as Best Asian ECA in June 2011. I would like to ask for your friendship we selected Africa, Indonesian and other reand support while we face new challenges gions with a high growth potential as ‘straFourthly, the year 2011 offered K-sure as a 20-year-old who strives with passion tegic emerging markets’ and are helping time to restructure and prepare to propel and in the spirit of challenge. Korean enterprises to enter these regions by the Korean economy forward beyond the extending tailored services. USD 1-trillion mark in trade. In short, we Thank you very much. completely overhauled the ways we operSecondly, we focused on better supate. For instance, we revised our insurance porting SMEs, as they form the foundation of product portfolio to boost our operation industry along with conglomerates, by helpefficiency. We expanded our risk manageing them grow and expand their horizons ment capacity to counter external risks acCho, Kye-Ryoong to encompass the global market. We put companying our increased business volume Chairman & President more personnel and energy into SMEs Busiand to secure stability in our operation. Our Korea Trade Insurance Corporation ness Department and activated our ‘Trade decision-making process put more responChamps Club’. We chose small companies to sibility on the upper management. In addifoster into medium-sized enterprises. In the tion, we introduced more advanced operameantime, we strengthened our ties with tion indices. domestic financial institutions including Industrial Bank of Korea to facilitate export financing for Korean businesses. Annual Report 2011 9 Export Environment and Amid adverse global market conditions, K-sure remained dedicated to supporting Korean companies in their international trading. Korea is at the crossroads where it has to leap forward, beyond the 1-trillion dollar mark, to reach 2-trillion dollars in trade. To help the country to achieve this goal, K-sure will play its role as a global ECA by better supporting strategic markets. Outlook 2011 Trade Environment and Performance The world economy faced another crisis in 2011 as countries Even among advanced economies, only the U.S., Germany, Japan and around the world sought new ways to overcome severe slumps durfive other countries achieved this mark. Korea’s exports and imports ing the global financial crisis. The unrest in the MENA region, the increased higher than those competing economies, despite global Japanese earthquake disaster, the U.S. credit rating downgrade, and economic uncertainty. other international factors blocked the world economy from its recovery. The European debt crisis stemming from Greece spread to Korea’s trade increased steadily despite economic slowdown in Portugal, Italy and other regional economies, compounding global the U.S., Europe and other advanced countries with the proven techeconomic uncertainty. As the Eurozone and other advanced nations nical and cost competitiveness of Korean companies in the difficult drifted to find solutions in securing financial health, they faced a diglobal market. In particular, the country’s major exports, including lemma -whether to stimulate or tighten their economies. automobiles, vessels, and petrochemical products, were well accepted by global markets, and their export growth was high. The import Among those major economies, the U.S. showed employment of crude oil, natural gas, coal, and other commodities soared due to and housing market slump along with a slow consumption recovery. price hikes. In other parts of the globe, the Japanese trade balance turned around to deficit in 31 years. Concerns over a hard landing were raised as Compared to 2010, exports to Japan and other advanced counChina showed sluggish consumption as well as exports. Growth motries leaped, leading the way toward the 1-trillion dollar trade mark. mentum also slowed in emerging countries, which previously had They also increased to Europe, but the increase was only 4.2% yearshowed relatively stable growth, as they adopted tightening policies on-year because of the European debt crisis. to reduce inflation. K-sure led the way toward the reaching the 1-trillion dollar trade Despite all these difficulties, Korea became the 9th country in the mark by extending KRW 192 trillion in trade insurance for those comworld to achieve the one-trillion dollar trade mark, thanks to cooppanies seeking niches in global markets. As a result, it was named as eration among the government, businesses and people. Compared Best Asian ECA by Trade Finance Magazine in 2011. to 2010, exports increased 19.3% to USD 556.5 billion, and imports, 23.3% to USD 524.5 billion. In short, the record-high trade surplus was achieved in 2011 at USD 33.3 billion. Reaching USD 1-trillion in trade was indeed significant in that the mark symbolizes a large economy. 12 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation 2012 Outlook With such factors as delayed solutions to the European debt crilikely to drop slightly with the prospective of a better supply and sis and economic zone expansion through FTAs, the environment demand situation. However, volatility is expected to increase due to for international trade in 2012 is expected to be volatile, as risk and existing negative factors affecting supply, such as the nuclear developportunity will coexist. Recovery in advanced economies is likely to opment program of Iran,. be slow, with limited stimulus measures and the implementation of tightening policies amid weak recovery of the private sector, which As for the outlook for Korean exports, one-digit growth is expecthas little capacity to make its own recovery. Emerging economies, ed as the export of vessels, petrochemical products, semiconductors on the other hand, are expected to face export slowdown, but their and other major export items would drop with lagging demand as a growth is not likely to slow significantly as their consumption is exconsequence to a weak export growth. Korean imports will drop nopected to increase. tably due to slight drops in oil prices and slightly less import volume of crude oil compared to the 2011 level. In short, a trade surplus would The global trade volume is likely to drop to the 5% level, with be larger in 2012 as imports were to outweigh exports. decreased exports and imports with growth slowdown in advanced countries. With lagging advanced economies, growth slowdown is Korea is at the crossroads where it has to leap forward, beyond also expected in developing countries, but to a lesser degree. the 1-trillion dollar mark, to reach the 2-trillion dollar in trade. To help the country to achieve this goal, K-sure will play its role as a global ECA The Korea won to the U.S dollar exchange rates are expected to by better supporting strategic markets and SMEs to transform into drop slowly, amid high volatility with uncertain global financial marglobal companies. Furthermore, it will work with the government kets. The leading factors include the accumulation of account surplus, and related organizations to boost global competitiveness of SMEs. inward foreign investments, the European debt crisis, economic slowdown in advanced countries, increased geopolitical risk, etc. The widely held view is that commodities prices are expected to drop slightly, due to concerns over the U.S. and European slowdown and ensuing slowdown in emerging economies. Oil prices are also Annual Report 2011 13 Major Busine K-sure is a major contributor for Korea attaining the 1-trillion dollar mark in trade. K-sure steadily increased its business volume for the past three years to overcome the global financial crisis stemming from the U.S. in 2008. The total business volume recorded KRW 165 trillion in 2009, KRW 187 trillion in 2010, and KRW 192 trillion in 2011. ss Achievements Operational Performance 2011 Operational Performance A major contributor for Korea atOperational system overhaul for a SMEs-focused support expanded to taining the 1-trillion dollar mark in long-term and stable operation of boost their global competitiveness trade 1.6% year-on-year increase trade insurance schemes with KRW 192 trillion in business volume K-sure steadily increased its business volK-sure overhauled its entire operational The SMEs Business Group was augmentume for the past three years to overcome the system to secure the basis for long-term ed and restructured from a 1-department/3global financial crisis stemming from the U.S. stable operation amid increased risk, enteam to a 2-department/4-team structure to in 2008. The total business volume recorded tailing quantitative easing with record high boost support for SMEs that are the basis of KRW 165 trillion in 2010, KRW 187 trillion in business volume and continuing global ecoindustry and foster their growth for the goal 2011, and KRW 192 trillion in 2011. nomic slowdown. of boosting the quality of our services. In addition, the ‘Trade Champs Club’ program These efforts contributed to Korea esOperational readiness was secured for a was extended to foster excellent mediumcaping the crisis early by helping Korea combetter management for the following year. sized enterprises and boost their global panies to actively enter global markets and For example, the insurance and guarantee competitiveness. expand their exports and for Korea attaining product portfolio was revised to rid it of inthe 1-trillion dollar goal in trade as the 9th effectiveness and internal processes renonation in the world to achieve this milestone. vated. The risk management system was restructured to bring health back to the Trade By sector, the total business volume for Insurance Fund marred by the financial automobile, steel, IT and other major excrisis, and in preparation for future uncerports increased 4.3% to KRW 169 trillion in tainties. The scope of risk management was 2011 from KRW 162 trillion in 2010. SMEs supexpanded, and advanced risk management port remained the same at KRW 19 trillion. techniques were introduced. 16 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Operational Plan for 2012 In 2012, the external environment surFirstly, we plan to help Korean busiadvanced integrated risk management sysrounding Korea will be not easy as a result nesses to capture future markets in emergtem. For 2012, we plan to focus on a stable of lingering global financial uncertainty ing countries by extending continued supbusiness operation by strengthening risk stemming from the European debt crisis, port for these regions including Africa as measurement for each country and each increased financing costs, and difficulty in market growth potential is now shifting industry as well as our risk analysis function. securing mediumand long-term export fifrom advanced to emerging economies. nancing. The global economy will be more Fifthly, we plan to offer our clients betdependent on those emerging regions Secondly, we plan to increase the proter access to information related to export including BRICs and CIVETS (Columbia, Inportion of direct support for SMEs to transinsurance by improving customer services donesia, Vietnam, Turkey, and South Africa) form them into global companies for the and support to implement customer-friendthat are likely to show relatively high growth. goal of fostering future growth engines and ly management. We will offer more updated Thus, the year can provide Korean compaextend more support to SMEs to transform contents to meet customers’ needs and nies the opportunities to penetrate these from ‘global beginners’ to ‘global experts’ by continue to modify customer support by promising markets in advance. setting up a support system tailored to their collecting VOC cases and customer services. stage of growth. With ‘New Beginning toward 2 trillion We will also change wording in our gendollar Trade’ as the 2012 business goal, we Thirdly, we plan to counter slowdown eral terms and conditions of various insurset up plans to support Korean businesses in the project-finance market due to the Euance products for easier understanding and entering overseas markets and established ropean debt crisis and financial markets into minimize customer inconvenience and the strategic support infrastructure, by leadstability in advanced countries. To achieving extend services based on communication ing the ‘era of one-trillion dollar trade.’ this end we will be extending support to Koand shared understanding. rean companies in winning bids and particiTo achieve this end, we plan to flexibly pating in overseas EPC (engineering, procureSixthly, we will try to become a socially deal with the changing trade environment ment & construction) projects through such responsible state-owned corporation that by setting aside the ‘contingency ceiling’ measures as boosting cooperation with communicates with local communities by amounting to KRW 7 trillion in addition to commercial banks, creating a co-financing adopting a volunteering program specific to KRW 190 trillion in the trade insurance busisystem with public financial institutions, and each business group whereby volunteering ness volume budget. The details of the exincreasing reinsurance and coinsurance in activities will be carried out throughout the ecution plans include increased support for conjunction with other ECAs. year. Moreover, we will strive to make transemergencies and special strategic markets parent and clean business culture part of our to capture future markets. They also include We also plan to strengthen support for business by focusing on equal opportunity boosting support for SMEs to help them enmarkets other than the Middle East, which employment, job creation for young people ter the global market and extending more traditionally has been the major area to reand ethical business operation. project finance support by enabling Korean ceive export finance, to Africa, Latin America businesses to win overseas projects in the and other regions, to diversify EPC markets. K-sure, which led the way for Korea infrastructure as well as resource developFurthermore, we will work on risk diversificaachieving one-trillion dollar in trade, will ment sectors. tion. now stand in the forefront in leading Korea in the era of post one-trillion dollar in trade. The following are the basic goals in the Fourthly, we will continue to boost risk In short, we will strive to perform our duties 2012 business plans: management for real growth. In 2011, we for stable trade and overseas investment concentrated our efforts in solidifying accufaithfully, amid lingering global financial unracy in our risk measurement by adopting an certainties. Annual Report 2011 17 Medium and Long-Term (MLT) Transactions Overview Most commonly involving export transactions for capital goods institutions for the non-payment of principle and interest in those industrial facilities, MLT transactions characteristically involve large longer than two year MLT contracts involving Korean companies in contracts, long-term payment periods, and complex transaction their overseas investment activities such as equity acquisition, etc. structures. Rather than receiving their payments in long term, these exporters want to settle their receivables immediately on a progresThese programs complement financing from international finansive basis upon the shipment of goods manufactured, to reduce cial markets, in which they are used to support the Korean export of financial burden. Financing is usually covered under Buyer Export EPC, ship and other capital goods and enable K-sure to help Korean Credit Insurance when the buyer obtains own financing, at which companies to enter the global market and develop overseas resources. time, ECA-backed financing is actively used for stable fund recovery. Korean companies’ international presence has soared since 2004 MLT Export Credit Insurance and Overseas Business Financing based on their operational know-how and improved technological Insurance are the two products that represent K-sure’s MLT insurcompetitiveness. They are becoming increasingly global with various ance line. Covering those financial contracts between financial instiprojects won in the Middle East and Asia and more construction comtutions and importers (buyers/borrowers) with their payment peripanies expanding their overseas works. The demand for ECA-backed ods longer than two years, MLT Export Credit Insurance covers the loans is likely to increase and K-surews MLT insurance programs, to former from the non-payment of principle and interest by the latter. become increasingly important. For Overseas Business Financing Insurance, K-sure covers financial MLT Export Credit Insurance Overseas Business Financing Insurance Shipment Loan Borrower Exporter Buyer Cash (Overseas goverment, financial institution) an Buyer’s cash Lo ver payment made Co en t through the bank a ym p Re Project OBFI with Lender Borrower Korean Interests Bank Buyer Credit Cover (Overseas corporations) Equity Feedstock Offtake EPC, etc. 18 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Major Program Improvement and Business Performance The 2011 project finance (PF) market Particularly, K-sure’s guarantees were In the ship sector, we boosted support continued its weak 2010 standing with globranked fourth in the ‘2011 Best Global ECA’ for outstanding borrowers and the portion al financial institutions limiting long-term category, following the export credit guarof the shipping industry that uses valuefinancing due to credit crunch ensuing from antees of Germany, France and Japan. Trade added ships. With the slowing ship industry the global financial crisis. The size of project Finance Magazine and Project Finance Magdue to the global financial crisis and the relafinancing is becoming increasing larger, as azine awarded ‘Deal of the Year’ to K-suretive growth of the value creating off-shore giant projects stem from the petrochemical backed deals. plant industry, K-sure placed priority on and other sectors. Thus, the capacity to sesupporting high-value ships, for instance by cure project financing became an important K-sure has strengthened MLT transacincreasing the underwriting limit. Furtherfactor in the success of EPC and other capital tions support funded through project fimore, our CEO actively sought out excellent goods exporters and so was the participanancing in emerging countries including borrowers and extended our support. For tion of ECA-backed project financing. those in the Asian region. One of the sucexample, we backed the deal to export ten cessful cases is the 1,120 Megawatt Coal 13,000 TEU Korean container ships. Furthermore, the potential for another Powered Plant Project in Vietnam where Kfinancial crisis looms in Europe and other sure backed USD 840 million. This project is In the resource development sector, countries with soaring sovereign debts. The the largest IPP (investment pricing project) we set up six support strategies focusing fact that European financial institutions are in Vietnam and the first case of a Korean on the development of seven strategically hesitant to become involved in project ficompany entering in the IPP sector in the important minerals and energy resources nancing propelled the increased demand country. for the Korean economy. In addition, we in ECA-backed financing, unlike in the past forged partnerships and cooperation with when they led ECA financing, as they try to We are also continuing our active supdomestic and overseas resource developsecure more capital and dispose of assets port for Korean companies to enter the ment institutions. We contributed to Korea’s with the tightening global regulatory stanoverseas green growth sector through supsecuring a stable source of energy and a dards on bank capital adequacy and others in porting biomass and clean development steppingstone for market entry into Indoline with the adoption of the Basel III Accord. mechanism (CDM) projects in China. In the nesia, where K-sure extended financial supmeantime, we are progressively revising our port to a Korean developer that participates Amid this difficult global finance situainsurance schemes to better support mein a free-burning coal mine development tion, K-sure worked hard to respond to the dium-sized businesses to facilitate perforproject in Indonesia. markets’ needs by expanding long-term mance bond issuance and overseas project financing support to facilitate Korean busiparticipation. We helped SMEs to gain more We also focused our energy in helping nesses. These efforts were recognized by opportunities in the PF sector by hosting the Korean companies in investing and developTrade Finance Magazine that named K-sure Plant Industry Forum and engaging in other ing overseas subsidiaries. This proactive supas Best Asian ECA in 2011. This accolade was activities. We also concluded reinsurance port enabled Korean companies in securing won for the third time, following the ones and coinsurance MOUs with other ECAs to more overseas projects and strengthened in 2008 and 2009 and symbolizes K-sure’s diversify the sources of project financing, cooperation with other nations. Furtherstanding and roles in the global ECA market. and we are in the process of strengthening more, it will contribute toward Korean comthe cooperative network with non-Europepanies securing overseas production basis, an financial institutions including those from promoting long-term exports, and earning Japan and China. foreign dollars. Annual Report 2011 19 Overview on and Analysis of MLT Volumes The total MLT volume for 2011 increased As for the commitment for each inAs for the commitment for each re8.9% year on year (based on outstanding dustry, the overseas EPC industry took up gion, the Middle East was offered the largcommitment) due to financing of projects KRW 20.8 trillion, which was 41% of KRW est amount at KRW 17.5 trillion, followed by that had been delayed with the global fi50.7 trillion in the total commitment. This Asia and Europe. These three regions were nancial crisis. Major projects came from the 19.6% year-on-year increase came from an responsible for 80% of the total commitpower-generation and desalination indusincreased number of contracts won by Koment. Thus, K-sure plans to diversify its MLT tries. As of the end of 2011, our total outrean companies in the overseas EPC market. regional portfolio by extending more supstanding commitment stood at KRW 50.7 At KRW 17.9 trillion, the outstanding comport for emerging countries trillion, among which MLT Export Credit Inmitment in the ship industry took up 35% surance was responsible for KRW 24 trillion of the total commitment, which was a 3% and Overseas Business Financing Insurance, increase from 2010. KRW 7.9 trillion, which was an increase of 13.6% and 24.6% year-on-year, respectively. Outstanding MLT Commitment by Product (Unit : KRW billion) Product '10 volume '11 volume YoY MLT Export Credit Insurance 21,095 23,973 13.6% Overseas Business Fiancing Insurance 6,359 7,921 24.6% Export Bond Insurance 13,577 13,147 ∆3.2% Others 5,517 5,663 2.6% Subtotal 46,548 50,704 8.9% Outstanding MLT Commitment by Industry (Unit : KRW billion) Industry '10 volume '11 volume YoY EPC 17,357 20,760 19.6% Ship 17,285 17,867 3.4% Resource development 4,575 4,528 ∆1.0% Others 7,331 7,549 2.9% Subtotal 46,548 50,704 8.9% 20 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Outstanding Portion of MLT Commitment by Region (Unit : %) Total of 100 2010 2011 23.7 22.7 23.1 22.7 32.4 34.4 4.9 4.3 Europe Asia North America Middle 3.0 2.6 East 11.1 10.8 Africa 1.9 2.5 Central and Oceania South America 2012 Business Plans In 2012, K-sure plans to lead the effort to foster the sustainable support for large, government-sponsored projects throughout the future growth engines such as overseas EPC and resource developworld. ment projects in Central Asian and other emerging economies. As these projects add high value and create decent jobs, K-sure will At the same time, K-sure is enhancing its risk management syssupport Korean companies to enter these strategic markets early tem to proactively and scientifically manage losses ensuing from the on. In the meantime, we are striving to provide tailored financing as increased MLT commitments and scale of projects. We will choose to resource development projects are evolving into package deals with focus our support to actively meet the increased demand for trade investors more involved in the infrastructure and facility building, insurance. In short, we will offer solutions to the Korean economy as unlike in the past when they participated merely as equity investors. it takes a giant step into the future after the global financial crisis and strive to be a number one ECA in the world. Furthermore, we are building a global network with financial institutions and other ECAs to expand financing sources and secure stable financing, by focusing our energy into offering trade insurance Annual Report 2011 21 Short-Term Export Credit Insurance Introduction Overview Supporting exporters or financial institutions involved in shortThis program protects exporters from risky credit-based transacterm transactions with the payment period of two years or less, Shorttions and enables them to penetrate new markets by finding new Term(ST) Export Credit Insurance covers the commercial and political importers, since the exporter is indemnified for a loss in case of nonrisks. The former include the termination of export contract by impayment. It helps financial institutions to expand financing by facilitatporter, importer’s default, importer’s delay or refusal to settle export ing the extension of financing to high-risk export transactions. proceeds, etc. The latter include a war or rebellion in the importing country, importing country limiting forex transactions, etc. Short-Term Export Credit Insurance (Post-Shipment) Explanation Overview • Parties to export transaction ① Apply for insurance Korean exporter ↔ Foreign importer ② Set limit ③ Export Exporter Importer • Covered risks ⑥ Pay insurance ④ Settle Political risks in importing country proceeds ⑤ Unsettle Commercial risks from importer Classification of ST Export Credit Insurance based on financing function ST Export Credit Insurance can be classified based on several Categories Non-financing Financing factors. However, the most frequently used and meaningful clasPolicyholder Exporter Financial institution sification is one based on the policyholder, which can be either Export receivables an exporter or financial institution. Under this policyholder-based Covered target Export proceeds purchasing costs, etc. classification, ST Export Credit Insurance is a pure cover on the nonpayment of export proceeds or cover to secure financing. Export Financing Facility ST Export Credit Most used (EFF) Insurance product ST Export Credit Insurance (Post-Shipment) In the pure cover area where K-sure covers the risk of importer’s (Forfeiting) non-payment, K-sure is trying to expand ST products such as forfeiting/factoring and other similar ST insurance products for the financing purposes to meet the increased demand by financial institutions to hedge risk and to boost competitiveness. 22 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Operation methods Based on how they are run, ST Export Insurance can be classified policyholder (the company using insurance) and insurer (K-sure) coninto specific and comprehensive insurance products. Furthermore, clude a comprehensive provision on the scope of transactions such comprehensive insurance can be operated as semi-comprehensive as for specific goods, settlement terms, etc., prior to the occurrence and by-sector (partial) comprehensive insurance. of applicable transactions that must be covered. Once this provision is in place, the policyholder is automatically covered. In other words, Specific insurance is cover on a specific transaction that the poliall transactions set under the comprehensive provision are covered cyholder thinks is highly risky. With comprehensive insurance, the automatically. Comparison between comprehensive insurance and specific insurance Category Comprehensive insurance Specific insurance ∙ All transactions that fall under the set scope are Outline ∙ Insurance cover applied and extended for each transaction. covered. Policyholder ∙ Good for high risk transactions ∙ Selective cover on only those high risk transactions possible Advantages (user company) ∙ Low premiums Insurer (K-sure) ∙ Good for risk diversification ∙ K-sure can refuse cover on those high risk transactions Policyholder ∙ Difficulty in covering high risk transactions ∙ Cover also required for low risk transactions Disadvantages (user company) ∙ Low premiums than comprehensive insurance policy Insurer (K-sure) ∙ Demand for cover on high risk transactions ∙Risk diversification difficult Major Program Improvements Separate program introduced specifically targeting emerging markets After the global financial crisis of 2008, the world economy is Structure of EFF transforming from the G7-centered structure led by the U.S. and other advanced European countries into the G20-centered one with Policy concluded the rise of China, India and other emerging economies. As the global BANK Insurance proceeds claim marketplace is expanding and diversifying at the same time, we see Compensation a soaring demand for our cover as more Korean exporters trade with Forex emerging economies. ms) Subrogation transaction cl ai te r agreement im p or rights conclusion hen exercised However, many difficulties are seen related to exports to emerging rs e (w and negotiations co u Re markets that are characterized by non-transparent accounting practices, lack of accounting systems and related laws including lack or inadequacy of credit information infrastructure, etc. As a result, exporters Exporter Export Importer feel more need to use K-sure’s insurance covering the exporters’ risks. Annual Report 2011 23 To meet this demand, K-sure adopted a program that is tailored to three types: intensive-cover, increasing-cover, and selective-cover meet the needs of these exporters and designed based on the unique types. nature of emerging markets by taking account the lack of institutional infrastructure and minimizing factors marring exports. Each type is matched with tailored insurance products. As such, our 2011 business volume on emerging markets increased 11% to Under the program, the emerging markets are categorized into KRW 80 trillion, compared to that in 2010. MOUs concluded with financial institutions and active EFF usage for easier financing Introduced in 2009, Export Financing Facility (EFF) covers nonIn the meantime, continuing from 2010 when we eased importer payment of the applicable overseas account receivables sold by an qualifications, we loosened our criteria on the scale of exporters and exporter (to finance export transactions) to a bank. eased credit ratings standards for each category to help SMEs to have better access to our products. With the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), non-recourse export receivables are not considered As a result, the EFF volume soared from KRW 22.3 billion in 2009 liability. As such, the demand for EFF is expected to increase with into KRW 141.5 billion in 2010 and KRW 1,313 billion in 2011. In short, creased selling of overseas account receivables and foreign currency K-sure contributed in boosting the efficiency in managing overseas transactions of banks. In return, K-sure is trying to boost the usage of account receivables of Korean exporters. this program by concluding MOUs with major foreign banks. Business Volume Overview Volume Per Major Industry Volume Per Major Region (Unit: KRW trillion) (Unit: KRW trillion) 84 Other Total of 169 Africa Central Asia 1 1 3 34 India 50 China 7 22 9 15 Middle East 10 Latin America 11 Total of 169 4 North 28 Other 12 America Asia Electric / Petrochemical Steel Automobile Textile Others 22 25 Asean Europe Electronic 24 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Export Credit Guarantees Overview This program is operated as the Export guarantee. When the exporter cannot settle for the goal of facilitating exporters. Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) and Export the financing extended by the FX bank Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment). upon its maturity due to the non-payment Those exporters who finance their exby the importer (including the issuing bank), ports under K-sure’s export credit guaranExport Credit Guarantee K-sure covers the loss by the FX bank. tees can secure more financing than if they (Pre-Shipment) had financed through export financing on Furthermore, this guarantee is extended their own credit and can lower financing Under this program, K-sure becomes in conjunction with Short-term Export Credit costs at the same time. jointly liable for financing that an exporter Insurance. Thus, those exporters who exportsecures from a bank when a FX bank or simied normally without any fault of their own Banks also benefit through K-sure’s lar party extends a loan or offer a payment would be exempted from recourse since Kcover by being able to offer larger corporate guarantee leveraged on K-sure’s export sure offsets insured debts from foreign exlending, minimizing the non-payment risk, credit guarantee. By doing so, this program change banks with insurance proceeds. We and improving their BIS ratios. helps exporters to secure financing to manalso offer Nego product with no conjunction ufacture or process goods based on export to any other product for those exporters who Export Credit Guarantee contracts. do not want extra cover since their importers’ (Post-Shipment) non-payment risk is low. This guarantee is typically issued for Leveraging upon their shipping docua one-year term. Previously, we basically issued a new guarantee when and if an exBenefits of K-sure’s ments including bills of exchange, exporters may obtain export proceeds from a foreign tension was needed: than the policyholder Programs bank at the time of export based on credit. had to apply anew and the application was However, foreign banks ask for security since reviewed based on the existing guarantee. Export Credit Guarantee they have to pay the export proceeds with However, K-sure did away with the com(Pre-Shipment) their own funds. In this case, K-sure’s export plicated application and review processes. credit guarantee functions as security. Instead, starting in 2012, we review the Upon the conclusion of export conamount of increase/decrease using a checktracts, exporters typically secure funds In short, K-sure indemnifies a foreign list and notify the applicable FX bank on the needed to procure raw materials or manuexchange bank that has paid export promodification of any terms without issuing a facture products from commercial banks. ceeds through purchasing the shipping new guarantee. In short, we improved the At this time, banks usually ask for some type documents covered under K-sure’s export system to extend this guarantee easily and of security or collateral when extending this credit guarantee cannot collect the export quickly. trade financing; however, export SMEs with proceeds from the importer. lagging collateral capacity have difficulty in Export Credit Guarantee obtaining financing. (Post-Shipment) K-sure issues this unsecuritized export Under this program, K-sure becomes credit guarantee (ECG) taking into account jointly liable for a loan extended by an FX the exporter’s financial status, export perbank for a Korean exporter based on our formance, ability to carry out export, etc., Annual Report 2011 25 Overview and Analysis of Business Volumes The business volume from Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) decreased 24.6% from KRW 4.4 trillion in 2010 to KRW 3.3 trillion in 2011. This drop was a result of the change in our underwriting strategy, where we went back to our normal practice in the late 2010 after expanding our credit lines to overcome the financial crisis in 2009. On the other hand, the volume from Export Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment) increased 44.1% from KRW 1.8 trillion in 2010 to KRW 2.6 trillion in 2011. This was due to the increased total export volume of Korea from USD 466.4 billion in 2010 to USD 556.5 billion in 2011, which entailed more purchases of shipping documents. In the meantime, K-sure deliberately decreased the business volume of Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) but increased that of Export Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment). Despite our goal of normalizing our export credit guarantee business, the total volume decreased only 4.6% from KRW 6.2 trillion in 2010 to KRW 5.9 trillion in 2011. Export Credit Guarantee (Pre-Shipment) Volume (Unit: Case, KRW billion) Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 No. of cases 3,850 3,673 6,208 5,894 5,534 SMEs 3,844 3,667 6,170 5,859 5,490 Business Volume 833 1,046 4,545 4,393 3,311 SMEs 819 885 3,871 3,868 2,810 Export Credit Guarantee (Post-Shipment) Volume (Unit: Case, KRW billion) Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 No. of cases 6,412 6,896 10,122 12,105 13,643 SMEs 6,412 6,895 10,115 12,098 13,568 Business Volume 326 516 1,419 1,803 2,598 SMEs 326 516 1,379 1,773 2,429 26 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Overview Business Volume This product indemnifies FX losses and redeems FX gains As foreign exchange rates stabilized, the Foreign Exchange from foreign exchange fluctuations for exporters and overseas inRisk Insurance business volume decreased to KRW 1.8 trillion, in vestors for the goal of hedging FX risk. which a total of 536 businesses were covered under this scheme. Its basic structure involves the difference between K-sure’s inBusiness Volume for Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance sured FX rate and FX rate at the time of settlement. This difference, which could be a loss or a gain, is settled between K-sure and the Business Volume (Unit: KRW billion) policyholder at the end of the insured period. In short, this product is similar to the forward FX transactions in financial institutions. 7,763 Exporters and overseas investors can secure stable profits 2,623 and remove the FX fluctuations risk by fixing future cash flow into 1,829 the won currency. 1,408 Exporters may hedge the FX risk for a maximum period of up to three years, and overseas investors, up to 10 years, considering the long-term nature of overseas investments. Product Improvement 2008 2009 2010 2011 * Excluding the business volume of those discontinued products under the The following improvements have been made in 2011 as K-sure FX risk insurance scheme. continues to improve our Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance to protect Korean businesses. No. of Businesses Covered Firstly, we increased the FX risk insurance coverage ceilings to 1,248 better meet the actual demand of domestic businesses that want to 680 enroll in this product. On the other hand, we also focused on better 536 risk management by differentiating ceilings for each business de502 pending on its credit rating. Secondly, we got rid of the line of foreign exchange risk insurance, i.e., the bidding arrangement, that mainly supported large corporations, which are able to hedge their own FX risk through 2008 2009 2010 2011 financial institutions. * Excluding the users of those discontinued products under the FX risk insurance scheme. Thirdly, we cover one more currency, i.e., the Chinese yuan, in addition to the US dollar, the euro, and the Japanese yen. Although the yuan is not used frequently as a settlement currency at the moment, this measure was taken to proactively deal with increasing bilateral trade between Korea and China. Annual Report 2011 27 Claims and Recoveries Claims The total payment on claims for 2011 decreased 6.9% year-on• By product category, a total of KRW 188.0 billion was indemniyear to KRW 760.8 billion from KRW 817.6 billion in 2010. This figure fied in the short-term category in 2011, which was a 68.8% decrease excludes the business volumes of Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance compared to KRW 602.5 billion in 2010. The MLT category totaled and Interest Rate Risk Insurance, whose payments are hedged KRW 572.8 billion, an increase of 166.3% compared to KRW 215.1 bilthrough financial institutions. lion in the previous year. Claims Paid for Each Product (Unit : KRW billion) Short-Term Mid & Long-Term Total YoY 603 68.8% 166.3% 6.9% 573 818 761 188 215 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 By country, the top 10 countries, including Indonesia, Brazil, and This ratio was lower than 81.1% paid out for the top 10 countries in the U.S., were responsible for 74.0% of the total claims paid out. the previous year. By region, Asia (KRW 27.3 billion) and America (KRW 25.1 billion) topped all the other regions. Claims Paid for Each Country (Unit : KRW billion) 2010 2011 Ranking Country Payment Country Amount 1 Hong Kong 51.3 Indonesia 15.3 2 Russia 51.2 Brazil 13.6 3 USA 17.3 USA 11.5 4 Jordan 11.2 India 5.4 5 Brazil 11.1 Greece 4.2 6 Sudan 8.2 Germany 4.0 7 Australia 6.8 Iran 3.4 8 Uzbekistan 6.4 Japan 3.2 9 Venezuela 5.5 Libya 3.2 10 China 5.0 Russia 2.7 Subtotal 174.1 66.5 Others 40.7 23.4 Total 214.8 89.9 * Excluding derivatives (Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance and Interest Rate Risk Insurance) and domestic exporter risk products (Export Bond Insurance, Export Credit Guarantee, etc.) 28 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Loss rate and claim ratio The total loss rate in 2011 (total insurance proceeds paid out against total premiums collected) dropped 39.1% points to 130.1% from the previous year’s 169.2%. This figure excludes indemnifications for Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance and Interest Rate Risk Insurance and was due to an increase in the premiums collected from Import Insurance (21.0%↑) and decreased insurance proceeds paid out (6.9%↓). The total amount of recoveries made in 2011 was KRW 105.6 billion, a decrease of 23.8% at KRW 138.5 billion in 2010. However, the actual loss rate for the entire year improved 21.3% points, from 131.5% in 2010 to 110.2% in 201, thanks to increased premiums collected from Import Insurance. After hitting the record high at 0.63% in 2003, the claim ratio (total indemnification against total underwriting) stabilized at 0.44% in 2010 and 0.40% in 2011. Recoveries Recovered (Accrued as of the end of 2011) (Unit: KRW billion) Category Overseas receivables Domestic receivables Total Overview Receivables 2,521 3,123 5,644 occurred (a) The total amount of recoveries made in 2011 was KRW 105.6 bilRecovered amount (b) 842 682 1,524 lion, which was a decrease of 23.8% from 2010 at KRW 138.5 billion. Recovery 33.4% 21.9% 27.0% ratio (b/a) The total amount of accrued debt, i.e., receivables not collected, as of the end of 2011 was KRW 5.6 trillion, out of which KRW 1.5 Recoveries Per Product Category (as of the end of 2011) (Unit: KRW billion) or 27.0% was collected. Out of this total collected, 55.2% came from Recoveries overseas receivables and 44.8% from domestic receivables, showCategory Amount Ratio ing a slightly higher level of collection from abroad. Short-Term 74.4 70.5% Mid & Long-Term 31.2 29.5% Recoveries per product category Total 105.6 100.0% Out of total recoveries, the amount of short-term category receivables was KRW 74.4 billion, responsible for 70.5% of the total Recoveries Per Country (as of 2011) recovered. The MLT category receivables were KRW 31.2 billion, re(Unit: KRW billion) sponsible for 29.5% of the total recovered. 1.8 7.9 1.2 Recoveries per country 2.0 China 0.8 Italy 2.7 1.9 15.4 Iraq Japan Most recoveries came from Pakistan at KRW 15.4 billion, folUSA Iran Thailand lowed by the U.S. (7.9 billion) and Australia (KRW 6.6 billion). 2.5 Pakistan 6.6 All of recoveries from the top 10 countries came from the short8.9 term category, except in the case of Pakistan (100% was from MLTBrazil Australia related recoveries). Total of 496 Other * Excluding derivatives (Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance and Interest Rate Risk Insurance) and domestic exporter risk products (Export Bond Insurance, Export Credit Guarantee, etc.) Annual Report 2011 29 Buyer and Seller Credit Ratings Domestic and Overseas Credit Survey Services Future direction K-sure collects credit information on overseas businesses and offers that information to Through its evaluation and provision, domestic companies. This ‘overseas buyer credit information’ service is possible through Kcredit information on domestic sellers and sure’s overseas representative offices and 77 credit survey agencies in 41 countries that have overseas buyers can be a leading indicator MOUs with K-sure. of trade insurance. This information is essential for healthy trade, stable operation of As of the end of 2011, we have credit information on over 328,000 domestic sellers and the ‘Trade Fund’, and long-term economic overseas buyers. The number of our credit surveys increased steadily over the past years in growth. It will be an important foundation which we completed 49,499 cases of credit surveys in 2011, which was an increase of about 7% for the future growth of K-sure. from 46,216 cases in 2010. Towards the goal of providing faster and The amount of credit information on domestic sellers that use trade insurance also accurate credit information, we continue increased steadily in the past years; it reached approximately 47,000 as of the end of 2011. to discover outstanding and competitive overseas credit research agencies for each By continent, the most number of credit surveys came from Asia at 37.6%, followed by region and conduct systematic evaluations Europe (23.9%), Central and South America (13%), and North America (12.4%). By country, the on the management of these credit ratings most came from the U.S. (11.2%), followed by China (11%), Brazil (4.7%), and Japan (4%). agencies. In short, we provide competitive credit information services. We proactively conduct credit research on those domestic sellers and overseas buyers that are heavily covered by K-sure to effectively deal with a difficult trade environment following The automatic credit-ratings evaluation the global financial crisis. To boost the quality of our credit information offered and to improve system of domestic sellers and overseas customer satisfaction, we have strengthened the contents of credit survey information. We buyers has been expanded to swiftly meet frequently report on how our credit surveys are conducted to our clients. We adopted an onthe credit-information needs arising from line customer satisfaction survey to effectively and efficiently reflect our customers’ needs. the global economic crisis. We will continue to improve the contents of credit reports for Number of Credit Surveys on Domestic and Overseas Businesses customer satisfaction. 2009 42,846 Beyond its primary goal of strengthening export support, credit information is a 2010 46,216 knowledge industry that will lead the future. We at K-sure work toward strengthening 2011 49,499 internal growth capacity and improving our work process and competitiveness. In short, Number of Credit Survey on Domestic Companies we strive to help Korean businesses to enter overseas markets. 2009 8,530 2010 9,286 2011 9,699 30 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Sovereign Credit Ratings The Country and Industry Risk Ratings Team (for the evaluation We also publish ‘spot news’ reports by monitoring each contiof sovereign credit ratings) analyzes political and economic issues of nent on a continuing basis, which news proves useful whenever an all countries in the world quickly and accurately in order to evaluate emergency arises. risk for each country and show the direction when underwriting. In 2011 the Country and Industry Risk Ratings Team published It is vital that we accurately understand political and economic a total of 72 reports on political and economic trends, 9 in-depth situations and a country’s ability to pay whenever K-sure extends a reports, and 98 spot news reports. It also published and distributed large cover on a certain country. Thus, we prepare in-depth reports the ‘Sovereign Credit Ratings Handbook’ containing information covering a wide number of factors including various economic indion 229 countries around the world. This information is easily accesces, sociopolitical stability, ability to settle, sovereign credit ratings, sible through our website at http://www.ksure.or.kr/jsp/info/PolEinternational market evaluation, etc., and use these reports during coBbsInq.jsp. the underwriting review process. Among those countries where our outstanding commitments are more than 20%, quarterly monitoring is conducted on those countries with high political risk such as the sovereign ratings higher than grade 4 and the claim ratio in the past year exceeding 5%. A checklist is prepared upon monitoring to mitigate and prevent political risk beforehand. The Country and Industry Risk Ratings Team also participates in the OECD’s Country Risk Expert Meeting four times a year to accurately evaluate our country ratings in par with other agencies. As of December 2011, a total of 166 countries were evaluated based on the OECD criteria. We evaluate the rest, ie., 93 countries, that are not evaluated through CRE, based on our own criteria. In short, we have sovereign credit ratings information on 259 countries in total. Annual Report 2011 31 Risk Management (RM) We have set up the Risk Management Group and appointed Our Risk Management Committee was formed to promote obChief Risk Officer (CRO) to effectively manage risk that affects or is afjectivity and expertise in risk management by appointing a majorfected by K-sure’s underwriting. Under the Group, the Risk Manageity of outside members. The Committee’s scope of work has been ment Department and Risk Analysis Department were set up to be expanded recently to include underwriting reviews in some cases, in responsible for overall RM related business in the operation of variaddition to its existing functions of reviewing the establishment of ous programs and schemes, conducting trade insurance business basic policy for existing risk management, measurement and evaluactivities, management of the ‘Trade Fund’. ation of risks, set the underwriting limit for each sector, and ‘Trade Fund’ management policies. K-sure’s Risk Management Scheme Management Auditor Committee Risk Underwriting Risk Management Underwriting Review Management Review Policy Review, etc. for Large Transactions Committee Committee Audit Office Work Audit Risk Risk Management Expert Review on Underwriting Management Committee Review Cases Approved by Working Support Committee Management Committee Committee Risk Underwriting Underwriting Management Review Department Group (Underwriting Risk) Risk Risk Analysis Management Department Department Fund Treasury Management and Department Operation (Finance Risk) · Integrated Risk Management · Country Risk Ratings (Underwriting Finance, Operational Risk) (Operation of Country Risk Guideline) · Underwriting Audit, Rate of Premium · Buyer/Seller Credit ratings · Underwriting Monitoring · Industry Risk Ratings and Analysis 32 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation We classify the risk that occurs during the normal course of our The operational risk management system, which is part of the management activities into three categories: underwriting, financial, integrated risk management system, is used as the platform comand operational risk. The underwriting risk is defined as the risk that posed of Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA) and Key Risk Indioccurs consequent to the operation of the export insurance business. cators (KRI) to prevent the operational risk beforehand. The financial risk occurs during the course of fund management. The operational risk is defined as the risk that occurs due to mishandling of Aside from these methods, various other techniques and probusiness, system default, etc. grams are used for systematic risk management. For instance, preliminary review and post-underwriting monitoring on a regular basis The underwriting risk can be further divided into credit risk and are conducted for large transactions. Furthermore, an underwriting foreign exchange risk: the former is the risk of losses due to default ceiling is set for each importer and exporter, risk diversification of exporters, importers, importing countries, etc., and the latter, the through reinsurance, etc. risk of losses due to foreign exchange fluctuations. The financial risk can be further divided into the credit risk, market risk and liquidity An underwriting limit is set for each cover in each product catrisk. Credit risk is the risk of default of funds deposited institutions, egory. If a cover is extended beyond this limit, the Underwriting Rebond-issuing institutions, etc. Market risk is the risk coming from view Committee and the Management Committee must review and price fluctuations in assets invested. Liquidity risk is the risk of losses decide whether to extend the cover. Monitoring is conducted for coming from not being able to counter fund leak. each country, industry, seller, and buyer on a regular basis (monthly, quarterly, semi-annually) using such factors as the expected default We are operating an integrated risk management system that rate to detect any signs out of ordinary. The measures such as unmanages the credit risk, market risk and operational risk using the derwriting limit decrease, seeking risk mitigating factors, are impleintegrated risk measurement engine and electronic data system. mented to proactively manage risk. For the integrated risk, the limits of permitted risk are set in Particularly, Treaty Reinsurance has been concluded with Korean the beginning of each year, based on the business plan and size of Reinsurance Company (Korean RE) for Short-Term Export Insurance, the available fund. The limit is set for each risk. The integrated risk for a stable operation of our business through risk diversification. and risk for each category are measured every day to calculate the The Expert Review Committee composed of experts in their own amount of limits left, etc. fields has been set up to review when covering those large risky transactions. The Risk Control Team was newly set up within the Risk For the credit risk, the potential risk is measured for each risk facManagement Department to handle insurance premium rates-retor such as exporter, importer, and importing country. Based on the lated business, conduct credit evaluation, set underwriting ceilings, calculated outcomes, the expected loss, unexpected loss, and the verify feasibility of various risk management programs, and perform level of risk concentration are measured and reported regularly. In risk review. In short, our risk management function is stronger now short risk management is conducted in a systematic and scientific than it ever has been at any other time. manner. The market risk is monitored every day to manage the risk of losses coming from foreign exchange and stock price fluctuations. The liquidity risk is managed by calculating an optimum level of liquidity within a set confidence interval determined using errors between the planned and actual amounts of earnings and expenses from the past. Annual Report 2011 33 K-sure strengthened cooperation with global ECAs through active participation in the Berne Union and OECD. K-sure has fully engaged in the Berne Union and OECD activities in 2011 as well continuing from 2010, such as the selection of agenda, decision-making and initiation of various topics. K-sure and the Community And K-sure practices corporate social responsibility in line with our vision of becoming a ‘friendly and reliable public corporation.’ We strengthen the network with NGOs involved in social work, extend practical support to those socially marginalized, including multicultural families and foreign workers, and place various other efforts to fulfill CSR. International Cooperation Strengthen cooperation with global ECAs through active participation in the Berne Union As a member of the BU Management Committee. K-sure • Notably, we participated actively in the G20 ECAs and the World is wholly engaged in the Berne Union (BU) activities in Bank Forum to seek means of mutual cooperation and to find 2011 as well continuing from 2010, by participating in the solutions to increase global trade volume, further economic deselection of agenda and decision-making process and velopment, and foster export credit. In addition, K-sure employees initiating various topics, etc. shared experiences with other BU member colleagues by giving presentations on MLT insurance products and our project finance • We are proud that a K-sure representative was appointed and suexperiences during the training session of Regional Cooperation perbly carried out his role as Vice Chair of the BU Short Term ComGroup (RCG), a subgroup within the BU, in Hong Kong. mittee in 2011. His appointment was the first time for any K-sure * RCG (Regional Cooperation Group) is a meeting of 11 ECAs in the Asian Pacific region. employee to take a leading role in the BU. Furthermore, he will continue his Vice Chairmanship in 2012 as well, which, we hope, will contribute to improving K-sure’s standing at the BU. • We shared information and engaged with other BU members by participating in the regular BU meetings including the Spring Meeting in Taiwan and the Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Hungary. Secured the platform of cooperation through MOUs concluded with international financial institutions and bilateral meetings We concluded MOUs with major international financial shared information toward expanding bilateral trade and we deinstitutions and other ECAs, which will function as the liberated in depth on the importance of ECA support to overcome foundation for trade finance covered by K-sure. the global financial crisis. • They include six institutions including NEXI of Japan (February, Rein• In addition, the bilateral meeting was held with Coface of France surance Agreement), the Asian Development Bank (March), GIEK of for the first time in September 2011, where we concluded a reinNorway (May), Taipei Export-Import Bank of China (TEBC) of Taiwan surance agreement to jointly support projects involving Korean (May), UzbekInvest of Uzbekistan (August), and Coface of France and French companies. It opened the window for working-level (December, Reinsurance Agreement). We believe that these partners cooperation on a regular basis with a European ECA. will help in promoting trade finance under K-sure’s cover. We are actively engaged in the bilateral meetings with Japan, China and France, which helped to strengthen cooperation with other ECAs by promoting information exchange with these important partners. • The bilateral meeting was held with Sinosure of China in March and the one with NEXI of Japan in May. During these meetings we 36 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Active participation in the deliberation on the amendment to OECD export credit regulations OECD K-sure is fully engaged in the OECDIn 2011, we strived to ease the terms related activities being part of the Korean and conditions of ECA-backed financing for delegations as the Participants to the Arthe EPC and renewable energy sectors. In rangement on Officially Supported Export September, we adopted the Malzkuhn-DryCredits, Working Party on Export Credits sdale Package, which is a new OECD MPR and Credit Guarantees, Working Group of (minimum premium rates) system, which Experts on Premium and Related Condialso takes into account the buyer credit risk. tions, and Country Risk Experts Meeting. In addition, we are continuing our efforts In short, we are actively involved in the deto come up with measures to deal with the liberation and formation of various export adoption of ship MRP. credit-related regulations in the OECD. More knowledge sharing in our experiences on export insurance operation Continuing from 2010, K-sure particiFurthermore, we shared our major inpated in the Knowledge Sharing Program terests and various methods of cooperation in 2011 with Vietnam to help the country with other ECAs and related international introduce an export insurance scheme. We institutions. For example, we invited midextended several sessions of training and level management officials from GIEK, JBIC, education in Vietnam as well as in Korea by EKN, MIGA and ASEAN and those from Kinviting Vietnamese officials to share our sure’s counterparts including Sinosure ship know-how on trade insurance. finance personnel to share their know-how. Annual Report 2011 37 Ethical Management We at K-sure strive to become ‘a global To get rid of factors leading to internal on a regular basis to share and discuss ECA that leads a strong trading nation’, corruption, we conduct the ‘identifying common issues, participate in voluntary with the goal of attaining sustainable one ethical management task for one deactivities, and visit historic sites associated operations built on ethical management. partment’ campaign for the goal of deterwith Koreans of integrity in the past. This is why we adopted ‘integrity’ as the mining those tasks that are prone to corcore value for all K-sureans and came up ruption and improve how we operate. Our As part of the ethical management with the management vision of forming internal regulations have been modified, initiative, we at K-sure make efforts to ‘Clean K-sure trusted by Korean people and the system of evaluating the effects of observe the 10 universally accepted prinand K-sure customers.’ corruption was strengthened to rid of the ciples under the UN Global Compact after potential factors that might lead to corbecoming a participant in August 2010. Led by the Ethical Management Comruption. mittee chaired by the president of K-sure, We practice an ‘equal society policy’ we pursue ethical management. Through Different types of training and educawhere we employee those socially marthe Customer Satisfaction Committee and tion are offered to different levels of perginalized including the handicapped, by hosting the Kwangwhamoon Forum, sonnel to set different roles befitting each veterans and those who have made distinwe try to identify issues related to ethical level and to solidify the ethical manageguished services to the nation, high school management through tripartite cooperament culture. Particularly, intense training graduates, and others. tion with the government and businesses. is offered to new employees and young interns to make them aware of the meaning We have modified the way we evaluof and need for ethical management and ate the performance of executives in that to internalize the values of integrity. we now rate their performance in terms of ethical management as well. Each of these The ‘Integrity Club’ was organized by executives enters into the ‘Clean Work K-sureans to intensify the basis for autonoAgreement’, which contributes toward the mous ethical management. It strives to executives leading the implementation of internalize ethical management among Kethical management. sureans. For example, it holds workshops 38 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation We also try to make sure K-sureans can We also ardently abide by the OECD work in a family-oriented environment by Convention on Combating Bribery of Forgiving the option of a flexible work schedeign Public Officials in International Busiule and guaranteeing child-birth and childness Transactions. It is indeed a sign of rearing leaves. In addition, K-sureans are progress that the October 2011 Phase 3 given opportunities to foster their work as Report on Implementing the OECD Antiwell as human capacities through various Bribery Convention in Korea mentioned training and education programs at home that K-sure imposes the ‘mandatory deand abroad. barment of contractors found to have committed foreign bribery.’ Qualified K-sureans have the freedom to join a labor union, and we resolve labormanagement issues based on the win-win principle. We continue to offer trade insurance support for environmentally friendly projects including in the new and renewable energy sector through the Green Growth Business Department. We seek our own ways to save energy through an increased use of LED lights and keeping optimum indoor temperatures during winter and summer. Through such efforts as adopting electronic document-based reporting to save papers, we try to reduce our burden on the environment. Annual Report 2011 39 Customer Satisfaction We strive to boost our customer satisfaction (CS) capacity in our We reflected our customers’ opinions on our programs based customer-oriented operation for the goals of expanding international on those suggestions registered through the Customer Satisfacmarkets and our customer basis. tion Committee, which is an interactive channel of communication between K-sure and businesses. We offer better programs by Improved customer service by expanding the scope reflecting CS-related improvements, general suggestions, K-sure of the Customer Service Center. service monitoring results. The activities of K-sureans are managed systematically through the CS mileage program, which funcWe try to provide better customer service through such efforts tions as a great motivational factor for K-sureans to be involved in as expanding the scope of services offered by the Customer Serthese activities. vice Center. Through this center, which opened in May 2009, we now consult customers on new insurance products, make call serWe opened a K-sure website exclusively accessible vices in regard to policies coming close to expiration, and provide via smart phones information on services offered by local governments, and other services. This K-sure website exclusively accessible through smart phones was opened in June 2011 to facilitate customer convenience as the Settlement of K-sure-wide CS culture number of smart-phone users increased. In 2011 we published the ‘K-sure Customer Satisfaction’ white paper. The book contains the results of comprehensive analysis on voice of customers (VOC), i.e., customer complaints, praises, and suggestions on each insurance product, each work process, and other applicable areas. The book is part of our efforts to settle Ksure-wide CS culture. 40 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Corporate Social Responsibility We practice corporate social responsibility in line with our vision of becoming a ‘friendly and reliable public corporation.’ We strengthen the network with NGOs involved in social welfare, extend practical support to those socially marginalized persons, including multicultural families and foreign workers, and place various other efforts to fulfill CSR. Strengthen the network with NGOs involved in social welfare Through the CSR MOU concluded with Jongro-Gu Office to discover and support those needing care in our community, we hosted a concert for marginalized children, made kimchi at an elderly shelter, delivered coals for elderly living alone, and carried out other volunteering activities. By networking with Korean Open Doctors Society, we offered free medical care for foreign workers in Korea and Vietnam veterans. K-sureans volunteering for the marginalized K-sureans regularly visit ‘Rafael’s House’, a shelter for severely handicapped children, on the first Thursday in each month to feed them meals, clean the shelter, and provide any services needed. We also visit “Theresa’s House”, an orphanage, on the third Thursday in each month to tend to children. Annual Report 2011 41 Financial Section Auditors’ Report Report of To the Board of Directors of Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Independent Auditors We at Samil PwC have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Korea Trade Insurance Corporation in the management of its Trade Insurance Fund (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Fund’) as of December 31, 2011, and the related statements of comprehensive income, changes in capital, and cash flows in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of K-sure management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We compared the consolidated balance sheets of K-sure in the fiscal year that ended December 31, 2010, which were audited by another audit firm (Deloitte Anjin LLC), and hereby submit this auditors’ report for the period that ended December 31, 2011. We conducted our audits in accordance with the auditing standards by the Korea Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, these consolidated financial statements for 2011 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with the accounting regulations of the Trade Fund cited in the footnote 2 and accounting principles generally accepted in Korea. Ahn, Kyung-Tae Chairman, Territory Senior Partner, CEO Samil PricewaterhouseCoopers Annual Report 2011 43 Statement of Financial Position The 43rd term as of December 31, 2011 The 42nd term as of December 31, 2010 Trade Insurance Fund (Formerly Export Insurance Fund) (Unit : KRW million) The 43 (Current) Term rd The 42 (Previous) Term nd Accounts Amount Amount Assets I. Cash & dues from banks 821,848 687,233 II. Securities 734,175 939,071 1. Trading securities 10,339 2. Available for-sale securities 734,175 928,733 Ⅲ. Tangible assets 60,418 58,929 Ⅳ. Investment properties 33,832 34,062 Ⅴ. Intangible assets 16,232 18,587 Ⅵ. Other assets 948,238 947,415 1. Premium receivables 392,158 287,037 Allowance for bad debts (12) (12) 2. Account receivables 107 238 3. Accrued incomes 294,674 320,868 Allowance for bad debts (273,885) (273,618) 4. Income tax refund receivables 1,801 1,629 5. Indemnity receivables 311,818 333,109 6. Leasehold deposits 20,097 19,848 7. Telephone subscription deposits 33 33 8. Guarantee deposits 894 344 9. Long-term loans to employees 2,686 2,736 10. Derivatives 191,502 252,364 11. Others 6,365 0 Total assets 2,614,743 2,685,297 Liabilities Ⅰ. Reserves for contingencies 1,461,347 1,348,616 1. Premium reserves for unexpired policies 856,491 682,053 2. Payment receivables 604,856 666,563 Ⅱ. Other liabilities 131,467 182,586 1. Payables 3,812 3,578 2. Accrued expenses 444 1,244 3. Provision for severance benefits 14,386 11,504 4. Prepaid premiums 10,498 5,309 5. Deposits 369 5,673 6. Derivatives 90,200 144,158 7. Lease deposits 1,015 1,009 8. Trust 8,417 9. Others 2,327 10,111 Total liabilities 1,592,814 1,531,202 Capital Ⅰ. Contributions 2,069,824 2,039,824 1. Government contributions 2,034,824 2,034,824 2. Other contributions 35,000 5,000 Ⅱ. Accumulated other comprehensive income (1,361) 26,123 1. Gain/loss on valuation of available-for-sale (1,361) 26,123 appropriations (undisposed deficit) Ⅲ. Deficit (1,046,533) (911,852) 1. Retained earnings before appropriations (undisposed deficit) (1,046,533) (911,852) Total capital 1,021,930 1,154,095 Total liabilities and capital 2,614,743 2,685,297 44 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Income Statement 43rd term: January 1, 2011 ~ December 31, 2011 42nd term: January 1, 2010 ~ December 31, 2010 Trade Insurance Fund (Formerly Export Insurance Fund) (Unit : KRW million) The 43rd (Current) Term The 42nd (Previous) Term Accounts Amount Amount I. Operating incomes 2,473,435 2,397,690 1. Premium income 585,989 484,892 2. Claims received 191,654 470,303 3. Reinsurance income 14,173 9,242 4. Other operating income 1,681,618 1,433,254 1) Interest income 64,917 46,967 2) Gain on valuation and disposition of trading securities 467 14,730 Gain on valuation of trading securities 339 Gain on disposition of trading securities 1,280 Gain on disposition of held-to-maturity securities 467 13,111 3) Commissions income 1,053 932 4) Gains through indemnities 916 17,751 5) Reversal of reserves for unexpired policies 682,053 555,690 6) Reversal of reserves for outstanding claims 666,563 242,906 7) Reversal of reserves for contingency 84,904 8) Gain on derivative transactions 190,976 214,528 9) Gain on valuation of derivatives 26,658 241,583 10) Gain on valuation of foreign exchange risk insurance 28,100 4,244 11) Gain on valuation of interest rate risk insurance 437 1,983 12) Gain on foreign exchange transactions 17,349 5,439 Gain on foreign currency transactions 6,489 3,990 Gain on foreign exchange transactions 10,860 1,449 13) Others 2,131 1,597 II. Operating expenses 2,713,619 3,152,949 1. Expenses for claims paid 839,112 895,791 2. Expenses for returns of premium income 53,106 28,070 3. Expenses for reinsurance 19,068 14,379 4. Other operating expenses 1,722,922 2,139,995 1) Loss on valuation and sale of securities 428 400 Loss on disposition of trading securities 37 Loss on disposition of available-for-sale securities 376 Loss on impairment of available-for-sale securities 15 400 2) Fees 1,030 413 3) Contribution to unearned premium reserves 857,030 681,965 4) Contribution to reserves for outstanding claims 604,317 666,651 5) Loss on derivatives transactions 181,767 309,611 6) Loss on valuation of derivatives 43,866 45,614 7) Loss on foreign exchange risk insurance 18,233 344,528 8) Loss on foreign currency and exchange transactions 4,317 22,406 Loss on foreign currency transactions 4,311 5,983 Loss on foreign exchange transactions 5 16,423 9) Expenses for debt recovery 8,088 7,095 10) Expenses for bad debts 267 2,122 11) Other operating expenses 3,581 2,122 5. Administrative expenses 79,411 74,714 1) Personnel expenses 35,661 33,280 2) Overhead expenses 33,363 33,557 3) Severance benefits expenses 4,445 2,895 4) Depreciation expenses 3,586 2,626 5) Depreciation of intangible assets 2,356 2,356 Ⅲ. Operating loss (240,184) (755,258) Ⅳ. Non-operating income 5,664 6,102 1. Income from disposition of tangible assets 62 33 2. Income from lease 3,947 3,875 3. Others 1,655 2,195 Ⅴ. Non-operating expenses 161 7,436,815 1. Loss from disposition of tangible assets 1 7 2. Others 160 1 Ⅵ. Net loss before deduction of corporate tax expenses (234,681) (749,163) Ⅶ. Expenses for corporate tax Ⅷ. Net income/loss (234,681) (749,163) Annual Report 2011 45 Statement of Changes in Capital (Unit : KRW million) Comprehensive Retained earnings Accounts Contributions Total income (deficits) January 1, 2010 (beginning of the previous year) 2,039,824 1,553 (312,689) 1,728,689 Government contributions 150,000 150,000 Gains on valuation of available-for-sale securities 24,569 24,569 Net income/loss (749,163) (749,163) December 31, 2010 (end of the previous year) 2,039,824 26,123 (911,852) 1,154,095 January 1, 2011(beginning of the current year) 2,039,824 26,123 (911,852) 1,154,095 Government contributions 130,000 130,000 Deficit carried forward (100,000) 100,000 Losses on valuation of available-for-sale securities (27,484) (27,484) Net income/loss (234,681) (234,681) December 31, 2011 (end of the current year) 2,069,824 (1,361) (1,046,533) 1,021,930 46 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Organizational Structure Strategic Management Group • Strategic Planning Department • Administration Department • Treasury Department • PR & International Cooperation Department Management Risk Management Group Committee • Risk Management Department • Risk Analysis Department • Program Development & Performance Evaluation Department • Informatization Department President Investment & Finance Group Auditor • Green Growth Business Department • Project Finance Department • Ship Finance Department • Overseas Investment Department Auditor Department Secretarial Team Trade Promotion Group • Trade Business Department • SMEs Business Department 1 • SMEs Business Department 2 • The Ombudsman of K-sure The Board of Directors Claims & Recoveries Group • Claims & Recoveries Department • Domestic Claims & Recoveries Department • Corporate Restructuring Department • Legal Team Annual Report 2011 47 Management Cho, Kye-Ryoong Park, Joung-Chan Kwon, Moon-Hong Chairman and President Auditor Deputy President Lee, Gae-Min Ham, Jin-Gyu Lee, Jae-Kook Non-Executive Senior Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 48 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Kim, Sun-Ki Choo, Byung-Yang Lee, Kyu-Cheul Park, Sang-Hee Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Kim, Dong-Sun Kim, Dong-Soo Oh, Mi-Young Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Annual Report 2011 49 Domestic and Overseas Networks Domestic Branches Seoul Branch Daejeon-Chungnam Branch Chungbuk Branch #1304 Trade Tower, 8F Kumho Life Insurance Building, 4F Chungbuk SME Support Center Building, 511 Youngdong-daero (Samsung-dong), 800 Kyeryong-ro (Oryudong), 50 Poongsan-ro (Gakyeong-dong), Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 135-729 Jung-gu, Daejeon, 301-736 Heungdeok-gu, Cheongju, Chungbuk, 361-802 Tel : (82-2)551-0481~5 Tel : (82-42)526-3291~4 Tel : (82-43)236-1301~4 Fax : (82-2)551-0487 Fax : (82-42)526-3295 Fax : (82-43)236-1305 Busan Branch Ulsan Branch Jeonbuk Branch 9F Korea Development Bank Building, 136 10F TYS Building, 5F KTCU Building, Daechung-ro(Jungang-dong 2-ga), 197 Samsan-ro (Dal-dong), 1 Onkoul-ro (Seosin-dong), Wansan-gu, Jung-gu, Busan, 600-012 Nam-gu, Ulsan, 680-805 Jeonju, Jeonbuk, 560-821 Tel : (82-51)245-3981~3 Tel : (82-52)261-1833~6 Tel : (82-63)276-2360~3 Fax : (82-51)246-9833 Fax : (82-52)261-1837 Fax : (82-63)276-2364 Daegu-Gyeongbuk Branch Gyeonggi Branch Gyeongnam Branch 17F Samsung Financial Plaza, 2095 8F Gyeonggi SME Support Center Building, 5F Geyongnam Trade Center, Dalgubyul-daero (Duksan-dong), 511 Kwonkwang-ro (Ieui-dong), Yeongtong-gu, 257 Joongang-daero (Yongho-dong), Jung-gu, Daegu, 700-742 Suwon, Gyeonggi, 443-766 Changwon, Gyeongnam, 641-740 Tel : (82-53)252-4932~5 Tel : (82-31)259-7602~10 Tel : (82-55)286-9394~6 Fax : (82-53)256-2684 Fax : (82-31)259-7607 Fax : (82-55)286-9399 Incheon Branch Northern Gyeonggi Branch 6F Daewoo Securities Building, 8F Kyobo Life Insurance Building, Domestic Representative Office 407 Kyungin-ro (Juan-dong), 1181 Jungang-ro (Jangang-dong), Ilsandong-gu, Nam-gu, Incheon, 402-835 Goyang, Gyeonggi, 410-837 Jeju Representative Tel : (82-32)422-2713~7 Tel : (82-31)932-3501~6 4F Jeju SME Support Center Building, Fax : (82-32)422-2718 Fax : (82-31)932-3507 473 Yeonsam-ro (Ido2-dong), Jeju City, Jeju Special Self-Governing Province, 690-732 Gwangju-Jeonnam Branch Gangwon Branch Tel : (82-64)751-6601~2 11F Gwangju Bank Building, 6F Samsung Life Insurance Building, Fax : (82-64)751-6603 225 Jaebong-ro (Daein-dong), 2 Wonil-ro (Indong), Dong-gu, Gwangju, 501-730 Wonju, Gwangwon, 220-070 Tel : (82-62)226-4820~2 Tel : (82-33)765-1060~4 Fax : (82-62)226-4824 Fax : (82-33)765-1065 50 Korea Trade Insurance Corporation Overseas Representative Offices Los Angeles Representative Office Hochiminh Representative Office Tokyo Representative Office 915 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 1640, Los Angeles, Diamond Plaza (#1207), 34 Le Duan St., Dist.1, Room 1056, South Tower 10th Floor, Yurakucho Denki CA 90017, U. S. A. Hochiminh City, Vietnam Bldg. 7-1, Yurakucho 1-chom, Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo, Japan Tel : (1-213)622-4314~5, 4330 Tel : (84-8)3824-6844~5 Tel : (81-3)3216-0601, 0677 Fax : (1-213)622-5316 Fax : (84-8)3824-6846 Fax : (81-3)3216-0602 Beijing Representative Office New York Representative Office Room 915, Silver Tower Bldg, 2 North Dongsanhuan 460 Park AVE, 21th Floor, NEW YORK, Overseas Representative Rd., Chaoyang Dist., Beijing 100027, China NY 10022, U. S. A. Tel : (86-10)6410-6437~9 Tel : (1-212)355-2505 Moscow Resident Representative Fax : (86-10)6410-6440 Fax : (1-212)355-6231 Office No. 948, 12 Mezhdunarodnaya-2, Krasnopresnenskaya nab., 123610, Moscow, Russia Sao Paulo Representative Office Jakarta Representative Office Tel : (7-495)258-1539~41 Alameda Santos, 880, 5°Andar Conj. 52/53 Wisma GKBI 21st. Fl., Suite 2104, Jl. Fax : (7-495)258-1542 CEP: 01418-100-Cerqueira Cesar, Sao Paulo SP, Brasil Jendral Sudirman Kav.28, Jakarta 10210 Indonesia Tel : (55-11)3284-1105, 3285-1951 Tel : (62-21)570-5565, 5790-1060 Fax : (55-11)3284-4081 Fax : (62-21)574-1470 Secondment Paris Representative Office New Delhi Representative Office Johannesburg, South Africa 13 Rue Camille Desmoulins, 92441, Unit No. 306, Rectangle-1, D-4, Saket, (Secondee to KOTRA Korea Business Center) Issy-Les-Moulineaux Cedex, France New Delhi-110017, India 18th Floor, Sandton City Office Tower, Cnr. Rivonia Tel : (33-1)5804-2674 Tel : (91-11)4057-5045, 5047 Road & 5th Street, Sandton, PO Box 786703, Sandton Fax : (33-1)5804-2673 Fax : (91-11)4057-5046 City 2146, South Africa Tel : (27-11)-784-0607 Shanghai Representative Office Panama Representative Office Fax : (27-495)-784-0623 Room 2210, Maxdo Center, No 8, Xingyi Road, KEIC Panama Corp. Calle 50, Torre Global Bank, Shanghai, China Piso 33, Officina 3304, Panama City, Panama Tel : (86-21)5208-1181~2 Tel : (507)394-9170~1 Fax : (86-21)5208-1186 Fax : (507)394-9173 Johannesburg Annual Report 2011 51
