Communication On Progress ATG Ceylon (Pvt) Ltd. Contents (A) Statement of Continued Support (A) Contents ............................................................................................................ 3 We, at ATG Ceylon (Pvt) Ltd. are convinced that in today’s global (B) Statement of Continued Support ........................................................................ 4 (C) Review Reports on actions taken in respect of 10 Principles .............................. 5 environment, our success as a global supplier has to stem also from Principle 1 Protection of International Human Rights................................... 5 our commitment to our social and physical environment. It is this Principle 2 Non-complicity in Human Rights Violations. ............................. 6 Principle 3 Freedom of Association & Rights to Collective Bargaining ........ 7 conviction that prompts us to use the Global Compact Principles as a Principle 4 Forced & Compulsory Labour ................................................... 8 guideline for our Human Rights, Labour and Environment related Principle 5 Child Labour ............................................................................. 9 Principle 6 Discrimination ......................................................................... 10 activities. We also believe that Corruption at any level will always Principle 7 Precautionary Approach to Environment ................................. 11 Principle 8 Promotion of Greater Environmental Responsibility................ 12 bring about an additional cost and thus a burden on the society. Principle 9 Development & Diffusion of Environmentally friendly Technologies. 14 As such we are happy to be a partner of the Global Compact now and Principle 10 Elimination of Corruption ....................................................... 15 in the years to come. The Communication on Progress, of which this (D) Performance Indicators.................................................................................... 16 is the first part, expresses what we have done up to now in respect of the Global Compact’s Ten Principles. 29.05.2012 …………………………….. ……………………… Chairman/Managing Director Date 3 4 (B) Review Reports on actions taken in Principle 2 Non-complicity in Human Rights respect of 10 Principles Violations. ATG Management by virtue of their convictions on international human Principle 1 Protection of International Human Rights rights do not become a party to any form of violations of international human rights. This principle of non-complicity is communicated to everybody within the organisation so that everybody is aware of the organisations Members of the Management and other staff of ATG, respect the rights of commitment and would act accordingly. human beings, just as much as they value their own rights as human beings. ATG members support and respect the concepts of internationally accepted human rights in their official and private pronouncements to the extent of their relevance 5 6 Principle 3 Freedom of Association & Rights to Principle 4 Forced & Compulsory Labour Collective Bargaining ATG does not engage in or support the use of forced and compulsory labour As required by the regulations governing the establishment of Economic and does not demand its employees to lodge deposits or original identity Processing Zones in Sri Lanka, within one of which ATG operates, ATG papers as a guarantee of being employed at ATG as long as ATG so desires. recognizes the need for ATG workers to belong to an association. This is ATG, with its vision of being a model corporate citizen expects its fulfilled by ATG forming Joint Consultative Councils (JCCs), with the employees to consider ATG’s reputation as such a valid reason to be in its guidance & cooperation from the representative of Board of Investments of cadre. Absolute freedom of entry into and exit from ATG’s premises is Sri Lanka. These JCCs meet periodically with representatives from ATG and provided within the current regulations governing the same. Board of Investments of Sri Lanka. Any grievances, including salary related ones, could be discussed at these meetings. 7 8 Principle 5 Child Labour Principle 6 Discrimination As a part of its Social Responsibility Policy, ATG does not engage in or ATG’s employees are not subjected to discrimination based on caste, support the use of Child Labour. In this respect, ATG monitors local and national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, involvement international interpretations of child labour and adjusts its policies in Joint Consultative Council work, political affiliation and marital status, accordingly. In case a child worker is detected amongst its workforce, due to during any stage of their employment including recruitment and hiring, a mistaken identity issue, ATG will take him off the work force and support participation in training programs, opportunities for advancement, him during a remediation process till he reaches the limiting age of termination or decision making in respect of wages, salaries or benefits. childhood as defined by local and international regulations. This anti-discrimination policy of ATG prohibits any overt or subtle pressure During overseas visits to our suppliers, we monitor whether they use child for sexual favours, including implying or threatening that an applicant’s or labour and if so we would take this matter with its directors to rectify such employee’s co-operation of a sexual nature will have a bearing on conditions issues. If on a subsequent visit we notice the same, then we would consider of employment or future opportunities. to remove such suppliers from the ‘List of Approved Suppliers’ which we maintain as per ISO Management System Requirements. Any employee who feels that he/she/another employee is a victim of discrimination or harassment enjoys the freedom to report the matter to his or her supervisor or to the Director. All such complaints will be immediately recorded, investigated and appropriate action will be taken. All reports of harassment will be kept confidential, limiting involvement only to those who have a need to know. As a model employer ATG has employed physically handicapped people within its production facility after studying the handicapped person in question so that his/her life is not put into any form of danger which may be not applicable to other physically normal worker. 9 10 Principle 7 Precautionary Approach to Environment Principle 8 Promotion of Greater Environmental Responsibility ATG’s Environmental Policy, developed during the ISO 14001 certification initiative and made public and available to even visitors to the Company Again the Promotion of Greater Environmental Responsibility at ATG starts premises emphasises a preventive approach to environmental issues. with the Top Management who emphasises and reinforces the same in its Engaged in the Industrial Gloves Industrial sector, ATG uses chemicals of Environmental Policy Statement. As a part of its ISO 14001 certified different origin and complexity in its manufacturing processes. As such, it is Environmental Management System, ATG identified all Environmental mindful of the impact its activities could have on the environment and plans Aspects and Impacts in respect of its total operation. using a rating system prevention and remedial measures accordingly. As a part of the that takes five characteristics into consideration, ATG identified the most requirements of its Environmental Management System – a system certified significant environmental aspects and impacts and then demonstrating grater to be in compliance with ISO 14001:2004 standard – ATG takes possible, environmental responsibility, planned out and implemented environmental potential Environmental Aspects and Impacts into consideration during its programmes to improve the performances and outcomes in respect of these new product design and development stages. ATG has taken adequate and significant environmental aspects and impacts. This has become an annual appropriate steps to collect all types of waste, waste from processes, phenomenon thereby reducing the significance of total environmental aspects canteen waste, office waste, etc. – in a methodical fashion into classified bins and impacts to lower and lower levels. The final outcome of this practice so that they could be disposed with least damage to the environment. ATG would be a corporate entity which is not operating merely in conformity with makes its achievements in respect of its environmental management public, the relevant environmental regulations and limits but even better, thereby in order to instil greater support and commitment towards environmental demonstrating true commitment to ATG’s responsibility towards the issues by its business partners and the business community in general. The environment. extent to which the Environmental Policy is subscribed to by the ATG employees are reviewed once every six months to check its suitability in the ATG adopts different mechanisms to promote greater environmental context of changing environmental and business issues. responsibility in the minds of its strong workforce by having poster competitions where the theme should be related to the environment. The At ATG probable, potential emergencies with an impact on the environment prize winning posters are displayed in suitable common areas. ATG are identified and action plans to reduce their probability are implemented. educates its subcontractors for civil and other engineering related jobs to be Furthermore, mitigation and response plans, in adequate detail to match the carried out on site – in respect of better environment related practices using a relevant impacts, are also worked out and documented. The personnel who set of guidelines issued to each of these subcontractors prior to commencing will have to play roles in respect of these plans are made aware of these roles work on site. Furthermore ATG also uses mechanisms in selection of and appropriate training sessions and drills are carried out to enhance their suppliers for its raw materials which takes the environment related practices preparedness. adopted by the suppliers into consideration. Using the lists of identified environmental aspects and impacts, ATG prepares operational controls to be adhered to by the operators in respect of the non-significant environmental aspects and impacts. All these activities are audited periodically and any deviations are rectified using, appropriate corrective and preventive actions. Whenever an incident with an impact on the environment happens, ATG expects its staff members to document the incident and take adequate action to rectify the situation mitigate the impact and also to prevent recurrence/s such records are closely monitored and successful closure of the issue is promoted. ATG has also identified the key parameters that need to be measured to understand, monitor, evaluate and control the impacts its activities could 11 12 have on the environment. These parameters are monitored at identified Principle 9 Development & Diffusion of frequencies in order to ensure that the environmental impact of the ATG’s operation are maintained within limits. Environmentally friendly Technologies. By communicating its environmental policy to its staff members at all levels ATG encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ATG had planned to carry out a study of the technologies utilised by it in the light of their impact on the environment and identify, develop and promote newer technologies with a lesser impact. 13 14 Principle 10 Elimination of Corruption (C) Performance Indicators Performance Indicator Value Number of international human right abuses ATG and its works are categorically against all forms of corruption including 1. complained by stakeholders Nil extortion and bribery. While all transactions within the organisation are 2. Number of JCC Meetings held during the year with 2010 2011 guided by adequate & appropriate guidelines and documents, ATG ensures · ATG Representation 4 4 that all financial transactions with the outside world are exactly as per the · BOI Participation 1 2 terms and conditions governing such transactions. Furthermore, all those Number of issues related to wages/salaries/benefits 3. Nil Nil who get involved in such transactions are briefed on these terms and raised at such JCC Meetings conditions prior to their engagement for such purposes. 4. Number of Employees whose original identity Nil Nil documents are retained by ATG Number of employees whose cash deposits/other 5. financial securities are retained by JWCL (out side Nil Nil in relation to their list of duties) 6. Age analysis of all employees · Age 18 to 25 60% 55.5% · Age 26 to 40 34% 39% · Age over 40 6% 5.5% Number of instances where child labor issues had 7. Nil Nil been detected 8. Number of Significant Environmental Aspects · Air 18 18 · Land 16 16 · Water 21 21 · Noise 9 9 · Resource Consumptions 25 25 Number of environmental management programs at 9. 2 2 different stages of implementation Number of training sessions/drills held in respect of 10. such ERPs · Outside Training sessions · Drills 4 4 · In House Training 8 8 Number of emergencies against which emergency 11. response plans are available. 12. Number of Environmental incidents Number of Environmental Characteristics 13. 35 35 periodically monitored 14. Male Female Ratio 65: 35 69:31 15 16
