tesa SE: Our Responsibility – Our Commitment Report 2011 A vivid Tradition of Responsibility Ban Ki-moon, U.N. Secretary-General (UN Photo/Mark Garten) Global Compact January 31, 2001, at the World Economic Forum in Davos: Then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan calls on companies that operate internationally to take an active stance in meeting the challenges presented by globalization. His vision: a global pact based on universally accepted social and environmental principles. Today, companies from more than 135 countries, international The ten principles of the UN Global Compact employee associations, civil society organizations, governments, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect international and United Nations organizations are involved in the Global human rights in their own sphere of influence Compact. Under the auspices of the current UN Secretary General, Ban Ki-Moon, the world’s largest corporate citizenship Principle 2: They must ensure that they are not complicit in initiative is moving forward. human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association The ten principles, on which the pact is based, covering the and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption, have long formed part of Principle 4: All forms of forced and compulsory labor must be the corporate values of tesa. Our membership in the Global eliminated Compact underscores this vivid tradition. All of tesa SE’s activiPrinciple 5: The use of child labor must be abolished ties related to commitment and involvement are subject to a continuous improvement process. In this current issue, the ProPrinciple 6: Discrimination with respect to employment and gress Report 2011, we provide an insight into the development occupation must be eliminated of our activities and projects – with regard to the ten principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary apof the UN Global Compact and our own corporate responsibility proach to environmental challenges strategy. Principle 8: Initiatives should be undertaken to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: The development and diffusion of eco-friendly technologies is to be encouraged Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2 Progress Report 2011 As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we have worldwide, there are a large number of projects involved. For committed ourselves to reporting annually on the progress of our that reason, this report is limited to a representative selection of initiatives. This helps facilitate a regular interchange of informacurrent initiatives. tion with those around us and documents our projects aimed at We began publishing our Progress Report in an online version putting the ten principles of the Global Compact into practice in 2008. In addition to the advantage of better accessibility, and firmly implementing them within our company. an online report also offers opportunities for regular updates. The Progress Report 2011 provides you with an overview of You can also visit the “Responsibility” section of our website for our worldwide commitment and involvement in the fields of comprehensive information on the topics of the environment, human rights and labor standards, environmental protection, quality, employees, and social matters: the fight against corruption, and society. tesa has traditionally www.tesa.com/company/responsibility. taken a sustainable approach that ensures both continuity and a continuous improvement process. With more than 50 affiliates Declaration of Support Human Rights and Labor Standards Membership based on firmly held convictions The human factor as a determinant of success We are firmly convinced that binding values and a sustainable Numerous activities in the areas of employee qualifications business policy are prerequisites for economic success. as well as occupational health and safety characterized the >> Page 4 year 2011. >> Page 5 Environmental Protection Compliance and Fair Trade Worldwide initiatives Integrity and proper conduct At present, tesa is making progress in 46 environmental projects. We pay strict attention to compliance with laws and guidelines. Examples from the areas of energy, waste reduction, and ecoA central co-ordination unit combines all associated processes friendly technologies and products. >> Page 10 and activities. >> Page 16 Social Projects Strategy with regional facets Our social commitment and involvement is reflected in over 40 projects worldwide. A new project combines environmental protection with corporate volunteering. >> Page 17 3 Declaration of Support “Responsibility is traditional at tesa: We see it as an important investment in the future.” Thomas Schlegel, CEO of tesa SE “2011 was a very special year for us, as it saw the tesa brand With our tesa ecoLogo® products, celebrate its 75th anniversary. Once, the name was merely synwe now offer consumers a complete onymous with a small roll of adhesive tape. Today, tesa is one of range of especially eco-friendly the world’s leading companies in the self-adhesive technology products in the office segment. With new ecoLogo® solutions for segment. Our success story is not just associated with innovamasking, fixing and repairing, we will also be setting an ecologitions, quality and technological progress. Traditionally, the accal example in the construction and DIY markets in 2012. ceptance of responsibility is one of the defining factors in this The public “Kleben Sie ein Zeichen”-(“Stick a Sign”) competidevelopment. We underscore our sustainable business policy tion also acted as a signal in 2011. tesa supported regional susthrough our membership of the United Nations’ Global Compact. tainability projects throughout Germany with a total of 50,000 To mark the brand’s 75th anniversary, we have in Germany euros. The aim was to back inexpensive creative ideas with a entered into a new partnership that combines environmental major impact. 80 projects were set up on the campaign page protection with employee volunteering. With a total of 75,000 online. Around 37,000 people participated in the voting and seyoung oak trees, we are supporting a land restoration project in lected the 12 best projects. the Lower Saxony Elbe valley plain – part of the UNESCO Elbe In 2011, we pressed ahead with our global social activities. The River Landscape biosphere reserve. The first area was planted in focus here was on long-term partnerships and volunteering work the fall of 2011. The tesa teams will continue to reforest the oak to help children and young people. Furthermore, our commitwood in 2012. ment to expanding our training offers remains undiminished. The In 2011, our many environmental projects demonstrated that it extensive communication of our globally applicable values and is the sum of the individual components that set great things in guidelines is part of this personnel training and qualification. In motion. What impresses me personally is that many initiatives are order to be able to combine the associated processes practithe direct result of ideas and suggested improvements from our cally, we set up a central co-ordination unit for compliance. In employees. Thus, with the aid of small and large measures, we addition, various specialists are available to provide specialist have managed to save energy and cut waste. At product level, advice on topics including anti-corruption, data protection, antitoo, we are continually forging ahead with our efforts to protect trust law, environmental protection and industrial safety. Conthe environment. In technological terms we achieved a quantum sumers around the world trust in our brand and our company. leap with the commissioning of the globally unique ACX plant for This is the true basis of our success. We intend to consistently the production of double-sided acrylate adhesive tapes for highdeliver on our value proposition in future too and to continue to strength permanent adhesive bonds. pursue our sustainable business policy within the meaning of the The patented process that was developed in-house by tesa UN Global Compact. stands out because of a significant reduction in the use of solvents and energy and no use of process water whatsoever. In 2012, we will be launching the entire product line for industrial customers onto the market. 4 Human Rights and Labor Standards The human factor as a determinant of success People are the foundation of our business success – people like In terms of industrial safety, we were again able to continue the our own employees as well as customers and suppliers. With positive trend of past years and further reduce our below-averthis in mind, compliance with and advocacy of international huage accident figures. In addition, we focused continually on furman rights are just as much a part of our principles as unimther compliance issues. The initiatives included the establishpeachable labor standards. We have firmly established these ment of a special compliance communication platform on the principles with initiatives that include the internationally applicable intranet, a training film on the subject of data protection protesa Code of Conduct and the worldwide tesa Purchasing Charduced in collaboration with Beiersdorf, training on the anti-corter, which governs our cooperation with suppliers. The content of ruption guidelines as well as the implementation of the tesa “Antithe policies and rules associated with these initiatives formed an trust Compliance Program”, which involved training on the subintegral component of numerous staff development measures in ject of antitrust law at executive board, management and sales 2011, too. level worldwide. Code of Conduct Purchasing Charter Binding rules of conduct Minimum standards for strategic purchasing The tesa Code of Conduct defines clear values and conduct Supplier qualification, evaluation, and development have been guidelines for all employees of the tesa Group. Its content is an harmonized across the Group. This helps us ensure that our integral part of training courses and workshops. >> Page 6 internationally binding minimum standards are met. >> Page 7 Employee Qualification Occupational Health and Safety Range of further training expanded Low accident figures Our employees are the most important capital for securing tesa’s In 2011, the number of notifiable industrial accidents fell once success. Our corporate culture and targeted staff development again and we were able to reduce the average number of acciand support initiatives take this fact into account. >> Page 8 dents even more significantly. >> Page 9 5 Code of Conduct The tesa Code of Conduct defines values and clear conduct guidelines. Its content is an integral component of training courses and workshops. The Code of Conduct establishes our most important Binding rules of conduct principles in six main topics: Respect, honesty, trust, tolerance, and integrity – these are the principles we apply in our business, principles that have not only 1. Adherence to legal regulations made us successful in the past, but also guide us in the present We do business lawfully and strictly observe the laws of the and will continue to do so in the future. The rules of conduct countries in which we are active. associated with these principles are specified in a mandatory 2. Fair competition worldwide Code of Conduct. During this reporting year, we imWe do not gain market advantages through unfair or illegal plemented communication and training initiatives to ensure that practices. these ideas take even firmer hold within the company. 3. Protection of tesa net assets The rules and criteria incorporated into the tesa Code of ConWe deal carefully with the company’s legally protected inforduct, which is derived from our corporate values and the ten mation, net assets and resources. principles of the UN Global Compact, provide clear guidance. 4. Socially acceptable working environment The Code of Conduct strengthens trust in the performance and We ensure a socially acceptable, reliable and motivating workintegrity of the tesa Group. No matter what their position or title, ing environment. We soundly reject child and forced labor, we expect all employees to abide by our ethical principles and discrimination or the like. We also expect the same from our consistently apply them in everything they do. We demand that business partners. our executives not only demonstrate exemplary compliance with 5. Personal integrity the rules of conduct, but also ensure at the same time that they We promote the highest level of personal integrity, and fairness actively communicate the rules to others. among our employees and avoid situations where personal Since the Code of Conduct was introduced, all executives interests conflict or may conflict with those of our company. have been required to complete an e-learning program. For the 6. Social commitment current communication process with employees we also make We take our responsibility to future generations seriously and supporting presentation material available to all management work to ensure sustainable development in all the relevant levels. In order to keep the topic at the forefront, the Code of areas: economic, ecological, and social. Conduct is also an integral component in our introduction seminars for new employees, leadership training, in the Sales Qualification Program for sales staff and in our management development programs for executives and junior managers. Download „Code of Conduct“ 6 Purchasing Charter The qualification, evaluation, and development of suppliers are handled according to standard criteria at all tesa locations, ensuring that our binding worldwide minimum standards are met. Minimum standards for strategic purchasing We at tesa are firmly convinced that sustainable, responsible to which they are met, site visits, and certification under the ISO corporate conduct must go beyond the individual company itself. 14001 environmental standard and ISO 9001 quality standard. That’s why our internal rules of conduct have long applied to our cooperation with suppliers around the globe as well. To provide a Sustainable supplier development is managed centrally at tesa standardized framework for our internationally applicable core by means of so-called product group strategies. They define the principles, the Strategic Purchasing division of tesa established existing strategic partners of tesa SE on the one hand, while on the tesa Purchasing Charter in 2008. Since then, we have conthe other hand providing insights into areas requiring the qualifitinuously promoted the minimum standards we apply worldwide cation of new suppliers. All results from the supplier appraisals and expect our partners to meet in the areas of human rights, are fed in, as are any measures subsequently agreed. The prodlabor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against uct group strategies are coordinated across functions with the corruption. individual tesa production sites and Research & Development. This enables us to ensure that the defined measures are impleBy signing our contract terms and conditions, suppliers make a mented and that the portfolio of suppliers continues to meet our binding commitment to operate in accordance with the ten funhigh demands in terms of technology and sustainability going damental principles of the UN Global Compact. In our cooperaforward. tion with suppliers, we strive to establish long-term strategic partnerships and pursue a continuous improvement process. This includes jointly established goals and monitoring the degree Download „Purchasing Charter“ 7 Employee Qualification and Training Our employees are the most important capital for securing our success. Our corporate culture and targeted support initiatives take this fact into account. Quality increase in continuing education and training All over the world, employee integration and development are The three-day intensive seminar is designed for employees who among the most important factors contributing to our success. teach regularly and plan their own training measures. This gave In 2011, we used this to qualitatively expand on the good foundathe first six-strong team of participants valuable tools for refining tion of our extensive training program, focusing again on the their training and design skills. successful Sales Qualification Program, which encompasses 30 target-group-specific courses in a large number of different lanThe qualification of junior personnel who have the potential to guages. At the same time, the Code of Conduct and its rules take on future managerial responsibilities remains one of the also play a central role. During the current reporting year, some focuses of tesa’s employee qualification activities. The appraisal 1,220 employees from international Sales and Research & Develconducted upon completion of the training of the first group opment attended some 340 training days. Furthermore, we conshowed that this program not only covers managerial issues ducted 16 additional training courses focusing on tesa’s in-house optimally, but also convincingly conveys other relevant subjects and especially eco-friendly ACXplus technology. The courses including Corporate Social Responsibility and the content of the were attended by 160 employees from all over the world. tesa Code of Conduct. A second group of young talents has already started to emerge for 2012. The tesa management is But not only does the qualification of sales staff make an impordetermined to proceed with further management training initiatant contribution to the implementation of the tesa corporate tives. One initiative that focuses on the legal aspects of managestrategy. We are increasingly encouraging our employees to pass rial work got off the ground in 2011. tesa is establishing this on their own expertise as trainers, in order to integrate it effecmeasure as an integral part of the global qualification of all tesa tively within the company in the long term. We provide the intermanagers. In the various countries, the focus is on subjects such nal trainers with the methods and pedagogic skills they need to as anti-trust regulations and legally compliant management. communicate the predominantly technical know-how. During the current reporting year, we expanded the international “Train the Trainer” training program in a targeted manner. In excess of 90 participants have now successfully completed the basic module “From a presenter to a trainer”, meaning that we were able to add an advanced module for the first time in 2011. 8 Occupational Health and Safety We improved our occupational health and safety once again in 2011, with the number of occupational accidents falling by a further 12 percent overall. Low accident figures Prevention is the best form of protection from injuries and jobhealth and safety programs. We also responded to the nuclear related health risks. Our extraordinarily low accident rates demdisaster in Fukushima by equipping all production facilities and onstrate that we are on the right track with our occupational logistics centers that receive goods from Japan with radiation health and safety initiatives and training measures at all plants. meters. The responsible employees were trained on how to use the equipment and how to assess measured values. Fortunately Our internal processes for reducing risk are a decisive factor in no contaminated goods were detected. this. These processes, which combine risk identification and At tesa, the systematic identification and risk assessment of poassessments, employee responsibility and a continual improvetential hazards form the cornerstone of our ability to preclude ment process incorporating everyone involved have enabled the faults, mistakes, and improper conduct wherever possible. To company to safely identify and eliminate many potential hazards. this end, in 2011 we were able to further develop our risk assessment and elimination system in line with the TOP principle. All around the world, tesa is subject to our Occupational Safety This analytical tool, which covers three categories – “technical”, Guidelines, which are aligned to the international OHSAS 18001 “organizational”, and “personal” – improves the assessment of standard. In terms of safety, we regularly raise employee awarepotential hazards and thus facilitates the evaluation and prioritiness of the issue worldwide – including through training on conzation of potential solutions. duct that is conducive to safety and health, prevention of explosions and fires, fire extinguishing drills, detailed operating proceWe also consistently advanced our high standards in terms of dures for all production facilities, and targeted employee training. occupational health and safety initiatives during the project planThis approach has ensured a steady decline in the number of ning of new systems and facilities. The early identification of posoccupational accidents subject to mandatory reporting. Across sible danger areas was the focus. The aim was to take the corall international tesa locations, the number fell from 171 in the rect precautionary measures in advance. previous year to 15 in 2011. The average number of days lost fell by 15 percent compared to the previous year. In addition to safety drills and on-site analyses, together with our parent company Beiersdorf and other affiliates, we offered a several-day foundation course for safety officers in 2011. The seminar focused on health and safety at the workplace. In 1. The number of industrial accidents increased in 2010 from our Hamburg plants, this was complemented in 2011 by new 16 to 17 due to a late report after the COP publication. 9 Environmental Protection Worldwide initiatives Leaving an intact environment behind for subsequent generastruction and DIY segments, making us the first adhesive tape tions is one of tesa’s stated corporate goals. All of our long-term manufacturer to offer such solutions in these segments. With the production sites are certified according to the international ISO sustainability competition “Make a difference that sticks”, we 14001:2004 environmental standard. tesa’s “green thread” is promoted regional sustainability projects in Germany for the first based on a precautionary approach: We promote the internatime in 2011 and aim to continue this initiative owing to its huge tional exchange of information between our environmental exsuccess. perts and actively take the initiative. Part of this strategy involves Ongoing monitoring and improvement of specific key indicathe development of our own production technologies to enable tors, such as the reduction of energy consumption, CO2 emissolvent-free production. In addition, we are increasingly pursuing sions, use of solvents, VOC emissions and waste, have long our commitment and involvement at product level: For instance, been an integral part of our approach to environmental managewith the tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand we now offer a full range of ment. In total, our involvement extended to 46 individual projects, eco-friendly products for the office segment, and in 2012, will some of which are detailed. also expanding our green product range to encompass the conEnvironmental Goals, 2007 through 2012 Energy International activities Raising awareness Clearly formulated goals are the key to our ambitious environExemplary projects at tesa plants in Germany, China and Italy led mental program, which encompasses projects spanning the to a significant reduction in energy consumption in 2011. entire globe. >> Page 11 >> Page 12 Reduced Solvent Use Waste Management Eco-friendly technologies Small steps, big impact Compared with conventional processes, the patented ACX techChanges in behavior start with the right mindset: Reducing nology developed by tesa offers huge environmental benefits. waste and proper recycling protect the environment and con>> Page 13 serve resources. >> Page 14 Commitment at Product Level Consumers benefit from tesa Sustainably produced goods like the tesa ecoLogo® range help protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. >> Page 15 10 Environmental Goals, 2007 through 2012 Clearly formulated goals are the key to our ambitious environmental program, which encompasses projects spanning the entire globe. International activities Environmental goals 2007 through 2012 Our environmental program for the period from 2007 through VOC emissions 50 % 2012 involves ambitious, binding goals. We monitor the degree to which we meet these internationally applicable environmental Solvents used 15 % goals through a global monitoring program based in each case on constant production quantities. The current five-year plan also Energy consumed 10 % includes emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Our activities in this area have already yielded clear successes: From Waste 5% 2007 until 2011, we were able to achieve a 49 percent reduction, CO2 emissions in Europe 10 % meaning that we have almost met our target of a 50 percent reduction by 2012. This is also directly connected with the ongoing further development of our production technologies, where we are consistently eliminating solvent use wherever possible. In 2011 this approach led to a decrease of 12 percent over 2006. As in the crisis year of 2009 and the subsequent year 2010, our final figures for energy consumption in the reporting year fell short of our expectations, but improved significantly compared to the previous year’s level. With regard to the constant 2006 production volume, which we use as the fixed benchmark across all areas, we posted a decrease in energy consumption worldwide of 10 percent. 11 Energy 2011 was characterized by numerous energy-saving measures and initiatives. Raising awareness After-effects of the worldwide financial and economic crisis could Two comprehensive energy-saving projects were also sucstill be felt in some areas in 2011. In this reporting year they afcessfully completed in the Italian tesa plant in 2011. The optimifected among other things energy consumption and generated zation of a solvent recycling plant, including the renewal of the waste. Nevertheless, the company was able to implement conactivated carbon and replacement of the existing cooling towers, tinuous and targeted improvements. For example, in the tesa is expected to result in a reduction in energy consumption of plant in Offenburg, the project begun in 2009 “Active Environaround 20 percent (approx. 2,700 megawatt hours) compared to mental Protection through Reduced Waste and Energy Use” 2010 starting next year. The state-of-the-art ventilation system continued successfully. Under the motto “Small steps, big iminstalled and commissioned in 2010 at tesa’s Hamburg-Hauspact”, employees contributed numerous suggestions for imbruch plant is proving significantly more efficient than initially provements for the third year running, resulting in 20 individual assumed. Instead of the originally estimated 500 megawatt projects in 2011. hours, it was possible to save as much as 800 megawatt hours Following on from 2010, the Offenburg plant realized further during the current reporting year. In 2011, the plant also replaced energy-saving projects in the current reporting year. For instance, the existing street lighting with modern LED technology. This is lighting in the warehouses and production facilities was modernexpected to lead to annual energy savings of around 70 megaized on an ongoing basis, resulting in annual energy savings of watt hours. In the course of maintenance measures, the plant more than 260 megawatt hours. Within the framework of another also replaced four of the previously unregulated heat circulation project, ramps and loading bays at a warehouse were insulated. pumps with new, energy-efficient speed-controlled models. As a The plant expects energy savings of approximately 120 megaresult of this measure, the plant anticipates a further reduction by watt hours per year starting in 2012. The location continued to approx. 120 megawatt hours. replace the activated carbon in two adsorbers used for waste air The comprehensive technical modernization of the ventilation purification. This led to a significant increase in efficiency and will system and the corresponding system control facilities in the result in annual energy savings of around 425 megawatt hours. technology center of tesa SE was also brought to a successful Finally, in November, redundant energy supply lines (steam and conclusion. Starting in 2012, we anticipate annual savings in condensation lines) were decommissioned and dismantled. This energy consumption of over 3,000 megawatt hours with a simulis expected to lead to annual energy savings of around 175 megtaneous reduction of CO2 emissions by around 700 metric tons. awatt hours starting in 2012. Due to the positive experience to date, the measure will be exIn 2011, further energy-saving projects were on the agendas of tended to include the cellar rooms. The entire project has reother tesa locations. One example of this is an extremely succeived a subsidy commitment from the Hamburg Authority for cessful project in Suzhou (China), where process control paramUrban Development and Environmental Affairs. eters for the thermal post-combustion facility were optimized to such an extent that it was possible to achieve an energy saving of around 2,200 megawatt hours. At the same location, the replacement of old bulbs and fluorescent tubes with modern LED lamps led to an annual reduction in energy consumption by approximately 100 megawatt hours. 12 Reduced Solvent Use With the new eco-friendly ACX technology, tesa is revolutionizing the high-strength permanent adhesive market. Eco-friendly technologies Part of our continuous improvement process, and an essential bonds. What makes the globally unique production unit started component of the tesa environmental program, is our consistent up in the tesa plant in Hamburg-Hausbruch so special is the shift toward eco-friendly production technologies. Since the first fact that, compared with conventional technologies, the new large-scale system for solvent-free coating was put into operamethod only uses solvents in the first process step, extracts tion at the tesa plant in Offenburg in 2002, we have been deterthem again immediately during the following drying process minedly expanding on this technology, which was developed and and returns them to the cycle. Thanks to this technology, each patented by tesa. Our plants in Offenburg and Italy have proyear solvent and energy consumption is cut by 50%, CO2 emisduced the majority of their products without using solvents for sions are reduced by around 2,000 metric tons and process several years now. In the case of products that, for technical water can be dispensed with entirely. These results have also reasons, cannot yet be produced without solvents, we use adwon praise from our customers. Following initial successful apvanced systems for solvent recovery and reuse. plications in various test markets, the introduction of the complete product range will take place in 2012. The extremely resisttesa has succeeded in making a technological break-through ant adhesive tape solutions are ideal for use in permanent adhewith its new proprietary ACX technology, which has been in use sive bonds in the automotive, electrical, wind and solar industries since 2011. The state-of-the-art method, subsidized by the Fedas well as for applications in the illuminated sign market or in the eral Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuconstruction industry. clear Safety, enables eco-friendly production of double-sided acrylate adhesive tapes for high-strength permanent adhesive 13 Waste Management Changes in behavior start with the right mindset: Reducing waste and intensifying proper recycling protect the environment and conserve resources. Small steps, big impact Producing goods of any kind unavoidable involves waste. To tesa’s Offenburg plant put a whole host of other suggested imreduce the quantity of waste generated and protect both the provements into practice in 2011. Among other things, the locaenvironment and natural resources, we hold regular training sestion installed a facility that makes tearing open bags of raw matesions worldwide to ensure that everyone involved becomes rials easier and ensures that virtually all of the content goes into aware of how to prevent unnecessary waste and how to recycle production by means of vibration. Prior to this, a residual amount properly. Beyond that, we are always looking for new technical often remained in the bags following emptying. Other projects solutions and partners that enable us to recycle as much as posand their results: Mass losses incurred when starting up the sible. coating facility for the production of tesa Powerstrips® have been halved by switching to a double shift operation and a more efThe tesa plant in Offenburg drove forward the project “Active ficient use of materials by optimizing coating and cutting widths. Environmental Protection through Reduced Waste and Energy Use”, which was successfully launched in 2009. As in the area of energy, the project’s motto is also “Small steps, big impact”. Striking communications measures raise staff awareness of the issue and, when combined with incentives offered as part of employees’ variable bonuses, help to involve all affected departments in the problem-solving process and prompt employees to proactively make and implement suggestions for improvements. Other locations like Suzhou/China have meanwhile adopted the issue of waste reduction in their target agreements and linked it to the payment of the variable bonus. The location in Italy will be adopting this procedure in the coming year. 14 Commitment at Product Level Products aimed at conserving energy and sustainably produced merchandise help protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. Consumers benefit from tesa Responsibility for the environment concerns us all – at tesa, we products in the office segment, where the eco-friendly tesa adare convinced of it. That’s why we consistently pursue our envihesive tapes and glue sticks, correction tapes and adhesive ronmental commitment at product level. Among the pioneering rollers are now among our top-selling product. As a result, the solutions are our eco-friendly tesa ecoLogo® range of products. paper, office supplies and stationery industry association awardIn addition, tesa products directly help consumers to save ened us the 2011 sustainability prize in the current reporting year. ergy. Our top-seller and the market leader in this area, tesamoll®, for sealing windows and doors, can reduce heating energy conSpecial attention to the issue of sustainability generated tesa in sumption by up to 35 percent and can cut costs by over 100 Germany 2011 with a contest called „Stick a sign!“. This was euros. With its tesa ISO SYSTEM®, tesa also offers homeowners associated with the public call to submit regional sustainability the option of simple and effective do-it-yourself interior roof insuprojects and to apply for individual project subsidies of between lation. 2,000 and 5,000 euros. The primary goal was to back smaller, regional creative ideas with a major impact. In the end, there was Public debates on the topic of climate change, dwindling rea choice of 80 different projects on the online campaign page sources and environmental protection have led to growing conwww.zeichen-kleben.de, and some 37,000 people participated sumer demand for sustainably produced products. We are rein the vote. In total, tesa provided 50,000 euros for the 12 best sponding to this trend with the sub-brand tesa ecoLogo®, and projects. The projects supported included the introduction starting in 2012 we will be the first adhesive tape manufacturer to of a sustainability label for regional projects, the construction of offer more “green” products for masking, fixing and repairing for a water system in the playground of a daycare center and a the construction and DIY markets. Eco-friendly, solvent-free promusical about the climate staged by an elementary school. duction and the use of predominantly organically based materials Considering its overwhelming success, the competition will be and recycled packaging are the main environmental benefits that held again in 2012. DIY enthusiasts can use to protect the environment. In 2010, this was preceded by the introduction of the first tesa ecoLogo® 15 Compliance and Fair Trade At tesa, compliance with laws and internal guidelines is a matter of course. A central functional unit combines all associated processes and ensures adherence to international standards. Integrity and proper conduct Compliance Fair Trade tesa traditionally stands for trustworthiness. This image hinges Our activities focus, among other things, on antitrust law, which on virtues that guarantee free markets and fair competition while promotes a free economy and prohibits distinct restrictive pracprotecting people and the environment. The tesa Group catetices. In the current reporting year, we successfully introduced gorically rejects all forms of corruption and unlawful or immoral our “tesa Antitrust Compliance Program” comprehensively. It conduct. In order to be able to consistently ensure this worldserves to raise awareness of matters relating to antitrust law and wide, we actively protect our company and our employees enable the implementation of a worldwide functional antitrust law against possible risks. In 2011 we once again promoted and decompliance system for the entire tesa Group. Besides providing manded active discussion of the subject of compliance and our relevant information on antitrust law and possible violations, we system of values as laid down in the internationally valid tesa have set up internal communication structures and a network of Code of Conduct, including by means of communication tools competent attorneys. This has enabled us to provide quick and such as a special compliance platform on the intranet and trainsmooth training and information – both directly and via an eLing. The aim is to enhance awareness by means of targeted inearning program. We shall continue to pursue the topic actively formation and to prevent unintentional breaches of laws and going forward. regulations. Since the end of 2010, our employees have been able to seek the advice of the central “Compliance Coordination” In 2011, we successfully concluded the international training office in the event of questions or doubts in individual cases. sessions for all decision makers and employees with contacts The newly established function defines international standards that could involve antitrust law issues, such as sales and marketand ensures the efficient bundling of all compliance processes. ing employees. In addition, we also offer a topic-related platform Its duties also include preparing status reports for the manageon the tesa intranet. This page allows employees worldwide to ment team. The Compliance office pools eleven fields in total. In find out about conduct that complies with antitrust law in their addition, various specialists are available to provide expert adday-to-day business dealings and helps them find competent vice on topics including anti-corruption, labor and competition advisors. In our international regions, guidelines that have been law, information technology and data protection, antitrust law, fimodified to take into account the legal requirements in the renancial guidelines, environmental protection and industrial safety spective countries and a catalog of examples of correct and or trademark and patent law. incorrect conduct lay down what is and what is not permissible under antitrust law. 16 Social Projects Strategy with regional facets The intensive social commitment of tesa SE and its affiliates was In our activities, we focus in particular on volunteering among also evident in 2011 in numerous projects. These projects are in tesa employees. Examples of this concept of “Corporate Volunline with our Corporate Giving Strategy, which we first formulated teering” include our support for the Hamburg-based initiative in 2007 and which is incorporated into the tesa Code of Conduct. Mentor – die Leselernhelfer Hamburg e. V. or the assistance In the current reporting year, we again helped children and provided to the Suzhou Sunshine School in China for children young people with donations, sponsorships and voluntary work. from families of migrant workers. People and the environment With a focus on long-term effect, we have already been involved are the focus of one new active sponsorship, launched in coopin most of the projects for many years. eration with the UNESCO Lower Saxony Elbe valley plain bioAlongside fostering creativity, promoting education, and develsphere reserve to mark tesa’s 75th anniversary. The goal is to oping future talent in science and technology, these main areas implement specific measures to conserve the naturally diverse also include providing support to institutions that assist sick and and ecologically sensitive alluvial forest. socially disadvantaged children. Commitment to People and the Environment Fostering Creativity Cultivating Biodiversity Multifaceted commitment To mark the brand’s 75th anniversary, tesa has entered into a “Das macht Schule” and Hamburg-based initiative Mentor e. V. long-term partnership with the UNESCO Lower Saxony Elbe valare involved in fostering children’s creativity. >> Page 19 ley plain biosphere reserve. >> Page 18 Promoting Education Developing Future Talent in Improving educational opportunities Science and Technology Educating children and young people is part of our Corporate Early specialization Giving Strategy. Examples from China and India. >> Page 20 In our role as a technology company, we support education and training opportunities for future talent, along with specific educational institutions. >> Page 21 Support for Institutions for Sick and Socially Disadvantaged Children Improving opportunities With scholarships, sponsorships, and volunteer work, we are committed to helping disadvantaged children and young people. >> Page 22 17 Commitment for People and the Environment To mark the brand’s 75th anniversary, tesa has entered into a long-term partnership with the UNESCO Lower Saxony Elbe valley plain biosphere reserve. To mark tesa’s 75th anniversary in 2011, we expanded our enviEstablished in 2002, the Lower Saxony Elbe valley plain bioronmental commitment at production and product level with a sphere reserve is part of the UNESCO Elbe River Landscape further module: Active sponsorship for a land restoration project biosphere reserve. It covers an area of nearly 570 square kilomin the Lower Saxony Elbe valley plain biosphere reserve cometers, starting about 100 kilometers southeast of Hamburg. The bines environmental protection with corporate volunteering. aim of these nature conservation activities is to preserve and develop this floodplain landscape with its unique scenery and To establish new hardwood stocks throughout the entire bioecological, cultural, social and economic values and functions in sphere reserve, tesa will be donating 75,000 young oak trees. At a way that serves the needs of both man and nature. the end of 2011, some 50 tesa employees embarked on the first planting session, in some cases with their families. Less than three hours later the first section of the “tesa forest” had been planted with 75 new oak saplings. The next tesa teams will continue to reforest the oak wood starting in the spring of 2012 within the scope of corporate volunteering campaigns. Developing new forest resources is considered indispensable for lessening the greenhouse effect. Such activities also have a positive effect on biodiversity. 18 Fostering Creativity Multifaceted commitment – our social commitment is reflected in over 40 projects worldwide, focusing on children and young people. Germany Reading makes children smart – and happy “Helping hands” by tesa For ten years now, tesa has championed the cause of supportLast year, tesa entered into a new partnership with the non-profit ing children’s reading skills in order to prepare them better for association “Das macht Schule”. The goal: In the context of the school and their later professional lives. In this regard, we are corporate volunteering program, tesa employees become incooperating with the Hamburg-based initiative Mentor e.V.. Find volved with Hamburg schools and together with pupils actively reading enjoyment by indirect means is one way to think of the work to combat the renovation backlog, because even in a mework done by the volunteer mentors. For one hour a week, the tropolis such as Hamburg, finances are tight. Volunteering their mentors take time to pass on their love of reading to children time and a fresh coat of paint, 50 colleagues from Consumer aged eight to 16 in a fun and entertaining way. For a rising numMarketing spruced up eight classrooms. Another 14 volunteers ber of tesa employees as well as the children, the weekly reading from the Research & Development and Industry Market Managehour has become a fixture in their calendars. Together with their ment divisions redecorated two more classrooms. reading mentees – who often find access to books difficult – they dive into the fantasy world of stories. It’s a win-win solution for Write stories and do craft projects with Tesalino and Tesalina both sides: The children enjoy the undivided attention of their In 2011, around 1,500 school classes with in excess of 37,000 mentors for an hour while striving to perfect their reading skills, children from all over Germany took part in the “Tesalino and considered the gold standard in education, and the adults get to Tesalina” story-writing, inventing and craft competition initiated have fun reliving a bit of their childhoods. by tesa SE and Stiftung Lesen (Reading Foundation) for elementary schools and special education centers. Once again, they demonstrated a wealth of creative ideas, this time on the theme of “Tesalino & Tesalina hot on the trail through Europe”. Since its launch in 1999, the creative competition has captivated almost half a million children. The project involves a renowned author writing an exciting start to a story, which the children continue either in writing, by making things or within the scope of other creative activities. 19 Promoting Education Improving educational opportunities – educating children and young people is part of our Corporate Giving Strategy. Examples from China and India. China. Educational opportunities for children of migrant workers India. Education rather than quarry work According to estimates, between 150 and 200 million migrant Since 2006, tesa in India has been supporting the school for the workers in China have moved from rural regions to the booming “quarry children” of Yeleswaram by regularly taking on class cities and coastal regions in recent years. For the children of sponsorships. With the aid of such donations, the children are these families, there is hardly any opportunity for a continuous able to attend the school constructed by the organization “wort education. To improve their prospects, the tesa plant in Suzhou und tat” in addition to receiving medical care. Without this assishas already been supporting the local “Sunshine School” since tance, they would have to slave away in the Yeleswaram quarry 2008. With scholarships, “assistant teachers”, joint learning, funin Southern India for three euros a day – just like their parents draiser bazaars and various leisure activities, the employees help and siblings, with whom they usually share a tiny mud hut. To pave the children’s way to a successful future. In October 2011 help improve their chances for a better future, tesa took on the the plant awarded the “Sunshine Scholarship and Education sponsorship of a class of around 60 boys and girls aged five to Assistance Awards” for the fourth time. Here 60 children and seven in 2011 via the foundation “Chancen für Kinder”. their teachers experienced an exciting day in addition to gaining an interesting insight into the company and the world of adhesive tape. 20 Developing Future Talent in Science and Technology Early specialization – in our role as a technology company, we are committed to training future talent, and we support specific educational institutions. Germany. Active promotion of junior management talent Switzerland. Promotion of training and continuing education at tesa SE remained an active supporter of the Northern Institute of tesa Bandfix AG Technology (NIT) in Hamburg in 2011. In addition, the company is As one of the currently 17 members of the “Sponsorengruppe für represented in the relevant industry advisory committees of Redie Weiterbildung im Malerund Gipsgewerbe” (Sponsor Group utlingen University and the University of Applied Sciences (Hochfor Continuing Education in the Painting and Plastering Trades), schule für Technik und Wirtschaft) Berlin. The objective remains tesa Bandfix AG supports selected schools and workshops in to maintain close cooperation between training institutes and Switzerland. The association, which was founded back in 2000, tesa in order to discover and support talents early on. In addition, focuses on providing ideas and funding to support specific tesa has continued and expanded its cooperation with other key course programs aimed primarily at foremen and certified master universities. The related activities primarily pursue two goals: On craftsmen in the trades of painting and plastering. In addition, in the one hand, tesa strives to contribute to the promotion of sci2011 tesa Bandfix AG expanded its commitment to training entific and technical talent, and, on the other hand, tesa’s inpainters and flexo print specialists. In various cities in Switzervolvement provides the opportunity to offer young academics an land, a tesa employee volunteers to provide instruction on topics attractive start to their professional life – including at an internasuch as adhesive technology and applications engineering or the tional tesa location, depending on requirements. theory and practice of mounting printing plates. Germany. A taste of working life Once a year, tesa gives its employees’ children from the 5th grade and above a taste of working life at the “tesa Zukunftstag” (“tesa future day”). We offer them a behind-the-scenes look at numerous activities, and in our labs, offices and workshops give them ideas of working life. For example, by means of a paper chase, the children can find out what kind of things a company like tesa needs to buy. Equipped with a lab coat, protective goggles and safety shoes, they are given a guided tour of the technology center. In the process they are given answers to a whole host of questions like: “What happens when you place dry ice into water?” “How is film manufactured?” and “How many Germans are familiar with tesafilm®?” The “tesa Zukunftstag” has been enjoying an outstanding response for many years. In 2012, tesa will be opening its doors to its employees’ children again. 21 Support for Institutions for Sick and Socially Disadvantaged Children Improving opportunities – with scholarships, sponsorships, and volunteer work, we are committed to helping disadvantaged children and young people. France. Sweating for a good cause The center for deaf children in Poznán also gratefully received A group of employees from the French tesa company took to the funding for books and films for its library and film club. In addistarting blocks at the “Race of heroes” (“Course des Héros”) and tion, tesa also bought comfy, bright bean bags for lessons and in the process collected over 10,000 euros in support of the MVE reading classes. The affiliate intends to continue its commitment Foundation (“Fondation Mouvement pour les Villages d’Enfants”). in 2012. The organization has been giving new homes to children and young people from difficult family backgrounds for the past 50 Germany. Help for children with kidney disease years. The children often suffer from a lack of education and the The tesa Converting Center Hamburg has been helping children consequences of emotional coldness, abuse or neglect. The and young people with kidney disease for the past four years. In MVE Foundation offers them a stable environment with pedaaddition to financial assistance, the focus is on giving the chilgogic assistance and makes sure that siblings stay together. The dren memorable experiences that will brighten up their lives. In team of tesa athletes collected the first 5,000 euros before the the summer of 2011, the tesa Converting Center and the parents’ race had even started: All runners had to apply as heroes on the association of the “Nierenselbsthilfe Hamburg e.V.” (a Hamburgonline event page and ask their friends to sponsor them. The based association for those suffering from kidney disease) and athletes only earned their entry fee for the unusual race by colthe KfH Nierenzentrum dialysis center hosted the traditional sumlecting 300 euros. tesa France then doubled the donation to a mer party. Under the motto “Living like the Vikings”, 30 children total of 1,000 euros using the proceeds from the sale of and young people jointly discovered games dating back to the scrapped computers. early Middle Ages. The tesa staff took care of bodily needs and also set up a theme-based craft table where the kids could make Poland. Donation and active help runic necklaces and leather pouches. Just under half a year later, In 2011, the Polish affiliate was among the active benefactors of a the tesa Converting Center invited the children to a traditional school for deaf and partially deaf children named after the Polish Christmas baking session. A total of 45 eager bakers – among composer and music writer Jósef Sikorski. Their commitment them 20 girls and boys – transformed the factory canteen into a focused on the financing of a safe playground. In future, ecobakery and had one thing above all else: loads of fun! friendly and durable wooden elements, slides and rope bridges, a merry-go-round and several rocking horses on springs will help the children to develop. But tesa in Poland is doing even more for deaf and partially deaf children: Among other things by sponsoring a cross-country run organized by the Polish school associaContact: tesa SE, Quickbornstraße 24, D-20253 Hamburg, tion in 2011. Tel.: +49(0) 40-4909-6597, Fax: +49(0) 40-4909-2236, responsibility@tesa.com, www.tesa.de/company/responsibility
