Daiwa Securities Group CSR Report 2012 Building a Sustainable Society What we can do What will the world be like when these babies become adults? The precious faces of these infants–all children of Daiwa Securities Group executives and employees–express our hopes for the future. At the Daiwa Securities Group, we are determined to take responsibility as individuals and to do our part as a company to create a sustainable society living in happiness and in harmony with an unspoiled Earth. CSR Report 2012 Message from the President and CEO “New” Daiwa Securities and “New” Medium-Term Management Plan On April 1, 2012, Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. merged with In the year since I was appointed CEO, I have been Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. Ltd., opening a new constantly impressed by the vast management resources chapter in the Daiwa Securities Group’s history. This merger possessed by the Daiwa Securities Group. In the past, will reunite the Retail operations of Daiwa Securities with the qualities that have allowed the Group to thrive were not the Wholesale activities of Daiwa Securities Capital Markets ambitious M&A-based strategies but, rather, the importance for the first time since 1999, when the Group adopted that Daiwa places on developing a corporate culture a holding company structure. We have concluded that this committed to excellence. The unity and reliability of this re-unification is an essential step in our effort to “establish organization are the Group’s most valuable assets. a robust business structure.” Indeed, we see it as one of Even when considering the broad sweep of its 110-year the most important decisions in the 110-year history of history, I believe that FY2012 will go down as a historic year the Daiwa Securities Group. Preparatory work to merge for the Daiwa Securities Group. To guide the “new” Daiwa the two companies and a project to revise the Group’s Securities as it enters the next phase of its evolution, we have organizational structure has been under way since early formulated a “new” Medium-Term Management Plan— 2011. The consolidation and streamlining project aims to “Passion for the Best” 2014. This plan, which commenced eliminate all the inefficiency and duplication that developed in April 2012, contains the Group’s roadmap for the next over the 13 years during which operations were managed three years. I take pride in having the opportunity to separately, while aggressively cutting costs, especially in contribute to this important transition and I would like to the Wholesale business, to address today’s highly competitive thank all Daiwa Securities Group stakeholders for their business environment. These efforts have already lowered support as we strive to build a sustainable corporate break-even levels dramatically. In this way, we are laying structure and pursue a new phase of growth. a firm foundation on which the Daiwa Securities Group can write a new chapter in its history. As the “new” Daiwa September 2012 Securities begins operations, we will strive to create the efficient management structure and powerful sales Takashi Hibino capabilities needed to succeed as a comprehensive, President and CEO full-service securities company. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group 1 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Message from the Chairman Over the 110 years since it was founded, the Daiwa Securities Group aims to be a company that employees Securities Group has contributed to economic growth want to work for. Management strives to earn the trust of and the progress of society, through its activities in capital employees, and to create a work environment that and financial markets. Since it was established in 1902, promotes cooperation, camaraderie and pride in one’s the Group has been noted for the loyalty and dedication work. Cooperation in turn contributes to greater efficiency, to corporate principles that employees and executives effective teamwork in pursuit of shared goals, and a spirit demonstrated—qualities that have carried Daiwa Securities of determination that is impossible to quantify. I believe that through eleven decades of external change and reform. the merger of Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. and Daiwa Securities We have cultivated a corporate culture in which employees Capital Markets Co. Ltd. to create a “new” Daiwa Securities and executives consistently place cooperation and will promote even greater cooperation and teamwork among contributions to the success of the Group ahead of their business divisions, create a unified spirit among the employees own personal gain. and executives, and further refine our efforts to create value. This sort of loyalty is a critical element in the growth Today, the very purpose and role of a financial company and health of a business organization. I view it as the is changing to reflect changes of the society. Nevertheless, most important source of the Daiwa Securities Group’s I am confident that the unchanging values and strong competitiveness—an “invisible asset” that prompts loyalty of Daiwa Securities Group employees will serve us employees and executives to seek ways to improve their well, as we try to draw on traditions from the past and workplace and which discourages actions that might hurt build bridges to the future. I have no doubt that the Daiwa the company, thus facilitating internal control policies. Securities Group will continue to play an important role In addition, a company can continuously invest in the in Japan’s capital and financial markets and to provide advancement and training of the workforce to enhance its continued value to the societies in which we operate. own long-term security, as it can depend on the unceasing efforts of talented, motivated personnel. Shigeharu Suzuki These bonds of loyalty run in both directions. The Daiwa Chairman of the Board Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group 2 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Editorial Policy Contents The Daiwa Securities Group has been publishing this report annually since 2002 with the aim of clearly disclosing our CSR activities, which are intended to support the creation 1 Message from the President and CEO/ of a sustainable society. We also use this opportunity to Message from the Chairman evaluate the company’s current status and the challenges 3 Editorial Policy it is facing. In CSR Report 2012 , we aim to explain in good faith our 4 Daiwa Securities Group Profile activities about environment, society and governance (ESG) 5 Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles along with annual report 2012. We also aim to view an and Key Issues integrated report that contemplates further enhance non-financial information. We added new activities on our Management Report efforts to Socially Responsible Investment (SRI), because 6 Social Responsibilities of the Financial Service we wish to convey to many stakeholders that the way money is used is key to resolving society’s problems such 9 CSR Management as climate change and poverty. 11 CSR Issues: Performance and Targets We post our CSR report 2012 only in the website by PDF, since we published an annual report 2012 which contains 14 Management essential parts of our ESG activities. 14 Corporate Governance This CSR report is edited based on the guidelines of the global reporting initiative (GRI)* and ISO26000. 16 Compliance * GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): An organization dedicated to 17 Risk Management proposing and promoting common international guidelines for sustainability reports. 19 IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security Social Report 20 Relationship with Customers 22 Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors 24 Relationship with Exectives and Employees Scope of Report 30 Human Rights Initiative Intended Readership 31 Relationship with Society This report is intended for Daiwa Securities Group’s stakeholders, which primarily include customers, shareholders and investors, Environmental Report executives and employees, as well as business partners, 38 Environmental Initiatives government agencies, non-profits (NPOs, NGOs), local communities where Daiwa Securities has offices, educational Economic Report institutions, and the families of executives and employees. 42 Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders Scope of Reporting This report basically covers the principal companies of the Daiwa 44 Third-party Opinion / Response to Third-party Opinion Securities Group (see page 4). The report does not, however, include all data from the Group’s principal companies on items 45 Third-party Evaluations reported; the information is selected based on the respective 45 G3.1 GRI/ISO26000 Content Index companies’ size and type of business. Each set of numerical data specifies the scope of coverage. Period Covered by Report Fiscal 2011 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012). The report also includes information on events and activities carried out ◆ A reorganization of group companies prior to fiscal 2010, as well as those scheduled to take place The Group decided to merge Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. with during fiscal 2012. Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. Ltd. on April 1, 2012, Date of Publication reuniting Retail and Wholesale operations for the first time October 2012 (The previous report was published in August in 13 years. As the “new” Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. opens 2011; the next report is planned for August 2013). a new chapter in its history. Inquiries: Daiwa Securities Group Inc. It aims to strengthen the group total solution capacity by Corporate Communication Department, CSR Group integrating both expertises. Tel: +81-3-5555-1111 (main) This report uses both“Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd.” and “Daiwa E-mail: daiwacsr@dsgi.daiwa.co.jp Securities Capital Markets Co. Ltd.” to describe FY2011 Website: http://www.daiwa-grp.jp/english/csr/ activities. Daiwa Securities Group 3 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Daiwa Securities Group Profile Corporate Data Description of the Daiwa Securities Group’s Businesses ● Name The Daiwa Securities Group is a comprehensive financial services firm with a strong Daiwa Securities Group Inc. domestic base nationwide and a global network of operating offices covering 20 ● Head Office GranTokyo North Tower countries and regions. The primary businesses at the core of the Group are Retail, 9-1, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Wholesale, and Asset Management. The Group offers expert advice and service to Tokyo 100-6751, Japan meet customer’s diverse needs. ● Tel (81) 3-5555-1111 ● Established 1. Retail Division 4. Asset Management Division December 27, 1943 (Founded 1902) Through its domestic network of 120 This business creates and manages stock, ● President and CEO branches*2, a call center, and the Internet, bond, and private investment trusts, and Takashi Hibino Daiwa Securities offers two retail services, provides other investment management ● Capital Daiwa Consulting and Daiwa Direct, services for real estate investment trusts, ¥247.3 billion which provide a wide range of financial pensions, and other funds. ● Number of Employees (consolidated)*1 products and services as well as support 14,432 for customer asset management, mainly 5. Investment Division ● Number of consolidated subsidiaries for individuals and unlisted companies. This business invests in areas such as 60 ● Number of equity-method affiliates private equity, venture capital 2. Global Markets Division opportunities, business regeneration, 5 ● Shares issued and outstanding This business, engaged in sales and monetary receivables, and real estate 1,749,378,772 trading, provides brokerage of securities using its own funds or through the and other financial products mainly for formation of investment funds. (As of April 1, 2012) institutional investors. *1 As of March 31, 2012 6. Others *2 As of June 30, 2012 3. Global Investment Banking The Daiwa Securities Group provides Division information via research reports and other This business offers support for documents, management consulting, IT corporations and financial institutions in services, and other offerings to institutional business expansion to finance and capital investors, corporate clients, financial strategies, by assisting financing activities. institutions, and public organizations in Japan and overseas. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Wholesale Retail Asset Management Investment Others Global Markets Global IB Daiwa Asset Daiwa Corporate Daiwa Next Daiwa Securities Management Investment Co., Ltd. Bank, Ltd. Co., Ltd. Daiwa Institute Daiwa Securities of Research Daiwa SB Holdings Ltd. Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Limited SMBC Principal Investments Ltd. Investments Co., Ltd. Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Daiwa Real Estate Daiwa PI Daiwa Capital Markets Asia Holdings B.V. Asset Management Daiwa Institute of Partners Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Research Business Innovation Ltd. Daiwa Securities Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc. Business Center Co., Ltd. Daiwa Property Co., Ltd. Daiwa Securities Group 4 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles and Key Issues The Daiwa Securities Group’s mission is to contribute to the development of society and the economy through daily operations, including wealth management for investors and support for the financial strategies and other aspects of corporations and public institutions. Deepening the bond of trust we share with our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees and society, is essential to the accomplishment of our mission and sustainable growth together with society. Key Issues for Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles of the Daiwa Securities Group To achieve its corporate principles and realize a sustainable society, the Group seeks to initiate even more effective CSR activities. Based on Building trust the requests and opinions we have received from our stakeholders thus The trust and approval of customers forms the very foundation of far, we have addressed the following key issues: the Daiwa Securities Group. The Group will always place the needs of customers first, and strive to develop the advanced, specialized skills to offer them the most attractive products and services of 1. L everaging financial capabilities to any securities group. contribute to a sustainable society Placing importance on personnel The source of the Group’s competitiveness lies in the capabilities of its employees. The Group will promote the creativity of employees by offering them a challenging and self-directed 2. D  eveloping sound financial and capital working environment that encourages their abilities and markets for the next generation appropriately rewards their contributions. Contributing to society The Daiwa Securities Group will seek to benefit the economy Human resources are the key to addressing these issues. We believe and society through the development of healthy financial markets. keeping each and every one of our executives and employees motivated In addition to scrupulously observing both regulations and and proud of their work is essential for tackling these key issues. internal policies, the Group will strive to maintain a high sense of morality and duty, endeavoring to continue contributing to the sustainable growth of the societies in which we operate. In addition to these two CSR issues, the Group strives to create a rewarding Maintaining healthy earnings results The Group will always seek to develop healthy business workplace in which our executives and operations and to increase corporate value for the benefit of employees can take pride. shareholders. By providing customers with attractive products and services, the Daiwa Securities Group will seek to generate To achieve its corporate principles, the Daiwa Securities strong profits and healthy returns for shareholders. Group anchors its CSR activities in these goals. Daiwa Securities Group Stakeholders ● Investors Customers ● Issuers We are committed to improving customer satisfaction For private corporations, public institutions and other by offering products and services that meet the needs entities seeking to raise funds through equity, debt, or of individual investors, institutional investors, and other sources, we propose optimal solutions from a potential investors who are considering investing Investors Issuers wide range of financing options and provide full-scale in the future. support, from planning to execution. ● Business Partners Shareholders We maintain fair relationships with all our business partners and work together to create a ● Shareholders Business To earn the confidence of our shareolders, Shareholders Partners sustainable society. we aim to provide fully transparent information disclosure, and meet their Daiwa Securities ● Government expectations by continually creating value. Group We fulfill our tax obligations and offer policy suggestions to create a better society. Government Society yees’ Famil plo i Em es ● Employees NPOs/ ● NPOs/NGOs Employees NGOs We collaborate with NPOs and NGOs in such fields as We are endeavoring to create a financial and economic education and disaster relief. workplace where our employees, Local We reflect social values in our management through who create added value for all other stakeholders, are fully motivated Employees Communities active dialogue. and can find satisfaction in their ● Local Communities work and lives. Our employees’ As members of their local communities, our branches and overseas families are also important offices promote community-based efforts. stakeholders. Daiwa Securities Group 5 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Management Report Social Responsibilities of the Financial Service Approach and Basic Stance The mission of the financial service companies is to contribute to the development of society and the economy through daily operations that help build investors’ wealth and support financial strategies across the private and public sectors. We at the Daiwa Securities Group consider strong, trusting relationships with customers, shareholders, employees, and society–as expressed by our corporate principles–foundational to the ongoing fulfillment of this mission and continuous growth. Role and Social Responsibilities have committed to sustainable and responsible business of the Financial Service practices shape their policies. The Group pursues business activities consistent with the UN Global Compact. Further, The financial service company such as Daiwa Securities in line with the United Nations Millennium Development Group plays a vital social role by building a bridge between, Goals (MDGs)*5 the Group is endeavoring to develop on the one side, the need of companies to raise capital or products and services that help resolve social issues. the need of governments to finance public work projects, and on the other side, the need of individual and institutional *1 United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative investors, pension funds, and others for efficient investment. (UNEP FI) UNEP FI is a partnership between the United Nations Environment On the fund-raising side, the Group provides advice and Programme, which is a UN organization, and financial institutions assistance in implementation for companies raising money around the world. Based on the recognition that the money handled for capital expenditures and R&D, as well as for national by the financial industry has a major impact on the world, this governments, local governments, international institutions initiative pursues better ways of doing business, taking into account and public corporations seeking to raise funds for public the environment and works projects. It does so by issuing marketable securities sustainability, and seeks to such as stocks and bonds, and by creating other securitized spread and encourage this commitment. products. On the investment side, the Group provides appropriate *2 Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) investment information and advice tailored to each PRI is a set of six principles launched by the UNEP Finance Initiative customer’s situation and goals. It offers a comprehensive and the UN Global Compact in April 2006. This initiative asks and diverse line-up of financial instruments and services to corporate investors to incorporate meet the various needs of individual and institutional ESG into their investment decisioninvestors as well as pension funds. Human rights, labor and making practices. environments are issues in a society. Financial service industry has a social responsibility and a key role in contributing a *3 Carbon Disclosure Project sustainable development in countries, regions, communities This project is an affiliation of institutional investors concerned and industries by creating a flow of money through financial about climate change who demand that companies disclose and capital markets in promoting circulation of blood in information about their stance on environmental problems and the economy. initiatives addressing such problems. External Initiatives Using Financical capability to Resolve Social Issues *4 UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact was established in 2000 under the UN The business sector plays an important role in enhancing Secretariat after an initiative launched in 1999 by then-Secretary the sustainability of society. Financial institutions have a General Kofi Annan. The membership consists of global corporate social mission to make the most of their core capacities to leaders who are expected to align their business practices with ten contribute to sustainable social development. At the Daiwa principles in the fields of human rights, labor, Securities Group, we believe that our role is not only to environment, and anti-corruption in their business activities, in partnership with UN agencies, labor, maintain and develop an equitable and dynamic financial and civil society. Signatory members are required market, but also to reflect a socially conscious perspective to implement these principles with a top in finance and facilitate the flow of money to build management commitment. sustainable societies. On the basis of this philosophy, the Daiwa Securities Group *5 United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is a signatory to UNEP FI*1 PRI*2 and the Carbon Disclosure The MDGs consist of eight goals that 189 representatives from UN Project (CDP)*3 fulfilling this role as an upstanding member Member States, including 147 heads of state, participating in the UN of the international community. Millennium Summit held in New York in September 2000, designated In January 2010, the Daiwa Securities Group became the as 21st century goals for the international community. It aims to first Japanese securities company to sign the United Nations achieve numerical goals in eight fields such as Poverty alleviation, Global Compact (GC)*4 a platform to help companies that education and public healthcare and so on by 2015. Daiwa Securities Group 6 CSR Report 2012 ●Daiwa Securities Group: Principles for Financial ● Socially Responsible Investment (SRI ) Funds Action Toward a Sustainable Society (Principles for SRI funds evaluate and select potential component stocks Financial Action for the 21st Century) and bonds for their social and environmental efforts, ethics, The Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century were and other nonfinancial performance, as well as the level of drawn up by a committee comprising representatives from sales and profit. These include eco-funds, for which a range of Japanese financial institutions that was tasked nonfinancial criteria are limited to environmental performance with drafting a Japanese version of Principles for or which invest exclusively in companies operating Environmental Financial Action. This was based on a environment-related businesses. Investing in such funds recommendation issued by the Japanese environment enables investors to indirectly support countries and firms ministry’s Central Environment Council with the objective actively engaged in environmental conservation efforts and of promoting environmental finance. Signatory institutions CSR activities via the financial market. endeavor to embed ESG into their activities to the extent Total net assets held in the Daiwa Securities Group’s SRI that their business context allows. The Group was involved funds stood at ¥90.6 billion at the end of March 2012 in the establishment of these principles from the drafting (Source: Daiwa Fund Consulting). stage to laying out the final framework. The Daiwa Securities Group and Daiwa Asset Management signed up ● Impact Investing in November 2011. Impact Investing differs from SRI in that it places emphasis on investments directly affecting society. It is a way to allocate Daiwa Securities Group Initiatives assets solely to activities targeted at resolving social issues such as poverty and environmental issues, in combination ●Daiwa Institute of Research: Strengthening ESG with generating economic gains. research As a financial institution, we have supported the resolution The year 2011 saw ESG take on a more prominent presence of problems in society by offering various types of Impact within the Daiwa Institute of Research. The Environment Investment bonds. and CSR Research Section, which had been established in Cumulative offerings of Impact Investment bonds in Japan August 2010 as part of the Capital Markets Research amounted to some ¥563.2 billion at the end of March Department, was upgraded to a department in its own 2012, of which ¥378.2 billion, or 67%, was arranged dby right (renamed the Environmental Research Department in the Daiwa Securities Group (Source: Daiwa Securities). April 2012). The Institute’s website publishes reports on topics such as environment/energy issues, governance, SRI, ●JICA Bonds: Connecting developing countries and and corporate disclosure of ESG information. retail investors Japan provides a large amount of “yen loans” to emerging ●Daiwa Asset Management: Research structure economies and developing nations to support infrastructural Since March 2010, fund managers and analysts across development and the battle against climate change and operations and research departments have been leading the infectious diseases. The Japan International Cooperation development of new research systems at Daiwa Asset Agency (JICA) had traditionally procured the funds for these Management. It is necessary to evaluate from a long-term long-term, low-interest loans by issuing so-called JICA perspective the corporate values born out of nonfinancial bonds to institutional investors. In December 2011, JICA initiatives such as those seeking to reduce environmental bonds were issued to retail investors for the first time. This burdens or consider the social impact of activities. Daiwa financial product is akin to a bridge connecting developing Asset Management seeks to improve the accuracy of countries with the funds of Japan’s retail investors, enabling company valuations by trying to clarify the purpose of using them to use their personal assets to support developing nonfinancial performance indicators in company valuations. countries in the form of yen loans. In fiscal 2011, we gathered information on research methods In connection with the issuing of these bonds, we organized used by external research institutes and engaged in debates a seminar and an exhibition at the JICA Global Plaza to concerning how these could be applied to our company present the Group’s CSR activities. valuations and investment research processes. ●Green Bonds purchased by regional banks and ● Daiwa Asset Management universities established investment policy against cluster World Bank green bonds support projects addressing the munitions producers issue of global warming in developing countries. To date, Since the implementation of the Oslo Convention on Cluster a total of $3 billion in green bonds has been issued to Munitions in August 2010, Daiwa Asset Management, as investors throughout the world. The types of projects that an asset management company operating in a signatory may be supported by World Bank green bonds include country, has followed the principles outlined below when renewable energy installations, funding for new technologies investing in or otherwise dealing with cluster munitions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reforestation, producers. watershed management, and flood protection. 1. Do not include the securities of cluster munitions producers Fiscal 2011 saw Japan’s local banks and educational in active funds. Promptly sell those already included. institutions investing in these bonds, which were arranged 2. In exercising voting rights associated with shares issued by Daiwa Capital Markets. by cluster munitions producers, vote in favor of any shareholder proposals to withdraw from, or scale down, cluster munitions production. Daiwa Securities Group 7 CSR Report 2012 Daiwa Securities Group’s History of SRI Funds and Impact Investment Bonds Share in net assets of SRI funds in Japan*1 ● Reconstruction Assistance Daiwa Securities Fund for SMEs affected ● Daiwa Microfinance Bonds by the Great East Japan ¥90.6 billion (end-March 2012) ● Daiwa Nippon Support Fund Earthquake and Tsunami 23％ ● Daiwa Energy ● Daiwa/Blackrock Green New Technology Fund Energy Fund (limited open-type ● Next-Generation fund) ● Russell Global Environmental Business Fund ● “Eco Business Japan Stocks 2012 Total ¥389.3 billion Environmental Open” Technology Fund 2011 ● Six Asset Balance ● Global Fund (distribution Environment 2010 type) Equity Fund ● Six Asset Balance ● Global Fund (growth type) Environment ● Daiwa Eco Fund Foreign Bond 2009 ● Water Bonds Balance Fund ● Poverty Reduction ● Daiwa SRI 2008 Bonds for Latin America ● Global Eco Fund and the Caribbean Growth Fund ● DC Daiwa ● Vaccine Bonds ● Ecology Bonds 2007 Course A SRI Fund ● Global Eco ● JICA bonds Growth Fund Course B Sold (redeemed) 2006 ● Ecology Bonds (2 times) Share in cumulative sales ● Microfinance Bonds (IFC) of Impact Investment bonds ● Education Bonds for Africa for individual investors*2 ● Poverty Reduction Bonds for Latin 2004 America and the Caribbean Daiwa Securities ● Microfinance Bonds (EBRD) ¥378.2 billion (end-March 2012) ● Water Bonds 2001 ● World CO2L Bonds ● Vaccine Bonds ● Green World Bank Bonds ● Vaccine Bonds 67％ ● Microfinance Bonds (IFC) ● CO2L Bonds ● Vaccine Bonds Total ¥563.2 billion *1 Based on Daiwa Fund Consulting Co.Ltd. *2 Based on Daiwa Securities Daiwa Securities Group 8 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Management Report CSR Management Approach and Basic Stance Daiwa Securities Group’s vision is to become Asia’s leading financial services group possessing and leveraging a solid business platform in Japan. With the goal of making this vision a reality, we have begun implementing a new three-year mid-term management plan, “Passion for the Best 2014.” This plan involves ensuring that all executives and employees are bringing a constant awareness of environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) to their daily tasks and engaging in active dialogue with stakeholders to further awareness of CSR and to make us better able to address key CSR issues. We are also creating systems to encourage related departments to work together to address key CSR issues. CSR Promotion System training, information on CSR is shared in department head meetings and departmental liaison meetings, thus promoting The CSR section of the Corporate Communication awareness of CSR throughout branches across Japan and Department at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. compiles major overseas sites and building systems for cooperation. information in external and internal meetings and actively The section also organizes dialogues on various CSR issues holds dialogues to ensure that feedback from a wide range with opinion leaders in the broader society and posts them of stakeholders is reflected in the Group’s activities. As well on the CSR website of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. as “CSR as through CSR lectures during the Group’s new hire Dialogue” (only selected dialogues are available in English). CSR Promotion System Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Foundations President and CEO Stakeholders Daiwa Securities Health Foundation Dialogue Executive officers Customers Daiwa Securities Foundation Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation (UK) Shareholders Dialogue Business partners Government CSR Promotion Group, Corporate Communication Department NPOs / NGOs Local communities Group companies Dialogue Departments within Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group 9 CSR Report 2012 Management Vision A new Medium –Term Management Plan– “Passion for the Best” 2014 To become Asia’s leading financial services firm In April 2012, the Daiwa Securities Group unveiled a new possessing and leveraging a solid business platform Medium-Term Management Plan entitled “Passion for the in Japan. Best” 2014 to achieve one of its Corporate Principles, Based on its established business foundation, the Daiwa “Maintaining healthy earnings results”. Securities Group will materialize its vision and corporate Its management vision is to become a leading financial principles in order to achieve higher goals. services firm in Asia while possessing and leveraging a solid The Daiwa Securities Group is working to achieve sustainable business platform in Japan. To meet this objective, we will growth by building even stronger trust with stakeholders have to establish a robust earnings structure capable of and contributing to the ongoing development of society. generating profits even in times of economic stress. In The Group aims to be an upstanding enterprise that addition, the Group must achieve sustainable growth by executives and employees and their families can feel more linking Japan and the growth of Asia. These two objectives and more proud to be part of, as it strives to To become form our basic management policies. Asia’s leading financial services firm possessing and leveraging a solid business platform in Japan. Medium –Term Management Plan– “Passion for the Best” 2014 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Turnaround Growth Expansion Basic Policy I: Return to profitability by pursuing management efficiencies (Focus of execution in the first fiscal year) ■ Steadily implement the plan to reduce SG&A ■ Realize greater organizational efficiencies by shifting personnel from the middle-and-back offices to the front divisions Basic Policy II: Achieve client based high-quality earnings growth ■ Drastically expand our client base in Japan by investing management resources in the Retail and Asset Management businesses –Expand stable earnings by increasing investment trusts and deposit balances– ■ Strengthen revenue capacity centered around the launch of the “new” Daiwa Securities –Step up approaches to high net worth individuals and the middle market– ■ Rebuild our Wholesale business –Re-strengthen the brokerage business and build an efficient global network– Daiwa Securities Group 10 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 CSR Issues: Performance and Targets Rating indicates self-evaluation of fiscal 2011 results: ◦ = success (significant), ◦ = success (moderate), △ = additional effort needed, × = not achieved. Key Issue 1 Leveraging Financial Capabilities to Contribute to a Sustainable Society Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Expand design and sales of Impact •Develop and sell SRI and Impact •Established a reconstruction assistance fund for SMEs affected by the Investment products relating to Investment products Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami ○ earthquakes, the environment, poverty, •Enhance provision of CSR and SRI •Developed and provided Impact Investment products and other issues in Japan and abroad information •Continue to provide reconstruction •Enhance disclosure of environment and assistance for the Great East Japan •Reorganized and enhanced disclosure of ESG information ○ CSR information to investors Earthquake Key Issue 2 Developing Sound Financial and Capital Markets for the Next Generation Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Continue alliances with Japanese and foreign universities and continue the •Seven lectures on CSR and SRI at universities •Contribute to economic and ○ Social Business College (participation •Held Social Business College (six times) financial education target of 80 people per lecture) •Bolster environment and CSR research •Upgraded environment and CSR research section to research group so as conducted by group research ○ ── to bolster environment and CSR research (Daiwa Institute of Research) departments •Held event in association with JICA •Held event to commemorate 10th anniversary of sign language classes •Hold seminars and forums for ordinary •Hold seminars and forums for (with sign language interpretation) ○ customers (at least 3) customers (at least three) •Sponsored event organized by Iwate prefecture: The Great East Japan Earthquake and Tsunami–Iwate reconstruction forum CSR Management Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Maintain dialogues with specialists in •Hold dialogues with specialists on specific themes and strengthen specific themes •Held “CSR Dialogues” (five times) relationships with departments and △ •Strengthen relationships between •Put in two panelists for TBLI conference Asia 2011 sections responsible within group related departments and sections (target of at least 12 dialogues) within the Group Corporate Governance Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Published a quarterly report on health of business as stipulated by law, •Maintain healthy business by demonstrating to the public the Group’s higher consolidated capital ◎ ── disclosing adequacy of capital adequacy ratio standards compared to other companies, and showing that the Group is financially sound. •Increased awareness within the Group of crisis management system by •Increase awareness of crisis •Strengthen crisis management implementing training on checking employee safety together with ○ management system for disasters system for disasters emergency drills •Reduced electricity consumption during the summer months in excess of respective requirements set forth by Tokyo Electric Power Company, Tohoku Electric Power, and Kansai Electric Power Company* •Reduce group-wide power •Reduced electricity consumption during the winter months in areas supplied •Continue efforts to reduce electricity consumption by 15% in response to by Kansai Electric Power Company and Kyushu Electric Power Company* ◎ consumption power shortage this summer * Electricity-saving measures were also enforced in areas controlled by other electric power companies. •Maintained efforts to reduce electricity consumption during periods of lower demand Daiwa Securities Group 11 CSR Report 2012 Compliance Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Further strengthen •Strengthened accountability during sales and marketing by establishing a self-monitoring of ethics system of checking by superiors, and strengthening cooperation between ◎ at branches sales managers, internal control managers, and line managers •Enabled horizontal visualization across headquarter departments and •Build effective and efficient internal sections by integrating compliance functions across three Group companies control systems for “new” Daiwa •Strengthen commitment •Developed internal control systems through cooperation with Daiwa Next Securities to internal control in all Bank and Banking Business Office during the launch of bank agency business ◎ •Further improve customer marketDaiwa headquarter departments •Strengthened internal control system by appointing a new internal control ing and solicitation systems Securities and sections officer, compliance officer, and so on within the online trading planning •Raise the quality of internal control department systems through inspection •Set up an integrated system for the retrieval of trading data for both •Implement the improvement meas•Strengthen commitment Daiwa Securities and Daiwa Capital Markets with the objective of making ures set out in the Group’s press to preventing unfair transaction monitoring more effective ◎ release dated July 27, 2012, in a trading •Strengthened systems to eradicate organized crime and money laundering swift and steady manner (Investiby implementing training to prevent these throughout branches gation Committee’s Investigation Report on the Securities and Ex•Create and strengthen a •Strengthened global cooperation by requiring monthly compliance reports change Surveillance Commission’s global compliance system from overseas companies and developing effective systems to manage Daiwa Recommendations and Daiwa’s •Strengthen systems to classified information by enhancing systems to manage conflicts of interest Securities Improvement Measures) eradicate organized crime •Developed internal control systems by consolidating within the compliance ◎ Capital •Establish rules relating to section the monitoring of crime prevention and legal amendments such as Markets the Financial Instruments those concerning regulations on short-selling during public offering period and Exchange Law •Set up system for inspecting all emails sent to personal email addresses Information Disclosure Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Actively disclose information, including •Clearly communicated to shareholders, investors, media, and so on details •Focus on conveying information on non-financial content, demonstrating of the new basic company policy instituted following April’s appointment the “new” Daiwa Securities Inc. ◎ the unique or differentiating features of a new president, by giving specific details of progress at the and the “new” mid-term of the Group (continued) management strategy briefing session management plan •Reduced costs without compromising on information volume by printing •Carry out cost-conscious, efficient IR •Implement cost reductions and multiple pages on a single sheet and minimizing printing costs in external ◎ activities (continued) optimization regarding IR tools IR documents such as annual reports and business reports •Disseminated information in a straightforward manner to shareholders and •Improve and make effective use of IR investors by providing a clear explanation of the management strategy •Implement IR activities that appeal ◎ channels (continued) that was announced at the management strategy briefing session in to investors’ every need external IR documents such as annual reports and business reports Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Enhanced the shareholder rewards program by providing a clearer introduction to the reward program catalogue and adding frozen foods, •Take actions to expand shareholder products related to earthquake relief, and monetary donations to the ◎ ── reward program (continued) rewards product selection. This resulted in a record high number of applications for reward products. Relationship with Customers Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Held investor seminars on the 5th of every month, providing information on overseas and Japanese markets on an ongoing basis •Held impromptu seminars when the market fluctuated, such as seminars on the foreign currency market when the yen appreciated significantly and follow-up seminars when the value of trust funds depreciated •Actively pursue post-sales follow-up •Presented current status and forecasts for customers’ investment trusts in ◎ (continued) graphic format via the Daiwa Online Trading “notice box” •Held New Spring Investment Forum in January 2012 across all branches, •Post-sales service with about 6,330 customers attending •Continuously provided up-to-date information by publishing daily market reports and fund management companies’ fund reports on our website •Emplemented regular verification tests using our e-learning system •Improve customer-interface skills of •Head office staff conducted twice-yearly on-site checks and guidance ◎ branch counter staff (continued) across all sites •Continuously shared and disseminated information on the intranet •Develop professional workforce that •Focused on business skills training, encouraged and supported staff in combines expertise and loyalty ◎ ── obtaining credentials, and enhanced foreign language training (continued) Daiwa Securities Group 12 CSR Report 2012 Relationship with Executives and Employees Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Ongoing skills training and cross-Group training opened up to more Group companies •Improve customer-interface skills of •Delivered group training and e-learning training for new hires and branch counter staff (continued) implemented campaigns for each product •Develop professional workforce that •Continued to develop a working environment conducive to high motivation ○ combines expertise and loyalty •Revised system for supporting acquisition of credentials (continued) •5,255 and 452 staff obtained AFP and CFP certifications respectively •Showed an increase in staff trying to improve language skills (1,418 took •HR development through targeted the TOEIC test) recruiting and appointing •Worked to change employee awareness by encouraging employees to leave work before 7 p.m., welcoming family visits (3,868 family members •Demand high levels of specialist participated), and encouraging staff to take childcare leave (408 staff skills to merit customers’ trust members did) •Achieve a far-reaching work-life •Increased awareness of systems (e.g., revised and circulated guidelines on ○ •Create a working environment balance program (continued) returning to work among managers; broadcast information internally to conducive to high levels of staff; showed an increase in visitors to revamped Daiwa WLB Station) motivation among all employees •Increased numbers using the Job Location Change system (cumulative total of 82) •Increased number of female managers (170 at end of fiscal 2011) •Accelerate appointment of female •Increased number of female staff aspiring to advance their careers (total of managers who will assume leadership 659 female staff members transferred to career-track employee or regional ○ roles in the Japanese financial industry career-track employee streams between fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2011) (continued) •Female employee success promotion team considered additional measures Relationship with Society Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Raise employees’ interest in •Raise awareness of volunteering– volunteering, including in earthquake including earthquake relief work– •Published information on internal volunteer activities as well as those relief efforts, and improve provision of ○ among staff and strengthen planned by external groups on the intranet appropriate information regarding dissemination of appropriate volunteering information •Enhance systems to enable •Reached a consensus with employee unions on “volunteer leave” and •Enhance volunteering system △ employees to get involved in currently working toward its introduction voluntary work •As a result of dialogue with employee unions: Coordinated with charity •Strengthen coordination with •Improve coordination with employee events, encouraged union members to get involved in voluntary work, and employee unions ○ unions developed cooperative relations working toward introduction of systems to •Promote programs that the whole promote volunteering Group can get involved in Environmental Initiatives Targets for Fiscal 2011 Results for Fiscal 2011 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2012 •Introduce new environment •Introduced new energy data management system to get a quicker overview •Further exploit energy data ○ management system of energy use across Japanese branches management system •Renewed air conditioning units in Osaka branch building •Reduced intensity of lighting to appropriate levels •Switched off the lights on signs and stock-price boards •Set photocopiers to energy-saving mode •Strengthen energy conservation •Enhance energy conservation efforts ◎ •Promoted use of double-sided printing and printing multiple pages on efforts one sheet •Promoted the clear desk and clear screen policy •Separated office waste and reused resources Daiwa Securities Group 13 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Management Report Corporate Governance Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group clearly separates the supervisory and executive functions of management to create a highly transparent and objective corporate governance system. The Group is pursuing a management structure that improves the efficiency of head office operations and maximizes synergies between the Group companies. Under this structure, employees responsible for head office functions also perform similar roles for securities subsidiaries, in addition to the corporate executive officers of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Features of the Corporate Governance System The Nominating Committee met three times in FY2011 to discuss the composition of the Board of Directors and its In 1999, the Daiwa Securities Group became the first listed effect on corporate governance, the basic policy for Japanese company to adopt a holding company structure. nominating candidates for directorships, and the selection Since then, we have been pursuing a highly transparent and of these candidates. The Nominating Committee selects objective corporate governance system that maximizes candidates for directorships in light of the Group’s synergies between Group companies while showcasing the selection standards for the appointment of directors. independence and unique expertise of each Group member. These standards include criteria that ensure the independence In June 2004, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. made a transition of outside directors. to a “Committee System” of corporate governance and The Audit Committee met 12 times during FY2011. accelerated the decision-making process by transferring a The committee evaluated the activities of directors and substantial portion of authority from the Board of Directors corporate executive officers, audited documentation including to corporate executive officers. In addition, we strengthened financial statements and business reports, and prepared an the supervisory functions of management by increasing the audit report for the period under review. number of outside directors and establishing the Nominating The Compensation Committee met six times in FY2011 to Committee, Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee. discuss compensation policy and determine the compensation The representative directors of the major Group companies of each director, and also studied a Group-wide incentive also serve as corporate executive officers of the holding plan aimed at improving consolidated earnings results. company, thereby allowing them to efficiently implement The Board of Directors met 10 times during FY2011 and individual business strategies based on Group strategies. outside directors had a 98% record of attendance. Corporate Governance System at Daiwa Securities Group Shareholders’ Meeting Nominating Committee, 6 members Audit Committee, 4 members Compensation Committee, 5 members Board of Directors, 12 members (including 4 outside directors) (including 3 outside directors) (including 3 outside directors) (including 5 outside directors) Nominates directors for Audits the activities of Sets policy for compensation of directors Basic management policy selection, or recommends directors and corporate and corporate executive officers, and dismissal executive officers determines compensation amount for each Group Risk Management Group IT Strategy Overseas Management Executive Management Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee, 12 members Group-wide business strategy Gathers information on the system Determines scope of consolidated Prepares original IT investment Makes decisions on issues and management issues, and current situation of risk financial reports, scope of evaluation budget, evaluates and monitors related to the management important financial matters management, and sets policy and of internal control reports and IT investments of overseas offices and other strategy regarding risk management disclosure of important information operations abroad Group Internal Audit Committee Representative Executive Officer Makes decisions on issues relating to the internal audit system and the verification of internal control activities Web Report on Corporate Governance (available only in Japanese) Daiwa Securities Group 14 CSR Report 2012 Executive Compensation More Closely Linked based compensation, and stock-price-linked compensation. to Performance Comprehensive criteria used in calculating performancebased compensation include consolidated ordinary income Compensation for directors and corporate executive officers and ROE, as well as other factors such as which of the is determined by the Compensation Committee. It generally management goals outlined in the Medium-Term has three components; basic compensation, performanceManagement Plan have been met. Compensation Paid to Directors and Corporate Executive Officers of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in FY2011 Directors Corporate Executive Officers Total Amounts based on resolution of the Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Compensation Committee 9 persons ¥107 million 14 persons ¥424 million 23 persons ¥531 million Notes: 1. No performance-based compensation was paid in this fiscal year. 2. The above compensation amounts include a total of ¥94 million in stock acquisition rights granted as stock options to directors and corporate executive officers. 3. Compensation paid to the six outside directors totaled ¥80 million. 4. Seven directors also served as corporate executive officers; their total compensation is included in the “Corporate Executive Officers” category. Internal Control System and Internal Audit To maintain oversight and ensure the proper and efficient conduct of Group internal auditing activities, the Internal In recognition that management is responsible for maintaining Audit Department holds periodic meetings and collaborates an effective internal control system to ensure the sound and in auditing activities with the internal auditing segment proper execution of business, the Group, under the main of each Group company, and maintains contact and initiative of Daiwa Securities Group Inc., has established coordination with the Group’s Audit Committee and a system for managing the Group’s major business risks. accounting auditor. The Group also maintains this internal control system for ensuring “business effectiveness and efficiency,” “reliable Supervisory function financial reporting,” “compliance with laws related to business activities,” and “asset preservation.” The Internal The Board of Directors consists of 12 directors, including Audit Department verifies the internal control system. five outside directors.* The Board of Directors determines This department, established independently from all other key management policy and supervises executive duties. departments and reporting to a full-time corporate executive In order to perform this supervisory role from multiple officer, ensures internal audits to act as an important function viewpoints in accordance with the demands of society, of raising Group value through the creation of sound and the policy for selecting new board members states that efficient internal controls. The department’s internal auditing candidates must have a strong sense of ethics and plans and the results of internal audits are reported to and demonstrate initiative and leadership. Additionally, approved by the Group Internal Audit Committee, which external directors are experts in such fields as executive is directly under the control of the CEO of Daiwa Securities management and accounting. In addition, the supervisory Group Inc. function of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. is reinforced by the The department also reports the results of internal audits to Audit Committee and the Office of the Audit Committee. an Audit Committee. This Audit Committee, comprised of The Audit Committee, which consists of a majority of outside members of the Board of Directors of Daiwa Securities Group directors,* plays a pivotal role in the supervision of executive Inc., in turn has the authority to conduct internal audits in duties. The Audit Committee is assisted by the Office of the collaboration with the Internal Audit Department and have Audit Committee, which is an independent department. the department perform its research. The Internal Audit * Outside directors as defined by Article 2-15 of Japan’s Companies Act. Department directly audits major Group companies. Major Group companies also have internal auditing departments Preventing conflict-of-interest transactions of their own, which are subject to monitoring and alignment between group companies by the Internal Audit Department. The Group’s internal audits, in following a common Group Conflict-of-interest transactions between group companies internal audit policy and audit plan formulated on a risk-bycan occur in situations such as intra-Group trading. risk basis, are managed and monitored primarily by the Internal The Daiwa Securities Group applies rules regarding conflicts Audit Department. The internal audits that Group companies of interest stipulated by Japan’s Companies Act to Executive perform are monitored and directly audited as required by Committees as well as Board meeting. Conflicts of interest the Group in view of the status of control over the Group within the Group are prevented through a rule prohibiting and collaboration within the Group. The Group seeks to an executive officer from voting when he or she is also the raise corporate value by conducting internal audits that pay director of an interested group company. special attention to the legal and regulatory compliance and risk management position of Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. and the Group’s overseas securities business sites as a global financial instruments business operator, and Daiwa Next Bank, Ltd. as a bank. Daiwa Securities Group 15 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Management Report Compliance Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group’s corporate principles identify “building trust” and “contributing to society” as among the most important goals of our business operations. We believe that compliance is necessary to “build trust.” The goal of the Group’s compliance activities is not merely to “comply with laws and regulations,” but to earn the trust of customers, the market, and society. The Daiwa Securities Group’s Approach Compliance Initiatives at to Compliance Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. The Daiwa Securities Group is constantly taking steps to Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. is taking measures, under the educate and train executives and employees to uphold compliance program, to ensure the effective operation external regulations, exercise self-discipline and appropriate of its internal control system in order to ensure strict conduct, and thereby maintain high ethical standards to compliance with laws and regulations. fulfill its role in society. We aggressively conduct compliance Measures taken in FY2011 included strengthening the training programs for our employees. These programs selfcorrecting mechanism of sales branches, an internal commence as soon as employees join the Group and control system for head office departments as a whole, continue through regularly scheduled training sessions a structure to prevent unjust trade practices, and a throughout their career, thus ensuring that every employee compliance system that is being used on a global basis. is aware of, and thoroughly understands, compliance issues. In FY2012, the Company will formulate the following As the Group pursues new business ventures in areas where three compliance programs aimed at bolstering internal the regulatory structure is still incomplete, employees are control systems further, in moving us towards meeting our trained to approach all matters with strong self-discipline management targets. and legal awareness, refer to existing legal precedents whenever possible, and always adhere to accepted social 1. P rogram for building effective and efficient internal norms of proper behavior. control systems In FY2011, Group companies continued to hold training 2. P rogram for further improving customer sales and related to insider trading regulations from FY2010. marketing manners Furthermore, the Group promoted the integration of head 3. P rogram for raising the quality of internal control systems office functions in pursuit of efficiency by consolidating the through thorough inspection overlapping functions within Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd., Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. Ltd., and Daiwa Securities We will implement the improvement measures set out in Group Inc. The consequent unification of management the Group’s press release dated July 27, 2012, in a swift structures of the companies enabled the Group to and steady manner (Investigation Committee’s Investigation strengthen its compliance systems further. Report on the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Initiatives the Group took to eliminate any and all relations Commission’s Recommendations and Daiwa’s Improvement with corporate racketeers and other antisocial groups Measures) involved collecting information on their increasingly Web Investigation Committee’s Investigation Report on sophisticated methods by working in close contact with the Securities and Exchange Surveillance mainly police organizations and legal experts, and enhancing Commission’s Recommendations and Daiwa’s the Group’s various outward procedures for scrupulously Improvement Measures (available only in severing contact with such undesirable groups. As a result, Japanese) a system of cooperation among Group companies to perform checks preventing the outflow of funds to antisocial forces is now in place. Web Basic Policy on Avoiding Any Involvement with Criminal Elements (available only in Japanese) Daiwa Securities Group 16 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Management Report Risk Management Approach and Basic Stance While the Daiwa Securities Group pursues profitability and growth, it also recognizes the importance of accurately identifying, evaluating, and effectively controlling the various risks associated with its business operations. Our objective is to steadily improve corporate value by maintaining a sound financial base and profit structure by properly balancing risks and returns and by implementing effective risk control and management. Basic Risk Management Policy Types of Risks The Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has established “basic risk The Daiwa Securities Group faces various risks in the course management regulations” governing all activities by the of its business activities. The Group therefore believes that Group companies to manage risk in order to ensure that it is important to properly identify, evaluate, and manage they conform to the following basic policies: these risks in order to maintain healthy financial and earnings 1. Management shall demonstrate an active concern for risk structures. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. engages in risk management. management to clearly identify risks based on the respective 2. A risk management system shall be established to address Group company’s business characteristics and risk profile. the specific characteristics of risk faced by the Group. The types of risks that have been deemed important to 3. Management shall, through the aforementioned manage include market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, comprehensive risk management structure, ascertain the operational risk, and reputation risk. aggregate risk faced by the Group and enhance capital adequacy accordingly. 4. All risk management processes shall be clearly identified. Limits are set for each type of risk so as to control risk within an amount suitable for the management strength of the Group. Risk Management System Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Group companies Nominating Committee Daiwa Securities Board of Directors Audit Committee Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Executive Management Policy Compensation Committee Daiwa Capital Markets America Committee formulation and instruction Representative Executive Group Internal Audit Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Officer Committee Group Risk Management Committee …… Daiwa Asset Management Reporting CRO Daiwa Corporate Investment Discussion Daiwa PI Partners Comprehensive risk management structure and reporting Risk Management Department Daiwa Securities SMBC Principal Investments Operational risk Market Credit Liquidity Office SystemsInformation Compliance Legal Human Tangible Daiwa Next Bank Risk Risk Risk Work related Security Risk Risk Resources Asset Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Other Group companies Daiwa Securities Group 17 CSR Report 2012 Risk Management System The Board of Directors of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has approved “basic risk management regulations.” These regulations define basic policies related to risk management, the types of risk that are necessary to be managed, and the executive and department for each major risk. Each subsidiary conducts risk management suitable for the risk profile and size of each business in accordance with these basic policies related to risk management. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. monitors the system and situation of its subsidiaries’ risk management. Also, the Group Risk Management Committee, as a sub-committee of the Executive Management Committee of Daiwa Securities Group Inc., receives reports about risk exposures obtained via the aforementioned monitoring of subsidiaries and themes concerning their risk management system and discusses and resolves those issues. In addition, major Group companies regularly hold risk management committees in order to strengthen their risk management. Business Continuity Plan In anticipation of possible damage to its sales branches or head office/head office functions and/or data center due to social infrastructure shutdowns caused by earthquakes, fires, storm and flood damage, and abnormal weather, as well as serious outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as new strains of influenza, the Daiwa Securities Group drew up a business continuity plan (BCP) prioritizing important operations*1 to be restored or continued in the event of a natural disaster, in order to keep the financial market functioning and protect customers’ economic activities. In accordance with this plan, the Group will ensure the safety of customers and Group executives and employees and protect assets while continuing to pursue vital operations based on the public-interest aspect of its business as a financial services firm. Specifically, the Group has promoted the digitization of data necessary for its business operations to establish a state-ofthe-art business continuity system in the financial industry. Equipped with Japan’s highest-level backup center, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has already completed the installation of thin client technology.*2 This enables the Group to easily switch to an alternate system in case the headquarters cease to function and thereby continue vital operations through a substitute office location. *1 Priority operations to be restored or continued: 1. Market settlement of securities transactions contracted but not yet delivered 2. Payment operations 3. New orders from customers to sell or to liquidate long positions on margin transactions for the products below ○Domestic listed equities ○MRF (money reserve funds), MMF (money market funds), medium-term government bond funds ○Japanese government bonds for individual investors *2 Thin client: A technology for the storage and administration of the totality of data on a single server instead of having individual employees control application software and files distributed among various terminals. This can streamline administration processes and costs while reducing operational risks. Daiwa Securities Group 18 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Management Report IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group aims to provide customers with high value-added products and services quickly, precisely, and reasonably priced. To this end, it uses IT strategically. As an active participant in the financial and capital markets, the Group possesses information resources, including personal information. In order to protect these information resources from outside threats, the Group is working to maintain and improve the level of its information security. IT Governance System Measures for Maintaining Information Security The Group has established the Group IT Strategy Committee as a subcommittee of the Executive Management Committee. In order to fulfill its social responsibility as an active participant This committee deliberates and makes decisions on such in the financial and capital markets, as well as gain the trust issues as budgets for IT investment and the allocation of IT of customers, the Group has adopted a full spectrum of functions. In regard to IT investment planning, the Group IT information security policies at companies throughout the Strategy Committee rigorously selects the IT investments Group to ensure that important personal information received necessary for the Group and allocates budgets based on from customers and all other information resources are the strategic importance of each investment. managed in a secure and appropriate manner. Among the Additionally, the Group IT Strategy Committee is strengthening organizational measures that we have adopted is the Group IT governance by primarily bolstering the management Information Security Group Minimum Standard, which and control function in connection with managing systems dictates the basic rules that all companies in the Group must construction projects within the Group. adopt for handling information. In addition to introducing these information security rules at each company, we have Disclosure System appointed a “Chief Information Security Officer” at each Group company to oversee information management The Daiwa Securities Group has formulated the Disclosure activities. A variety of technical and structural measures have Policy, which outlines the Group’s basic approach to also been introduced to enhance security and ensure that information disclosure and strives to provide information Group information resources are managed appropriately, that is fair, prompt, and appropriate. such as office automation through the use of thin clients and high-security access controls at the data center. Daiwa Securities Group Disclosure Policy The online trading systems of Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. employ highly advanced encryption technology for data ◦The Daiwa Securities Group will disclose important financial, transmission and for user ID verification, thereby ensuring social and environmental information about the Group that clients are able to use the system safely and securely. (“Management-related Information”) in a prompt, fair and appropriate manner, so that our stakeholders, (including shareholders, investors and the communities we operate in) Efforts to Enhance the Level may understand and maintain realistic expectations of the of Information Security Daiwa Securities Group. ◦The Group will comply with the Financial Instruments and The Group has put in place a self-assessment scheme for Exchange Act and other laws and ordinances related to employees in order to maintain and build upon the current securities transactions and the various rules of the financial level of information security across the Group as a whole. instruments exchanges on which our stock is listed. Each Group company has formulated further initiatives ◦The Group will strive to disclose information fairly, in terms tailored to meet the information security needs of the products of both content and timing. and services they offer. Additionally, in recognition of the ◦The Group will utilize various communication channels importance of human factors in effective information security including presentations, telephone conferences, the Internet systems, the Group has introduced training programs to and printed materials to disclose information in a manner that is easy for investors to comprehend. educate all executives and employees in the basics of ◦The Group will keep in mind its responsibility to set an example information security. The programs are offered periodically for other listed corporations, in terms of disclosure, and will as group training sessions, as well as through e-learning. strive to promote healthy markets. ◦To ensure that these policies are implemented properly, the Group has established “Disclosure Regulations” which include guidelines for disclosing management-related information and standards for establishing a“Disclosure Committee.” Daiwa Securities Group 19 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationship with Customers Approach and Basic Stance We understand that customer trust is the foundation of our business, and we always work to identify approaches that will truly satisfy our customers. At the Daiwa Securities Group, we have built the concept of hospitality into our understanding of service to give new life to customer relations. Our goal is nothing less than having the most satisfied customers in the financial services industry. Building Even Deeper Trust in Relationships ● Follow-up services for Impact Investment products with Customers Daiwa Securities provides customers who buy Vaccine Bonds with the activity reports released by IFFIm, the issuer Accountability to customers of these bonds. The company believes that it is also important We strive to understand the customer’s needs quickly, to provide information on how the money invested in propose the best solution for each customer, and provide Impact Investment products, which enable customers to more-than-satisfactory services. We also work to provide give back to society through their investments, is used to customers with complete, appropriate explanations. solve social problems. Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, which went into effect in September 2007, prohibits “solicitation Services accessible to diverse customers that is improper in light of the customers’ knowledge, When Daiwa Securities renovates sales branches nationwide experience, financial situation and objective.” This law or plans new branches, it takes steps to ensure that its forms the basis of Daiwa Securities’ approach, but the branches can be used by a wide range of customers, such company also provides explanations that go beyond the as eliminating steps up and down on the floor and installing legal requirements to demonstrate true hospitality in its wide counters. In addition, the company explains services product descriptions. using written communication and introduces its Internet When selling Impact Investment products that help resolve banking services to deaf customers. social issues, such as Vaccine Bonds and Water Bonds, Daiwa Securities explains how customers will be contributing ● Daiwa’s Point Program to a society by investing in these products, in order to deepen Daiwa’s Point Program awards customers with points based their understanding of these. on their transactions, which can be exchanged for products and cash vouchers or used to make donations to NPOs. Active post-sales follow up Daiwa Securities launched a donation program for the A securities company’s true relationship with the customer Great East Japan Earthquake using points awarded through begins after a product has been sold. Follow-up is essential the Daiwa Point Program on March 18, 2011. Their in maintaining and strengthening the trusting relationships donations were provided in full to those who suffered from formed with the customer. In particular, customers are the earthquake through the NGO Japan Platform. dissatisfied and apprehensive when the value of a product that they have purchased goes down. Daiwa Securities Improving customer service quality at sales branches constantly works to reinforce its relationship of trust with Many different types of customers visit Daiwa Securities’ the customer by giving attentive explanations and relevant sales branches. This means that employees interacting with proposals that succeed in alleviating this dissatisfaction customers at its sales branches must have high-caliber and concern. service skills with an emphasis on attentiveness to the customer, in addition to specialized knowledge of the ● Providing information in seminars and on our website market and products. In addition to the investor seminars that Daiwa Securities At Daiwa Securities, our goal is to provide a level of customer holds on the 5th of every month, and the information on service that surpasses ordinary hospitality standards. In overseas and Japanese markets it provides on an ongoing addition to group training, the company gives regular basis, Daiwa Securities holds impromptu follow-up seminars verification tests on an ongoing basis using its e-learning when the market fluctuates sharply, as when the yen system. Daiwa Securities’ head office staff also conduct appreciated significantly. Over 940 follow-up seminars on on-site checks every six months and provide guidance to investment trusts and foreign currency markets were held promote even higher quality. between October 2011 and March 2012 across all branches and were attended by over 18,000 people. The “notice box” for users of the online trading section of the Daiwa website presents trends and forecasts for trust funds and exchange rates in a graphic format. In January 2012, Daiwa Securities held its New Spring Investment Forum 2012, with about 6,330 customers attending. Daiwa Securities Group 20 CSR Report 2012 Initiatives Make Use of Customer Views Calls received at the Customer Support Contact Center Daiwa Securities’ Customer Support Contact Center also Call Center initiative directly handles customer feedback. The Center shares the Daiwa Securities’ Call Center is staffed by 480 telephone customer feedback it receives with Daiwa Securities’ sales service representatives (TSRs)* who take orders, describe branches and head office and responds promptly and products, and handle queries about clerical procedures or appropriately. requests for sales literature. The Call Center is one of the During fiscal 2011, the Center received 5,119 calls, which main channels supporting the company’s business model, represents a higher volume than usual. We have attributed which is driven mostly by the Daiwa Consulting and Daiwa this increase to the additional calls received in relation to Direct transaction channels. the opening of Daiwa Next Bank in May 2011. A total of At the Call Center, employees have direct contact with 552 calls were received concerning Daiwa Next Bank in customers, and so the Center plays a critical role in areas fiscal 2011, 92% of which were queries and 8%, such as transaction channels, customer support and complaints. The Center takes customer feedback seriously marketing that can lead to improved operations through and will continue to work to improve customer service. customer feedback. The company implements training and regular level checks for TSRs* in order to maintain and Calls Received at the Customer Support Contact Center improve call center operations to meet the demand for ■ Inquiries ■ Complaints high-quality service. FY The Center uses the customer inquiries and opinions that it 2007 78％ 22％ 4,392 receives to analyze data and identify each cause when there are problems. By providing feedback and information to 2008 76％ 24％ 4,616 Daiwa Securities’ head office and sales branches, the 2009 77％ 23％ 4,144 company seeks to improve services and customer interaction and raise customer satisfaction. 2010 80％ 20％ 4,224 * TSR (Telephone Service Representative) is the name typically used in Europe and the US to refer to telephone operators with specialized 2011 82％ 18％ 5,119 knowledge. 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 calls Strengthening BCP at our Call Center Up until August 2011, all of our call center functions were based at a single site (Koto Ward, Tokyo). We have now transferred some of the functions to our Osaka branch building. This means that we now have 480 telephone service points, with 450 in Tokyo and 30 in Osaka. We are now able to accept emergency orders at sales branches as well as at the new Osaka call center. Having our call center functions split across multiple sites in this way means that we have been able to manage operational risk. We also anticipate that the Osaka call center will serve as a backup during electricity shortages in the Tokyo area. Daiwa Securities’ System for Utilizing Customer Feedback Customers Questionnaire postcards Telephone Opinions, comments, and requests available at branches Customer Support Contact Center Business Process Planning & Improvement Improvement Improvement Administration Department Sales branches Management Departments in charge Gathering customer feedback at each branch, to be shared by all branches (weekly) Improvement All sales branches Daiwa Securities Group 21 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group works hard to stay in good communication with shareholders and other investors. Under a sluggish trend of the “from saving to investment” policy in Japan, we believe that increasing the number of retail investors is part of the Daiwa Securities Group’s social responsibility. Accordingly, we work to provide all investors with helpful information that is easy to understand. Breakdown of Shareholder Communication with Shareholders As of March 31, 2012, 39.6% of the shareholders of Daiwa The general meeting of shareholders is an opportunity for Securities Group Inc. were foreign investors, down 0.9 direct communication with shareholders. We encourage as points from the end of the previous fiscal year. The share many of our shareholders to attend as possible. A total of of Japanese investors increased 1.1 points to 24.6%. 1,838 shareholders attended the 75th regular general This increase was likely due to the augmentation of the meeting of shareholders held on June 27, 2012. We have shareholder reward program carried out at the end of also been trying to increase communication opportunities September 2010. through measures such as telephone conferences on the same day that we announce the quarterly earnings, spring Breakdown by investor type (as of March 31, 2012) and fall management strategy briefing sessions, one-on-one Other Individuals meetings with analysts and institutional investors, and 60,200 in Japan paying visits to overseas institutional investors. In addition thousand shares 430,460 to this, we have also been enhancing information disclosure 3.4% thousand shares 24.6% on our IR pages and releasing the highlights of our annual Foreign investors and business reports in booklet form for shareholders. 692,935 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. will continue to strive to make thousand shares its communications even more accessible and more 39.6% precisive for shareholders. Financial Other corporations institutions in Japan in Japan Questionnaire for Shareholders 83,561 482,520 thousand shares thousand shares The Daiwa Securities Group regularly gives a questionnaire 4.8% 27.6% to shareholders at the end of September with a view to reflecting their opinions in management and IR activities. Web Stock information We utilize the results to good advantage in business activities, leading to improvements such as higher Dividend Policy satisfaction with the shareholder reward program. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. aims to continue improving 〈Results of a questionnaire to shareholders in value for shareholders, which includes distribution of profit. September 2011〉 In principle, dividends are paid semiannually at a pay-out ratio of approximately 30% based on consolidated financial Q W  hen did you become a shareholder performance. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. also looks for for the first time? ways to increase returns to its shareholders in various ways, April 2010 to April 2011 including share buybacks when it has sufficient March 2011 or after accumulated capital to pursue further growth. 6.4% 3.2% April 2009 to March 2010 14.8% March 2006 April 2008 to or before March 2009 52.8% 11.4% April 2006 to March 2008 11.4% Daiwa Securities Group 22 CSR Report 2012 Q W  hy did you acquire shares in Daiwa Securities Shareholder Reward Program Group Inc.? (Multiple answers allowed) Inheritance Others Beginning at the end of September 2010, we enhanced our 2.9% 9.1% shareholder reward program while continuing our reward Recommendation program catalogue. Shareholders qualifying for rewards at from Acquaintance the end of March and September are now able to choose to 4.9% make a charitable donation, as well as opt for our quarterly Business Activities Expectation of journal or the Daiwa points program—as well as the 5.6% higher share price 35.3% traditional local and regional specialties. At the end of March, Corporate Image we will offer shareholders a complementary calendar. 8.7% Dividend Shareholder reward 16.4% program 17.1% Q H  ow would you like to see information disclosure and communication augmented in the future? (Multiple answers allowed) Others 15.1% Enhancements to Expanded business general meeting report of shareholders 20.6% 10.2% Augmented website 1 Expanded IR 15.2% seminars/meetings Expanded materials 20.0% Hometown and regional specialties for earnings release and corporate briefings (Graphics are images) 18.9% Q W  hich items would you like to see in the next shareholder Reward Program? (Multiple answers allowed) Donations Others 0.8% 7.3% Investment information booklet Sweets, 4.7% confectionery Frozen processed 29.1% foods, such as ice cream 5.3% Processed foods, meat, fish Beverages such 22.0% as juice, tea 7.8% Alcoholic beverages Rice, noodles, 9.7% 13.3% Web Investor Relations Daiwa Securities Group 23 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationship with Executives and Employees Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group believes that maximizing the motivation of every executive and employee will improve customer satisfaction and consequently enhance shareholder value. We take a range of measures to ensure that all of our executives and employees feel a sense of job satisfaction and that their families and friends share in their pride to be part of the Group. The Group issues “Daiwa Spirit,” a booklet about what it means to be a Daiwa professional. This was developed based on our corporate principles and expresses the basic philosophy and mindset valued by the corporate culture since the foundation of the Group. We hope that Daiwa Spirit will enhance employees’ sense of unity and togetherness and thus the Group’s overall cohesiveness. Companies covered by data Consolidated: Entire Group Group of 11 companies: Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd., Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd., Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., Daiwa Securities Business Center Co., Ltd., Daiwa Property Co., Ltd., and Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd. Group of three companies: Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd., and Daiwa Securities Capital Markets. Employees at the Daiwa Securities Group (Consolidated) (persons) As of March 31, 2010 As of March 31, 2011 As of March 31, 2012 Temporary Temporary Temporary Employees FA*1 Employees FA*1 Employees FA*1 employees*2 employees*1 employees*2 Male 8,212 124 − 7,940 98 − 7,662 81 − (Career track*3) 7,535 − − 7,337 − − 7,076 − − (Managers) 3,872 − − 3,760 − − 3,754 − − Japan Female 4,838 303 − 4,608 222 − 4,348 166 − 3 (Career track* ) 2,412 − − 2,541 − − 2,374 − − (Managers) 159 − − 162 − − 170 − − Japan total 13,050 427 765 12,548 320 634 12,010 247 471 Overseas 1,973 − 127 2,442 − 192 2,175 − 157 Total 15,023 427 892 14,990 320 826 14,185 247 628 *1 Financial advisors *2 T emporary employees are part-time hires; the figure shown here is the average number of such employees over the year. Most temporary employees are women, but this figure includes some men as well. *3 Includes regional career-track employees and specialist positions. Hiring Initiatives provide an environment in which diverse individuals can perform to their full potential. In line with the Group’s Hiring approaches and trends strategy to strengthen our business in Asia, we endeavor The Daiwa Securities Group would like all of its employees to secure personnel who will be able to perform on the to be highly motivated and to stay with the Group from global stage. hiring to retirement. All new college graduates recruited by the Group, including those with disabilities, are brought on as full, regular employees. This helps to encourage new hires to feel a sense of trust and pride in the company and a sense of solidarity with their colleagues. In April 2012, the Group hired 354 new employees. Our approach to retaining talented people is simply to Daiwa Securities Group 24 CSR Report 2012 Number of New Graduates Recruited by the Daiwa Securities Group (people) April 2008 April 2009 April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 Career-track employees/regional career-track Male 551 388 159 245 186 employees Female 471 328 173 200 166 Male 1 7 4 0 0 Operations personnel (or staff) Female 241 110 1 1 2 Total 1,264 833 337 446 354 * This data pertains to nine group companies: Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd., Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd., Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., Daiwa Securities Business Center Co., Ltd., and Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd. Workforce Statistics As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, As of March 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Average annual salary ※ 10.32 million 7.06 million 7.47 million 8.50 million 8.11 million Average age 37.7 37.1 36.4 37.1 39.9 Average number of years of service 11.2 10.7 11.0 12.2 13.7 * This data pertains to Daiwa Securities Group Inc. only. ※ Average annual salary includes bonuses and other remuneration. Recruitment of previous years’ graduates Support for the success of veteran employees In fiscal 2011, we began hiring university graduates who The Daiwa Securities Group offers the Daiwa Master had graduated up to three years earlier. We hope to secure Program to actively support the success of highly motivated diverse personnel by recruiting year-round so that such and skilled employees, regardless of their age. This system graduates can be employed soon after receiving tentative enables veteran employees nearing the mandatory job offers, regardless of whether they have prior work retirement age of 60 who meet certain criteria to continue experience. These recruits receive the same level of training their employment until they are 65 years of age. We revised as new graduates. In fiscal 2011, the number of all new the system in 2009 to refine the criteria even further. college graduates recruited by the Group was 17. Re-employment under the Daiwa Master System (persons) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 No. of employees hired under the Daiwa Master System 14 36 53 58 63 * This data pertains to three Group companies. Recruitment of people with disabilities career-track and regional career-track employment streams. The Daiwa Securities Group has around 185 employees The Daiwa Securities Group began hiring new graduates with disabilities working in a wide range of roles at its with disabilities as regular employees beginning in fiscal headquarters, in sales branches, and in call centers. The 2008. We hired 7 new graduates with disabilities in April group started recruiting new graduates with disabilities as 2008, 15 in April 2009 and 5 in April 2010. We seek to hire regular employees (general office staff) in fiscal 2008 and in talented people, regardless of whether they have disabilities fiscal 2011, broadened recruitment into the career-track or not. Beginning with our 2011 new hires, we will hire employee, regional career track employee, and customer persons with disabilities for career-track positions, regional service employment streams. We actively increased career-track positions and customer service positions. The recruitment opportunities, holding briefings about the goal is to hire high-caliber employees, not just to meet company for new graduates, participating in career expos, Japan’s legally mandated employment rate for persons with and implementing job placement support programs for disabilities, thus providing a bigger stage on which persons disabled university students. Once people with disabilities with disabilities can advance their careers, take advantage are hired, we provide support for career advancement, for of opportunities and stay highly motivated to succeed. example creating opportunities for them to enter the Employment Rate for Persons with Disabilities (as of Each Fiscal Year-end) (%) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Employment Rate for Persons with Disabilities 1.87 1.87 2.01 2.07 2.09 * This data pertains to 11 Group companies. Daiwa Securities Group 25 CSR Report 2012 Human Resources Development and Skill and also provides joint training for mid-level employees to Development acquire business skills with programs designed to enhance their skills in the areas of presentation, coaching, negotiation, Employee training approach and trends communication, logical thinking and facilitation. The Daiwa Securities Group focuses on human resource Daiwa Securities launched the Daiwa Mentoring Program in development with the aim of creating a professional cadre July 2009, a two-year intensive basic educational program that can ensure the Group remains Japan’s most impressive for new hires. The company has introduced a tutor system securities firm. In particular, we believe that the first two in which each new hire is assigned to another employee who years after joining the Group–when new graduates are just will be in charge of their education for the first year of their getting their start as full members of society and Group employment. The new hires are given focused education employees–is a critical period for a solid basic education. and training so that they can become independent in their We offer extensive training programs during this period. first two years. Our varied training options ensure not only that employees acquire the fundamental skills needed for their jobs, but Supporting employees trying to earn credentials also that they learn about the Group’s corporate philosophy In light of continuing globalization and corporate strategies and commitment to CSR. emphasizing Asia, the Daiwa Securities Group strives to Of course, we also believe that our employees must have a improve employees’ communication skills. We help employees firm understanding of corporate ethics and compliance in raise their TOEIC scores and offer a test support system, order to ensure the development of sound financial and such as e-learning, that is accessible to all employees. capital markets–a key issue for the Daiwa Securities Group. In addition, we offer more practical conversation classes Accordingly, we offer regular training on information and recommend e-learning opportunities and English management and compliance. conversation and language schools to intermediate-level learners. Staff members across the Group are offered the Education and training system chance to take the TOEIC exam every month. In fiscal 2011, The Daiwa Securities Group educates employees by providing 1,418 Group employees decided to take the test. training tailored to each position, based on the Group’s In addition, Daiwa Securities sees financial planner credentials shared policies. Each company provides its own training in (AFP and CFP) and securities analyst qualifications as core light of the different skills required depending on the qualifications for the securities sector. The Group aims to company’s focus. However, the Group also strives to foster have all employees acquire at least one of these certifications crosscutting ties and a feeling of solidarity by increasing the and is particularly keen to have the highest number of number of joint training sessions for the Group and employees in the industry with the Certified Financial Planner opportunities for employees from Group companies to gather (CFP) certification, the level above Affiliated Financial Planner together while also raising the effectiveness of the training. (AFP). The company provides generous support by, for For example, the Group offers management training for example, subsidizing certification costs so that employees selected managers through programs such as the Daiwa can enhance their specialized skills and become professionals. Management Academy and Daiwa Leadership Program, Achievements of Selected Participants in Management Training (persons) Eligibility for Daiwa Management Academy: Department managers FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Number finishing program (cumulative) 190 210 228 248 269 Eligibility for Daiwa Leadership Program: Deputy general managers FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Number finishing program (cumulative) 473 507 537 568 599 * This data pertains to 11 Group companies. Achievements of Participants in Business Skill Training (persons) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Number finishing program (cumulative) 440 1,013 1,348 1,916 2,469 * This data pertains to 3 Group companies. * The number of people completing presentation training, coaching training, negotiation skills training, communication training, logical thinking training, and facilitation training. Daiwa Securities Group 26 CSR Report 2012 Persons Earning Credentials (persons) Period tabulated As of the end of As of the end of As of the end of As of the end of As of the end of FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Credentials No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons No. of persons obtaining obtaining obtaining obtaining obtaining Associated Financial Planner (AFP) 2,725 2,997 3,739 4,981 5,255 Certified Financial Planner (CFP) 263 279 309 360 452 Security Analyst 1,347 1,372 1,345 1,414 1,440 Chartered Financial Analyst (USA credential) 42 47 45 43 41 Licensed Tax Accountant 17 20 19 22 22 IT Passport − − 202 381 590 Project Manager − − 142 159 173 Overseas MBA program graduate, etc. 168 176 169 165 158 * This data pertains to 11 Group companies. Internal (intra-group) job postings and new career path examinations The Daiwa Securities Group also has an internal recruiting non-career-track jobs who wish to move into career track or system to open up new career opportunities to skilled regional career-track jobs. Since fiscal 2009, 659 non-careeremployees interested in self-development. There have been track employees from three Group companies have moved 904 applicants since 2000 and 146 successful transfers. to career-track and regional career-track positions. We have now put in place a transfer system for those in Successful Applicants in Internal Recruiting System (persons) Held Positions offered No. of applicants No. of successful applicants M&A, SMA consultants, Analysts, internal wholesalers, Compliance, dealers, derivatives, traders, Cumulative from fund managers, principal finance specialists, venture capitalists, money managers, research, 904 146 FY 2000 underwriting, sale, product development, proposals and planning, investment advisors, investment information, pension consultants, etc. * This data pertains to 11 Group companies. Evaluation system Initiative to create a pleasant working At the Daiwa Securities Group, we believe that a fair and environment well-accepted evaluation system is crucial in keeping all employees highly motivated in their jobs. As part of this, Encouraging Work-Life Balance we implement a multifaceted evaluation system for One of the Daiwa Securities Group’s CSR targets is to managers. This involves subordinates and related promote an advanced level of work-life balance. The Group departments assessing their manager’s job performance in is committed to pursuing working styles that enable the course of daily operations and the results being fed employees to achieve a balance between their private back to the manager. It is intended to improve managerial and professional lives, and makes efforts to create an skills and improve the Group’s overall productivity. environment in which both men and women can work in This comprehensive system also takes compliance-related a variety of ways. performances into account. Not only do we seek to establish systems that enable In fiscal 2009, we revised the Group’s human resources diverse work styles, but we also work to change employee system. Our objective is to provide an incentive program awareness by ensuring employees leave work before 7 p.m., that motivates employees at all stages of their careers, from by encouraging them to take all their paid holidays and by entry and mid-level to veteran employees, to reach the next welcoming family visits to the workplace. In February 2012, stage and attain positions with greater responsibilities. we revamped the content of the Daiwa WLB Station on the We will continue working to ensure that our personnel intranet, which attracted a great increase in visitors. We will evaluation system is equitable by clarifying the expected continue promoting initiatives designed to attract the kind responsibilities for every position. In fiscal 2011, we began of high-caliber employees who build an enterprise that to introduce a new system to better enable job performance achieves great performance. and responsibilities to be reflected in evaluations. Daiwa Securities Group 27 CSR Report 2012 Encouraging women to succeed also increased significantly. We are trying to appeal more to women’s individual In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in female interests, by introducing thriving female employees as role employees aspiring to advance their careers by switching to models in internal publications and providing opportunities career-track and regional career-track positions. From FY for cross-company communication, in order to increase the 2009 to FY2011, 659 female employees converted to number of women in management positions. These efforts career-track positions. have resulted in five female directors joining the board and We will continue to expand the ranks of female managers, women heading up about 10% of branches since fiscal aiming to develop female leaders who will drive the future 2009. The number of women transferring to the career-track of Japan’s financial industry. employee and regional career-track employee streams has Working Hours and Paid Vacation Usage Rate FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Annual regular working hours (hours) 1837.5 1837.5 1830.0 1837.5 1822.5 Average monthly overtime hours (hours)*1 25.2 21.3 22.1 24.0 25.1 Paid vacation usage rate (%) 37 57 56 54 49 Paid vacation usage rate (%) (including special summer vacation)*2 47 64 60 58 54 * This data pertains to three Group companies. *1 Figures indicate employees at the three companies who are members of the Daiwa Securities Group Employees’ Union. *2 In addition to annual paid vacation, the Daiwa Securities Group offers three days of special summer vacation. These figures show 54% usage rate for annual paid vacation when special summer vacation is included in FY2011. Employee Welfare System Usage (persons) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Female 209 245 304 326 396 Number of employees taking childcare leave※ Male 4 14 16 26 12 Female 6 2 5 5 8 Number of employees taking nursing care leave Male 3 1 0 1 0 * This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies. ※ Employees eligible for childcare leave include non-regular employees (contract workers, part-timers, etc.). Main Initiatives for Work-Life Balance and Female Employee Support Plan Program name Program description Offers opportunities for re-employment to former full-time employees who left their jobs after Professional Return Plan (rehiring of sales staff) marriage or childbirth. Offers a position in a new location when an employee must relocate after marriage or spouse’s Job Location Change System* job transfer. Childcare leave Employees can take childcare leave until their child’s third birthday. Employees can apply for an exemption from overtime work until their child completes the third Exemption from or restricted overtime work grade of elementary school. Employees can also apply for restricted overtime work until their child completes elementary school. The company offers subsidies for daycare expenses until the employee’s child begins Daycare subsidy elementary school. The company encourages employees to take paid vacation and has introduced leave for Expanded leave system marriage preparations or “family day” leave to give employees a chance to spend quality time with their families. The Personnel Department keeps track of individual employees’ childcare-related schedules Follow-up on program use and notifies them of programs available at the appropriate time. Enables employees to return to work after a period of childcare leave. The return to work guidelines were revised in fiscal 2011. Daiwa WLB Station, a work-life balance promotion Support after returning to work website that focuses on various support systems related to childrearing and nursing care, provides information for employees on childcare leave and helps facilitate their smooth return to the workplace. * Number of employees using the program at Daiwa Securities Group Inc.: 82 (cumulative) Female Employees and Managers at the Daiwa Securities Group (%) As of the end of As of the end of As of the end of As of the end of As of the end of FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Percent of employees who are female 36.0 36.8 37.1 36.7 36.2 Percent of managers who are female 3.1 3.4 3.9 4.1 4.3 * This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies. Daiwa Securities Group 28 CSR Report 2012 Initiatives to improve employee health and revising programs in the future. The Daiwa Securities Group believes that employee health is an indispensable asset for both the company and society. Communication between employees Accordingly, the Personnel Departments, General Health In October 2007, we introduced a club activity support Development Centers and health insurance associations work program. This program was intended to help employees closely together to improve employee health. The Group enjoy their time off, deepen their friendships with colleagues has set up a system that enables employees to confirm the and give them more opportunities to share a sense of results and analysis of their regular health checkups and full solidarity, as well as to provide work-life balance support and medical checkups online. The Group also uses in-house facilitate a full social life for employees. In fiscal 2009, we magazines and the intranet to provide employees with health augmented this program. Groups that meet certain conditions information. Moreover, it also offers a walking program, are recognized as Daiwa Clubs and Daiwa Circles and a program encouraging employees to undergo cancer receive subsidies covering some of their activity costs. As of exams, and a smoking cessation program, and encourages March 2012, 17 clubs and 5 circles are active in the Group. female employees to have breast cancer and uterine, ovarian, and cervical cancer exams, and to get the cervical Relationships with employees union cancer vaccination. Beginning in fiscal 2009, employees The questionnaires conducted by the employees union among whose health checks found problems receive a follow-up its members have given the Group greater opportunities to confirmation form (known as a yellow paper ) enclosed with learn about the opinions of its employees and also improve the results of the regular health checkup. Those employees communications. Employees union membership in 2011 are required to visit a medical facility within two weeks and was 6,907. submit this form to a General Health Development Center with the doctor’s comments. As a result, the majority of Number of Employees’ Union Members such employees now visit medical facilities. (as of the End of Each Fiscal Year) (persons) The Daiwa Securities Group has set up General Health As of the As of the As of the As of the As of the Development Centers at the main Group offices. At the end of end of end of end of end of centers, in-house doctors provide medical services, while FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 industrial physicians and health nurses provide consultations Employees’ union 6,969 7,666 7,915 7,590 6,907 membership on general health. Psychiatrists and clinical psychotherapists offer consultations on mental health issues. * Of the 9 Group companies (this does not include Daiwa Asset As a result of these efforts, employees’ health awareness is Management Co. Ltd., which has its own employees’ union, and Daiwa Property Co. Ltd., which has no employee union). high, and 99% of employees receive regular health checkups. We gave presentations on these results at symposiums held by the Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry and the Initiatives for families Tokyo Metropolitan Government. Other companies were We take a range of measures to ensure that families also interested in our approach. share in our executives’ and employees’ pride to be part of the Group. Mental Health Since fiscal 2008, we have been welcoming family visits to In August 2006, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. established the the workplace so that family members can get a better Health Support Promotion Department to help employees understanding of the company and the employee’s job. maintain their mental and physical health. The Health Support In fiscal 2011, 3,868 family members participated in this Promotion Department is staffed with two certified clinical program. psychologists who are available to provide consultations to We have also created systems such as “family day” leave support Group executives and employees, and their families. and have ensured that employees’ families are also eligible Moreover, we maintain arrangements with outside specialists for mental health support. so that Group personnel and their families can receive prompt attention anywhere in Japan. We also support employees’ mental health by arranging talks in all branches and departments to broaden awareness of mental health issues. Communication Communication with executives and employees At the Daiwa Securities Group, we believe that communication with executives and employees is vital in maintaining a healthy workplace environment. Communication takes place through interviews with the Personnel Department and a semi-annual self-assessment questionnaire. In addition to the union member questionnaire given by the Employees’ Union, we conducted a questionnaire on work-life balance periodically. We provide opportunities for employees to share their views, and then reflect these findings when reviewing the adequacy of current programs Daiwa Securities Group 29 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Social Report Human Rights Initiative Approach and Basic Stance In light of our Corporate Principles and the United Nations Global Compact, we aspire to further improve our corporate culture, which emphasizes respect for human rights in our basic principles, and improve human rights awareness activities. We will continue to implement initiatives relating to recruitment, human resources, and the workforce to ensure that our systems are fair and free from discrimination or prejudice. Human Rights Awareness Basic Policy for Initiative addressing Human Rights and Social integration Issues In 1984, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. set up a Human Rights Awareness Promotion Committee with the objective of (1) T he Daiwa Securities Group supports and complies with ensuring accurate understanding of human rights issues the protection of human rights as advocated and deepening awareness. In 2011, this committee (eight internationally and does not infringe on human rights members, chaired by head office director in charge of HR, within the limits of its influence. with head of HR as deputy chair) was instrumental in revising (2) T he Daiwa Securities Group educates and instructs the Group’s basic strategy on human rights initiatives. Group employees with accurate information on human The Group carries out internal human rights initiatives and rights and social integration issues. training based on the committee’s annual plan. New hires’ (3) A t the same time, the Group views human rights and and management training also incorporate human rights social integration issues as our own problem, not somebody else’s problem, and fosters a sensitivity that awareness so as to ensure that employees have an accurate enables empathy with the pain of others. understanding of this issue. (4) W e provide an equitable working environment free of Toward the goal of further increasing awareness, we discrimination that values people. solicited human rights slogans from all Group employees (5) E ach employee is a member of society unburdened by and their families. Group employees are also given the prejudice. opportunity to consider human rights from a wide range Revised in May 2011 of perspectives by watching a video on this subject and then splitting off into their divisions to discuss what they had seen. In fiscal 2011, 12,300 employees were able to watch this video, with 10,482 going on to participate in the follow-up discussions. The video was about human rights and diversity at the workplace and focused on appreciating individual experiences and feelings. The discussions that followed confirmed the importance of communication in creating an open and pleasant working environment and also demonstrated that promoting diversity can revitalize an organization and help to achieve results that exceed expectations. Daiwa Securities Group 30 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Social Report Relationship with Society Approach and Basic Stance At the Daiwa Securities Group, good corporate citizenship means working together with the local community and engaging in consistent collaboration with NPOs and NGOs to foster sustainable development. We carry out diverse corporate citizenship initiatives under the following four key categories. 1. Education and research activities in the fields of economics and finance 2. Providing ESG/CSR topics and Encouraging Volunteerism among executives and employees 3. Support for Culture and the Arts 4. Assistance to communities on both the local and the international level through foundations and NPOs Corporate Citizenship Initiatives and Expenditures Expenditure (Unit: ¥1,000) Type of Activity FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 1. Education and research activities in the fields of economics and finance Initiatives for elementary, junior and senior high school students Academia-business cooperation and initiatives for universities, 225,524 214,283 163,767 49,849 40,835 graduate schools and the public 2. Providing ESG/CSR topics and Encouraging volunteerism among executives and employees Information dissemination 6,471 6,475 4,962 7,464 31,053 Volunteer promotion 3. Support for culture and the arts Support for culture and the arts 560,000 530,000 313,500 410,132 269,869 4. Assistance to communities on both the local and the international level through foundations and NPOs* Daiwa Securities Foundation Foundations Daiwa Securities Health Foundation The Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund 357,655 324,424 84,569 184,807 133,457 Assistance Programs SRI funds donation program Disaster relief, sponsorship fees, etc. Total 1,149,650 1,075,182 566,798 652,252 475,214 * By subtracting the Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation grant, the previous years data were adjusted in prior years. Daiwa Securities Group 31 CSR Report 2012 1. Education and Research Activities in the Fields of Economics and Finance The Daiwa Securities Group makes the most of the support economic education programs in junior and senior knowledge and expertise in economics and finance which high school students as well as teachers. Our vision is that it has accumulated in the course of its business. We are economic and financial education would help young people engaged in business-academia collaboration, and also gain the capacity to shape the future. Economic and Financial Education Sustainable Development of the Japanese Economy in the 21st Century Educational institutions Research institutions Understanding of social Improve economic and Develop financial Disclose research results Commercial and business and economic principles financial knowledge specialists Create practical applications application of research results Elementary/junior/high Intellectual property (IP)/ Undergraduate students Graduate students Researchers school students patents Support teachers Provide or endow classes Provide or endow classes Joint research University-launched ventures Participate in classes Dispatch instructors Dispatch instructors Research support and IP headquarters Group Employee Cooperation ● Joint programs with Junior Achievement Japan from 2003 to 2007 and has cooperated continuously in (1) Finance Park related events. Junior Achievement Japan established Finance Park in By fiscal 2010, 3,182 teachers had participated in the forum. Shinagawa, Tokyo, in June 2005 with the goal of providing This program was not held in fiscal 2011 due to the Great a space where junior and senior high school students could East Japan Earthquake. develop life-planning skills. Daiwa provides funds for it to set up simulated shops and offices, and it also provides (3) Council for Economic Education Japan (CEE-Japan) personnel support. CEE-Japan was established in January 2009 with the goal of In January 2007, Junior Achievement Japan opened an office providing economic education training programs for in Kyoto. As of March 31, 2011, 31,464 students had taken schoolteachers. The Daiwa Securities Group is CEE-Japan’s part in action programs that teach students how to make main sponsor, providing not only the inaugural funds but solid decisions in personal finance or life planning. During also ongoing support, together with seven other influential fiscal 2011, 2,208 students companies. In February 2012, the Group supported an took part in programs at event organized by CEE-Japan, where Northern Michigan the Tokyo offices, and University’s Professor Ferrarini delivered a workshop on 5,587 students participated economic education for schoolteachers. This workshop in programs held at the used our economics and finance textbook, Life is a Series of Kyoto branch. Choices, and encouraged teachers to consider how they could best teach pupils to understand and think about economy. The venue was provided by Daiwa’s Tama Finance Park training center and was attended by 45 teachers. By the end of March 2012, 1,220 teachers had participated in (2) Global Leadership Forum for elementary and junior workshops and forums, and senior high school teachers including those that the This annual training program organized by Junior trial took place in 2009. Achievement Japan for elementary and junior and senior high school teachers started in 2001. At this forum, teachers discuss the state of the global economy and brainstorm about how education should develop in the 21st century, stimulated by lectures given by guests holding a wide range of perspectives and panel discussions and case Economic education workshop studies. The Daiwa Securities Group sponsored the forum delivered by Professor Ferrarini Daiwa Securities Group 32 C S R 報 告 書 2 0 1 2 Results in Economic and Financial Education Program Description Duration Participants Personal finance planning workshop to teach Support for Finance Park students about society and economics by managing June 2005–March 2012 31,464 household finances Producing hands-on economics education textbook– Support for Japan Council for Economic Education Life is a Series of Choices for teachers–and January 2009–March 2012 1,220 (CEE-Japan) organizing workshops Sponsorship of JA’s mainstay Global Leadership Case studies on recent developments in the global Forum for elementary and junior and senior high July 2001–March 2011 3,182 economy school teachers A program that gives senior high school students Support for the Student Company Program (SCP) hands-on experiences with corporate management September 2003–March 2011 174 by simulating real-world business conditions ●Describing how money relates to daily life, and the 2. P roviding ESG/CSR topics and philosophy of finance Encouraging Volunteerism among Finance is closely intertwined with our daily lives. We come into contact with it every day, for example, through banks, Executives and Employees securities companies, insurance companies, and state At the Daiwa Securities Group, executives and employees pensions. Despite this, there are likely few people concerned participate in volunteer programs and other community about the ways money entrusted to financial institutions action, and these experiences broaden their perspectives (deposits, insurance, pension reserves, and so on) is used. and values. This, in turn, has a good influence on both their We undertake various educational activities to make investors work and their lives. and depositors aware of how they can use their money to Volunteer activities include both activities that the Daiwa move society and companies to action. We use lectures at Securities Group plans and runs on its own initiative and high schools and universities, as well as various organizations’ joint activities undertaken in cooperation with the community spaces for communicating with the public, to develop and NPOs. We strive to create an environment that makes it financial literacy and the philosophy of finance, broadening easy for executives and employees to volunteer by setting understanding of SRI. up a recognition program for volunteers, among other On November 17, 2011, we organized a seminar together incentives. Aiming to encourage as many Daiwa people as with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the possible to participate in corporate citizenship initiatives, we Nikkei Shimbun’s Cross-Media Sales Bureau on the current will continue to collaborate with external NPOs, strengthen state of the global economy, looking at what kind of internal communications about volunteering, and create global-scale social contribution is required. This seminar was more opportunities for executives and employees to get held prior to JICA’s first issuance of Fiscal Investment and involved. Loan program (FILP) agency bonds to individual investors for the first time. Such bonds are issued in order to procure ● CSR Dialogues funds necessary for JICA to provide loan assistance to Since 2004, we have been engaging in dialogues on CSR developing countries. with specialists from a range of fields, with a focus on economics, finance, and ESG. We have organized more Financial Education Activities in Fiscal 2011 than 40 dialogues since 2004, the details of which can be found on our website. (Only selected dialogues have been Participants Themes translated into English). During fiscal 2011, we held five Given the corporate social responsibility CSR Dialogues on a series of hot issues. Meiji Gakuin University (CSR) Contribution to a society through Dialogues in Fiscal 2011 Doshisha University investments Themes Tohoku University Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Number 37 Effortless energy-saving measures for the home or office Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific Challenge to world issues through University financial powers Number 38 Tsunami relief support Number 39 Eco-communication Keio Business School Strategic Management with Social Impacts Number 40 Appropriate technology and support for developing countries Number 41 CSR and consumers I: Rights and responsibilities of consumers Web CSR Dialogue ● Volunteer awards At Daiwa Securities, outstanding achievements by executives and employees are recognized through the President’s Award. The company introduced the Volunteer Award in fiscal 2007, which is given twice a year to employees and Daiwa Securities Group 33 CSR Report 2012 groups involved in voluntary activities providing ongoing description so that they could also be enjoyed by people support in their community. with visual impairments, thus also working toward a more In the first half of fiscal 2011, the President’s Award was barrier-free society. The three film showings and talk show given to an employee who—since the first days after the were held in the theater of the Edo-Tokyo museum. A total Great East Japan Earthquake struck—had been devoting of 817 people attended. weekends and public holidays to providing voluntary assistance in the affected areas. The award for the second Connecting with people affected by the earthquake: half of the year was given to an employee who had provided A message card project ongoing assistance at a local nursing home and parent-child During one of the Group’s family visits in August 2011, we group through involvement in awareness-raising activities carried out a message card project so as to connect with (i.e., Aso-ball) to promote interaction between parents and people living in the areas affected by the earthquake and children. tsunami. This project was carried out in association with the nonprofit organization Sweet Treat 311, which was set up ●Executives and employees involved in corporate to send sweets and cakes to children in the Tohoku disaster citizenship activities, donation and recycling areas. We wrote messages on cards to send along with the initiatives treats as a way of offering support to the children. Group executives and employees participate in a wide range Employees and their families across the whole Group wrote of corporate citizenship activities such as local, international1,195 cards. A selected representative later took the cards exchange, and charity events. They are also involved in to Ayukawa elementary school in Ishinomaki, Miyagi donation and recycling initiatives. A total of 192 employees Prefecture, and made sure that each pupil received one. voluntarily participated in corporate citizenship activities on weekends or after work in fiscal 2011. Recycling activities in fiscal 2011 (books, used and unused stamps, prepaid cards, partially used postcards) Collected items Recipient organization Donations Visit to Ayukawa elementary school Some of the cards which gathered Books JEN BOOK MAGIC 31,913 yen Neighborhood clean-up events by Daiwa Securities Japan Committee Vaccines Used and unused stamps, 177,355 yen Business Center for the World's Children prepaid cards, partially Under its good corporate citizenship program, the Daiwa used postcards Live with Friends on the Securities Business Center has, since 2008, carried out 186,334 yen Earth clean-up activities covering the area from near the headquarters building to Toyocho Station on the third ● Main activities in fiscal 2011 Friday of every month. Participants believe that keeping Sign language classes streets clean is a way of giving back to the community. This Since 2000, the Daiwa Securities Group has held sign campaign is held from 8:00 am until 8:20 am before office language classes for beginners in the Tokyo, Osaka, and hours start, and it has become a regular event 50-60 Nagoya regions. These classes are intended to improve employees have participated each time. Moreover, the understanding of people with hearing impairments and company participated in the first community clean-up popularize sign language. They are open to the general organized by the Koto Ward Town Hall. In April 2010, the public as well as the Group’s executives and employees. president and many other executives and employees cleaned Classes were held twice a month throughout fiscal 2011 the streets from the town hall to the Toyocho Center across three locations and were attended by 2,291 people. Building. The company will continue to participate as much In July 2011, we organized a lecture event to commemorate as possible in community clean-up activities, and will work 10 years of sign language classes. Sign language with the communities administering these programs to help interpretation was provided, and speakers talked about keep the streets clean. technology for visualizing things we cannot see and 3. S  upport for Culture and the Arts what kind of financial literacy is needed by The Daiwa Securities Group provides ongoing support for a Japanese people. The wide range of cultural and artistic activities. The Group was lectures were attended by the special sponsor of the Mainichi Shimbun Central Contest 75 hearing-impaired and for Book Review Painting for the eighteenth year, a tradition deaf people. Lecture event to commemorate 10th that began with the sixth contest. This contest aims to anniversary of sign language classes improve children’s reading skills and encourage them to read more. Elementary, and junior and senior high school City Lights Film Festival students are awarded prizes by age group for drawings that We supported the 4th City Lights film festival that was held express their impressions of a book they have read. Exhibits in June 2011. The festival was organized by City Lights, an of the winning drawings for fiscal 2011 were held across 12 organization that promotes barrier-free movies. The Daiwa Securities branches. objective of this event was to provide films with audio We also support traditional Japanese cultural forms such as Daiwa Securities Group 34 CSR Report 2012 shogi and go. In addition to sponsoring the top title matches In fiscal 2011, the foundation primarily focused on in shogi and go, the Meijin Title Match (shogi) and the organizations and groups involved in volunteer work Honinbo Tournament (go), since 2005, the Group is also responding to the Great East Japan Earthquake. It distributed the special sponsor of the Daiwa Securities Cup shogi and ¥29.98 million in Disaster Volunteer Activities Grants go Internet tournament. In shogi, we support the Saikyo among 64 organizations. Tournament and the Women's Saikyo Tournament. In go, Web Daiwa Securities Foundation (available only in Japanese) we support the Open and the Amateur Championship. These matches take place on the Internet year-round, * On April 1, 2011, the Daiwa Securities Health Foundation and the Daiwa where viewers can also watch the matches in real time. Securities Foundation both transformed into Public Interest Incorporated Foundations from General Incorporated Foundations. “Playing for Change” television commercials “Playing for Change” is a musical project that aims to create ● Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation motivation, build connections, and bring peace in the world The Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation is a UK charity that through music. Mark Johnson, a producer working primarily was established in 1988 with a generous benefaction from on the West Coast of the United States, launched this Daiwa Securities for the purpose of supporting a closer project in the desire to connect the world through music. relationship between Britain and Japan. Principle activities Over 100 musicians from around the world who were include the following: virtually unknown at the time collaborated in this project. (1) M aking grants available to individuals, institutions, and Part of the project’s revenue goes to the NPO The Playing organizations working to promote ties between the UK For Change Foundation (PFCF), which uses the proceeds to and Japan provide necessities to refugees in India and Nepal and to (2) E nabling British and Japanese students and academics to establish music schools and art schools in South Africa, further their education by providing opportunities for among other projects. The Daiwa Securities Group, joint research and supporting exchanges and other recognizing that the concept of “building connections bilateral initiatives around the world” is consistent with its goal of providing (3) A warding of Daiwa Scholarships for British graduates to financial services that link its customers to the world, is study and undertake work assignments in Japan using footage from the project in its television commercials. (4) O rganizing a year-round program of events to increase the understanding of Japan in the UK Web Daiwa Securities Group commercial (available Daiwa Foundation Japan House, the London-based only in Japanese) headquarters, acts as a center for Anglo-Japanese relations in Britain by offering a wide range of seminars, exhibitions 4. L ocal and international financial and book launches, as well as meeting rooms for Japanassistance through foundations and NPOs related activities and facilities for visiting academicians. The Foundation is represented in Japan by its Tokyo Office, ● Daiwa Securities Health Foundation* which provides local assistance to Daiwa Scholars (foreign The Daiwa Securities Health Foundation was established in students), administers grant applications from Japan, and 1972, in commemoration of the Group's 30th anniversary, collaborates with other institutions that promote Angloto support medical research. Since 1973, the Daiwa Securities Japanese relations. Since its inception, 141 students have Health Foundation has supported 30 outstanding research been accepted from the United Kingdom. In addition, projects focusing on improving the health, medical care, and the Foundation has so far provided grants for a total of welfare of middle-aged and older people. It has disbursed 2,565 projects, with overall funding—including grants-in¥30 million in grants of ¥1 million each year. Fiscal 2011 aid such as awards and Japan House seminars—now marked the 38th year of this program, with a cumulative total totaling around ¥3,378 million (as of March 2012). of 1,042 recipients having received ¥1.027 billion in total. In Web The Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation in the UK fiscal 2011, the foundation disbursed a total of ¥10 million in grant funding among 10 individuals with the goal of supporting medical activities in areas affected by the earthquake and ● Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund tsunami as well as research into disaster medical care. We established the Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund on March 9, 2005 to provide recovery Web Daiwa Securities Health Foundation (available assistance to regions damaged in the Sumatra Earthquake only in Japanese) and Indian Ocean Tsunami which occurred on December 26, 2004. Beginning in fiscal 2005, this fund provides ● Daiwa Securities Foundation* long-term support for recovery over a ten-year period, The Daiwa Securities Foundation was established in 1994 in disbursing ¥10 million annually for a total of ¥100 million. commemoration of the Group’s 50th anniversary, with the Established within the Asian Community Trust (ACT), mission of building a better world. The Foundation provides the Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund yearly grants for volunteer activities in the fields of welfare provides grants to local NGOs that offer assistance in the and medicine and carries out educational activities to four fields (Mental health care for children, Utilization of encourage volunteering. These activities are intended to microfinance,Provision of education opportunities for improve public welfare by fostering an environment children, Sharing and dissemination of tsunami disaster conducive to volunteer activities. By fiscal 2011, the prevention knowledge and exchange and cooperation Foundation had given a cumulative total of ¥572 million in activities among those who suffered. in Indonesia, Sri Lanka Volunteer Activities Grants to 2,474 organizations. and India, the three countries hardest hit by this disaster. Daiwa Securities Group 35 CSR Report 2012 Leveraging expertise in their respective areas, Asian supported directly, which means that we can support the Community Center 21 (ACC21), which functions as the community efficiently and accurately. executive office for ACT, undertakes program selection and Web Kopernik Program (available only in Japanese) activity monitoring, while the Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., acts as the custodian of this fund. There are three key characteristics to this fund. First, it provides long-term ● Social Business College recovery assistance measures rather than offering Social businesses—set up to address specific social issues temporary donations. Second, it utilizes financial systems to and generate sustainable profits—have been attracting provide assistance through charitable trusts, microfinance attention in certain spheres. Nevertheless, there is still very and other avenues. And finally, the monitoring done by little awareness among the general public; it remains a ACC21 makes it possible to assess every detail of the business model that only very few know about. The Group activities being conducted. believes that providing a space to discuss the nature of this sustainable business model and how its finances work is Web Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund extremely worthwhile. This is why the Group set up the (available only in Japanese) Social Business College. Since October 2010, lectures have been held in alternate months in association with Music ● Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan Program Securities Inc. At the 9th lecture session, joint founder and In May 2012, the Group established a Great East Japan CEO of Kopernik, Toshihiro Nakamura, was invited to speak. Earthquake relief assistance program. It involves donating a He gave a presentation on portion of management fees from the Daiwa Nippon innovative solutions for Support Fund Vol. 3–Phoenix Japan–to the Japan NPO addressing poverty in Center’s Great East Japan Earthquake Support Fund for developing countries. NPOs on the ground (designated aid). The proceeds are used to support NPOs working in the affected areas and to help people reconstruct their lives. Social Business College Web Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan Program (available only in Japanese) Web Social Business College ● Daiwa SRI Fund Grant Program ● Support for ISEP The Daiwa SRI Fund Grant Program gives grants to Japanese The Institute for Sustainable Energy Policies (ISEP) is an NPOs that provide support in fields involving human life independent nonprofit research organization established (the human security field). Rather than supporting general with the goal of realizing a sustainable energy society. projects and events, the program supports the human The organization is involved in carrying out research and resource development of the NPOs that administer such making recommendations about national and local activities by subsidizing personnel and training program government energy policy. Following on from last year, costs. It is operated in collaboration with the NPO Civil Society donations from trust fees of the Daiwa Eco Fund were used Initiative Fund with donations from the management fees to pay for the cost of preparing the Renewables Japan of the Daiwa SRI Fund. Status Report 2012, published by the organization in March Grants awarded: twenty-six projects (sixteen new grants and 2012. This report earned high praise from related ten ongoing); total of thirty-five staff across sixteen groups; government agencies, researchers, universities, and NPOs, cumulative total of 45.8 million yen (as of March 31, 2012). and we are confident that supporting its ongoing publication is a very worthwhile endeavor, especially in light of the Web Daiwa SRI Fund Financial Assistance Program attention energy policy has received since the Great East (available only in Japanese) Japan Earthquake. ● Kopernik Program Kopernik is a US-based NPO established in 2009 with the goal of improving quality of life and reducing poverty in developing countries; it went into full operation in Japan in 2010. Kopernik has developed a program that enables contributors in developed countries to go online and donate to an NPO in a developing country/area of their choice by selecting a product that they need (simple water purifiers, solar lamps, and so on). Transparency is ensured because Kopernik discloses details of the recipient NPO’s activities that have been supported by the donation on its website. Some of the donations made by the Daiwa Eco Fund and Russell Global Environmental Technology Fund are used to cover Kopernik’s administrative costs. Products and recipients are selected to receive donations in light of their consistency with the principles of these funds. The way the donation will be used is clear, and NPOs active on the ground can be Daiwa Securities Group 36 CSR Report 2012 Reconstruction Assistance to the Great East ●Policy Proposals and the like (Daiwa Institute of Research) Japan Earthquake March 2011: Proposed the establishment of a reconstruction We extend our deepest condolences to the victims of the fund and a reconstruction solidarity tax to earthquake and tsunami that took place on March 11, finance rehabilitation after the disastrous 2011, and hope that the affected areas are able to recover earthquake and tsunami. as soon as possible. The Daiwa Securities Group provided May 2011: Presentation for Iwate prefecture on igniting the support in the form of donations during March 2011. light of hope May–September 2011: Dispatched specialist planning staff ● Donations (Daiwa Securities Group) to planning section of Iwate ¥100 million prefecture’s reconstruction bureau Recipients: ¥30 million each to Iwate, Miyagi, and February 2012: Sponsored the Iwate reconstruction forum Fukushima prefectures on Great East Japan Earthquake and ¥10 million to Ibaraki Prefecture Tsunami The following is a report on our other support provided ● Support through financial products during fiscal 2011. • Donations from government reconstruction bonds for individual investors (December 2011) (Daiwa Securities) ●Grants for volunteer activities • Great East Japan Earthquake SME reconstruction support (Daiwa Securities Foundation) fund (Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd) ¥33.98 million • ¥4 million (¥1 million each) to disaster volunteer centers ● Other in Iwate prefecture, Sendai City, Iwaki City, and Ibaraki Donated approximately 49,000 calendars to 11 groups and prefecture organizations, including those involved in disaster relief • ¥29.98 million in grants to disaster volunteer action (Daiwa Securities Group) groups (maximum ¥500,000 per grant) Recipients: Students and specialist groups and organizations Other disaster relief engaging in activities needing specialized skills ● Thailand flood damage (Daiwa Securities Group) ●Grants for research into disaster medical care ¥10 million (Daiwa Securities Health Foundation) Recipient: Thai Red Cross Society ¥10 million Recipients: universities, research centers, hospitals, and other Overseas initiatives individuals and groups engaged in research into disaster medicine or medical care in the disaster-stricken areas of the ● Charity run (American team) Tohoku region and Ibaraki, Miyagi, and Chiba prefectures On June 16, 2011, 40 members of Daiwa Securities America (maximum ¥1 million per grant). Inc. took part in a 3.5-mile charity run to raise funds to preserve Central Park. This race took place in New York’s ●Tohoku Scholarships (Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Central Park, and all profits were donated to help maintain Foundation) the park. £250,000 (¥33.75 million*) A scholarship fund for students from the Tohoku region whose educational or other circumstances were affected by the earthquake. Following on from last year, we continued to accept applications during fiscal 2012. *based on a rate of ¥135 = £1 ●Daiwa Point Program: Donations through point Charity run participants exchange (Daiwa Securities) Amount raised: ¥16,735,163 Participants: 23,126 (as of March 30, 2012) Recipient: NPO Japan Platform ●Donations via shareholder program catalogue (Daiwa Securities Group ) Amount raised: ¥1,777,000 Participants: 659 (as of March 30, 2012) Recipient: Japan Red Cross Society ● Charity collection (Daiwa Securities Group) ¥40,998,807 million raised from executives and employees in Japan and abroad (as of December 1, 2011) Recipients: NPO Japan Platform and Japan Red Cross Society Daiwa Securities Group 37 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Environmental Report Environmental Initiatives Approach and Basic Stance The natural environment is the very foundation of human life, so protecting it is essential to sustainable societies. We strive to help resolve environmental issues through our business by investing in the development of products that can reduce society's environmental impact, and also by making investments that help to make environmental technologies and infrastructure more widely available. We are working to establish a system that efficiently collects data on Daiwa's environmental impact. We are also focused on raising employees' environmental awareness to empower them to reduce environmental impact in daily business operations. Environmental Management Environmental Vision The Group is dedicated to protecting the precious global Each company in the Group adopts and implements an environment and preserving it for future generations by environmental management policy. For example, Daiwa leveraging financial capabilities. Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd.’s EMS complies Environmental Principles with ISO 14001. Every other month, a representative from The Group recognizes the importance of environmental each Group company attends meetings of the Environmental principles such as the effort to combat global warming, recycling Management Council to share data, ideas and views on and reuse of raw materials, and preserving biodiversity, in order environmental issues. This Council, and the Group as a whole, to create a sustainable society for the 21st century. The Group is constantly seeking ways to improve and implement pledges to contribute to solving environmental issues through its business as a financial service company and to constantly seek environmental management systems. The Group compiles new ways to reduce its environmental impact as a responsible and reports quantitative data on its environmental impact corporate citizen. each year, including details such as energy and water consumption, CO2 emissions, paper usage, waste disposal Basic Environmental Policies and recycling volume. Beginning in March 2012, a system 1. Make positive environmental contributions through our core business activities was introduced in which paper documents used by Group We shall seek to develop and provide financial products and companies are recycled into toilet paper used at Group services that promote a low-carbon, recycling-oriented and office facilities. symbiotic society. 2. Implement an environmental management system Carbon dioxide emissions We shall implement an environmental management system and constantly seek new ways to improve environmental Energy consumption at the Daiwa Securities Group’s activities. In addition, we shall support environmental education and publicity efforts, while promoting domestic offices (on a carbon dioxide emissions basis) fell environmental protection efforts by employees. by 14% in fiscal 2011 compared with the previous year as a 3. Take steps to save natural resources, reduce energy result of initiatives to conserve energy. consumption, and promote biodiversity Because we were able to collect data for a further ten offices, We shall continue to progress in our efforts to reduce the use electricity consumption at overseas offices shows an increase. of natural resources and energy, and seek ways to improve However, electricity consumption per office decreased by materialsand energyefficiency (including efforts to improve 7% from the previous fiscal year. business efficiency). We shall also take steps to reduce water use and reduce, reuse and recycle other materials to contribute to a more environmentally friendly society. Furthermore, considering the importance of biodiversity, we shall seek a symbiotic relationship with the environment and use safe, clean methods of materials procurement. 4. Promote environmental communication Working in concert with business partners, the local community, NGOs and NPOs, we shall actively disseminate information about environmental issues, and communicate our concern for the environment to customers and society at large. 5. Strictly observe environmental regulations We shall always endeavor in environmental assurance, observing environmental laws and regulations in addition to the Group’s environment policies. (May 22, 2012) Takashi Hibino Daiwa Securities Group Inc. President and CEO Daiwa Securities Group 38 CSR Report 2012 Energy Consumption FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Domestic offices Electricity (1,000 kWh) 92,659 99,599*1 105,516*1 109,157*1 93,402 Natural gas (1,000 m3) 644 517 423 696*2 582 Gasoline (kiloliters) 1,032 1,029 1,064*1 1,137 1,117 Heavy oil (kiloliters) 23.7 4.3 1.9*1 8.6*2 7.9 Diesel fuel (kiloliters) 0.0 0.1 0.1*1 0.2 0.1 Overseas offices Electricity (1,000kWh) 7,718 11,640 11,130 13,137 15,841*3 *1. Data for fiscal 2008 onwards has been adjusted to include offices where energy consumption is less than 1% of overall usage *2. Energy consumption for fiscal 2010 increased significantly owing to Japan’s revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy, which now requires that data include tenant energy consumption for air conditioning for the three office buildings and other facilities in Japan that are subject to the Act. *3. Electricity consumption at overseas offices increased significantly owing to the collected data for a further ten offices. * This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies. * At overseas offices, only electricity consumption was calculated. CO2 Emissions from Energy Consumption (Unit: 1,000 kg CO2) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Domestic offices Electricity 51,426 55,278*1 58,562*1 60,582*1 51,838 Natural gas 1,339 1,075 880 1,448*2 1,210 Gasoline 2,396 2,389 2,470*1 2,639 2,593 Heavy oil 70.6 12.8*1 5.6*1 25.7*2 23.7 Diesel fuel 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.2 Total for domestic offices 55,231 58,755*1 61,917*1 64,696*1 55,665 Overseas offices Electricity 4,283 6,460 6,177 7,291 8,792 Total for domestic and overseas offices 59,515 64,173*1 67,662*1 71,694*1 64,457 *1. Data for fiscal 2008 onwards has been adjusted to include offices where energy consumption is less than 1% of overall usage *2. Energy consumption for fiscal 2010 increased significantly owing to Japan’s revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy, which now requires that data include tenant energy consumption for air conditioning for the three office buildings and other facilities in Japan that are subject to the Act. CO2 Emissions per Employee (Domestic) (Unit: 1,000 kg CO2) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Per employee 4.3 4.3 4.6 5.0 4.5 Electricity 12,943 13,652 13,477 12,868 12,257 * CO2 emissions per employee in Japan was reduced 0.5 thousand kg compared to the previous year. Domestic CO2 emissions divided by the number of employees in the Group's domestic business sites. Other Environmental Impacts Changes in Clean Water Consumption (Unit: 1,000 kl) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Consumption volume 268 252 199 188 162 * Data for fiscal 2008 onwards has been adjusted to include offices where energy consumption is less than 1% of overall usage Daiwa Securities Group 39 CSR Report 2012 Volume of Copy Paper/Forms used We facilitated the transition to a paperless office by endeavors, the volume of copy paper used fell about 14.1% appointing an employee to be in charge of the paperless form the previous fiscal year. Moreover, about 42% (based transition at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and holding on monetary value) of the copy paper used consisted of paperless meetings in fiscal 2011. As a result of these Green Procurement Network (GPN) compatible products. Volume of Copy Paper/Forms Used (Unit: 1,000 kg) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 18 11 13 11 24 Daiwa Securities 532 395 400 325 303 Daiwa Securities Capital Markets 96 150 140 132 95 Daiwa Institute of Research Group 194 116 122 77 84 Daiwa Asset Management 47 49 45 50 35 Daiwa Business Center 49 39 39 35 31 Daiwa SB Investments 38 30 27 28 28 Daiwa Property 4 4 3 3 3 Daiwa Sanko 5 2 4 3 3 Daiwa Corporate Investment 13 11 9 6 6 Other 38 30 15 22 16 Copy paper total 1,034 837 818 691 629 * This data pertains to consolidated Group companies. Changes in Waste Generated and Recycling Volume Changes in Waste Generated and Recycling Volume FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Amount generated (1,000 kg) 1,343.4 883.6 766.5 751.0 601.0 Paper waste Recycling rate (%) 85 88 93 96 88 Amount generated (1,000 kg) 456.4 354.4 356.1 335.9 390.4 Non-paper waste Recycling rate (%) 23 15 33 33 37 * Calculated based on the Reuse Plan for Large-Scale Buildings Used for Business, as specified by each local government. Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impact among individual employees and to motivate them to create and implement ingenious solutions. In fiscal 2011, paper use Upgrades to building equipment to conserve energy was cut by 6.3% over the previous fiscal year. Paper use has When Daiwa Securities upgrades equipment such as air been cut by a cumulative 34.5% since this program started, conditioners, power supply units, power conversion which represents a reduction of around one-third. equipment, and water supply and drainage units in its Information on the volume of paper ordered, electricity branches, the company requires that products that meet the consumption, and hours of electricity consumption, as well highest (“top runner”) standards are adopted to ensure that as status updates on internal initiatives, is published every equipment with low environmental impact is installed. “Top month on the intranet as part of the company’s efforts to runner” standards were recommended in Japan’s Act on the raise employees’ awareness. Rational Use of Energy, which requires that manufacturers clear benchmarks ensuring that energy-saving products are Electricity-saving measures manufactured. The “top runner” concept calls for In fiscal 2011, the Group implemented electricity-saving manufacturers to strive to improve their technologies and measures across all companies. Our global initiatives create products and equipment that surpass the energy included reducing the intensity of office lighting to efficiency of products and equipment currently on the market. appropriate levels, switching off the lights on signs and stock-price boards, and setting office equipment to energyEco activities expanded (Daiwa Securities Business Center) saving mode. The Daiwa Securities Business Center set a The Daiwa Securities Business Center started the Eco target of reducing energy use during July through Promotion Committee in 2008 and began to work on eco September—the time of year when electricity demand is at initiatives. Each year, the Business Center sets its own targets its highest. It was able to achieve a reduction of 25.7% for reducing electricity and paper use to raise awareness compared to the previous year for the same period. Daiwa Securities Group 40 CSR Report 2012 Information dissemination Dissemination of ESG research findings by Daiwa Institute of Research The Daiwa Institute of Research carries out research in areas such as renewable energy, emissions trading, SRI, and corporate governance. It publishes the findings via its quarterly research review and on its website. June 2011 saw the launch of the ESG News section of the website specifically devoted to this hot research topic. As of the end of March 2012, the Daiwa Institute of Research had published 54 articles on issues relating to ESG. Web The sustainable society and economy made possible by ESG (available only in Japanese) Daiwa Asset Management’s Eco2 reports In this section of the website, Daiwa Asset Management fund managers introduce companies aiming to combine two “ecos”—ecology and economy—and present information relating to environmental issues. As of March 2012, 55 articles had been published under this rubric. Web Eco2 reports (available only in Japanese) Environmental Products and Services Our Impact Investment products are part of our contribution to solving global environmental issues. These products offer customers a way to help solve social and environmental issues through bond investments and investment trusts. Impact Investment bonds issued during fiscal 2011 included Ecology Bonds and Water Bonds. We offered a total of 30.7 billion yen worth of these bonds, primarily to retail investors. We also issue Impact Investment bonds aimed at institutional investors. Our investment trust products focusing on the environment include the Daiwa SRI Fund and the Daiwa Eco Fund. Daiwa Securities Group 41 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Economic Report Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders Revenues in the Economic Report Revenue Breakdown in the Economic Report in fiscal 2011 Non-operating income Extraordinary gains For the purpose of this Economic Report, revenues ¥12,805 million ¥39,660 million represent the total of all revenues received by the Daiwa 2.7% 8.3% Securities Group (consolidated) in fiscal 2011—operating revenues, non-operating income and extraordinary gains. In fiscal 2011, operating revenues accounted for 89% of revenues. Operating revenues ¥422,374 million 89.0% ●Segment Information (Unit: ¥ million) Net Operating Revenues Ordinary Income FY2010 FY2011 FY2010 FY2011 Retail 178,970 172,033 41,866 38,839 Asset Management 36,324 37,424 15,948 14,615 Global Markets 61,495 52,014 (52,173) (54,433) Global Investment Banking 30,635 26,473 (14,733) (14,284) Investment (15,277) 1,090 (21,476) (1,976) Others 26,416 46,980 (2,034) 5,039 Consolidated total 318,564 336,016 (32,602) (12,200) Distribution of Economic Value Shareholders to Stakeholders In fiscal 2011, the Group paid an interim dividend of ¥3 per share and a year-end dividend of ¥3 yen per share, Economic value for the purpose of this Economic Report is for a total annual dividend of ¥6 yen per share. calculated as revenues minus interest expenses (less interest paid), the cost of sales, selling, general and administrative Creditors expenses (less personnel costs, taxes, and expenditure for The Group pays interest to creditors. corporate citizenship activities), non-operating expenses (less interest paid), and extraordinary losses. Government According to the Daiwa Securities Group’s financial Executives and Employees accounting, the tax amount paid is the sum of current The distribution of economic value to executives and income taxes, deferred income taxes, and other taxes employees is the figure for personnel expenses (including and duties including consumption tax. reserves for salaries and bonuses, as well as welfare program costs and social insurance contributions). Daiwa has built Minority Shareholders a fair compensation system that is highly acceptable to all, This is the profit and loss returned to the minority in order to improve employee motivation and maximize shareholders of the Daiwa Securities Group companies. the value provided to all stakeholders. Society Regardless of the ups and downs of the business cycle, we aim to provide stable funding for our corporate citizenship activities. See “Corporate Citizenship Initiatives and Expenditures” in the “Relationship with Society” section for a breakdown of these expenditures. Daiwa Securities Group 42 CSR Report 2012 Changes in Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders (Unit: ¥ million) Stakeholders FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Tabulation method Executives and Personnel costs within selling and general 156,661 141,600 169,950 160,234 158,297 administrative expenses employees Expenditure for corporate citizenship Society 962 924 618 560 475 activities (details) *1 Dividends to Interim and year-end dividends for the 29,919 10,770 22,730 10,386 10,281 shareholders fiscal year Interest expense and interest paid on Creditors 53,630 44,923 29,030 35,642 39,082 non-operating expenses Income taxes, resident and business taxes, Government 48,102 (11,620) 57,587 16,755 30,980 deferred income taxes, other taxes and duties Minority (5,233) (60,580) 4,089 (6,907) (1,838) Minority shareholder profit/loss shareholders Balance after deducting dividends for the Internal reserves 16,492 (95,809) 20,699 (47,717) (49,715) term from net income for the fiscal year Total economic value 300,533 30,208 304,703 168,953 187,562 Total of the above *1 Excludes expenditure for Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation Comparison of Economic Report and Consolidated Financial Statements (Unit: ¥ million) FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Economic Report revenues 838,703 428,318 548,941 427,755 474,839 Economic Report Economic value 300,533 30,208 304,703 168,953 187,562 Consolidated Operating revenues 825,422 413,936 537,915 403,402 422,374 financial statements Net income/loss 46,411 (85,039) 43,429 (37,331) (39,434) * This data pertains to consolidated Group companies Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders in FY2011 Society 0.3% Economic value Dividends to shareholders ¥187,562 million 5.5% Interest expenses ¥20,672 million Government 16.5% Cost of sales Revenues in the ¥26,668 million Creditors Executives Economic Report 20.8% and employees ¥474,839 million Costs related to selling 84.4% and general administrative expenses ¥194,377 million Other expenses Revenues Expenditure ¥45,561 million Minority shareholders ‒1.0％ Internal reserves ‒26.5％ Daiwa Securities Group 43 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Third-party Opinion hence contribute to society. As we move forward, I would like to see the Group lead Japan’s financial sector in setting up processes and procedures for evaluating non-financial performance and assessing the Sachiko Kishimoto social and environmental impact of investments, which should Executive Director, extend beyond symbolic efforts, such as Impact Investments, Center for Public Resources Development, and encompass mainstream investments. With regard to Nonprofit Organization contributing to society, I look forward to the development of new financial initiatives that will close the gap between Impact While considering a shift to an integrated report format in Investments and the provision of donations and grants while, the future, Daiwa Securities Group currently reports on its at the same time, promoting the involvement of ever more environmental, social, and governance practices in two stakeholders. separate documents: its CSR report and its Annual Report. Second, let us move on to the development of sound I would like to give my opinion here on the matters presented financial and capital markets for the next generation. Here, in the CSR Report 2012. I would first like to see a strengthening of compliance systems. Amid ongoing financial unease throughout the world, 2012 I understand that the Group has been formulating concrete saw the Group strengthen its operating base as a provider of strategies to improve information management systems based integrated financial services. This was accomplished by on external recommendations. I look forward to the steady consolidating for the first time in 13 years its retail banking implementation of these measures. Viable compliance and wholesale securities subsidiaries through the integration strategies rely on each and every employee and executive of Daiwa Securities and Daiwa Capital Markets. That each upholding high ethical standards and a professional mindset. individual employee and executive enjoys a sense of confidence Thus, it is necessary to proactively incorporate CSR training and and pride in the knowledge that he or she is contributing to volunteer programs into employee training and embed social the development of society, as well as to building customers’ leadership criteria into personnel evaluation systems. wealth, is a powerful force that will continue to drive further Third, a due diligence-based approach to social growth and achievements. For this reason, the Group is responsibility is a core principle of the ISO 26000 standard. focusing on creating a rewarding working environment for its I would therefore like to recommend that the Group incorporate employees/executives to achieve its two key CSR goals: this approach into its CSR management processes. The Group leveraging financial capabilities to contribute to a sustainable has endeavored to become Asia’s leading financial services society and developing sound financial and capital markets for group and has developed a mid-term management plan the next generation. accordingly. In order to embed CSR into management systems, I would like to outline the initiatives that I consider I believe that it is necessary to assess—based on dialogues with particularly praiseworthy and describe the developments I hope stakeholders—the social and environmental impact of the to see in the period ahead. Group’s management plans and business operations as an First, let us consider initiatives regarding the leveraging of integrated financial services provider and, from this, identify financial capabilities to contribute to a sustainable society. new key CSR issues. For example, what is the potential social Here, I think pioneering initiatives, such as SRI funds, Impact impact of the business strategy of the retail services driven by Investments for individual investors, and research relating to Daiwa Next Bank from the perspective of consumer relations? ESG information, deserve a particular mention. I also think that Or, from a CSR viewpoint, what potential risks might be posed the charitable trusts and use of microfinance as part of the by the wholesale security services supporting Japanese Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund, as well companies to move into Asia? I would like to see the creation as donating a portion of trust fees from the Phoenix Japan of due diligence mechanisms that consider CSR perspectives Fund, are valuable ways to leverage the financial system and such as these. Response to our daily operations. The three areas for improvement outlined by Ms. Kishimoto all contain extremely valuable Third-party Opinion ideas for further strengthening initiatives to increase our corporate value. We will take into account these ideas in our efforts to realize our vision of becoming Asia’s leading Koichi Matsushita financial services group possessing and leveraging a solid Executive Managing Director business platform in Japan. Regarding the compilation of an integrated report, we We are very grateful for the valuable third-party opinion will refer to the discussions underway by the International on the Daiwa Securities Group’s CSR Report 2012. Such Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and continue to do our recognition of our initiatives to contribute to a sustainable best to communicate more to all stakeholders our progress society by leveraging financial capabilities—via our SRI and in building a sustainable society through both our business Impact Investments, for example—is a great encouragement and our corporate citizenship activities. as we aspire to contribute to society even further through Daiwa Securities Group 44 CSR Report 2012 CSR Report 2012 Third-party Evaluations Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes Certified Family-friendly Employer Member 2011/12 Shown at right is the certification symbol for family-friendly The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) is a employers provided by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour stock index of companies with sustainable practices selected and Welfare’s based on the Act on Advancement of by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. of the United States and Measures to Support Raising the Next Generation of Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) of Switzerland. Children. In addition to Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has been included in DJSI obtaining certification as a family-friendly employer on June World for 13 consecutive years. 9, 2008. Daiwa Securities, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings, Daiwa Institute of Research, Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation and Daiwa Securities Business Center also received this FTSE4Good Index certification. FTSE is a subsidiary of the UK’s Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. It develops global indexes and Work-Life Balance provides data for investment. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has been included in the The Daiwa Securities Group has earned high praise from FTSE4Good, an index of socially a range of external organizations for its initiatives to provide responsible companies compiled employees with a more supportive work environment that by FTSE, for six consecutive is conducive to worklife balance. In fiscal 2009, the Group periods since September 2006. won the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Award in the category of corporate promotion of equality and work-life opportunity, as well as the excellence award in the organizational activity category for the Third Work-Life Balance Grand Award, the 2009 Nikkei Childcare Support Award, and the Third Diversity Management Prize in the WLB category. We were ranked 3rd at a category and 7th at overall in The Nikkei WOMAN BEST 100 company in which women play an active role in Fiscal year 2011. G3.1 GRI/ISO26000 Content Index GRI Application Levels In compiling the Daiwa Securities Group Sustainability that companies compiling reports may apply to ensure that Report 2012, reference was made to Global Reporting their reports are compliant with GRI guidelines. We believe Initiative (GRI) Guidelines (3.1 Edition) and the Financial that the Daiwa Securities Group Sustainability Report 2012 Services Sector Supplement (2008). meets the reporting standards for GRI Report Application The guidelines set out a series of standard levels (GRI Level B. application levels) based on regulations outlined therein G3.1 GRI/ISO26000 Content Index ISO26000 Item Indicator Link Core Social Responsibility Subjects & Themes Clauses 1 Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, Message from the President and CEO/ 1.1 chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the Message From the Chairman organization and its strategy. 6.2 Message from the President and CEO/ Organizational governance Message From the Chairman 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry CSR Issues: Performance and Targets Daiwa Securities Group 45 CSR Report 2012 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Daiwa Securities Group Profile Social 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 Daiwa Securities Group Profile Organizational governance 6.2 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 Daiwa Securities Group Profile operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 Daiwa Securities Group Profile customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: ・Number of employees; ・Number of operations; 2.8 ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); Daiwa Securities Group Profile ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and ・Quantity of products or services provid. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: ・The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, 2.9 Daiwa Securities Group Profile and expansions; and ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Third-party Evaluations 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Contents/Editorial Policy 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Contents/Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Contents/Editorial Policy 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Contents/Editorial Policy Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: ・Determining materiality; Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 3.5 ・Prioritizing topics within the report; and and Key Issues ・Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6 Contents/Editorial Policy joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Contents/Editorial Policy Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Relationship with Executives and Employees 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from Environmental Initiatives period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions Relationship with Executives and Employees 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators Environmental Initiatives and other information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, Not applicable change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Not applicable, because there have been no 3.11 measurement methods applied in the report. significant changes since the previous report GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This table references GRI content Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain 3.13 Third-party Opinion Verification 7.5.3 the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider (s). 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 Corporate Governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if 4.2 Corporate Governance so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members 4.3 Corporate Governance of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Organizational governance 6.2 Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 Relationship with Executives and Employees direction to the highest governance body. (Communication) Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the Corporate Governance organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Daiwa Securities Group 46 CSR Report 2012 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Corporate Governance Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the 4.7 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any Corporate Governance consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.8 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the and Key Issues status of their implementation. Organizational governance 6.2 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 4.9 CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, 4.10 Corporate Governance particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Risk Management Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security addressed by the organization. Compliance Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 4.12 Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Principal Member Qualifications Nippon Keidanren Japan Securities Dealers Association Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Work-Life Balance Promotion Model international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Project by the Ministry of Health, Labour and ・Has positions in governance bodies; Welfare 4.13 ・Participates in projects or committees; The Multi-stakeholder Forum on Social ・Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Responsibility for a Sustainable Future ・Views membership as strategic. UNEP-FI PRI CDP Global Compact Japan Network Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ・Civil society; ・Customers; Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.14 ・Employees, other workers, and their trade unions; and Key Issues ・Local communities; ・Shareholders and providers of capital; and ・Suppliers. Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. and Key Issues Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles and Key Issues Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by Relationship with Customers 4.16 type and by stakeholder group. Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Relationship with Executives and Employees Relationship with Society Relationship with Customers Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, Relationship with Executives and Employees including through its reporting. Relationship with Society 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Message from the President and CEO/ Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Message From the Chairman Community involvement and development 6.8 Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders Performance Indicators Economic Performance Community involvement and development 6.8 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Relationship with Society (Corporate Citizenship Community involvement 6.8.3 EC1. CORE costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, Initiatives and Expenditures) Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders Social investment 6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s EC2. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Climate change mitigation and action 6.5.5 activities due to climate change. EC3. CORE Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report 2012 EC4. CORE Significant financial assistance received from government. Impact is insignificant Market Presence Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our EC5. ADD Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. business Community involvement and development 6.8 Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our 6.8 EC6. CORE Community involvement and development significant locations of operation. business 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Community involvement and development 6.8 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the EC7. CORE Not reported Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 local community at locations of significant operation. Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Daiwa Securities Group 47 CSR Report 2012 Indirect Economic Impacts Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Community involvement and development 6.8 Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Community involvement 6.8.3 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Relationship with Society (2.Encouraging ESG Education and culture 6.8.4 EC8. CORE primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. issues and Volunteerism among Executives and Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Employees) Technology development and access 6.8.6 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Social investment 6.8.9 Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 6.7.8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the Access to essential services EC9. ADD Not applicable 6.8 extent of impacts. Community involvement and development 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.6 Technology development and access 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.9 Social investment Environmental Environmental Initiatives (Approach and Basic Stance) Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Initiatives The Environment 6.5 (Environmental Management) Performance Indicators Materials EN1. CORE Materials used by weight or volume. Not applicable EN2. CORE Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not applicable Energy EN3. CORE Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Environmental Initiatives (CO2 Emissions) EN4. CORE Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Environmental Initiatives (CO2 Emissions) EN5. ADD Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Environmental Initiatives (CO2 Emissions) The Environment 6.5 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Environmental Initiatives (Initiatives to Reduce EN6. ADD Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Environmental Impact) Environmental Initiatives (Initiatives to Reduce EN7. ADD Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Environmental Impact) Water Environmental Initiatives (Other Environmental EN8. CORE Total water withdrawal by source. Impacts) EN9. ADD Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Impact is insignificant EN10. ADD Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not reported Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected EN11. CORE Not applicable areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. The Environment Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 6.5 Protection of the environment & biodiversity, EN12. CORE biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Not applicable 6.5.6 and restoration of natural habitats protected areas. EN13. ADD Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable The Environment 6.5 Protection of the environment & biodiversity, EN14. ADD Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not reported 6.5.6 and restoration of natural habitats 6.8.3 Community involvement The Environment Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with 6.5 EN15. ADD Not applicable Protection of the environment & biodiversity, habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 6.5.6 and restoration of natural habitats Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16. CORE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environmental Initiatives (CO2 Emissions) The Environment 6.5 EN17. CORE Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environmental Initiatives (CO2 Emissions) Climate change mitigation and action 6.5.5 EN18. ADD Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Environmental Initiatives (CO2 Emissions) EN19. CORE Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Impact is insignificant EN20. CORE NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Impact is insignificant EN21. CORE Total water discharge by quality and destination. Impact is insignificant Environmental Initiatives (Changes in Waste The Environment 6.5 EN22. CORE Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Generated and Recycling Volume) Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN23. CORE Total number and volume of significant spills. Not applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24. ADD under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage Not applicable of transported waste shipped internationally. The Environment 6.5 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN25. ADD habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water Not applicable Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 and runoff. Protection of the environment & biodiversity, 6.5.6 and restoration of natural habitats Daiwa Securities Group 48 CSR Report 2012 Products and Services The Environment 6.5 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Environmental Initiatives (Initiatives to Reduce Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 EN26. CORE of impact mitigation. Environmental Impact) Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 The Environment 6.5 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN27. CORE Not applicable category. Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions EN28. ADD Not applicable The Environment 6.5 for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and The Environment 6.5 EN29. ADD materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of Not reported Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 the workforce. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Overall EN30. ADD Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not reported The Environment 6.5 Society Labor Practices and Decent Work Organizational governance 6.2 Labour Practices Disclosure on Management Approach Relationship with Executives and Employees 6.4 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Relationship with Customers (Approach and Basic Stance) Performance Indicators Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken Daiwa Securities Group Profile LA1. CORE down by gender. Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 Relationship with Executives and Employees Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age LA2. CORE (Employees at the Daiwa Securities Group group, gender, and region. (Consolidated)) (Hiring Initiatives) Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA3. ADD (Creating a Workplace Supportive of Work-life Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 parttime employees, by significant locations of operation. Balance) Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 LA15. CORE Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. (Creating a Workplace Supportive of Work-life Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Balance) Labor/Management Relations Labour Practices 6.4 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Relationship with Executives and Employees LA4. CORE Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 (Communication with Employees’ Union) Social dialogue 6.4.5 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Labour Practices 6.4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 LA5. CORE Not reported specified in collective agreements. Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Social dialogue 6.4.5 Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker LA6. ADD health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational Not reported health and safety programs. Labour Practices 6.4 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of LA7. CORE Not reported workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender. Labour Practices 6.4 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to Relationship with Executives and Employees Community involvement and development 6.8 LA8. CORE assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding (Creating a Workplace Supportive of Work-life Community involvement 6.8.3 serious diseases. Balance) Education and culture 6.8.4 Health 6.8.8 Labour Practices 6.4 LA9. ADD Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not reported Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee Labour Practices 6.4 LA10. CORE Not reported category. Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11. ADD (Human Resources Development and Skill Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Development) Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Relationship with Executives and Employees Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Labour Practices 6.4 LA12. ADD (Human Resources Development and Skill reviews, by gender. Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Development) Diversity and Equal Opportunity Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Relationship with Executives and Employees Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 LA13. CORE category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other (Hiring Initiatives) Labour Practices 6.4 indicators of diversity. Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Daiwa Securities Group 49 CSR Report 2012 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, LA14. CORE Not reported Labour Practices 6.4 by significant locations of operation. Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Human Rights Organizational governance 6.2 Human Rights 6.3 Relationship with Executives and Due Diligence 6.3.3 Disclosure on Management Approach Employees (Human Rights Awareness) Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Performance Indicators Investment and Procurement Practices Human Rights 6.3 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts We have no operations in areas where there Due diligence 6.3.3 HR1. CORE that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have are special concerns about protection of Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 undergone human rights screening. human rights Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Human Rights 6.3 We have no operations in areas where there Due diligence 6.3.3 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that HR2. CORE are special concerns about protection of Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. human rights Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Relationship with Executives and Employees Human Rights 6.3 HR3. CORE of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of (Human Rights Awareness) Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 employees trained. Non-Discrimination Human Rights 6.3 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 HR4. CORE Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Not applicable Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Human Rights 6.3 Due diligence 6.3.3 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 HR5. CORE freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant Not applicable, due to the nature of our business Civil and political rights 6.3.8 risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Social dialogue 6.4.5 Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Human Rights 6.3 HR6. CORE incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective Our business entails no risk of using child labor Due diligence 6.3.3 abolition of child labor. Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Forced and Compulsory Labor Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 HR7. CORE incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Our business entails no risk of using forced labor Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices Human Rights 6.3 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 HR8. ADD procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. business Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Indigenous Rights Human Rights 6.3 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and HR9. ADD Not applicable Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 actions taken. Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Assessment Human Rights 6.3 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human Due Diligence 6.3.3 HR10. CORE Not reported rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Human Rights 6.3 HR11. CORE Not reported through formal grievance mechanisms. Resolving grievances 6.3.6 Daiwa Securities Group 50 CSR Report 2012 Society Relationship with Society (Approach and Basic Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Stance) Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Compliance Community involvement and development 6.8 Performance Indicators Local Communities Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our Community involvement and development 6.8 SO1. CORE impact assessments, and development programs. business Community involvement 6.8.3 Social Investment 6.8.9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local Economic, social and cultural rights SO9. CORE Not applicable 6.3.9 communities. Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant 6.5.6 SO10. CORE Not applicable restoration of natural habitats potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 6.8 Community Involvement and development Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security SO2. CORE corruption. Risk Management Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and SO3. CORE Compliance Anti-corruption 6.6.3 procedures. SO4. CORE Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not applicable Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5. CORE Not reported Fair Operating Practices 6.6 lobbying. Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Community involvement 6.8.3 SO6. ADD Not reported and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7. ADD Not applicable Fair competition 6.6.5 monopoly practices and their outcomes. Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Compliance Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Anti-Corruption 6.6.3 SO8. CORE Not applicable for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Product Responsibility IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Relationship with Customers (Approach and Basic Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Stance) Consumer Issues 6.7 Performance Indicators Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1. CORE assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services Not applicable, due to the nature of our business Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 categories subject to such procedures. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Consumer Issues 6.7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 PR2. ADD concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life Not applicable, due to the nature of our business Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage Relationship with Customers (Accountability to Consumer Issues PR3. CORE of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7 information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 PR4. ADD codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of Not applicable Consumer service, support and complaint and 6.7.6 outcomes. dispute resolution 6.7.9 Education and awareness Consumer Issues 6.7 Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 Sustainable consumption Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring Relationship with Customers (Initiatives Make 6.7.5 PR5. ADD Consumer service, support and complaint and customer satisfaction. Use of Customer Views) 6.7.6 dispute resolution 6.7.8 Access to essential services 6.7.9 Education and awareness Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Relationship with Customers (Building Even Consumer Issues PR6. CORE marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Deeper Trust in Relationships with Customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7 information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Consumer service, support and complaint and 6.7.6 PR7. ADD codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, Not applicable dispute resolution 6.7.9 and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Education and awareness Daiwa Securities Group 51 CSR Report 2012 Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Consumer Issues 6.7 PR8. ADD Not applicable and losses of customer data. Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 Compliance Consumer Issues Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations 6.7 PR9. CORE Not applicable Consumer service, support and complaint and concerning the provision and use of products and services. 6.7.6 dispute resolution Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Financial Services Sector Supplement Item Indicator Link Product and Service Impact (Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure on Management Approach) FS1. CORE Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) FS2. CORE Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. Not reported Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with FS3. CORE Compliance environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions. CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and Relationship with Executives and Employees FS4. CORE social policies and procedures as applied to business lines. (Human Resources Development and Skill Development) Relationship with Customers (Building Even Deeper Interactions with clients/investees/ business partners regarding environmental FS5. CORE Trust in Relationships with Customers) and social risks and opportunities. Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Product and Service Impact (Performance Indicators) Product Portfolio Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/ Daiwa Securities Group Profile FS6. CORE SME/large) and by sector. Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social FS7. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS8. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Audit Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and FS9. CORE Corporate Governnance social policies and risk assessment procedures. Active Ownership Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with FS10. CORE which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social Not reported issues. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social FS11. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry screening. Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which FS12. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. Society (Performance Indicators) Community FS13. CORE Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. Not applicable Relationship with Customers (Building Even Deeper Trust in Relationships with Customers) FS14. CORE Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. Relationship with Society (4. Assistance to communities on both the local and the international level through foundations and NPOs) Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) Relationship with Customers (Building Even FS15. CORE Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. Deeper Trust in Relationships with Customers) Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) Product and Service Labeling CSR Management (CSR Issues: Performance and Targets) FS16. CORE Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. Relationship with Society (1. Education and research activities in the fields of economics and finance) Daiwa Securities Group 52 CSR Report 2012
