Global Compact Network Sr. Global Compact Commitment / Policies Action taken & Impact achieved and/ No. Principle or plans for the upcoming year 1 Business should Commitment / SJVN believes to manage the business support and Policies processes to produce an overall positive respect the impact on society which includes not only protection of its human resources but also the local internationally communities around the organisation, proclaimed stake holders and the environment within human rights which it works. SJVN integrates its vision plan with development of its human resources as well as an overall positive impact on society and environment. It is committed to contribute towards better society and a cleaner environment as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. Action Taken SJVN maintains transparency in implementation of its human resource development and welfare schemes. The schemes are documented and circulated amongst the employees. The information is also uploaded on SJVN’s website. Apart from Public Information Centres (PICs) in all projects with a view to make the employees conscious of their rights, it has also organised programmes on Right to Information Act , Further, in order integrate the objectives on social progress, effective protection of the environment, prudent use of natural resources, high and stable levels of economic growth and employment to ensure better quality of life for everyone, now and for generations to come, SJVN has adopted various socio economic development plans and programmes for the local communities around its projects. The following are the focus area of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities:¾ Basic Infrastructure facilities; ¾ Education; ¾ Health and Hygiene; ¾ Safe drinking water ; ¾ Skill Development; ¾ Assistance to weaker sections of the society; ¾ Assistance during natural calamities, disaster and mishap; ¾ Promotion of cultural active and ¾ Clean Environment. Outcomes The Employees of SJVN and the general public in common is now aware of their rights. As a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) measure, SJVN has till date spent Rs. 1173 millions for social and economic development of the local communities. SJVN has also uploaded reports on such activities in public domain. It has also involved state govt for carrying out developmental activities in new projects. As per state govt. norms SJVN is depositing 1.5% of project cost in instalments every year with the state government for local area development works. The developmental activities are now being implemented on the basis of resolutions received by local communities and stake holders. It is strengthening partnership amongst local communities, local govt and SJVN. By this SJVN has established good relations with the local communities. SJVN has also raised the local community’s socio economic standards in the project areas which is depicted in the Social Impact Evaluation (SIE) studies reports prepared by external independent agencies of Himachal Pradesh University and an internationally renowned agency M/s SMEC Pvt. Limited, New Delhi. The World Bank has also appreciated the social measures under taken by SJVN as exemplary for other hydro power projects in India. Plan for upcoming For the upcoming years, SJVN is in the year process of improving its strategy for Human Resource Development. With a view to improving the socio economic standard of project affected families of its upcoming projects, it is improving its Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy in light of National Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy, 2007 of Govt. of India. Further, with a view to integrate social and environmental issues of the local communities and produce positive impact on them, it has formulated Corporate Social ResponsibilityCommunity Development Policy in line with the guidelines of Department of Public Enterprises of Ministry of Heavy Industries& public Enterprises, GOI. Under its proposed Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy SJVN has a plan to invest 0.5 to 2% of its net profit on social developmental activities which will be over and above all ongoing community development plans. 2 And make sure Commitment / SJVN believes to obviate the complicity on that they are not Policies human resource development issues as complicit in well as on social development issues of human rights the local communities. abuse. Action Taken SJVN involves the maximum participation and deliberation on the policy issues for human resources development to obviate complicity. As far as the developmental plans for the local communities are concerned, it encourages people participation by ways of disclosure of the draft social development plans in the public meetings for their views: public in project areas have actively participated in the monitoring of the ongoing social development plans and are also actively involved in grievance redressal. Outcomes Complicity on human resource development, human rights and social development issues does not exist in the corporation. Plan for upcoming To improve the strategy for betterment and year to create a prosperous and peaceful environment within and outside the organisation, strategies are being developed 3 Business should Commitment / SJVN respect freedom of association and uphold the Policies recognizes the Apex Unions & freedom of Associations as bargaining agents in the association and collective bargaining process and a policy the effective has already drawn in this regard. recognition of the right to collective bargaining Action Taken Six Apex Unions/ Associations exist in SJVN as bargaining agents and have been recognized in the collective bargaining process. For that, periodic meetings are organized. Outcomes Smooth and congenial Industrial Relation in SJVN. Plan for the up Bipartite discussion will be held at the Coming year earliest after receiving of charter of . demand in addition to periodical meetings. The issues are resolved immediately to create belongingness amongst each and every employee 4. The elimination Commitments / Forced and compulsory labor is banned in of all forms of Policies SJVN. All the Labor Laws are enforced as forced and and where applicable. compulsory labor. Action Taken All the existing statutory provisions to ban the forced and compulsory labor are being strictly implemented. Outcomes No forced and compulsory labor engaged. Plan for the To continue with the present policies and Upcoming year to formulate even more better policies for elimination of forced and compulsory labors. 5 The effective Commitment/ The act regarding child labor (Prohibition abolition of child Polices and Regulation) 1986, of Govt. of India is labor successfully implemented in SJVN. Action Taken All the provisions of the said Act are strictly adhered. Outcomes No child labor is allowed to work in SJVN. Plan for upcoming To continue with the present status and to year. formulate even more better policies for abolition of child labor. 6 And the Commitment/ IN SJVN, all the labor laws regarding elimination of Polices elimination of discrimination in respect of discrimination in employment & occupation are strictly respect of implemented in letter and spirit. employment and occupation Action Taken Strict compliance of all the labor laws is ensured in SJVN. Outcomes No such discrimination in employment and occupation reported. Plan for upcoming To continue with the present policies and year to formulate even more better policies to eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7 Business should Commitment / SJVN Complies with all the relevant Acts support a Policies like Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, precautionary Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 etc. approach to required for Environment and Forest environmental clearances of Ministry of Environment and Challenges. Forest, Govt. of India. SJVN is adhering to the guidelines stipulated in the Environmental Impact Assessment Notification 1994 amended in September 2006. SJVN is committed to sustainable development through hydropower with strong environment conscience and corporate vision of SJVN. “To make India a Fountainhead of Hydro Power and the Energy Source and is accountable to take care of environment, meet community needs and deliver sustainability on the bedrock of sound commercial principles”. Action Taken As per the guidelines of Ministry of Environment & Forest, Govt. of India (MOEF); SJVN undertakes comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies for its projects through National Repute Consultants. Based on the recommendations of EIA studies, Environment Management Plans (EMP’s) are formulated for mitigation of the predicted/ anticipated adverse impacts and to cater to all the aspects of Environment conservation with respect to hydropower development. Major EMPs which have been/are implemented in SJVN projects are as under: • Compensatory Afforestation (CA) • Catchment Area Treatment Plan • (CAT Plan) • Biodiversity Conservation/ Management Plan • Green Belt Development • Fishery Management • Public Health Delivery system • Solid Waste Management • Provision for fuel and Energy conservation Measures. • Disposal and Rehabilitation of Muck / Muck • Management Plan. • Landscaping and Rejuvenation of • Construction areas. • Resettlement & Rehabilitation Plan etc. Outcomes Various Mitigation measures such as restoration of dumping area, quarry sites and job facilities in project affected areas during and after the completion of the projects, also landscaping and beautification of the areas, biodiversity conservation and various other environment management activities at SJVN project sites for the minimization of environmental impacts at projects. 8 Undertake Commitment/ SJVN’s Corporate Environment Policy is initiatives to Policies/Goals aligned to international Standards on promote Occupational Health & safety (ISO 18001greater 2007) & Environment Management environmental Systems (ISO 14001-2004) and prescribes responsibility continuous improvement to minimize the impact of business operations on the environment. All SJVN units are envisaged to be certified to these standards, after stringent audits by certifying agencies of international repute. The Environment Policy also envisages to make the Business Partners & Suppliers to environmentally aware. Action • The implementation of Environmental Taken / Management Plans is monitored at Implementation Project Units & Corporate Office through Monitoring Committees constituted for this purpose. The views/suggestions of the committees are taken into account during execution of the plans. • Continually striving to raise Environmental awareness, SJVN continuously organizes workshops / trainings to sensitize the employees on environmental and social concerns. Further, SJVN also contributes to heighten Environmental Awareness amongst its suppliers and construction contractors by forcing them to furnish Environmental Data for their Activities/ Products. • To meet the needs and aspirations of the Project Affected Families (PAF’s), SJVN has come up with its own Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy in consultation with Himachal Pradesh Govt., which is in line with National Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy NRRP (2007) of Govt. of India. • SJVN has undertaken post-construction Environmental & social Impact Evaluation of Nathpa Jhakri HEP Station to monitor the Environmental Management Plan and social development interventions implemented at the project. • SJVN is an environment friendly company in all its activities, products and services, providing safe and healthy working environment to all stakeholders. SJVN has established a comprehensive Environmental Management System (EMS) at Rampur HEP with objectives and procedures for evaluating progress, minimizing negative impacts and transferring good practices. SJVN has also secured ISO certification for its projects: • ISO 14001:2004 for Nathpa Jhakri HPS. • ISO 18001:2007 & ISO 14001:2004 for Rampur HEP. Outcomes Successful implementation of various environmental management plans and social Development interventions at the projects. • Further, post-construction Environmental monitoring of Nathpa Jhakri HEP has indicated that Environment Management Plans (EMPs) have been by and large successful in meeting the objectives of Environment protection and upgradation. • In Recognition of SJVN’s contribution to sustainable development, SJVN’s Corporate Unit was conferred with ‘Greentech Environment Excellence Gold Award-2010’. The Award recognizes the performance of SJVN in two critical aspects of Sustainability: Environmental & Socio-Economic Management. 9 And encourage Commitment/ • Hydroelectric projects are renewable the development Policies/Goals and Environmental friendly source of and diffusion of energy. Water from the river is diverted environmentally through the water conductor system friendly and after passing through the turbines, Technologies. the same is released into the river without any net consumption and any pollutant getting generated. • Hydropower projects are known to be non-polluting, environmentally benign and have an edge over other sources of power generation which use nonrenewable conventional resources like coal and oil, which are depleting at a faster pace and also have the associate problems of emissions and waste Disposal. Action The implementation of Environmental Taken / management plans and other conditions Implementation stipulated by Ministry of Environment & Forest (MoEF) while according the environmental clearance to the project including monitoring of air and water Quality during construction phase of the project. Outcomes Apart from speedy development of Hydropower projects of SJVN, it has given equal importance to execute and operate its projects in an environment friendly and socially responsive manner. • Successful implementation of Environment Management Plans at projects under Construction. • During the Previous Year, Protection & Stabilization of one of the Muck Disposal Sites at Rampur HEP by Using Geo-Green Erosion Control Blankets which help in Increased Moisture Retention, Covering of Ground Undulations & Reduces Surface Erosion by using Eco-Friendly Coir Material. • Rampur Hydro Electric Project (412 MW) being executed in Himachal Pradesh by SJVN has been registered with UNFCCC as a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Project. The project shall result into Emission Reductions (ERs) of 1.4 Million per annum resulting in saving of 1.4 Million tones of CO2 per year. SJVN is the first Indian Power Sector CPSU to get power project registered. Rampur Hydro Electric Project (412 MW) is the largest Project in India and 4th largest hydro project in the World (MW wise) to be registered as CDM Project. • SJVN is venturing into alternate energy sources such as Wind, Thermal and Solar Energy and also Power Transmission. Initially, SJVN is planning to set up a 50 MW Wind Energy Project and has surveyed the various potential locations for establishing the project in India where the wind energy can be exploited economically and SJVN is in advance stage of tendering for award of the project. Plans for the • Formation of Environmental Impact Upcoming Year Assessment / Environment Management Plan (EIA/EMP) for future Projects and successful implementation of Environmental Management Plans at projects under construction. 10. Business should SJVN Ltd. is committed to corporate work against all functioning, which is free from corruption forms of in all forms including extortion and bribery. Corruption SJVN follows an anti-corruption and anti – including bribery policy, since its inception. SJVN, extortion and being a Central Public Sector Enterprise bribery. (CPSE), falls under the purview and jurisdiction of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC). The CVC provides a framework for preventing and reducing corruption based on clear rules, transparent and effective control systems, and accordingly SJVN follows all measures, instructions and guidelines as issued by CVC, as an anti-corruption and anti – bribery policy. SJVN recognizes that bribery and corruption distorts competition and investment, hinders free and fair trade, retards development process, deteriorates organizational climate and represents an unacceptable cost to the business and general public. Therefore, SJVN aims to : • To promote and maintain Transparency, Accountability and Efficiency in the Organization. • To improve the overall functioning of the Organization, by improving and introducing, more fair and transparent, functional systems, suitable to cater present requirements. • To adopt and implement transparent systems and strive hard to improve the organizational working in all spheres, by leveraging technology, increasing transparency in the decision making process through effective use of information technology in the discharge of various organizational functions, to ensure corruption free organizational environment. • To introduce system manuals for consistent performance, and also to tackle eventualities, if any. • To ensure fair competition amongst various bidders / tenderers, in the procurement process. • To deter illegal payments and corrupt practices in the procurement process. • To ensure, as far as is practicable, that all transactions made are in compliance with all applicable laws of the land, regulations and agreements, to which SJVNL is a party. • To ensure corruption free conduct by SJVNL Officials. The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has jurisdiction and powers in respect of matters to which the executive powers of the Union of India extend, and therefore, SJVN being a Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSE), also falls under the purview of CVC. All vigilance functions in SJVN are being carried out as per the instructions and guidelines of CVC. Action Taken The vigilance activity in SJVN forms an integral part of the managerial function. Compliance of CVC instructions regarding e-procurement for publication of tender notices and contract awards, are being ensured. Tender are being uploaded on website www.tenders.gov.in portal in addition to SJVNL website sjvn.nic.in . Complete tenders are now available for downloading from the net. Uploading of details of work tenders awarded which are above a threshold value, is also being done. As a step forward for improving vigilance administration and in order to bring about greater transparency and accountability in the functioning of CPSEs, by leveraging technology, complete implementation of e procurement in SJVN, at 1500 MW NJHPS and 412 MW Rampur HEP, and also at SJVN Corp. Office Shimla, except for small petty purchases / spot purchases / works for PAFs etc., was achieved during Sep. / October 2009 i.e. well before the scheduled target date of June 2010 as decided by the Ministry of Power (MOP), GOI. All the major payments to the Contractors above the threshold value, are also being done through e–procurement / RTGS system in SJVN; and also all the disposal of unserviceable materials etc. at the 1500 MW Nathpa Jhakri Hydro Power Station (NJHPS), is also being done through EDisposal / Auctioning. In a bid to institutionalize transparency in public procurement process, in line with the CVC's instructions, the Integrity Pact (IP) has been adopted and implemented in SJVN after signing a MOU with Transparency International India (TII) on January 05, 2011. Further, as per the requirement of IP program, Sh. MMK Sardana, IAS (Retd.) and Sh. Ramesh Chandra, Ex-Chairman CWC were appointed by SJVN as Independent External Monitors (IEM). Further, the anti-corruption and anti – bribery policy is monitored and enforced, by taking the following listed measures : • To study and modify the existing procedures and practices, to root out grey areas. • To ensure discharge of all regulatory functions, and to devise adequate methods of control over exercise of discretion. • To create awareness amongst SJVN employees about corruption free working and vigilance functions. • To identify areas of corruption and sensitive posts, to prepare agreed list and list of doubtful integrity. • To ensure preparation of manuals / standards operating procedures. • To ensure E – Governance in as much functional spheres as possible. • Through Surveillance / Detection / Collection of intelligence / source information / vigilance information; Verification / Investigation of the complaints; and to process the investigation reports and to recommend departmental proceedings. • By conducting regular Periodic Checks / Surprise checks. • By conducting regular Periodic Checks / Surprise checks. • By conducting Examination of Works on CTE (CVC) pattern. • Through Periodic / Surprise quality tests on the materials. • Through various measures under (a) Preventive vigilance, (b) Detective vigilance, and (c) Punitive vigilance functions, to root out corruption, from the Organization. • To keep the CVC apprised of all developments and seek their advise wherever necessary. Outcomes SJVN in its endeavor to fulfill its vision, mission and objectives, has adopted conforming corporate governance practices. SJVN has institutionalized, during the last 6-7 years since SJVN started commercial generation, certain cardinal principles akin to other public sector undertakings, in areas like delegation of powers, accounting, auditing, internal control, budgeting, training and reporting which have laid the foundations for a basic financial accountability and corporate governance framework for taking forward the organization, towards strong corporate governance. As a result of SJVN's commitment towards anticorruption and anti – bribery policy, as described in pre-paras, there is no presence of institutionalized corruption in SJVN. SJVN has improved considerably its financial accountability and corporate governance arrangements of the organization, and as such the risk to areas / activities of Fraud and Corruption, is minimal. However, cases of misconduct which occur some times in isolation are dealt with as per the CVC guidelines. Plans for the To continue the above practices, for a Upcoming Years. corruption free working environment which is transparent and accountable towards its stake holders, and further reinforce the provisions as per the guidelines of CVC. ****
