Principle Mellon Application (in brief) Mellon Application (extensively) 2011 Annual CSR Report Page Mellon respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and holds the protection of human rights of its employees as a high priority in the context of it's CSR and HR written company policies, which are summed up in the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct, and diffused in the company's everyday practices and interactions. 1. NewComer's Guide The company also makes sure all its' suppliers and manufacturers represented support and respect the Businesses should support and respect the protection of 2. CSR Charter protection of internationally proclaimed human rights with the completion of an evaluation questionnaire 1 internationally proclaimed human rights 3. Code of Conduct administered by the Procurement department (applicable to all principles) 1. NewComer's Guide 2, 10 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 2. CSR Charter Mellon makes a point to ensure the company is not complicit with human rights abuse, through written 2 in human rights abuses. 3. Code of Conduct company policies such as the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct. Mellon respects the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and upholds the Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 1.Mellon syndicate freedom of association. This respect is also exemplified by the presence of an employees' syndicate and the effective recognition of the right to collective 2. Collective Agreements within the company. Mellon also recognizes the right to collective bargaining by adopting the collective 3 bargaining 3. Local Labour Law agreements and local labour law in the countries of its presence. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour by denouncing such 4 forced and compulsory labour 2. CSR Charter practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the effective abolition of child of all forms of forced and compulsory labour by denouncing 5 labour 2. CSR Charter such practices and complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 1. Selection Policy Mellon upholds the elimination of discrimination regarding employment and occupation with written 2. CSR Charter company policies (e.g. Selection Policy) at all levels by applying an equal opportunities policy in its day3. Newcomer's Guide to-day practices, at all phases of personnel management (recruitment and selection, payments and 4. ISO Procedures (ISO 9001) promotions). Businesses should uphold the elimination of 5. Equal Opportunities EU In addition, the company follows ISO procedures that ensure an objective recruitment process and has 6 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation program also participated in an EU program for the improvement of work-life balance of its employees. 1. RoHS Direcive Mellon as a VAR (value added reseller) it not in the manufacturing industry, however the company 2. WEEE Directive makes sure all suppliers adhere to environmentally friendly guidelines. More specifically, Mellon ensures 3. CSR Charter its suppliers are in full compliance with RoHS and WEEE directives. Moreover, the majority of our 4. Green CSR initiatives partners have received the international certification for the environmental management system ISO Businesses should support a precautionary approach to (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree 140001. Finally, our suppliers have explicit to their activity certifications from the corresponding local 7 environmental challenges planting,etc.) and international carriers. 7, 10 1. WEEE Directive Mellon believes businesses should support initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility as 2. CSR Charter demonstrated in the relevant policies the company adopts and adheres to, its CSR Charter and the Businesses should support initiatives to promote greater 3. Company energy WEEE directive. Moreover, the company monitors its environmental footprint and undertakes initiatives 8 environmental responsibility consumption monitoring policy to counterbalance it. Green CSR initiatives Mellon has undertaken a number of green initiatives, such as recycling, park cleaning, tree planting etc. Businesses should encourage the development and (Recycling, Park cleaning, Tree In addition, an effort is made to create environmental awareness among personnel through training and 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies planting,etc.) participation in such initiatives. Mellon believes in working against corruption in all its forms, as stated in the Code of Conduct and demonstrated in its ISO policies, such as vendor management and evaluation process, official and 1. Code of Conduct registered contract approval process and by the company's annual customer satisfaction survey. Finally, Businesses should work against corruption in all its 2. ISO Procedures a chart of authority has been recently compiled to simplify the authorization process, while ensuring 10 forms, including extortion and bribery 3. Chart of Authority transparent processes. Glossary: RoHS: The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) EU Directive bans the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment (containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybromiated bipheny).The aim is to increase the amount of e-waste that is appropriately treated and reduce the number that go to the final disposal. WEEE Directive: The WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive imposes the responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the manufacturers of such equipment. ISO 14001 is a standard for environmental management systems to be implemented in any business, regardless of size, location or income. The aim of the standard is to reduce the environmental footprint of a business and to decrease the pollution and waste a business produces. The ISO 14001 environmental management standards esixt to help organizations minimize how their operations negatively affect the environment. ISO 9001 specifies requirements for a quality management system where an organization needs to demonstrate its ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, and aims to enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including processes for continual improvement of the system and the assurance of conformity to customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.
