MVV decon GmbH Communication on Progress November 2012 What is the time period covered by the COP? Startdate : November 2010 End date: November 2012 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. bV4 It v 4 MVV decon MW decon GmbH • Augustaanage 62-64 • D 68165 Mannheim • Germany MVV decon Mannheim Executive Board Phone: +49(621)43 29 87-0 Fax: +49 (621)43 2987-10 E-MaI: m.rathmann@mvv-decon.com Your Reference Your Message of Dur Reference Date 06.11.2012 UN Global Compact Network Statement of Continued Support Since 2009 MW has been part of the Global Compact Network and by its membership it has committed itseif to the ten principles of the Global Compact. 1 am pleased to confirm that MVV decon reaffirms its support of the ten principles and that we undertake to realise them within our worldwide activities as international consulting company and to integrate Human Rights, Labor and Environmental Standards as vital elements into our company philosophy. Rath mann MVV deco n Principles of the Global Compact Human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption The Global Compact asks companies to recognize, support and implement a number of principles within their sphere of influence. These principles are related to human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. Human Rights Principle 1 j Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 1 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3 1 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 1 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 1 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principte 8 1 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 1 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 1 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Human Rights  Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals MVV decon GmbH is an international consulting company mainly working in countries where the adherence to Human Rights and International Labour Standards is not always common practice, and therefore we are frequently faced with this problem. Therefore, we would like to point out that we permanently focus on a continued improvement of our employees' awareness for these problems. Implementation Emphasis is laid on this topic not only in our work abroad, but also internally within the company we hold Human Rights and National and International Labour Standards in high regard. Additionally to the measures mentioned in our COP 2010 (anti-discrimination training, access of every employee to the Worker's Council in case of any incidents as well as safeguarding a direct reporting of all known incidents to the management), this year our company group has installed an Anti Discrimination Officer who can be contacted by a confidential hotline. Measurement of outcomes No incidents reported during the period Labour  Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour  Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour  Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals Also during this reporting period it is the policy of MVV decon to comply with all applicable laws, to act fairly, impartially, in an ethical and proper manner. Therefore we fully agree with the ILO Core Conventions and observe and implement their standards in our daily work. Implementation As described before, we are frequently active in countries where these labour standards are not regularly implemented, therefore, we have a special responsibility to implement the core labour standards within our projects. Measurement of outcomes In our last COP it was announced that it was intended to appoint a Safety Officer. In the meantime has been appointed and started work in the middle of this year after undergoing several related training courses Environment  Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals As already reported in our last COP we are a non-producing, medium-sized company and we see our major contribution to environmental protection in the nature of our projects, dealing with a number of environmental issues, such as: Innovative energy technologies, renewable energies, energy efficiency, wastewater treatment, water supply, waste management, biomass, emission reduction and climate protection. Implementation This year we would like to mention an example of our work in the field of water supply and waste water treatment. Besides the supervision of construction of several waste water treatment plants, our company presently carries out a project for the improvement of water supply within the KfW Infrastructure Programme for the benefit of 5 urban and 60 rural settlements with approx. 324,000 inhabitants in Armenia. Measurement of outcomes n. a. Anti-Corruption  Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Also in future it will be an essential part of our company policy to strongly support the UN Convention Against Corruption. Implementation In addition to our Code of Ethics which we described in our last COP, in this year our company installed a binding compliance manual with the following contents: 1. Statutory Provisions and Definitions, Scope of Application and Whistleblower Hotline 2. Compliance Principles 3. Individual Fields of Compliance and Related Rules 4. Banned Cartel-Like Arrangements on „Taboo Subjects“ / Boycotts, Prices and Price Elements, Customers, Delivery Areas, Participation in Collusive Tendering, Arranged Market Exits and Market Entries, Ban on Boycotts „Concerted Practices“, Prohibited Disclosure of Confidential Information 5. No Toleration of Illegal Agreements and Disclosure of Confidential Information, no Support of Illegal Agreements and Disclosure of Confidential Information, no Illegal Decisions or Communications by MVV 6. Dealing with Doubtful Cases, Notification of Antitrust Violations, Competition Law 7. So-called „Hard“ and „Soft“ Corruption (§§ 299, 331 ff. StGB Criminal Code), No Bribery of Customers’ Staff, No Bribery of Contractors’ Staff, No Acceptance of Advantages, Strict Ban on Second Occupation with Suppliers and Services Providers etc., Notification of any Cases of Infringement, Relations with Customers, Business Partners, Suppliers as well as Office-holders and Mandatory Representatives Legal Fundamentals General Principles -. Special Regulations (Non-cash gifts / Prestige Gifts, Entertainment, Meetings / Events, Travels, Sponsoring and Donations, Tax Treatment, Capture of Donations / External Relations 8. Audit and Compliance Officer 9. Data protection and IT security 10. Anticompetitive Agreements / Contract Award Violations, Participation in Non-Compliance with Competition Rules and Contract Award by Third-Parties, Anti-Corruption Campaign, in particular in Purchase, Avoiding Collisions of Interests Transparency by Documentation, Raising awareness and in-service staff training 11. Insider Dealing Ban. Insider Directories, Directors’ Dealings, Legal Obligations to Furnish Information and Disclose one’s Results 12. EC Antiterrorism Decree, Money Laundering 13. Organisation, Responsibilities and Competencies, Processes and Interface, Risk Controlling Measurement of outcomes n. a.
