Bristol-Myers Squibb UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 To Our Stakeholders I am pleased to submit Bristol-Myers Squibb’s second annual Communication on Progress report. Our company continues to maintain a strong commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In fact, these principles, which are fully aligned with our overall company mission, drive our approach to good corporate citizenship and sustainability. They guide our employees. They inform our decisions. They help ensure our success. Bristol-Myers Squibb is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, which is the In this annual Communication on Progress, we discuss this world’s largest corporate citizenship and commitment and describe our progress to further integrate the sustainability initiative. Global Compact principles into our business strategy, daily operations and culture. This information will also be shared with our stakeholders in the course of ongoing communications. Bristol-Myers Squibb is a company rooted in a firm commitment to the highest standards of business integrity and ethics. We therefore not only embrace the values of the United Nations Global Compact. We live them. Sincerely, Lamberto Andreotti Chief Executive Officer Introduction Bristol-Myers Squibb joined the U.N. Global Compact in December 2010. We take this responsibility seriously and worked this year to further implement its principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption across our company. Several significant actions were taken as a result. We communicated our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact both internally to all employees and externally to the public on our company website. We used the U.N. Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool to identify opportunities for improvement. We developed and issued a Human Rights Policy and communicated it to our employees worldwide. The Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics which govern employee actions were updated and re-issued to all employees. A Corporate Disclosure Statement on the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act regarding efforts to address slavery and human trafficking was developed and posted on our company web site. Bristol-Myers Squibb was the first pharmaceutical company to sign a joint pledge with UNAIDS and GBCHealth opposing air travel bans by some countries on HIV positive patients. Our companywide Environment, Health and Safety Management System was updated and re-issued. We further integrated our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties (3P), and added the standards to our contract language with suppliers as contracts were renewed. The 3P Standards are part of Bristol-Myers Squibb’s supplier qualification process and all of the company’s suppliers are expected to agree and abide by them. Our Chief Executive Officer has communicated on the 3P Standards to all managers and above, including employees with responsibility for supply chain management. The 3P Standards were translated into 21 languages and posted on the company web site. Our participation in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative promotes similar Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management among our suppliers and a joint audit pilot program was begun. We also collected environmental goals and Carbon Disclosure Project metrics from a number of our key suppliers. Our company's website contains further information on policies, goals and progress relevant to the U.N. Global Compact, as well as our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. These resources include our Sustainability Report, which follows the format of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with measurement of outcomes related to various performance indicators and targets. Below is a list of the U.N. Global Compact principles and a table that identifies the relevant content from our website. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bristol-Myers Squibb Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Website References Responsibility Message from CEO Our Mission and Commitment Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties Sustainability Report GRI Index Workplace Policies Our Suppliers Diversity & Inclusion Social Progress Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Sustainability 2015 Goals Achievements Our Employees Management Approach Environment, Health and Safety Policy Management Systems Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators Environmental Performance Go Green Corporate Governance Our Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct for U.S. Pharmaceuticals Counterfeit Drugs Human Rights Policy Human Rights Statement California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
