Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Do more, feel better, live longer Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 Our approach About our report Home Search Print Back Forward Return to 1 page 1 page last page Our approach 02  How to use Navigation tools at the top right of each page and within the report Health for all 08  this report are available. Click on: – Icons to move through, search or print the report. Our people and communities 36  – Section names to take you to the front of that section. Our behaviour 52  – Arrows in the content tables to go to that page. – Underlined links to go to that page or to view additional Our planet 82  information online Governance and management 95  About our report Data Data relate to worldwide operations for the calendar year 2011, except where stated. Data in the environment and health and safety sections We report our CR performance annually The report is supported by and references were independently assured by SGS. More information as part of our commitment to be open and further information online at www. gsk.com on our approach to external assurance is provided in the transparent about our business activities. Information on corporate responsibility is governance and management section on page 96. also included in our Annual Report. Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report This year we have restructured our report are trademarks owned by and/or licensed to GSK or around four core themes, which reflect We welcome your feedback on any of the associated companies. the issues we see as most important for information in this report and we are always Reporting standards responsible and sustainable business growth. happy to discuss any questions you may We do not base our report on the Global Reporting These also reflect the issues most commonly have that may not be covered. Initiative (GRI) guidelines but we have produced a GRI index to show which elements of the guidelines are raised by our stakeholders. Please contact us at: csr.contact@gsk.com. covered in the report and to aid comparison with other company reports. We have also joined the UN Global Compact and have provided an index to show how we are reporting in line with Global Compact expectations. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 01 Our approach Contents Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Contents Our approach Our people and communities Our planet From our Chairman 02 What we do 05 Introduction 37 Performance in 2011 47 Introduction 83 Waste 88 From our CEO 03 How we create value 06 Working at GSK 38 Feature: Bringing Carbon 84 Minimising use Responsible business 07 Engaging employees 38 science to the London Supply chain 84 of materials at source 89 2012 Olympic and Environmental Developing employees 39 Our operations 84 Paralympic Games 48 stewardship 90 Diversity at GSK 40 Propellants 85 + 2–7 Health and safety 41 PULSE and Feature: Understanding Environmental employee volunteering 50 governance 90 Our community the impact of our products 86 Compliance 91 investment 46 Water 88 Performance in 2011 92 Health for all + 36 – 51 Water in our operations 88 External assurance 94 Introduction 09 Developed countries 29 Research and Europe 29 development 10 USA 30 Our behaviour + 82 – 94 Improving access to HIV/AIDS and healthcare – a global ViiV Healthcare 31 Introduction 53 Clinical research 64 challenge 12 Ethical conduct 54 Patient safety 66 Research and development 31 Developing countries Increasing availability 14 14 Increasing access 33 Preventing bribery Supply chain 68 Governance and management Community investment 34 and corruption 54 The supply and Feature: Our Marketing our products 55 distribution process 69 Introduction 95 Stakeholder engagement 98 approach to malaria 16 Feature: Changing the Our supplier standards 70 Our approach 96 Performance 99 Improving affordability 21 way we incentivise our Performance in 2011 71 The value of CR 97 Preventing disease and sales teams in the USA 56 Security of supply 72 raising awareness 25 Publishing payments to Supplier diversity 73 Advocacy 28 healthcare professionals 58 Public policy and Future plans 28 Publishing grants patient advocacy 74 and donations 58 + 95 – 99 Trade and industry Training and awareness 58 + 8 – 35 associations 74 Monitoring and Public policy activity in 2011 75 compliance 59 Political contributions and Data privacy 60 lobbying expenditure 77 Research practices 61 Patient advocacy 78 Animal research 61 Human rights 80 + 52 – 81 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 02 Our approach From our Chairman Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  GSK has always believed that This year we have made good progress. In my role as Chairman of both the Board and the Corporate operating in a responsible and Responsibility Committee, I am acutely aware of the ethical way is essential for the pressures and challenges faced by the company and I receive regular reports of how these are being addressed. success of its business. During 2011 During the year I was particularly pleased to see further we continued to examine our commitments made to improve global access to our policies and operations to ensure medicines, including agreements to supply large quantities of our vaccines to protect against rotavirus gastroenteritis that our approach to corporate and pneumococcal diseases such as pneumonia and responsibility supports the delivery meningitis to the poorest countries of the world at fractions of western prices. The company has also made of our business strategy and is substantive progress in other areas such as environmental consistent with our values. sustainability and in supporting the communities in which we operate. Much of this progress is due to the leadership of Sir Andrew and the executive team. The Board will continue to support and constructively challenge their thinking and the actions they take to operate a responsible values-based business. Sir Andrew Witty (left) and Sir Christopher Gent (right). Sir Christopher Gent Chairman GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 03 Our approach From our CEO Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Three-and-a-half years ago, we set Our record in 2011 demonstrates that we are succeeding, 2011 also demonstrated that we are making significant through increased sales and returns to our shareholders progress to improve returns and productivity in R&D. out to fundamentally change GSK and significant progress in our research and development. We are seeing this productivity translate into real filings to create a different type of company, We remain committed to operating with transparency and approvals, with three medicines approved in 2011 and four more ready to file in 2012. These include our delivering sustainable financial and responsibility. During the year we made multiple new MEK inhibitor for melanoma and a new four-valent advances on our agenda to ensure that our behaviour performance and providing shared and our actions meet or even exceed the expectations flu vaccine. value to patients, consumers of society. Much of this is reflected in this report which We are also on the cusp of creating the world’s first is structured around four areas: Health for all, Our people malaria vaccine. I have seen first-hand the devastating and governments. and communities, Our behaviour and Our planet. impact that this disease has on Africa, having lived there for several years in the 1990s. In October 2011, late-stage One of our key priorities is to continue to align our trials confirmed the promise we have seen so far, showing commercial success with forming new partnerships that the vaccine reduces the risk of malaria by half in to tackle the healthcare needs of people in developing African children aged 5-17 months. We also reiterated countries. This is particularly pertinent for vaccines, our commitment to price the vaccine at a level that covers and tackling pneumococcal disease is a great example of costs and generates a small return of around 5% that will how these partnerships make a difference. Early in 2011, be ploughed back into research for the next generation of GSK began supplying pneumococcal vaccines to Kenya malaria medicines and vaccines. through an innovative financing mechanism known as the Advance Market Commitment. This is the During the year we also reached an agreement in principle largest fund ever designed for a single vaccine and with the US Government to resolve some long-standing has dramatically increased sustainable access to this legal issues around our sales and marketing practices for vaccine for babies across Africa. a settlement of $3 billion. I know this was difficult, but is a necessary step towards resolving multiple, long-standing This success was built upon mid-year when we announced matters which do not reflect the company that we are today. a new pricing structure for our vaccine against diarrhoeal disease. We offered the GAVI Alliance our vaccine at a fraction of the cost of developed western markets. Millions of children living in the world’s poorest countries are now set to receive it, which will save countless lives in the future. Importantly, this offer is sustainable over the long term because we are recouping the cost of goods and manufacture. Continued 3 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 04 Our approach From our CEO Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  As part of an ongoing strategy, we continue to None of this would be possible without the efforts of all of fundamentally change our procedures for compliance, our employees. Investing in our people and communities marketing and selling, particularly in the USA. underpins the long-term sustainability of our business, This will ensure that we operate with high standards creating the right internal and external conditions to of integrity and that we conduct our business openly support our strategy. As a company, we are mindful of the and transparently. We will continue to innovate and potential pressures our employees face given the current to respond to the expectations of our stakeholders, global, political and economic environment. Despite these and our new compensation system that rewards sales challenges, we remain committed to offering all of our representatives in the USA on quality of service rather employees a range of learning opportunities and tailored than sales volumes is one example. development and volunteering programmes. The PULSE programme, for example, gives employees the chance to We also made progress on implementing our join a non-profit or non-governmental organisation for environmental strategy which has been revised to set a threeor six-month placement. There were 80 PULSE ambitious goals for our entire value chain – from raw volunteers in 2011, up from 58 in 2010. I am delighted materials to product disposal. We need to work in ways that nearly 200 employees from 26 countries have served that enable business growth while protecting the natural as PULSE volunteers since the scheme began in 2009. resources for the future. For example, almost 40% of our carbon footprint derives from propellants when patients These changes and others we have made right across our use our inhalers, and eliminating CFC gases from our business are laying the foundations for our future success. products has substantially reduced inhaler emissions – We have come a long way but we have by no means from 24 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents in 1998 to less achieved everything we aspire to. We will continue to than five million tonnes today. review our plans and commitments across each of the four areas, looking to establish further long-term goals and Sir Andrew Witty hears from patients visiting a hospital in Uganda targets which will support meaningful measurement and demonstrate our commitment to responsible, values-based business. We will continue to be restless, to challenge ourselves and to ask what more we can do. Sir Andrew Witty Chief Executive Officer GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 05 Our approach What we do Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We are a science-led global healthcare GSK has three primary areas of business: Pharmaceuticals, Turnover by region Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. company. We make innovative 6 1 £bn Our Pharmaceuticals business develops and makes 5 products that are used by millions available medicines to treat a range of serious infectious 4 1 USA 2 Europe 8.7 8.3 of people around the world. and chronic diseases. Our portfolio is made up of 3 Emerging Markets 4 Asia Pacific 5.3 1.8 established brands and newer innovative patentThe products we develop and protected medicines. 2 5 Japan 6 Other 2.3 1.0 3 manufacture and the way we do Our vaccines business is one of the largest in the world, Total 27.4 this contributes directly to the producing paediatric and adult vaccines against a range of infectious diseases. Many of these products use health and well-being of patients components in a single vaccine that help provide Employees by region and consumers, and indirectly to protection against multiple diseases. 5 6 1 No. society and the economy. Through our Consumer Healthcare business, we market 4 1 USA 2 Europe 16,707 38,696 a range of category-leading consumer health products 2 3 Emerging Markets 29,466 in areas such as oral health, nutrition, wellness and 4 Asia Pacific 7,039 skin health. 5 Japan 3,573 6 Other 1,908 Our business is sustained through investment in R&D. 3 Total 97,389 In 2011 we spent £3.9 billion in our search to develop new medicines, vaccines and innovative consumer products. Our Annual Report You can read more about our business, our strategy and Do more, feel better, performance, as well as find live longer detail on corporate governance Annual Report for shareholders and risk management in our 2011 2011 Annual Report online. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 06 Our approach How we create value Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We place great importance on Innovation For our employees, the positive impact their contribution makes to people’s lives is one of their key motivators to what we achieve but also on how New medicines and healthcare products are needed by working at GSK. people across the globe to address the many illnesses that we achieve it. We believe business are still not well-controlled or treated. At the same time, We have a diverse and balanced portfolio across should play a greater role in scientific research is continuously uncovering new pharmaceuticals, vaccines and consumer healthcare understandings about disease processes and technologies. products which provides us with a range of products to tackling social, economic and grow our business. The changes we have made to the environmental challenges. These two elements present us with the opportunity to investigate and develop new and improved treatments. shape of our business are intended to provide broadlysourced sales growth and greater resilience in the face We create value by applying science and technology to of market challenges. discover, develop, produce and distribute medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products. We are developing new partnerships and approaches, adopting a mindset that is more innovative, open-minded Access and flexible. We value new and different perspectives: working with research charities, academia, companies We are actively seeking new ways of delivering healthcare and non-governmental organisations among others. and making our products more available and affordable to We are being more flexible with our intellectual property people who need them, wherever they live. We do this not and know-how stimulating progress in the search for only because society expects us to and it is the right thing new treatments. to do, but also because it is good for our business. We are also increasing consultation with patients and In our effort to expand access to our products, we have payers to ensure we develop medicines that healthcare led the industry in adopting a flexible approach to pricing systems will value and reward. of our medicines and vaccines, based on a country’s wealth and ability to pay. This has resulted in significant Approach to responsible business reductions in price and increases in demand for our Only by being a responsible business can we grow and create products in emerging economies, representing a good value for our shareholders and for society. Our strategy is outcome for patients, governments and our shareholders. designed to maximise performance and we are committed In Western markets, we have developed new reimbursement to operating with responsibility and transparency. Strong approaches for our medicines, where we agree risk-sharing values and our people are central to our business success. arrangements with payers. In this report, we have outlined our progress around four Why we are different themes which reflect the issues we see as most important for responsible and sustainable business growth. We have fundamentally changed our business and our culture to help us grow, innovate and improve our We are reviewing our plans and commitments across all performance. This affects the way we do business, the way we four areas and plan to establish further targets and key work with others and our relationship with our employees. performance indicators. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 07 Our approach Responsible business Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Health for all Our people and communities Through investment in R&D, infrastructure and We respect all people and support our employees to innovative pricing we are working with stakeholders to reach their full potential. We make a positive difference make our medicines, vaccines and consumer products to the communities in which we operate through available to as many people who need them as possible, economic contribution, investment, education regardless of where they live or their ability to pay. programmes and partnerships. Our planet Our behaviour We are committed to minimising our environmental We are building a strong values-based culture. impact across our value chain and lifecycle of our We recognise that we need to be open about what we products by setting ambitious goals to reduce our carbon do, how we do it and the challenges we face. Our actions footprint, water and waste. are backed by robust policies and strong compliance processes. We expect the same standards from our suppliers, contractors and business partners. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 08 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Health for all Contents Introduction 09 Developed countries 29 Research and Europe 29 development 10 USA 30 Improving people’s health and Improving access to healthcare – a global HIV/AIDS and ViiV Healthcare 31 well-being regardless of where challenge 12 Research and development 31 Developing countries 14 they live or their ability to pay Increasing availability 14 Increasing access 33 Community investment 34 Feature: Our approach to malaria 16 Improving affordability 21 Preventing disease and raising awareness 25 Advocacy 28 Future plans 28 + Click arrows above to go to each section Improving access to healthcare is one of society’s most pressing social challenges. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 09 Health for all Introduction Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We want to make our products Progress in 2011 available, accessible and affordable • Invested £3.9 billion in global R&D • Co-founded and made significant • Delivered over 80% of our vaccines for as many of the people who need in 2011, launched three new commitments on intellectual for use in developing countries – medicines and expect to report on property to WIPO Re:Search, a new 870 million doses (page 25). them as possible. We aim to do this 15 late-stage assets by the end of coalition to stimulate research into • Kenya and Ethiopia become first while generating the returns we need 2012 (page 10). diseases of the developing world countries in Africa to introduce to sustain our business and invest in • First results of the ongoing Phase III (page 18). GSK’s pneumococcal vaccine studies with our malaria vaccine • Began six R&D projects at our open Synflorix through innovative further research. candidate RTS,S showed it is able to lab in Tres Cantos into diseases of financing mechanism (page 22). reduce the risk of malaria by half in the developing world, with seven • New commitment to supply up to We understand and recognise the many barriers and African children aged 5-17 months more approved for 2012 (page 18). obstacles there are on the path to better health and we 125 million doses of GSK’s antiover a one-year period after • Invested £3.8 million through diarrhoeal vaccine Rotarix at 95% are committed to finding new and innovative ways of vaccination (page 16). tackling them. By working in partnerships, listening partnerships with AMREF, CARE reduction to western market price to others, and being prepared to change the way we do • New commitment to support International and Save the Children (page 23). business, we are creating value for society, our business research efforts in USA and Europe to support training of frontline • Our US Patient Assistance Programs and shareholders. to tackle antimicrobial resistance. healthcare workers in the Least provided GSK medicines and (page 11) Developed Countries (page 20). vaccines worth $115 million Here we outline our global approach and contribution, • Helped create a new coalition led • Expanded our work with the valued at cost (page 30). going into more detail on our work in developing by the World Health Organization Healthstore Foundation to improve countries where the challenge of increasing access to • ViiV Healthcare’s licensees supplied (WHO) to control or eliminate healthcare in rural and slum areas of more than 717 million tablets of healthcare is particularly difficult. However, access is 10 of the 17 neglected tropical Rwanda and Kenya by establishing a not only an issue in the developing world and we also their versions of Epivir and Combivir diseases by 2020 (page 26). network of nurse run-clinics, setting to low-income, Least Developed include examples of our work in developed countries. a new target of 500 health posts • Extended our albendazole donations Countries and sub-Saharan Africa to enable de-worming of school-age staggered over a seven-year period (page 33). children in all endemic countries (page 19). (page 26). GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 10 Health for all Research and development Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  The most important contribution we In 2011 we launched three new medicines: Benlysta for As well as significant partnerships to address neglected the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus, Horizant tropical diseases (NTDs), our main areas of collaboration make to improving health is through for the treatment of moderate-to-severe restless legs include research into improving drug discovery, our research and development of new syndrome and Trobalt for adjunctive treatment of partialbiotechnology, identifying patient safety issues and onset seizures. 2011 was the start of a critical two-year research on rare diseases. We signed seven new treatments, vaccines and consumer period for our pipeline, as we expect to deliver Phase III collaborations in 2011, giving us more than 50 external healthcare products. data (or ‘read-outs’) on 15 assets by the end of 2012. discovery partnerships that complement our internal discovery units. To date we have positive read-outs supporting progression We focus our R&D on products that contribute to society towards registration for several assets for diseases including: We also fund basic medical research conducted outside by addressing patient needs and where advances in science type 2 diabetes; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease GSK to increase understanding of the human body and offer the best opportunities to discover new medicines and (COPD) and asthma; hepatitis C; melanoma and malaria. the impact of disease. This type of research is frequently generate commercial returns. the foundation for future advances in the diagnosis, Our Discovery Performance Units (DPUs) are helping To be successful over the long term, we need the treatment and prevention of disease. us to improve productivity in R&D. These are small, investments we are making in our pipeline to lead to new entrepreneurial, multidisciplinary teams responsible for Our focus on finding the best science, wherever it may be, medicines that will be valued by patients and those who discovering and developing potential new medicines in led to the creation in 2011 of the Discovery Partnerships pay for the treatments. Our ‘Medicines Vision’ process their specialist areas. They develop a three-year business in Academia (DPAc) programme. DPAc is a new approach ensures that the voice of the customer is integrated with plan and make a ‘pitch’ for funding of their projects in which aims to establish truly integrated partnerships the medicine development strategy to optimise payer, front of a Discovery Investment Board (DIB). In 2011 we with academic groups to undertake early drug discovery patient and prescriber needs. completed the majority of the three-year progress reviews and translate innovative research into medicines that We invested £3.9 billion in R&D in 2011. Just over 75% for the DPUs, so decisions have been made about the benefit patients. of this expenditure was in pharmaceutical R&D with the number and shape of the projects to continue. In 2011 DPAc engaged with nearly 160 academic institutes remainder in vaccine and consumer healthcare research. There were more than 50 proposals for new DPUs in in more than 20 countries around the world. In our 2011, and four new areas that emerged. This will be our Our pipeline has around 30 assets in late-stage vaccines business, 107 collaborations with external way of working in the future so we can remain flexible development and around 20 candidate vaccines in partners were ongoing in 2011 for prophylactic and as the landscape changes. development, of which approximately one-third target therapeutic vaccines. diseases which are particularly prevalent in the developing Right across our R&D organisation, we form alliances You can read more about our R&D, DPUs, medicines world. You can read more about our pipeline and progress with external groups to accelerate the discovery of new and vaccines pipeline progress and approvals in our in our Annual Report. medicines and vaccines as well as to share scientific Annual Report and on our website. understanding and ultimately to improve patient care. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 11 Health for all Case studies Research and development Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Focus on the Patient Tackling antimicrobial resistance To guide our research, it is essential for us to understand Antibiotics are a cornerstone of modern medicine, not BARDA is a group within the Office of the Assistant what patients need. Our Focus on the Patient programme only for effectively treating common infections, but for Secretary for Preparedness and Response in the US brings patients to GSK sites to speak directly to our R&D ensuring that patients undergoing surgery or who are Department of Health and Human Services. We also teams about their healthcare needs. This helps us make immuno-compromised (for example by chemotherapy, supported the introduction of the Generating Antibiotics better medicines and inspires employees to do more to HIV or transplantation) are protected from infection. Incentives Now (GAIN) Act of 2011 in the House of help improve patients’ lives. GSK has been a leading researcher and supplier of Representatives in June 2011, which we believe could We hosted 11 patient insight seminars at our sites in 2011 effective antibiotics for many years – our antibiotic, be a meaningful step towards addressing barriers to the under the theme of ‘strengthening the patient voice at Augmentin remains in use around the world today research, development and approval of new antibiotics. GSK’. These brought together more than 7,200 people, 30 years since it was first launched. In November 2011, GSK welcomed the European including GSK employees, healthcare professionals, However, the past 20 years have seen increasing Commission’s ‘Action plan against the rising threats patients and patient advocacy group representatives, resistance of infectious bacteria to antibiotics at the same from antimicrobial resistance’, which promotes to discuss a range of topics including epilepsy, ovarian time as a decline in antibiotic research. Only two new collaborative research to develop new antibiotics that cancer, asthma, immune thrombocytopenia, diversity classes of antibiotics have been developed and launched will counter the growing threat from resistant bacteria. in US clinical trials, acute lung injury, Plasmodium vivax in the last 30 years. The European Centre for Disease We share the European Commission’s view that publicmalaria, Fabry disease, Crohn’s disease, soft tissue Prevention estimated that in Europe, 25,000 people die private collaboration, with the sharing of information sarcoma and COPD. We provide recordings of these from resistant infections from five types of bacteria.(1) and funding, offers the best way forward. We are seminars on a dedicated area of our intranet, enabling more committed to working under the Innovative Medicines employees to learn and benefit from these discussions. The discovery and development of new antibiotics Initiative (IMI) antibiotics programme in 2012 and takes many years and significant investment. Yet new teams from across GSK are looking for research partners antibiotics, once licensed, are generally used only when in this area. patients have failed to respond to existing treatments, limiting the commercial return needed to encourage We believe that other approaches are also needed to continued research investment. support innovation in this area. For example, investment in research for new antibiotic products that would not GSK is one of the few pharmaceutical companies with an otherwise be commercially viable could be encouraged active antibiotic R&D programme and we are committed by guaranteeing a financial agreement for success. to supporting efforts to tackle anti-microbial resistance. We believe that regulatory approaches reflecting the In September 2011, GSK and the Biomedical Advanced unique challenges of developing treatments for multiResearch and Development Authority (BARDA) in the drug resistant infections are urgently needed. USA agreed a $38.5 million contract to support the development by GSK of a potential new antibiotic against both hospital Gram negative and biothreat pathogens. (1) E uropean Centre for Disease Prevention, European Medicines Agency Joint Technical Report – The bacterial challenge: time to react (2009). GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 12 Health for all Improving access to healthcare – a global challenge Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Improving access to healthcare There are many complex factors that hamper access to We believe this is the right thing to do and know that medicines in developing countries. Poverty is the single our approach will contribute to our business success. is one of society’s most pressing biggest barrier. In many countries people do not have By striving to meet society’s healthcare needs, we also social challenges. enough food or clean water nor access to a functioning build trust in our business, which helps to safeguard our health system. Medicines for prevalent diseases may be licence to operate in the long term. Every year millions of people die from curable or lacking because of the limited commercial return on R&D Improving access to healthcare in emerging economies preventable infectious diseases or suffer unnecessary illfor neglected diseases. Often there is no unified registration also helps us to build our business in increasingly health because they do not have access to basic healthcare system for medicines which makes the process costly and commercially important markets such as Brazil, China, services, including essential medicines or vaccines. complex, and individual authorities do not have sufficient India, Indonesia and Russia. In the past, the majority The cost of healthcare can be a barrier to access for patients capacity for numerous product registrations. of our revenue in these countries came from selling in both the developed and developing world. Despite In many developing countries the distribution network for our medicines and vaccines to higher-income sectors huge medical advances, there are still many conditions medicines is weak and there is a lack of basic infrastructure, of society. To achieve sustainable growth we need to go for which treatments do not exist or need to be improved. hospitals, clinics and healthcare professionals. These barriers beyond the high-income sector, and increase access and These problems affect individuals and communities are often compounded by a lack of political will for action, affordability for patients at lower-income levels in all all around the world, but are most acute in developing resulting in inadequate funding across the healthcare countries. This means ensuring that we have the right countries and particularly in the world’s Least Developed system. In middle-income countries the health system may products at the right prices in the right places. Countries (LDCs). be more developed, but differences in income levels can Wherever possible we work in partnership with companies, prevent access. These problems must not be an excuse for governments, international agencies, academic institutions, Access to Medicine Index inaction; they indicate where action is most needed. patient groups, NGOs and communities, providing our GSK was ranked top in the Access to Medicine (ATM) We want to help improve health through our own business expertise, resources, medicines and vaccines to improve Index published in 2010, the second time the Index activities, skills and resources and by acting as a catalyst for healthcare infrastructure and the availability of our has been produced by the ATM Foundation. It provides wider change across the industry and society. Our strategy medicines and vaccines. By working together we can an independent assessment of company efforts to focuses on where we can make the most difference and in achieve more for patients than we can alone. improve access to medicines. particular improving affordability, availability, prevention Our approach reflects the different needs of each market and supporting vulnerable health systems. We are also We are pleased that our progress has been recognised which can vary significantly depending on poverty focused on conducting and encouraging more investment but know that there is still more that can be done. and income levels, coverage and quality of healthcare in R&D. To achieve this we are: We continue to consider the recommendations in the infrastructure, political commitment and the resources ATM Index carefully when reviewing our approach. • Working in a more open manner and better reflecting allocated to healthcare. However, there are common Publication of the next ATM Index is expected later the needs of developing countries themes that we address across all regions: in 2012. • Pursuing flexible pricing strategies • Working in innovative partnerships to try to reach people who would otherwise not have access to our medicines and vaccines. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 13 Health for all Improving access to healthcare – a global challenge Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Increasing availability. In addition to our research Improving affordability. Pricing is one factor that Preventing disease. We work to tackle some of the and development of innovative products we focus on impacts access to medicines and vaccines. We are root causes of disease and ill-health and to contribute tackling diseases particularly prevalent in developing adopting a range of innovative pricing models that reflect to healthier communities around the world. For example, countries, including neglected tropical diseases. We also our commitment to work with governments and other vaccines play a major role in preventing disease and have work to improve availability of medicines by increasing stakeholders to deliver our medicines and vaccines to as been acknowledged by the WHO as being “among the product registration across our many markets. This includes many of the people who need them as possible. We are also most cost-effective of health investments”. It is estimated new products, making sure that existing products are seeking other methods to improve affordability such as that at least three million deaths are prevented and more widely available and broadening our portfolio to innovative financing mechanisms and smaller pack sizes. 750,000 children are saved from disability due to vaccines make it more relevant to the health needs of people in every year. (1) We have over 30 vaccines approved for Being flexible in our pricing can help to build our business developing countries. marketing. These address the medical needs of developing in emerging markets by increasing the overall volume of and developed countries and cover most of the leading Strategic alliances and acquisitions help us to grow our products we sell. However, our ability to offer not-forcauses of childhood mortality. business in developing countries and to bring a bigger profit or highly preferential prices in the world’s poorest range of affordable medicines to a wider population. countries is only sustainable if we can continue to make We also work in partnership with others to improve We currently supply medicines and vaccines directly to the an adequate return on our medicines and vaccines in health, for example our partnership to eliminate majority of the 49 LDCs. We are looking for opportunities better-off markets. This is more challenging in an lymphatic filariasis and our PHASE handwashing to expand our presence into more countries in Africa in uncertain economic climate when governments seek to campaign, which you can read more about on page 27. partnership with NGOs and UN organisations. For example, contain healthcare costs. We recognise this challenge and we recently relaunched GSK in Angola and Zimbabwe and we are working with governments in Europe and the USA have now established an initial distribution route to Somalia. to find solutions. We seek to price medicines fairly in these Operating in fragile states is challenging but important in countries and at a level that reflects their value to patients 24% order to bring medicines to those who need them. and payers. Read more about our approach on page 29. We invest 20% of our profits from our business in LDCs back into projects that strengthen the healthcare infrastructure in these countries and support innovative approaches such as the Healthstore Foundation (now One Africa shoulders 24% of the global disease burden Family Health) Child and Family Wellness nurse run with only 3% of the global health workforce and franchise health posts. Read more about our work with 1% of the global health budget (2) our partners on page 20. (1) Ehreth J. The Global Value of Vaccination. Vaccine (2003): 21 (7-8): 596-600. (2)  orld Health Organization World Health Report 2006: Working together W for health. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 14 Health for all Developing countries Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  The challenge of increasing access to Oversight and management Increasing availability healthcare is particularly difficult in Improving access to healthcare is core to GSK’s overall Developing world R&D strategy and is prioritised from the highest levels of the the world’s Least Developed Countries company. Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, is closely involved There is an urgent need for newer and better medicines and vaccines for use in developing countries. (LDCs), where often the disease burden and has often spoken publicly on our commitments. His views are set out in an article on global health issues We are committed to finding innovative ways to help is greatest but the resources to tackle published in 2011 in the leading US journal Health Affairs. address this gap by integrating research for the developing it are lacking. The President of GSK’s Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific world into our pharmaceutical and vaccine R&D organisations and by stimulating R&D beyond GSK’s region, Abbas Hussain, leads our access efforts for developing significant investment. These countries have a population of over 800 million, countries. These are reviewed by the Corporate Executive more than half of whom live on less than $1 a day. Within our Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific business Team and by the Corporate Responsibility Committee of Challenges include weak infrastructure and supply chains unit which covers developing countries, we have a the Board. to support provision of medicines and vaccines, small and specialised R&D unit dedicated to developing drugs for overstretched health workforces, low population literacy Our Developing Countries and Market Access (DCMA) patients in these countries and championing their needs levels and food insecurity. Many middle-income countries operating unit was set up specifically to increase patient throughout our R&D operations. It focuses on late stage (MICs) such as Brazil, China, India, Indonesia and Thailand access to GSK medicines and vaccines while expanding our clinical products that match the needs of patients in also have large numbers of people living in extreme poverty, presence and building a sustainable business. Country developing countries. Areas the unit is working on include: and healthcare demands often outstrip available resources. managers for GSK’s businesses in LDCs report into this unit, These challenges are made worse by an increasing incidence enabling a tailored, consistent and integrated approach to • Adapting GSK products to better meet the needs of of non-communicable diseases such as asthma and diabetes. increasing access in these countries reflecting their specific patients in developing countries. needs. The unit is also working with GSK country managers • Creating better evidence based formulations (EBFs), Improving access to healthcare in developing countries fixed-dose combinations of generic medicines that offer in other developing countries to increase access through requires a holistic approach embracing prevention, improved clinical outcomes at a lower price consistent flexible pricing and other approaches. The DCMA unit aims treatment and efforts to fundamentally strengthen health with the latest evidence from scientific literature and to increase the availability of GSK medicines by broadening systems. All stakeholders need to contribute and we are treatment guidelines. our portfolio to make it more relevant to the people in committed to playing our part. those countries, pricing it to increase access and unlock • Partnering with research institutes and governments By investing in developing countries, including LDCs, we will demand, contributing to education and awareness, and on innovative research and understanding long-term help to ensure we have a sustainable and successful business expanding our distribution and supply chain capability. healthcare priorities through a mix of funding, technology in these regions that will grow as these countries develop. transfer and talent development. We have recently established Future Strategy Groups We use the term ‘developing countries’ to include all of (FSGs) to review our approach to key business issues • Investigating new ways to reach patients including the Least Developed Countries as identified by the UN and address strategic challenges. These are led from our through smaller pack sizes and mobile phones. (currently 49 countries including South Sudan), the CEO’s office and bring together senior managers and countries of sub-Saharan Africa and all low-income and experts from around the business. In 2011 FSGs focused middle-income countries as defined by the World Bank. on topics such as neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) and This is a hugely diverse group and our approach reflects this. access to medicines. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 15 Health for all Developing countries – Increasing availability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We also have an R&D group focused specifically on Highlights from our DDW R&D portfolio diseases of the developing world (DDW), including NTDs, which prioritises research decisions on their socioOur R&D portfolio includes projects for a number of diseases of particular relevance to developing countries including: bacterial economic and public health benefits rather than on meningitis, Chagas disease, chlamydia, dengue fever, HIV/AIDS, human African trypanosomiasis, leishmaniasis, malaria, pandemic commercial returns. A significant portion of this drug flu, pneumococcal disease and tuberculosis (TB). GSK is one of the few companies researching new vaccines and treatments for discovery work takes place at our dedicated facility at Tres all three of the World Health Organization’s priority infectious diseases, HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB. Cantos in Spain. A similar group is active in our vaccines Highlights from our pipeline for the developing world are illustrated below: organisation in Belgium. HIV/AIDS ViiV Healthcare has an industry-leading pipeline of six potential anti-retroviral medicines, including five We entered several new research partnerships focusing compounds in Phase II or Phase III development. Altogether there are 16 compounds under investigation for on DDW in 2011, these include: development as potential new HIV treatments. Read about ViiV Healthcare’s progress with its Phase III development programme, and commitment to research • Two collaborations related to research in kinetoplastids, and development to support populations hardest hit by the epidemic on page 31. which are parasites responsible for serious diseases. We have also been involved in AIDS vaccine research for over two decades. We are now pursuing four separate For both collaborations we are providing access to vaccine strategies. A successful AIDS vaccine might combine several of these approaches: our proprietary compound library. • GSK’s HIV vaccine candidate, F4/AS01, is currently in Phase ll clinical trials in HIV-infected subjects to evaluate • A collaboration to build on early stage Drug Discovery its safety and efficacy. efforts for tuberculosis (TB). • The F4/AS01 vaccine candidate will also be combined with a recombinant adenovirus 35 vector in a collaboration with the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI). We continue to play an active role in our commitment • GSK is working with the Pasteur Institute in Paris and other partners to develop an AIDS vaccine by fusing to support R&D efforts in developing new and better genes from the HIV virus onto a measles vaccine vector. A Phase I clinical trial started in 2010. treatments for NTDs through collaborative partnerships A collaborative discovery R&D programme that aims to identify an HIV envelope-based protein vaccine capable such as with the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative of producing broadly neutralising antibodies against HIV infection is being conducted with multiple partners. (DNDi), a not-for-profit R&D organisation. We share Malaria Read about progress of our malaria vaccine candidate on page 16. knowledge, research and intellectual property with groups such as DNDi to support drug discovery efforts against We are also developing tafenoquine, a potential treatment for the radical cure of Plasmodium vivax malaria, the diseases including sleeping sickness, visceral leishmaniasis most frequent and widely distributed cause of relapsing malaria. This affects millions of people each year mainly in South East Asia and Latin America. Tafenoquine, which is being developed in partnership with the Medicines and Chagas. GSK is a founder member of the WIPO for Malaria Venture (MMV), entered a Phase II/III study in 2011. An initial study to understand tafenoquine and Re:Search consortium (page 18). G6PD deficiency (a common gene deficiency in areas where malaria is prevalent and which can affect the choice of malaria treatment) began in 2009 and interim results are expected in 2012. Tuberculosis TB is the world’s second leading cause of death from an infectious disease. Working with the Aeras Global TB Vaccine Foundation and the Tuberculosis Vaccine Initiative, we are developing the M72 TB vaccine candidate. To date we have conducted Phase I and II trials in TB-naïve, TB-infected and BCG-vaccinated adults, as well as HIV positive adults taking a combination of anti-retrovirals. A Phase II trial in African infants is ongoing. Dengue fever Our joint R&D initiative with Fiocruz and the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research to develop a vaccine for dengue fever continued. Scientists from GSK and Fiocruz are working across facilities in Brazil and Belgium on this partnership which will also enhance Brazilian R&D capacity. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 16 Health for all Feature: Our approach to malaria Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  The past decade has seen significant progress in the fight against malaria, leading some commentators to believe that a world with zero deaths from this disease is becoming possible. Progress is certainly encouraging, with global deaths reduced by almost 40% and many African countries implementing extensive control programmes to limit transmission. Yet despite recent successes, half the world’s population remains at risk of malaria and it still kills almost 800,000 people every year, most of whom are children under the age of five in sub-Saharan Africa. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 17 Health for all Feature: Our approach to malaria Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our approach The trial is one of the final stages in evaluating the vaccine Partnership candidate in infants and young children before regulatory We believe that a comprehensive approach to malaria No single organisation has the ability to defeat malaria file submission. It is being conducted at 11 centres in seven is required to scale up and use all established tools of on its own, but inroads are being made through the countries across sub-Saharan Africa. control, while continuing to invest in the development formation of innovative partnerships. RTS,S is being and use of innovative new tools. The widespread More results needed developed in partnership with MVI, which has received introduction of impregnated bed nets has complemented more than $200 million in grants from the Bill & Results in 6 to 12 week-old infants are expected by the the use of effective anti-malarial medicines, which Melinda Gates Foundation to advance the clinical end of 2012. If the required public health information, in turn complement methods such as indoor residual development of RTS,S, together with prominent African including safety and efficacy data from the Phase III spraying of insecticides. A successful vaccine could be research centres programme is deemed satisfactory, the World Health the next weapon in the armoury. Organization has indicated that a policy recommendation In collaboration with the Medicines for Malaria Venture A pivotal year for the RTS,S malaria vaccine candidate is possible as (MMV), we are also developing tafenoquine, a potential early as 2015, potentially paving the way for decisions treatment for the radical cure of Plasmodium vivax We believe that vaccines are the simplest and most costby African nations on introduction of the vaccine malaria, the most frequent and widely distributed cause effective way to save lives, and 2011 was a landmark in through national infant immunisation programmes. of recurring malaria. This affects millions of people GSK’s near 30-year search for a malaria vaccine. In October, each year mainly in South East Asia and Latin America the first results from an ongoing large-scale trial were Pricing published in the New England Journal of Medicine and (see page 15). We have pledged that pricing will not be a barrier to revealed that our malaria vaccine candidate, RTS,S, has the Existing tools those who could benefit most from a malaria vaccine. potential to reduce the risk of malaria by half in African If approved and recommended for use, the eventual price We are also working in partnership with other children aged 5–17 months over a one year period after of RTS,S will be set to cover the cost of producing the organisations to increase the availability and uptake vaccination. We are developing RTS,S in partnership with vaccine, together with a small return of around 5%. of preventative measures and improve management the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative (MVI). This will be reinvested in research and development for of malaria, particularly for young children and Subject to further evaluation of the safety, quality and second-generation malaria vaccines or research into other pregnant women. efficacy of the vaccine candidate as well as its benefits and neglected tropical diseases. Since 2001, we have committed more than £3 million risks by the regulatory and public health authorities, these We have invested $300 million in the vaccine so far and through our African Malaria Partnership (AMP), to data bring us to the cusp of having the world’s first malaria expect to invest another $50–100 million over the next encourage behavioural change such as sleeping under vaccine. This has the potential to significantly improve few years. We do not expect to recoup these costs through insecticide-treated bed nets and seeking treatment in the outlook for children living in malaria endemic regions sales of the vaccine, as there is little or no market for the early stages of disease. across Africa. The addition of a malaria vaccine to existing the vaccine in developed countries. Our ability to make control interventions could potentially help prevent In communities in Tanzania, Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya, significant investment returns on other innovative millions of cases. It could also reduce the burden on we are currently working with partners and with national medicines in our portfolio enables us to support this hospital services, freeing up much-needed beds to treat malaria control programmes to help build capacity of important work. We will also donate at least 12.5 million other patients who often live in remote villages, with little community health workers and mobilise families to doses of the vaccine to MVI. or no access to healthcare. become the frontline in the fight against malaria. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 18 Health for all Developing countries – Increasing availability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Open innovation The open lab builds on the partnership approach we have We are contributing patents and patent applications to always taken at Tres Cantos. Since the site was established WIPO Re:Search covering small molecules and formulations We need to think differently about how we conduct in 2001 we have worked closely in public-private directed at developing treatments and delivery technologies R&D and find new ways to work with key stakeholders. partnerships with groups such as the Medicines for Malaria for NTDs as well as 13,500 compounds which in Partnership is essential and that is why we are pursuing Venture and the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development. screening have shown evidence of activity against malaria. an ‘open innovation’ approach, working with industry, There are more than 100 scientists working at the centre, academia, NGOs and governments. This includes: Since WIPO Re:Search will incorporate all the POINT data and many of these posts are funded by our partners. • Sharing our expertise and resources with scientists from and information, we expect POINT will likely discontinue around the world through our Tres Cantos Open Lab Sharing intellectual property following a transition period. • Sharing intellectual property, know-how and research GSK is committed to sharing intellectual property and Sharing research information data to help stimulate research outside GSK knowledge that may help to speed up research into NTDs. In 2010 we published research findings that could • Being more open with our data and DDW research In 2009 we helped to establish the Pool for Open help identify potential new treatments for malaria. to help stimulate research outside GSK. Innovation against Neglected Tropical Diseases (POINT) The research was the result of a year-long screening Tres Cantos Open Lab to which we contributed patents and patent applications. process in which five GSK scientists reviewed more than We also committed to consider requests for access to our two million compounds in GSK’s chemical library to seek Our open laboratory at the Tres Cantos site in Spain has knowledge and experience. Under the terms of POINT, any out those that could inhibit the malaria parasite. space for visiting scientists from universities, not-for-profit medicines or treatments for NTDs developed using the This process identified 13,533 compounds that showed partnerships and other research institutes – such as the pooled patents and intellectual property will be available greatest activity. More than 80% of these molecules Barcelona Centre for International Health Research to Least Developed Countries on a royalty-free basis. One are proprietary to GSK, and it is the first time they have (CRESIB), Weill Cornell Medical College in the USA, and of the current projects underway at our Tres Cantos Open been made available to the wider research community. Imperial College, London – to work on their projects for Lab is the result of information shared via POINT. the developing world, learn from our expertise and share We have shared the compound set with 13 various groups our world-class facilities. GSK is also a founding member of WIPO Re:Search, and researchers, and we will encourage them to share their a new collaboration among private and public sector results as they become available. We aim to identify other During 2011, six projects began at the open lab with organisations designed to accelerate NTD research. datasets and make them publicly available to act as a seven more approved to begin in 2012. Ten of the projects Launched in 2011, this new platform provides a searchable catalyst to stimulate further research in DDW. are supported by the Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation, public database of available compounds, resources, a charity established with £5 million in funding from GSK. expertise, and knowledge that can be used by researchers. Other projects are supported by partners such as the Bill & All treatments developed from intellectual property Melinda Gates Foundation. on the WIPO Re:Search website must be made available A governing board of leading scientists is providing royalty-free in Least Developed Countries. strategic direction for the foundation. All projects must contribute to research that helps discover new medicines for diseases of the developing world. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 19 Health for all Developing countries – Increasing availability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Strengthening healthcare infrastructure of high-quality, affordable essential medicines in places Supporting vaccination training where counterfeit and substandard drugs are common. The chronic shortage of trained frontline health workers Since 2002 we have supported the work of the Network in LDCs is recognised as one of the most fundamental CFW franchisees receive support from HealthStore in the for Education and Support in Immunisation (NESI) to constraints to achieving the Millennium Development form of start-up loans, initial training, coaching, systempromote vaccinology training for healthcare workers Goals. The World Health Organization estimates a wide marketing support, peer network and recognition in sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa and the Middle East. shortfall of at least one million frontline health workers, and technology innovations. NESI has become a key partner of organisations such particularly in Africa and parts of Asia. as the WHO, UNICEF and GAVI who implement GSK is supporting expansion via a £970,000 grant to Increasing the number of frontline health workers is implement 60 CFW clinics in Rwanda. A second phase vaccination programmes in these regions. We also an immediate and cost-effective way to save lives and is planned with the ultimate goal of establishing continue to support global public health training improve health outcomes, especially for mothers and 500 clinics by 2020. through the TropED network. TropED encompasses children. For example, in some settings, a fully trained approximately 20 European universities and their and well-supported community health worker can institutional partners across the globe. effectively deliver treatments, and provide health education to 5,000 children in a year. Using mobile phones to tackle counterfeiting in Nigeria We are committed to becoming a partner in finding solutions to healthcare delivery in the LDCs by Counterfeit medicines are illegal GSK is piloting an innovative approach service looks up the code and reinvesting 20% of the profits made in these countries and often dangerous. The problem to protecting patients in Africa from sends a verification text back to the into local healthcare infrastructure and by supporting is global but most acute in the counterfeit medicines using mobile consumer. There is also a toll-free efforts to expand access to frontline healthcare workers. developing world, where regulation phones, taking advantage of the high phone number for consumers to call and law enforcement capacity is mobile phone penetration rate in if they have any questions. We are supporting the Frontline Health Workers Coalition relatively weak. Counterfeit Africa, on average above 50%. (FHWC), a new coalition of companies and NGOs urging The response from consumers was medicines account for around greater, more strategic investment in frontline health In February 2011 we began using text enthusiastic: in all, we received 145,000 10–30% of products sold in Africa. workers in the developing world as the most cost-effective messaging as part of a six-month pilot texts from 115,000 unique users, way to save the lives of mothers and children, and address anti-counterfeiting programme in representing approximately 10% of use. AIDS and other global health threats. Nigeria with our antibiotic, Ampiclox. Ninety per cent of texts returned a The pilot was run in collaboration genuine confirmation, 2.5% received We are also working with the Healthstore Foundation with Nigeria’s National Agency for a counterfeit alert and others received (transitioning to One Family Health), a private enterprise Food and Drug Administration a message indicating a duplicate PIN. that has developed a Child and Family Wellness (CFW) Control (NAFDAC). We place a More than 2,360 calls were made to franchise system that enables local nurses to own and scratch-off code on the back of the the helpdesk, some of which helps us operate a basic medical clinic in rural or slum areas of Ampiclox antibiotic pack; consumers identify counterfeit Ampiclox blisters Africa. CFW clinics target the diseases and conditions send the code via a text message to in the Nigerian market. We intend to that cause around 70% of all illness and death in local a central NAFDAC toll-free phone roll out this approach to other products communities, including malaria, diarrhoeal disease and number for verification; the mobile as well as in countries in East Africa. respiratory infections. They maintain a secure supply GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 20 Health for all Case study Developing countries – Increasing availability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Reinvesting 20% of our profits in LDCs In the world’s LDCs, lack of basic healthcare infrastructure Lack of access to quality health facilities and services affects We are supporting an innovative eLearning project in and qualified healthcare workers prevents millions of people many poor women and newborn infants in the far-western Tanzania to up-skill 1,000 nurses from remote regions, from getting the treatment they need. At GSK, we reinvest region of Nepal. GSK is supporting an initiative led by so they are better-informed about healthcare advances 20% of the profits we make from our pharmaceutical and CARE International to upgrade 20 local community health and best practices and able to provide a higher standard consumer healthcare businesses in LDCs back into local service centres to birthing centres with improved facilities of care to rural communities. We are working closely with healthcare infrastructure. We partner with three leading and to provide training to mobilise 1,750 female education institutions and the Ministry of Health and NGOs – AMREF, CARE International and Save the Children – community health volunteers. AMREF to develop these distance learning courses. specifically to address the shortage of trained frontline healthcare workers. The funding available for investment in 2011 was £3.8 million, based on 2010 profits from our . medicines and consumer healthcare products. AFGHANISTAN This has enabled us to initiate programmes to train up to 10,000 health workers. We have initiated projects in NEPAL 25 countries (at the end of 2011), and are on track to BANGLADESH implement a project in each profit-making LDC (34) by June 2012. MAURITANIA MALI NIGER MYANMAR LAOS CHAD SENEGAL Our goals for 2012 include: BURKINA SUDAN* YEMEN CAMBODIA FASO DJIBOUTI GUINEA • Measuring the impact of projects, including the SIERRA LEONE CENTRAL ETHIOPIA number of health workers trained and improvement LIBERIA TO BE GO AFRICAN REPUBLIC NIN in health indicators. UGANDA • Engaging other organisations to help achieve the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF RWANDA BURUNDI WHO goal of one million health workers in developing THE CONGO countries by 2015. TANZANIA ANGOLA Some examples of the activities this investment has ZAMBIA supported are outlined here: MOZAMBIQUE MADAGASCAR In Niger, one in six children dies before they are five. HAITI To help prevent this we are working with Save the Children 2010 = 6 initiatives in the Maradi region to conduct health education sessions LESOTHO 2011 = 25 initiatives in 1,175 communities. We are training 2,350 community 2012 = 34 initiatives** health volunteers to deliver health and nutrition messages. * We acknowledge that Sudan split into North and South in 2011 and we are running programmes in each country. The sessions will focus on the causes of malnutrition and **34 of the 49 LDCs made a profit in 2010, and will have ways of preventing common childhood diseases. a programme implemented by mid-2012. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 21 Health for all Developing countries – Improving affordability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Improving affordability Focus on non-communicable diseases Innovative pricing Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are becoming more About NCDs NCDs represent 65% of the disease burden In the LDCs we cap the prices of our patented medicine prevalent in developing countries as improvements in developing countries (4) as measured in Disabilityand vaccines at no more than 25% of prices in the UK. in tackling childhood and infectious diseases lead to Adjusted Life Years. DALYs are the accepted measure of To reflect the unique situation of HIV/AIDS, through ViiV people living longer and because of changes in lifestyles. disease burden, and one DALY is the equivalent of one Healthcare we offer not-for-profit prices for HIV/AIDS Cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and chronic lost year of ‘healthy’ life.(5) See chart below. medicines in the LDCs, in all of sub-Saharan Africa and respiratory diseases already account for 63% of deaths in all low-income countries, see page 33. We offer tiered in all countries, rich and poor and their prevalence is The global burden of disease pricing for GSK vaccines worldwide. growing fastest in middle and low-income countries.(1) Increasing access to medicines for NCDs can be DALYs (million) We have introduced similar price reductions in some particularly challenging because of the cost of providing High Income Countries non-LDCs to reduce the risk of product diversion. long-term or even life-long care. GSK is committed to We want to reduce the likelihood of not-for-profit or finding innovative solutions to this challenge. preferentially priced medicines being illegally shipped Middle Income Countries back for sale in better-off countries as this undermines In September 2011, the UN General Assembly hosted the purpose of reducing prices which is to improve a High Level Meeting in New York devoted to NCDs. Low Income Countries access in these poor countries. GSK participated in the Meeting and worked with other members of IFPMA, the International Federation of Low and Middle Income Countries In middle-income countries we are implementing a range Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations, to of approaches that balance our commercial objectives publish a Framework for Action (2) for the industry 200,000 400,000 600,000 800,000 1,000,000 with the need to increase access to medicines for patients focused on the areas of prevention, innovation, access, in these markets who cannot afford to pay. These include Communicable diseases capacity building and partnership. The key output of the Non-communicable diseases flexible pricing models, tailored products, and local meeting was a Political Declaration on the Prevention sourcing and manufacturing arrangements. and Control of NCDs which provides a mandate for the We are also exploring opportunities to make medicines UN, WHO, and Member States to make NCDs a priority.(3) available in smaller pack sizes which can make them more The Declaration also calls for a focus on prevention and affordable for patients who pay for their prescriptions. fosters a multi-stakeholder approach. We already include NCDs in many of our pricing and access initiatives and are looking for new ways to improve access within sustainable business models. Examples include our work to develop low-cost asthma products (1) WHO Global status report on non-communicable diseases 2010 specifically for patients in the developing world (see (2) IFPMA Framework page 28). This increased focus on NCDs may provide (3) Political Declaration on the Prevention and Control of NCDs opportunities for further work with governments in (4) WHO Global Burden of Disease Report 2004, updated in 2008 non-traditional ways to try and expand access. (5) Disability-Adjusted Life Years GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 22 Health for all Developing countries – Improving affordability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Pricing caps in Least Developed Countries (LDCs) Sales volumes for the majority of products have increased Pricing our vaccines significantly following the price decreases and we believe Since 2009 we have reduced prices in LDCs for all For over 20 years we have made our entire vaccine this has increased access to these products for more patients. GSK-patented products, (individual product lines and portfolio available for expanded immunisation formulations), where we are the sole supplier in that We have also reduced the prices of our off-patent programmes at preferential prices to developing market. Prices are capped at no more than 25% of their antibiotics Augmentin and Zinnat by up to 50% in certain countries using a tiered pricing system. price in the UK (or in France for products not sold in the countries and seen an increase in sales volumes of over Prices are linked to gross national incomes as defined UK) provided this price covers our manufacturing costs so 100%. For example, we decreased the price Zinnat by up by the World Bank, as well as the size of an order and the offer is sustainable. Prices were reduced by an average to 30% in Bangladesh, and volumes increased year-onthe length of a particular supply contract. By selling our of 45% and apply to the following brands: year across the product range by 50–80%. vaccines in large volumes through longer term contracts • Seretide (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary Our vaccines sold in the small private market in LDCs we are able to significantly reduce the price of each disease – COPD) are also offered at 25% of the Western European average. individual dose. For GAVI-eligible countries, prices can • Avamys (rhinitis) The GAVI Alliance and UNICEF, which purchase large be as little as a tenth of those for developed countries. • Flixotide (asthma) volumes of vaccines for the world’s poorest children, This model works for vaccines where demand is relatively always benefit from GSK’s lowest prices. predictable due to the nature of vaccination for prevention • Malarone (malaria) compared to the use of medicines for treatment. We are • Avodart (benign prostatic hypertrophy) We measure the impact of price reductions through also introducing flexible pricing for vaccines sold directly increases in sales volumes. We have also received • Fraxiparine (anti-coagulant) to governments and other customers. anecdotal feedback from some physicians indicating that • Ultiva (anaesthetic) more patients are using these medicines and that patient In 2011 we extended our Advance Market Commitment • Arixtra (venousthromboembolism – VTE) compliance with the prescribed dose has improved in (AMC) agreement with the GAVI Alliance to speed access • Zeffix (hepatitis B). some cases. to our pneumococcal vaccine, Synflorix. We will now supply up to 480 million doses of Synflorix to GAVI-eligible In some countries there have been cases where price countries by 2023. These will be priced at $3.50, around reductions are not passed on to patients. We have worked 10% of the cost in developed markets. Respiratory with governments, the media, pharmacists and others pneumococcal disease is the leading cause of death in in the pharmaceutical distribution network such as the children under five in developing countries. The vaccine Medicines Transparency Alliance to make sure that patients could help to protect up to 160 million children over the are aware of and benefit from the reductions, and we are next decade. Synflorix has been introduced in Kenya and beginning to see sales volumes increasing in those countries. 25% cap 45% Ethiopia so far, with further launches expected in 2012. The AMC is designed to accelerate access to vaccines bystimulating R&D and manufacture of vaccines at affordable prices through long-term agreements with On price of patented Average price reduction manufacturers. Synflorix has been introduced in Africa medicines and vaccines in on 11 brands just 18 months after its introduction in Europe. LDCs compared to UK prices GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 23 Health for all Developing countries – Improving affordability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Rotavirus infection is one of the leading causes of Middle-income countries flexible pricing We believe our approach is having an impact, and some childhood mortality in developing countries. GSK is examples of our innovative pricing approach from 2011 Many middle-income countries (MICs) such as Brazil, supplying its rotavirus vaccine, Rotarix, to the GAVI are outlined here: China, India, Indonesia and Thailand are growing markets Alliance at $2.50 per dose, a small fraction of developed • Avamys is our once-daily nasal spray for treating allergic for GSK and represent an important source of future world prices. We have committed to supply 125 million rhinitis. We have reduced the price of Avamys by an business. Our strategy is to grow our business in MICs doses of Rotarix over the next five years, which will enable average of 45% in over 40 MICs. Volumes of Avamys sold by making our products more affordable to those at lower GAVI to meet its aim to expand rotavirus vaccination to increased four-fold since we introduced flexible pricing income levels which in turn increases the volume of 46 countries by 2015. In 2011 Sudan became the first in 2011. This increase in the number of packs sold has products we sell. To do this, we are introducing flexible country in Africa to introduce Rotarix with support from off-set the impact of lowering our prices, and has pricing approaches that take into account differences in the GAVI Alliance. enabled us to reduce our cost of goods. economic status, demography, healthcare infrastructure Together our Synflorix and Rotarix agreements with GAVI and pricing regulations and patient affordability. • We have introduced tiered pricing for oncology products will contribute the potential to immunise 250 million Our flexible pricing approach includes: such as Tykerb, our breast cancer treatment in 50 EMAP children by 2015. This will make a substantial contribution • Improving affordability by linking pricing policy more markets. For example, in India we reduced the price for to achieving Millennium Development Goal 4 – reducing closely to a country’s Gross National Income (GNI) Tykerb in July 2010 by 32% and have seen a growth child mortality by two-thirds before 2015. of 128% in volumes over the previous year. Our data • Introducing differential pricing within markets to reach suggest that patient adherence to Tykerb treatment has We also supply our portfolio of vaccines at affordable prices new sectors of the population based on assessing patient improved by at least 10%. to the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), which ability to pay purchases on behalf of 35 middle-income developing • In Brazil, we decreased the price of our antibiotic • Working closely with health authorities and payers to countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. Through treatment Augmentin by up to 50% in 2010 and volumes agree innovative pricing programmes for medicines and these arrangements we will help protect an estimated increased year-on-year across the range by over 50%. other support, such as disease awareness campaigns 3 million infants against rotavirus (Rotarix), an estimated • Closely monitoring our prices compared to local 1.7 million babies against pneumococcal infections competition and regularly reviewing this. (Synflorix), and some 600,000 girls against cervical cancer (Cervarix). We have developed guidance on flexible pricing for all new products launched in our Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific (EMAP) region. Our Market Access and Pricing 250 $3.50 team works with local operating companies to establish m the right pricing approach for each market and helps share information and best practices on market access. Children potentially Through AMC, Synflorix immunised by 2015 priced at 10% of cost through GAVI agreements in developed markets for Synflorix and Rotarix GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 24 Health for all Developing countries – Improving affordability Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Innovative financing models Medical insurers will cover the cost of treatment for Local manufacturing and strategic alliances patients who respond beyond week 16, while GSK refunds Innovative financing can break down barriers to access Achieving higher sales volumes can help to reduce the costs the cost of treatment for those patients whose disease has by improving affordability for patients. For example, with of goods which we can pass on as further price reductions, progressed before week 16. The initiative demonstrates our treatment for postmenopausal women at risk of bone ultimately increasing access to our products. In addition, our belief in our product’s efficacy and its ability to deliver fracture due to osteoporosis, Prolia (denosumab) – which our commercial teams collaborate with our manufacturing equivalent benefits to IV treatments at a lower cost and is administered via injection every six months – we are organisation to explore local sourcing. manufacturing and in a way that is more convenient for the patient. piloting new Patient Access Schemes (PAS) in Argentina, licensing arrangements. Brazil, Chile, the Philippines, Singapore and the Ukraine. We have introduced discount cards in Ukraine, Argentina, In our vaccines business we have a number of joint The PAS will benefit patients who pay part or all of their Chile and Vietnam that help groups of patients (such as ventures and technology transfer arrangements. These prescription costs and each market has adopted the senior citizens, disabled people or low-income patients can help to increase the supply and affordability of vaccines approach best suited to its needs. For example in Argentina with chronic diseases) who may not be able to afford while enabling developing countries to develop their we launched a programme that allows patients to pay for the co-payment element of their prescription medicines. research and manufacturing capabilities, and increasing Prolia in six ‘interest free’ instalments, reducing the initial We also partner with others, for example in Morocco we market access for GSK. Read more about our approach to expense and making Prolia more accessible to patients. are working with the Lalla Salma Association, a cancer technology transfer in our position paper online. This option now makes Prolia accessible to 43% of the NGO, to provide our oncology medicines Tykerb and population, an increase from 24%. These arrangements include: our agreement with Zofran at a significantly reduced price. This means that Binnopharm in Russia covering vaccines against human We are also introducing risk-sharing models in a number patients with limited means and no insurance, estimated papillomavirus (HPV), rotavirus and Streptococcus; our of markets. These can help to speed patient access to at around 50% of the population, can be treated at public long-standing partnership with Brazil’s Oswaldo Cruz treatment where we may need to demonstrate the value hospitals with no charge. Foundation covering polio, Haemophilus influenzae of our products and help governments to manage their type b (Hib), measles, mumps, rubella, rotavirus and spending. For example, in Brazil we have launched a pneumococcal disease; and in China our initial joint performance-based, financial risk-sharing scheme for venture with Shenzhen Neptunus, which is now a newly our breast cancer treatment Tykerb (also known as Tyverb), wholly-owned subsidiary, to develop and manufacture giving access to more than eight million extra patients. influenza vaccines. The Brazilian government’s policy is not to reimburse oral oncology treatments such as Tykerb. Physicians therefore tend to prescribe intravenous (IV) treatments which can be more invasive and mean patients spend more time in hospital. Under the new scheme, Tykerb is prescribed to patients who are then assessed after 16 weeks of treatment. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 25 Health for all Developing countries – Preventing disease and raising awareness Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Preventing disease Raising awareness Respiratory disease in the developing world and raising awareness A fundamental aspect of good health management is to There is a clear medical need in the developing world ensure that people are well informed about how to avoid We make a major contribution to preventing disease and getting ill, and what to look out for if they fall ill. If people for education and awareness of chronic respiratory ill-health, with our most significant contribution through are not adequately informed, they will not take the right conditions, in particular asthma. To assess the current our vaccines business. Many of our other products, precautions, nor seek appropriate treatment when reach of our respiratory business and fully understand including for HIV/AIDS (through ViiV Healthcare, page 31) necessary. Malaria is a good example of this, where a the barriers to access, we have analysed asthma control, and diabetes, prevent diseases progressing into more severe significant effort has been invested to encourage people perception towards asthma and access to healthcare in forms. Our consumer products can help prevent tooth to sleep under insecticide treated bed nets, and to look for various developing countries. This has revealed very high decay, help people stop smoking, and improve nutrition. the early signs of malaria. These efforts have contributed levels of poor asthma control, inadequate treatment, Our PHASE community investment programme and our significantly to the recent declines in mortality from frequent hospitalisations for asthma attacks and stigma. contribution to the Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic malaria. See page 16. It suggests that better training among healthcare Filariasis are also outlined below. professionals, public awareness campaigns and In our pharmaceutical business, our flexible pricing programmes targeted at addressing affordability and Vaccines approach is often accompanied by comprehensive access issues would improve the respiratory problems GSK vaccines are included in immunisation campaigns campaigns to increase awareness and in turn make sure in these markets. in 173 countries worldwide and of the 1.1 billion vaccine that the maximum number of patients can benefit from price reductions and increased access. One example of We have responded with a number of approaches, doses delivered in 2011, 870 million doses (more than this is in Indonesia where we reduced the price across a including rolling out a programme of regional 80%), were shipped for use in developing countries number of our established brands by between 15–80%; respiratory ‘Masterclass’ awareness and education which include least developed, lowand middle-income setting prices at a realistic level reflecting the country’s sessions in key regions. We are also reviewing our countries. GSK is the leading vaccine supplier to ability to pay. A disease education and media awareness supply chain for cost reduction opportunities, exploring organisations such as UNICEF and the Pan American campaign was supported by GSK and a launch event for innovative packs and presentations, and other approaches Health Organization (PAHO). physicians was held which was attended by the Minister which may support access including filling gaps in our In September 2011 we agreed to donate $1 million worth for Health. These efforts as well as expansion of our current product portfolio. of the cervical cancer vaccine Cervarix to the US-based Pink healthcare professional coverage, from 5,000 to 16,000 In addition, we came to a long-term agreement in 2011 Ribbon Red Ribbon partnership so that more than 10,000 covering 56 countries, have helped to increase access to to supply Ventolin inhalers to the Global Asthma Drug girls and women in Africa will have access to vaccination our medicines. For example the volume of our Seretide Facility (ADF). ADF is a procurement programme which over the next five years. GSK also pledged $50,000 to asthma treatment has almost doubled in 2011 following aims to make essential asthma medicines available and support Pink Ribbon Red Ribbon’s programme operations, an approximately 50% price reduction. affordable in lowand middle-income countries. helping expand the availability of vital prevention, screening and treatment programmes for cervical and breast Furthermore we are working to raise awareness of cancer in developing countries. The partnership is also disease and improve prevention and treatment in focusing on integrating low-cost screening and treatment developing countries, for example in our PHASE services and aims to reduce deaths from cervical cancer in handwashing programme. participating areas of Africa by 25% over the next five years. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 26 Health for all Case study Developing countries – Preventing disease and raising awareness Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our approach to neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) More than one billion people are afflicted Expanding our donation of albendazole elimination programme during its first by one or more of the 17 NTDs listed by eight years is conservatively estimated We expanded our albendazole donation the World Health Organization (WHO). at $24 billion.(1) programme which targets two NTDs, These diseases mainly affect people lymphatic filariasis (LF) and soilIntestinal worm infections can stunt marginalised by poverty who live in transmitted helminths (STH or intestinal growth and cause anaemia and remote rural areas, urban slums, or worms). We pledged to extend by an malnutrition. They can impact a child’s conflict zones with limited access to additional five years our commitment ability to learn and affect their performance effective healthcare, clean water and to donate 400 million albendazole at school. Scaling up our donation from sanitation, adequate nutrition, proper treatments each year to the WHO to 2012 will help achieve the WHO target housing, transportation and education. enable de-worming of school-age children of reaching 75% of the school children The impact of NTDs prevents personal, in all endemic countries. globally who live in countries where community and national economic intestinal worms are endemic. development and perpetuates poverty. Through our established commitment to donate albendazole for as long as During 2011, we started to ship tablets for In January 2012, we joined other global necessary until LF (also known as school-based de-worming, ahead of schedule, pharmaceutical companies and leading elephantiasis) is eliminated, we currently to Togo and Rwanda. We shipped to organisations including the WHO, the provide nearly 600 million tablets a year Mozambique, Namibia, Argentina and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the to help eliminate this disabling and Guinea in preparation for 2012 activities UK Department for International debilitating parasitic disease spread by and we announced that we will extend the Development and the US Agency for mosquitoes. Our work with the Global programme beyond Africa to include all International Development (USAID) in a Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis endemic regions. To meet these commitments new united effort to support developing is continuing to grow to help reach the we have invested in a new manufacturing countries to defeat NTDs. This coalition more than one billion people at risk of LF. line at our factory in South Africa. will support the ambitious goals set out Since 1999 we have donated 2.6 billion by the WHO to control or eliminate 10 With a collective commitment to donate albendazole treatments to more than of the 17 NTDs by the end of the decade. up to one billion albendazole treatments 50 countries. In 2011 we shipped 1 billion each year, we aim to help countries fight This includes eliminating five diseases: 603 million tablets for LF and soilboth elephantiasis and intestinal worms. lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis), guinea transmitted helminths (STH). worm, blinding trachoma, sleeping Several countries have completed their sickness and leprosy, and controlling a mass drug administrations for LF and Albendazole treatments to be further five: soil transmitted helminths are in the process of confirming absence (intestinal worms), schistosomiasis, The Economic Benefits Resulting from the First 8 Years (1)  donated each year from 2012 of disease transmission. The overall of the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic river blindness, Chagas and visceral Filariasis (2000–2007). PLoS (Public Library of Science) through our commitments to target economic benefit of the global LF leishmaniasis by 2020. NTDs, June 2010, Volume 4, Issue 6. LF and STH infection GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 27 Health for all Case Study Developing countries – Preventing disease and raising awareness Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Measuring the impact of our PHASE programme Every year three million people die of diarrhoeal disease, It shows that the programme is continuing to change most of them children. The spread of this disease can behaviour and reduce incidence of disease in the be easily prevented by improving water quality and 16 countries where it has been implemented. encouraging people to wash their hands. Our Personal For example, in Bangladesh, the number of families Hygiene and Sanitation Education (PHASE) programme, wearing sandals when using the latrine (to avoid worm run in partnership with NGOs, tackles both issues. infestations) increased from 6% to 78%. Reduction in diarrhoea incidence in participating schools reduced As well as improving local water pipes, pumps and other from 18.6% to 1.8%.(1) infrastructure, PHASE teaches children how to wash their hands and why it is important, using easy to understand PHASE has most recently been implemented in high books and story cards which are adapted to reflect density urban settlements, for example Nairobi, Mumbai everyday lives in each country. The programme and Rio de Janeiro. In 2011 we extended our partnership encourages children to share what they have learnt with the Earth Institute’s Millennium Villages Project to with their families and communities. integrate oral healthcare into PHASE. Poor oral hygiene can be a significant problem in developing countries, Since PHASE began the programme has reached at least affecting an individual’s overall health and quality of life. 1.4 million children with information about how to Our aim is to introduce and test effective measures change their behaviour to keep healthy. In 2011 we through behaviour change and promotion of good oral conducted our second strategic review to assess its impact health practice, nutrition and eating habits. on behaviour and health. The research was carried out by the Water, Engineering and Development Centre, In 2012 our goal is set up a model for integrating PHASE Loughborough University, UK. with school de-worming as part of the expanded albendazole donation programme (see page 26). (1) PHASE Global Overview 2012 will be published on our website in June 2012. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 28 Health for all Developing countries – Advocacy Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Advocacy • Supported the development of a pilot Advance Market Future plans Commitment for a pneumococcal vaccine (page 22) When appropriate, we work with governments and policy We believe there is more we can contribute to efforts • Presented on behalf of the industry at the first meeting of makers and encourage changes in the policy environment to improve health in developing countries. During 2012 the WHO’s Consultative Expert Working Group on R&D that help to increase access to healthcare in a sustainable we will continue to develop a product portfolio more suited financing first meeting way. This includes working with companies in our sector for the disease burden suffered by patients in developing to foster industry-wide approaches. • Worked with the UK Government on global health issues, countries. We will also continue to: including as co-chair of the UK’s Industry Government We support approaches that encourage: adequate Forum on Access to Medicines and through participation • Introduce flexible pricing strategies and work with others investment in healthcare infrastructure; support for in the Partners Forum of the UK Government’s Global to increase access in middle-income countries (page 23) innovation; support for differential pricing; and adequate Health Strategy • Seek more partnerships and encourage scientists to work financing for mechanisms such as GAVI and the Global with us at our research centre for diseases of the • Participated in WHO Executive Board meetings and the Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria. All these factors are developing world in Tres Cantos, in Spain (page 18) World Health Assembly critical to sustainably improving access for the long term. • Participated as board members of the GAVI Alliance • Encourage others to consider innovative approaches and Examples from 2011 include: and Roll Back Malaria. We also participated in the GAVI to realise the potential of WIPO Re:Search (page 18) • Co-chaired the Gates/CEO Roundtable which led to the replenishment conference on funding immunisation • Seek to further reduce prices for our patented medicines January 2012 NTD Conference in which we played a for children in developing countries in LDCs (page 22) major role (page 26) • Engaged with the Intergovernmental Meeting on • Reinvest 20% of profits we make from selling medicines • Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, participated in an event at Pandemic Influenza Preparedness in LDCs to help strengthen healthcare infrastructure the US State Department which led to the formation of • Participated in numerous meetings and presented at in these countries and encourage others to consider a coalition of private sector companies to help tackle events on access to medicines and intellectual property similar schemes. (page 19) the lack of frontline healthcare workers (page 19) at the European and UK Parliaments and other venues. • Integrate PHASE with school de-worming as part of the • Participated in the launch of the G-Finder report on R&D expanded albendazole donation programme (page 26). for neglected diseases Read more online We publish more detail online on key issues including: • access and developing countries • public health • intellectual property • product donations • pricing, reimbursement and market access. + www.gsk.com/reportsandpublications-policies GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 29 Health for all Developed countries Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Ageing populations and the rise in to reimbursement of a medicine, subject to specified Demonstrating value through research conditions. This can help to address uncertainties that incidence of chronic diseases means may exist in some cases at the launch of a product about We are collaborating with the European Healthcare Innovation Leadership Network (EHILN) to improve that healthcare budgets are under strain its performance or its budget impact. For example, in Italy, understanding between different stakeholder groups as GSK will reimburse 100% of costs for Tyverb, our breast in many developed countries. cancer therapy, in the case of failure or interruption of to what constitutes a medicine’s value and to find ways to better demonstrate this through the research process. therapy during the first 12 weeks of treatment. We recognise that governments must balance the desire We participated in a pilot project in 2010 in which for healthcare equality with the need to manage limited We are also working closely with governments to help them stakeholders advised GSK on the development strategy financial resources. The ongoing financial crisis has manage healthcare costs. For example in the Czech Republic for an early-stage diabetes product and how this could made the task of increasing access to our products even the National Immunisation Committee had recommended be refined to better demonstrate the medicine’s value. more challenging. universal mass vaccination with pneumococcal vaccines, A second pilot project was launched in December 2011 but no government funding was available to implement for an innovative oncology product. We are engaged in We aim to work closely with governments, payers and this. A special team was set up within GSK Czech Republic discussions with EU policy makers on the development healthcare systems to ensure our products are available to partner with payers, doctors, distributors, epidemiologists of a consistent EU-wide approach to assessing the value and affordable. We seek to understand their needs and politicians to help overcome this challenge and of new medicines. and healthcare priorities and to make sure that we establish a new reimbursement and distribution system for demonstrate the full value of our products through We have also established an Access to Medicines Centre pneumococcal vaccination. This included a reimbursement the R&D process and evidence-based data at the time of Excellence within our European pharmaceutical system funded by health insurance companies (HICs) and of launch. This should allow a fair price to be set which business, working with payers and healthcare systems a new supply chain to distribute vaccines to clinics. Once reflects a medicine’s proven value; and is affordable to to understand their thinking and needs. Insights the funding system was established, we offered a volume gathered through advisory boards and regular customers and sustainable for GSK. discount structure for our Synflorix pneumococcal vaccine engagements are brought into the R&D process to that was accepted by all HICs. This is still in place and Europe 90% of the newborn population are now covered by the ensure the evidence they need is fully considered in the medicine development plans. Developing solutions In Europe, the financial crisis has put unprecedented new funding and distribution system. to healthcare system challenges are a clear priority and pressure on public budgets. To achieve the best results for direction for our business. GSK is committed to helping individual EU member states patients, taxpayers and our industry, we believe we must manage funding gaps while protecting the development work as a genuine partner with governments, helping of innovative value-adding medicines and vaccines. them find solutions that bring value to healthcare systems Through the European trade association EFPIA, we and support cost-management while maintaining participated in discussions with national governments, incentives for innovation. the IMF, the European Commission and the European To do this we support differentiated approaches that Central Bank. Agreements were reached to support these are tailored to a particular national context and allow countries manage their pharmaceutical spending as one companies to offer prices that take affordability concerns of the ways they will work towards meeting their overall into account. Where appropriate, this can come in the financial commitments. form of innovative pricing approaches that enable access GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 30 Health for all Developed countries – USA Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  USA We are a member of Together Rx Access, an industry Tackling chronic diseases programme which gives uninsured US citizens 25–40% In the USA, there are 44 million people living under the discounts on medicines from GSK. The programme is In the USA, the way healthcare is delivered and paid Federal Poverty Limit, and many more who have difficulty open to people who earn up to four times the Federal for is evolving. GSK is committed to helping identify paying for healthcare. Some of these patients may be Poverty Level. Nearly two million Americans are enrolled solutions that will improve healthcare and reduce costs. eligible for government programmes, such as Medicaid. in Together Rx Access. In 2011 almost 3,000 patients We have a particular focus on chronic diseases, which Others still need assistance to obtain the prescription received over 7,000 30-day prescriptions of GSK medicines are responsible for 75% of healthcare costs in the USA. medications they need. GSK has several programmes through the Together Rx Access programme, giving Under the current US system, a patient visits a number that provide medicines for free to eligible patients who patients discounts of more than $308,000. Since its of different specialists who may not be aware of health are uninsured, under-insured, or do not earn enough inception in 2002, Together Rx Access has given over services the patient has received from other healthcare money to afford their medication. 2.5 million patients savings totalling $130 million across providers, such as test results, treatments for other In 2011 more than 478,000 patients received GSK a wide range of products. medical conditions, or prescribed medications. As a medicines and vaccines worth $115 million (£96 million) In 2011 we also launched a patient assistance programme result, care can become episodic and uncoordinated. through our US programmes. This value is calculated for Benlysta, our lupus treatment which we are developing GSK has teamed up with Community Cares of North using an average cost of goods rather than wholesale under a co-development and co-commercialisation Carolina in an innovative public-private collaboration acquisition cost (a measure used by other pharmaceutical agreement with Human Genome Sciences. This makes called North Carolina First in Health. This aims to companies). We believe this approach to valuing medicines the medicine available at no cost for patients without demonstrate how coordinated care can help reduce more accurately reflects the true cost to GSK. When valued insurance and who meet certain eligibility qualifications. the cost of healthcare and improve patient outcomes. at wholesale acquisition cost the value of the medicines We have also launched a co-payment assistance Other participants include State Health Plan of North through our US programmes would be $585 million. programme that will help other eligible patients with Carolina, pharmacy chain Kerr Drug, SAS and Blue GSK operates several programmes for patients who meet their out-of-pocket costs for Benlysta. Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina, the state’s largest certain eligibility requirements, including Commitment Please see page 34, for information on ViiV Healthcare’s health insurer. to Access (cancer treatments), Bridges to Access (other US patient assistance programmes. First in Health uses a ‘patient-centered medical home’ medicines for outpatients), Vaccines Access (covering model. This means that a patient’s primary care our adult vaccines for hepatitis A, hepatitis B, tetanus, physician coordinates with a patient’s other healthcare diphtheria, pertussis and cervical cancer) and GSK Access, providers using health information technology and which provides extra help for low-income seniors and care managers. This provides a more comprehensive disabled patients enrolled in Medicare Part D. picture of the patient’s health and enables a more coordinated approach. GSK is enabling its employees in North Carolina to participate in the programme, and 1,200 employees have enrolled since it began in January. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 31 Health for all HIV/AIDS and ViiV Healthcare Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  ViiV Healthcare, established by GSK Research and development This will evaluate a new approach of a two-drug versus three-drug once-daily combination of treatment in and Pfizer in 2009, is an independent ViiV Healthcare is committed to the development of new patients infected with CCR5-tropic HIV-1. products that target unmet medical needs in HIV. These company solely focused on the needs include the treatment of children and those who are living ViiV Healthcare is supporting international HIV of people living with HIV. longer and ageing with HIV, and then tackling problems collaborative research trials in resource-poor settings in such as drug resistance, complex treatment regimens partnership with a broad range of external organisations It is committed to delivering innovations and and side effects associated with current treatments. such as academic institutes, the WHO, the UK’s Medical improvements for people living with HIV wherever ViiV Healthcare currently has 16 molecules under Research Council and the US National Institutes of Health. they are in the world. This section outlines its approach investigation for development as potential new HIV They focus on public health related issues such as and progress, and you can also find out more online at treatments including five compounds in Phase II or prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission, paediatric www.viivhealthcare.com. Phase III development. and adult treatment strategies, when to start treatment, and HIV-TB co-infection. ViiV Healthcare donates ARVs ViiV Healthcare aims to re-energise the pharmaceutical Through its joint venture with Shionogi, ViiV Healthcare or provides financial support, as well as scientific input industry’s participation in HIV by having a deeper and is developing a novel once-daily, unboosted investigational throughout the life of the study. broader understanding of the needs of those who live HIV integrase inhibitor (S/GSK1349572), known as ‘572’ with the virus and those who treat them. and a fixed dose combination ‘572-Trii’ (‘572+Epzicom/ At the end of 2011, 95 trials were underway and a further Kivexa). Phase III clinical trials continued in 2011. 12 are planned, involving over 10,000 patients. TwentyAll GSK and Pfizer HIV medicines are marketed by ViiV nine of these trials involve one or more African countries. Healthcare. It has a broad portfolio of 10 medicines, with In HIV, simplification of therapy to once-daily dosing Eight are paediatric studies, one of which will provide the annual sales of about £1.5 billion in 2011. This means it has is a priority both in terms of patient quality of life, and first significant clinical data on the efficacy, safety and the financial stability and the investment capital required potentially to improve outcomes. In October 2011, ViiV pharmacokinetics of ViiV Healthcare’s NRTI scored tablets to take a sustainable, long-term view of the HIV market. Healthcare launched the first large-scale Phase III clinical in a resource-poor setting. trial of once-daily dosing for Celsentri/Selzentry in combination with a protease inhibitor in HIV patients previously untreated with anti-retrovirals (ARVs). 16 Molecules in development 95 Trials underway at end as potential new of 2011 involving over HIV treatments 10,000 patients GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 32 Health for all Case study HIV/AIDS and ViiV Healthcare – Research and development Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Treatment of children with HIV/AIDS Infants and children living with HIV/AIDS in developing Joint efforts to improve access to therapy and care include: Through several initiatives the testing of HIV-exposed countries often do not have access to effective treatment. • The ViiV Healthcare-Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS infants within eight weeks of birth, as recommended by At its launch in 2009, ViiV Healthcare committed Foundation Partnership (EGPAF), which aims to increase the WHO, was successfully scaled up. The programme £10 million to a paediatric innovation seed fund to early detection of HIV and improve access to ARV therapy resulted in greater numbers of infants initiated on support research and development to meet the needs for HIV-positive infants and young children; strengthen anti-retroviral treatment when testing HIV positive. of these patients. The fund supports partnerships with government leadership and policies around paediatric The partnership catalysed new formal and informal organisations that focus on the evidence base for HIV/AIDS; and improve the quality and use of paediatric collaboration with organisations delivering paediatric care paediatric care and treatment, the research and care. In 2011 the partnership sought to resolve a critical and linkages between health facilities and communities development of paediatric fixed-dose combination (FDC) barrier in the treatment of children – improvement of were also strengthened. products, and formulations for the treatment of infants early infant diagnosis and treatment in sub-Saharan • The ViiV Healthcare-amfAR TREAT Asia programme and children living with HIV. Africa, with a focus on Lesotho, Swaziland and Malawi. aims to optimise the quality of healthcare for infants and children living with HIV across Asia through the development of clinical data to support paediatric treatment guidelines. Since its initiation in 2010, TREAT Asia and its partners have been working to address knowledge gaps in paediatric care and treatment, establishing research studies, educational workshops and advocacy projects. • A non-monetary Memorandum of Understanding with the Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), aimed at developing an affordable new FDC for paediatric use. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 33 Health for all HIV/AIDS and ViiV Healthcare – Increasing access Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Increasing access Innovative pricing Voluntary licensing ViiV Healthcare is committed to playing its part in ViiV Healthcare offers its complete ARV portfolio at not-forThrough its royalty-free voluntary licensing approach, addressing access to medicines challenges by taking an profit prices in all LDCs, the World Bank’s low-income ViiV Healthcare enables generics companies to manufacture innovative, responsible and sustainable approach. countries, and all of sub-Saharan Africa. These countries, and sell versions of its products in all LDCs, low-income according to UNITAID, cover 75% of all the people currently countries and sub-Saharan Africa. According to UNAIDS and the WHO, 47% (6.6 million) of living with HIV. The not-for-profit price of Combivir is now the estimated 14.2 million people living with HIV eligible ViiV Healthcare has now granted 11 voluntary licences for its $231 per patient per year (32 cents a day) compared to $730 for treatment in lowand middle-income countries were ARVs, an increase from eight when the company was formed. in 2001. accessing anti-retroviral therapy in 2010. UNAIDS and In 2011 its licensees supplied more than 717 million of its WHO are committed to reaching 15 million people living This is a significant improvement in affordability, but we versions of Epivir and Combivir to African countries in 2011. with HIV with anti-retroviral treatment by 2015 across the recognise that no price is affordable for the world’s poorest ViiV Healthcare anticipates that volumes of lamivudine world. In total, UNAIDS estimates that 6.6 million people communities without significant additional healthcare through licensees will decrease following its patent expiry living with HIV in lowand middle-income countries now resources being made available. in 2012. Through its ongoing commitment to supporting have access to HIV therapy, a 17-fold increase since 2003. In middle-income countries, where incomes are higher affordable second line regimens, ViiV Healthcare anticipates ViiV Healthcare recognises its part as a key stakeholder and infrastructure is more developed, we have a flexible generic versions of its broader portfolio and will endeavour in this global effort. It is committed to working in pricing policy which factors in the gross domestic product to measure and report data in future reporting. partnership with the HIV community to address this (GDP) and the impact of the epidemic in each country to challenge through industry-leading access initiatives improve affordability. In these countries, which include which are continually evaluated to look for further some of the fastest growing economies in the world, there Supply of Combivir and Epivir tablets improvements. ViiV Healthcare’s access to medicines is a need for government commitment and accountability through licensees approach covers all MICs, all low-income countries, to scaling up the national response to the HIV epidemic. all LDCs and sub-Saharan Africa – 135 countries in total. Number of tablets (million) In 2011 ViiV Healthcare shipped 642,000 tablets of not-forThis is done through a variety of approaches, based on profit Combivir and Epivir to developing countries, compared 2011* 717 the differing needs of people living with HIV in different with 1.73 million in 2010. This decline in supply of ViiV 2010 594 parts of the world. Healthcare’s own ARVs is expected – and outweighed – 2009 358 through the volumes supplied by its licensees. 2008 279 2007 183 ViiV Healthcare licensees GSK licensees * 2011 data include additional licensees however comparable 2010 data are not available. Data should be considered a conservative estimate of use. All licensees are not captured in the data and data do not include paediatric formulations such as syrup. ViiV Healthcare are also aware of significant use of zidovudine and lamivudine in generic fixed dose combinations. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 34 Health for all HIV/AIDS and ViiV Healthcare – Community investment Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Local partnerships and Technology Transfer Community investment Positive Action for Children Fund One approach taken by ViiV Healthcare in middle-income ViiV Healthcare supports communities affected by HIV/ In collaboration with our partners, our aim is to provide countries is creating partnerships with in-country AIDS through its Positive Action programme, the Positive support and deliver prevention of mother-to-child pharmaceutical companies to manufacture our medicines Action for Children Fund and Positive Action Community transmission of HIV (PMTCT) services. Every year, we locally – bringing the cost of the therapies down, while Grants. Read more at www.viivhealthcareeffect.com. continue to form new partnerships with community investing and sharing our expertise to build skills in the local focused organisations, striving to alleviate the devastating economy. A partnership with Binnopharm in Russia which Positive Action programme effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. The Positive Action for enables local secondary manufacture of ViiV Healthcare’s The Positive Action programme was created in 1992 to Children Fund is an integral part of ViiV Healthcare’s ARVs for people living with HIV in Russia is an example. work with marginalised and vulnerable communities, commitment to communities affected by HIV and AIDS. including young people, girls and women, sex workers, In 2009 the company committed to invest £50 million The Medicines Patent Pool Foundation (MPPF) men who have sex with men, the homeless and injecting ($80 million) in the Fund over 10 years. The Medicines Patent Pool is one of several international drug users. community responses to meet the challenge of improving Since its launch in March 2010, the Positive Action for access to treatment and care for people living with and ViiV Healthcare continues to make great progress through Children Fund has committed £10 million on 117 projects affected by HIV and AIDS. community partnerships, connections and collaborations in 21 countries. Our partner organisations demonstrate with the broader HIV community. Funding enables these their commitment and dedication to addressing motherThe MPPF wrote to ViiV Healthcare (and all pharmaceutical communities to: to-child transmission of HIV through innovation and companies working in HIV) in early December 2010 by maximising local resources made available through asking them to join formal discussions on the pool. • Tackle stigma and discrimination and reduce violence various health systems. Such work is closely aligned with ViiV Healthcare met with the MPPF in January and since against at risk populations UNAIDS’ Global Plan towards the elimination of new HIV then has have held several constructive meetings and will • Test innovations in education, care and treatment infections among children by 2015 and keeping their continue the dialogue in 2012. • Build the grass-roots capacity of these disproportionately mothers alive. It also works towards achieving the affected communities. Millennium Development Goals set to reduce child US patient assistance programmes mortality and improve maternal health. To improve access to HIV medicines for uninsured or lowIn February 2011 the Positive Action programme and the income patients in the USA, ViiV Healthcare launched International HIV/AIDS Alliance announced that their Positive Action Community Grants a patient assistance programme for HIV medicines in partnership, Vida Digna, would be extended to El Salvador Positive Action Community Grants are given by January 2011. This programme provides ViiV Healthcare and five additional countries in Central America, tackling ViiV Healthcare’s local operating companies to HIV HIV products at little or no cost to qualified patients with a stigma and discrimination against vulnerable populations community organisations to support innovative household income of up to 500% of the US Federal Poverty and people living with HIV. programmes. You can read a case study about one Level. ViiV Healthcare is also piloting membership in such programme in Germany, Beats for Life, online. In the USA, the Positive Action Southern Initiative Welvista, a non-profit programme which facilitates access was extended to eight states. This is a collaborative, to HIV medications for those currently on the waiting list community-focused programme designed to address for the US Government’s AIDS Drug Assistance Program. gaps in services or programmes that support care and treatment and address improving adherence among individuals living with HIV/AIDS. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 35 Health for all Case study HIV/AIDS and ViiV Healthcare – Community investment Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Vijana Tunaweza Newala Globally, girls and young women are more A follow-up study showed the project likely to be HIV-positive than their male helped bring about changes in attitudes peers. ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action towards sexual relationships and programme has funded a project in stimulated dialogue about girls’ rights, Newala – one of the least developed and their role in society, and how local poorly resourced districts of Tanzania – communities can provide more to tackle the fundamental causes of girls’ educational support for girls. vulnerabilities to HIV/AIDS. The project, Vijana Tunaweza Newala, Research for the project identified four was run by the International Center for key sources of these vulnerabilities: Research on Women (ICRW) and Taasisi gender stereotyping, erosion of family and ya Maendeleo Shirikishi Arusha social support networks, exploitation and (TAMASHA), in collaboration with Pact early sex, and limited communication Tanzania. ViiV Healthcare is currently and support. The project then launched a discussing ways to expand the reach of life skills education programme providing the programme with ICRW and their opportunities for girls to talk about sexual community partners in Tanzania. and reproductive health, empowerment, self-awareness, and other social and personal issues. Over a six-month pilot period, 60 sessions were held in schools and local communities, reaching more than 1,600 young people with information about pregnancy, HIV, selfesteem, puberty, love and sex, goal setting, and forming friendships. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 36 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our people Contents and communities Introduction 37 Performance in 2011 47 Working at GSK 38 Feature: Bringing Engaging employees 38 Science to the London 2012 Olympic and Developing employees 39 Paralympic Games 48 Supporting the development Diversity at GSK Health and safety 40 41 PULSE and employee volunteering 50 of our people and communities Our community investment 46 around the world + Click arrows above to We respect all go to each section people and support employees to reach their full potential. We aim to make a positive difference to the communities in which we operate through economic contribution, investment, education programmes and partnerships. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 37 Our people and communities Introduction Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Investing in our people and Our employment practices are designed to create a work Progress in 2011 place culture in which all GSK employees feel valued, communities underpins the long term respected, empowered and inspired to achieve our goals. • Continued focus on diversity and inclusion, 26% of our most senior managers are women and over 40% of our sustainability of our business, creating Strong, prosperous communities create the right total workforce are employed in our Emerging Markets, the right internal and external conditions for business growth. We want to be a catalyst Asia Pacific and Japan regions (page 40). for change, helping the many communities we work in conditions to support our strategy. to flourish as our business grows. • Extended our Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) to over 90% of our employees, providing access to counselling, mental health and emotional crisis support (page 42). • Reduced days lost to injury and illness from 5.21 to 4.34 per 100,000 hours worked, and set a new reportable injury and illness target for 2014 (page 44). • Engaged employees through our ‘Idea Engine’ facility, which generated 2,000 ideas for improving aspects of our business performance (page 38). Values-based business • Extended our PULSE programme to give 80 employees from 22 countries the chance to contribute their skills to non-profit organisations through placements (page 50). Our GSK values guide our work and we expect all our • Used our involvement in the London 2012 Olympic and employees to: Paralympic Games to inspire a new generation of young scientists and improve the health and well-being of • Commit to transparency communities and employees (page 48). • Show respect for people • Gave £204 million in global community investment, including £126 million in product donations valued • Demonstrate the highest integrity in our conduct at cost (page 46). • Be patient-focused. • Donated products valued at £2.2 million to areas affected by the Japanese earthquake and £1.7 million Read more on how we apply our values on page 52. in cash to the Japanese Red Cross (page 46). GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 38 Our people and communities Working at GSK Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We aim to create an inclusive, An inclusive environment is good for business because The MyCEO section on our global intranet gives employees it brings different knowledge, perspectives, experiences a chance to pose questions to Sir Andrew Witty and other engaging working environment that and working styles which enhance creativity and members of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). Many empowers employees to contribute innovation at GSK. GSK employs over 97,000 people CET members have blogs or Q&A pages to update staff in in 114 countries worldwide. their parts of the business. They also communicate and to help us achieve our strategic through face-to-face meetings and web-broadcasts. Regular Our aim is for every GSK employee to feel engaged with business objectives. Key to this is our their work and colleagues, and to understand the impact broadcasts by Sir Andrew are screened in 80 GSK locations and available to watch on employees’ computers. investment in development, our they have on delivery of our business objectives and performance. We know that one of the key motivators for By using our ‘Idea Engine’ facility employees can make approach to flexible working and our employees is that their contribution makes a positive suggestions for improving aspects of our business our innovative safety, health and impact on people’s lives – giving a real sense of purpose. performance and vote on ideas put forward by colleagues. In 2011 we ran 17 campaigns, generating over 2,000 ideas well-being programmes. Engaging employees and 15,000 votes. The campaigns covered a range of We believe the relationship between an employee and themes, from engaging employees with the new strategy their line manager is the most critical factor in ensuring in our Consumer Healthcare business to ideas for employee engagement. Our leadership programmes and improving customer service in our new Core Business manager training at every level aim to build leadership Services function. capability. We seek feedback about how managers are The last few years have seen major changes in our business performing as leaders through our employee survey and including new acquisitions and joint ventures, and 360-degree feedback processes. In 2011 2,000 of our most restructuring including outsourcing, site closures and staff senior leaders took part in a 360-degree assessment to reductions in some markets. Our global footprint has receive feedback on their performance from those they changed with a reduction in the number of employees in supervise as well as their colleagues, managers and peers. western markets and an increase in employees based in We communicate regularly with our employees in order emerging markets. to provide up-to-date information on progress towards We are very conscious of the effect restructuring has our goals and changes to our business, to listen to on employees. Whenever possible we aim to achieve feedback and to stimulate innovative ideas. organisational and financial goals without eliminating jobs. We made improvements to our internal communications We consult with employees and their representatives in 2011, for example improving connectGSK, our global before implementing measures that affect our workforce. intranet site, to help people obtain information more quickly Programmes such as Energy for Performance and Team and connect them with colleagues across the company. and Personal Resilience help employees to sustain their energy levels, especially through times of change. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 39 Our people and Working at GSK – Developing employees communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Developing employees Pay for performance We want GSK to be an employer of choice. To achieve this We are open and transparent about how we reward our • The total remuneration of our Executive Directors for we invest significantly in developing employees at every employees, management and our executive team. 2011, including the value of awards they have earned level from people in their early careers to those in senior under long-term incentive plans. Total remuneration management positions. We offer all of our employees a We recognise and reward our employees’ contribution to includes base salary, other benefits, and pay for range of learning opportunities and tailored development the success of the business. We offer competitive salaries performance elements (annual bonus and value from programmes. For our employees to achieve sustainable that are based on industry benchmarks, incentives that long-term incentive awards). The Committee does not high performance we encourage on-the-job learning acknowledge performance against annual objectives and want to reward failure and the ‘payment for performance’ through challenging project work, supported with more company performance, and share ownership schemes. principle ensures that incentive payouts are only made formal training programmes, mentoring and coaching, Management and executive level remuneration is aligned in circumstances where performance outcomes reflect as well as volunteer programmes such as PULSE (page 50). with our business performance measures and supports genuine achievements against original targets. We have a number of development programmes to the delivery of our strategic priorities with the emphasis • The level of total remuneration that could be earned support new recruits in their early careers including on rewarding long-term performance. from packages granted to our Executive Directors in industrial placements, apprenticeships and ESPRIT, our Our Remuneration Committee sets remuneration policy 2012. Final values will be determined in three years global MBA programme for postgraduates. We updated and levels for our executive team, giving consideration time when actual performance is measured against our university relations strategy to make sure we have to levels for the wider employee population. They have targets however a number of scenarios are included access to greater numbers of talented graduates, supporting responsibility for ensuring it is appropriate but not to demonstrate the range of remuneration which our ambition to increase graduate recruitment three-fold excessive, and competitive with industry and wider could be achieved. to 450 people per year by 2015. From 2012, we have market norms. The policy is structured to pay for committed to reimbursing 100% of uncapped tuition fees We are aware of the sensitive environment surrounding performance based on a set of consistent and rigorous for all undergraduates recruited in the UK from 2015 executive pay at a time of real economic challenge. standards to reward achievement against our strategic onwards. This is an investment in the future of the company priorities and is designed to ensure delivery of strong As one of Britain’s largest companies, we recognise the and more broadly in UK industry and young people. long-term financial performance and sustainable leadership role we have and the importance of a balanced We recently introduced Job+ Coaching, a programme shareholder value. approach. It is also important that GSK, like other multiwhere HR and business leaders coach colleagues who are national companies, is able to compete globally and We continuously evaluate our approach and consult with not in their direct line of management. We trained reward leadership and vision which is fundamental to key shareholders annually on our proposals and policy. 162 Job+ Coaches in 2011 who now coach approximately our success, and that continued success is in the interests We listen carefully to their feedback and believe our 538 employees in over 12 countries.* We also introduced of our shareholders, and the global economy. current approach reflects this. This year we have Practical Coaching in the Workplace, a one-day enhanced disclosures in our Annual Report, to provide programme designed to help other managers adopt a further transparency and a clear overview of the total coaching culture with their teams. We believe our focus remuneration earned and available to our executive on coaching will help us to create an energised and directors, which includes: resilient workforce and high-performing leadership. *SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 40 Our people and Working at GSK – Diversity communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our Leadership Development Framework supports the critical career stages in building our leadership pipeline Diversity at GSK Women in management positions (%) and provides clarity around the skills and capabilities Being an inclusive employer helps us to attract, retain and 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 motivate a workforce which reflects the communities in SVP, VP 26 25 25 25 22 required at each key stage. We are extending attendance at our leadership programmes to more employees which we operate. Director 38 37 36 36 35 in emerging markets. For example, in 2011 30% of Manager 42 42 42 41 40 We are committed to making employment at GSK accessible participants in the Leading Business programme for Total 39 38 38 38 37 to people with disabilities and increasing the proportion of potential general managers were from emerging markets, women and people from emerging markets in management and our First Line leadership programme was delivered Ethnic minorities – UK and USA employees (%) positions. We measure the proportion of women in in 12 languages in 28 countries. management positions worldwide and the proportion 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Our Future Strategy Group (FSG) has proved valuable of ethnic minority employees in the UK and USA. UK 19.6 19.4 19.4 19.2 19.1 opportunities for high potential employees to work closely USA 21.9 20.5 20.4 20.5 20.1 We aim for people with disabilities to be able to access the full with the Corporate Executive Team. In 2011 34 employees range of recruitment and career opportunities. We partner The proportion of people we employ in our Emerging undertook assignments in challenging areas such as access with disability organisations such as the Employers’ Forum Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan regions has increased from to medicines and malaria, gaining valuable experience of on Disability in the UK and SERMES in Spain. In 2011 we 28% to 41% of our total employees in 2011. Around 10% thinking and operating at an enterprise-wide level. signed the Employers’ forum for Disability Accessible of senior managers who report to our executive team Thinking flexibly about the way we work enables us to Technology Charter. Supported by 17 other blue chip came from these regions and we plan to increase this. attract and retain critical talent groups. This include organisations and government departments, the charter aims to improve access to IT for people with disabilities Ethnic minorities accounted for 19.6% of UK employees formal arrangements such as flexible hours, part-time and to spur more inclusive IT design. in 2011. The proportion of ethnic minorities of England working and job shares, as well as informal arrangements and Wales was 12.5% in the 2001 Census. This is based on such as working from different locations. It empowers We have a good representation of women in management the UK Commission for Racial Equality definition, which employees, helping them to optimise their effectiveness positions. The percentage of women in higher level encompasses those who do not identify themselves as and better balance their work with other needs and positions grew in 2011, reflecting our goal to increase the White British. We also measure diversity in the UK by the commitments. We encourage flexibility, provided it also proportion of female employees at the most senior levels. number of employees who define themselves as non-white. meets the broader needs of the business. Our aspiration is to have more than 25% female In 2011 12.3% of employees were non-white, compared representation on the Board by 2013. We currently with 12.1% in 2010. have three women serving as Non-Executive Directors, In the USA ethnic minorities are defined as Black or representing 20% of the Board. We have three women African American people, Hispanic or Latino people, on our Corporate Executive Team. Asian people, Pacific Islanders, American Indian people and Alaskan natives. The proportion of ethnic minority employees in the USA has increased and we continue to work towards the industry average defined by the North American Industry Classification System for Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 41 Our people and Working at GSK – Health and safety communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our seven strategic EHS priorities Health and safety Resilience in Latin America Health and safety management is integrated in GSK’s GSK’s Latin America region has used the Team Resilience Healthy, Improving the health of employees environment, health and safety (EHS) strategy. It supports programme and Energy for Performance (E4P) workshops sustainable and their families through disease business objectives by reducing the risk of harm and to significantly reduce perceived workplace pressures. lives prevention and health promotion. helping employees to be healthy, productive and energised. Each country in the region introduced the Team A strategic review completed in 2011 set our new EHS Resilience programme following success with the sales Energised aspirations as having a healthy, resilient, high-performing force in Brazil. More than 5,000 employees have now Helping employees to manage their workforce, and achieving zero harm to people and the and resilient personal health and sustainability. benefited since 2008, while more than 1,000 have workers environment. We have identified seven strategic priorities participated in E4P.* to achieve this. The programme enables employees to engage with their Sustaining highProviding coaching to help people The CEO EHS and Sustainability Awards are a key tool for manager to reflect on the way they work, analyse perform at their best by developing engaging employees on health, safety and environmental performing their own solutions and resources. pressure points and identify action to improve resilience. issues. We refreshed the awards in 2011 to reflect the new More employees now perceive lower pressure in six of leaders Read more on page 39. strategic priorities. In particular, we recognised projects the seven categories between 2008 and 2011.* that showed demonstrable benefits to the business in our Healthy, highEnhancing the working strategic areas. This year we received 90 applications (30% % responses citing low or medium/high pressure in Latin America performing environment to improve the more than in 2010).* Winners are featured here and in the workplaces quality of working life. Our planet section on page 82. Work demands 2011 20 80 2008 25 75 A healthy, resilient, high-performing workforce 2011 39 61 Culture Zero serious GSK has provided programmes that have a positive impact 2008 21 79 Eliminating all serious incidents. 2011 54 46 accidents by improving people’s well-being and productivity for Control 2008 31 69 several years. These programmes, tools and resources help employees to lead healthier lives and to cope better with 2011 58 42 Management practices Embedding Putting the right values and the stresses they may experience at work and at home. 2008 35 65 practices at the core of our culture 2011 58 42 EHS beliefs  to embed them in the way we In 2012 we will pilot a new preventive healthcare services Career and development 2008 35 65 and behaviours programme for employees and their families. do business. 2011 58 42 Relationships 2008 35 65 2011 70 30 Environmental Reducing our environmental Individual characteristics 2008 41 59 sustainability footprint. Read more on page 82. Low Medium/High *SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 42 Our people and Working at GSK – Health and safety communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Emotional and mental health and the ability to cope Aiming for zero harm with pressure are just as important as physical well-being. Our Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) provides GSK While we aim for zero harm our immediate aspiration is zero serious incidents. CEO Awards employees with access to counselling and mental health Resilience and emotional crisis support. We extended EAP to 94% Risks to employees vary according to their roles but include of employees in 2011, up from 52% at the beginning of chemical exposure, driving accidents and repetitive strain GSK Taiwan’s Energy for Performance programme the year.* injuries. We operate rigorous procedures to eliminate won the CEO Sustainability Award for a Healthy, hazards where practicable and protect employees where High-Performing Workforce. The programme Our Energy and Resilience programmes help individuals necessary, but the right culture is an essential starting strengthened personal and team resilience through and teams to be more effective by increasing their focus, point. Our Living Safety programme, initially launched a high-profile, holistic programme. Results included energy and confidence and reducing tension, anxiety and in 2009, aims to change the perception of how safety halving the employee turnover rate in 2010. fatigue. An additional 8,500 employees participated in is integrated into operations and to increase personal one or more resilience programmes in 2011, bringing Zero Harm responsibility for safety. A Living Safety module on the the overall participation to nearly 50,000 employees.* intranet provides interactive tools to improve employees’ R&D and manufacturing teams from Ware (UK), Energy Coaching was a new programme in 2011 – one-onunderstanding of risks and how to manage them. Evreux (France) and Zebulon (USA) jointly won the one telephone coaching in three sessions, during which Reducing our health and safety risks CEO Sustainability Award for Zero Harm with a project the coach helps employees to identify their energy needs and evaluate options to address them. Revitalize You!™ We took steps in 2011 to improve risk recognition, injury to automate the analytical testing of dry powder was another new programme, an intranet tool through root cause assessment, and general safety capabilities inhalers. Results included reduced exposure of analysts which employees learn to recognise and manage throughout GSK. There was a particular emphasis on to solvent and active ingredients, no risk of repetitive emotional stress and mental distraction. machine, process and construction safety. We also strain injuries, improved data quality and consistency, launched a professional certification programme to and improved throughput and efficiency. Energy and Resilience programmes have a measurable improve health and safety skills in our EHS workforce. impact on employee behaviour. Our analysis has found This will help us fill EHS talent shortages in developing that participants improved on aspects of desirable markets in support of our EHS goals. behaviour such as acting as a coach or mentor and setting specific targets. They also reported improved lifestyles, Hazardous materials used in the development and especially nutrition, resulting in feeling healthier and manufacture of pharmaceuticals continue to be a key risk more energetic. For example, a follow-up study in GSK in our operations (see page 90). Our three-year process safety Canada demonstrated that employees had increased plan aims to identify and reduce risk, train personnel in engagement with their work following Energy for key process safety elements and improve performance. Performance, with 80% saying the programme improved For instance, in our primary manufacturing sites we use their job performance as much as three years later.* process safety performance indicators such as the number and severity of incidents to ensure these risks are well managed. *SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 43 Our people and Working at GSK – Health and safety communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  In 2011 we launched a process safety programme for ‘Respirator Free’ is an ongoing initiative to use engineering Alert approach halves injuries secondary and consumer manufacturing. The programme and process related controls to reduce the occupational identifies potential major hazards, develops risk reduction exposure risk to harmful airborne powders. With the Our Clifton, New Jersey site in the USA halved the rate plans, provides process safety training and reviews completion of projects in 2011, 60% of the tasks involving of injury and illness in 2011 by creating a paradigm key control systems. We completed 11 process safety powder handling in our manufacturing facilities are now shift that changed employees’ approach to ‘near miss’ diagnostics in 2011.* All secondary and consumer sites respirator free.* incidents.* Employees decided to replace the term ‘near will be covered by the end of 2012. miss’ with ‘safety alert’, a term more likely to grab Raising employee awareness of the importance of health attention and provoke action. We routinely perform audits to ensure we are reducing and safety in our commercial and sales operations and managing our risks effectively. In 2011 there were is challenging. This is a very diverse group of work The site director challenged each employee to submit 31 internal audits. The main themes were the control environments in diverse geographies and situations at least one safety alert each quarter to achieve a total of high risk and non-routine activities, process safety, ranging from offices in London to sales forces on of 800 in the year, compared to only 129 in 2010. monitoring systems and control of pathological agents. motorbikes in India. In 2011 a needs assessment of field The thinking was that more alerts would lead to The audits found that management of health and safety groups led to the development of specific training and more action, preventing more accidents. risks was generally adequate. They identified progress tools in road and driver safety. We also launched an Employees responded enthusiastically, submitting on process safety risks and machinery safety and found awareness campaign on the risks of injury from slipping more than 2,000 alerts in the year.* More importantly, that improvement is needed on issues relating to risk and falling, one of the greatest contributors to injury safety improved. The site went nearly six months management processes, self-inspection and related work loss (page 44). without a reportable injury.* monitoring systems. Ergonomics In addition to internal audit work, we are enhancing site We have made exceptional progress in recent years in audits to help identify and control health and safety risks. improving our ergonomic programme and continue to These audits are carried out by site employees and help increase employee awareness. Our ergonomics website build a better risk assessing and monitoring culture. now encourages sites to submit their solutions to We trained 359 employees to carry out site-based audits ergonomic problems, creating a library of examples that at our manufacturing sites.* help other sites with similar situations. The next step, The philosophy of ‘Zero Access’ to machines adopted at beginning in 2012, is to replace existing risk assessment manufacturing sites in 2010 resulted in a 67% decrease applications with a single system more appropriate to in significant risks related to the operation of production open office design. machinery.* Zero Access aims to eliminate serious injuries and harm to employees related to machine safety. It ensures protective machine guarding is in place and lockout-tagout (LOTO) processes are in use to protect staff during operations. However, even with these protective measures in place, three employees suffered amputations in 2011 (page 44). *SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 44 Our people and Working at GSK – Health and safety communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Health and safety performance* Fines or penalties Reportable injury and illness rate Work related fatalities and serious injuries No health and safety fines or penalties were assessed against GSK in 2011. per 100,000 hrs worked Keeping our employees and contractors healthy and safe is our priority and is an essential part of being a responsible Injury and illness 2014 Target 0.28 employer. Regrettably two of our employees died in 2011, 2011 0.34 We have set a new target for 2014 and our performance one in Pakistan after feeling unwell during an off-site 2010 0.42 in 2011 demonstrates we have started to make progress. training programme. A second employee died and another We expect this trend to continue with the expansion was seriously injured when the car they were travelling in of our Living Safety programme and use of leading was ambushed in Nigeria. Leading causes of GSK reportable injuries performance metrics to measure our performance. and illnesses Following any serious incident we review and assess our The broad picture of injury and illness causes remains processes and where we can build on the guidance we give 1 % the same as in previous years. Our top three leading our employees. Guidance to recognising and responding 1 Slips/trips/falls 24 causes are slips/trips/falls, machinery-related injuries to heart symptoms has been shared globally and further 6 2 Machinery 21 and musculoskeletal conditions (eg repetitive stress, strain, advice and measures to reduce car-jacking risks have been 3 Motor vehicle accidents 14 motion). While cases of mental ill-health account for less 5 2 provided to our employees in Nigeria. 4 Sprains/strains 13 that 2% of all our incidents they continue to have the 5 Musculoskeletal condition 8 When performing routine activities at sites in India and highest number of lost calendar days. 4 6 Other 20 Egypt, two operators suffered amputations from moving 3 For more detailed breakdown of metrics and more data machinery. Another employee in India suffered a finger please see the detailed download available online. amputation during a motor vehicle accident. Our ‘zeroOur environment, health and safety data in the CR Report access’ and driver safety approaches are critical to is assured by SGS UK. Read its assurance statement and preventing machine and road safety related serious our response on page 94. injuries and harm to our employees (page 42). *SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 45 Our people and Working at GSK – Health and safety communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Summary injury and illness data EHS plans and targets 2011 2010 In 2012 we will be working in four priority areas: Hours worked (millions) 207.3 207.9 • Enable Sustainable Business Performance Fatalities 2 1 We will reduce our reportable injury and illness rate by Number of injuries and illnesses with lost time 414 508 5% each year to the end of 2014. We will enhance EHS Calendar days lost 8,989 10,824 and leadership capability and engagement, expand Number of injuries and illnesses without lost time 300 356 Living Safety, improve our driver safety programme Lost-time injury and illness rate and produce simplified EHS management tools. (per 100,000 hrs worked) 0.20 0.24 • Risk Reduction We will simplify our EHS standards Calendar days lost rate (per 100,000 hrs worked) 4.34 5.21 and policies, revise our EHS governance structure, Reportable injury and illness rate introduce predictive ways to reduce risk and develop (per 100,000 hrs worked) 0.34 0.42 an ill-health absence risk reduction strategy. Notes: • Behaviours and Values We will launch an EHS (1) Data cover both our employees and contract workers who are directly supervised by GSK employees. We report a snapshot of injury and illness Engagement Programme to drive our new ambitions. performance for the year. Cases may be added after the end of the year, We will develop leading metrics to give advance warning so prior years may change. of risks that will be the basis for targets to be set in 2012. (2) Lost-time injuries and illnesses are work-related injuries and illnesses that This will include an EHS Culture Index and a metric are serious enough to result in one or more days away from work. based on ‘near miss’ reporting which will prevent more (3) Lost calendar days are the days – including weekends – that employees could not work because of work-related injuries and illnesses. This helps serious incidents. provide a measure of the severity of the injuries and illnesses. • EHS operating model We will enhance EHS critical (4) Reportable injuries and illnesses without lost time are incidents that did not result in time away from work. There are more serious than first aid but not capabilities, and assess and fill any competency gaps. serious enough to result in lost time. We will also aim for rapid adoption of best practices and increased global consistency to identify and address gaps. Read more online We publish our positions online including: • Hazardous chemical management • GSK and EU REACH Regulation + www.gsk.com/reportsandpublications-policies GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 46 Our people and communities Our community investment Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our community investment aims to We maximise the benefits of our community investment Responding to the Japanese earthquake by working in partnership with NGOs and by selecting improve health education and increase projects that enable us to use our expertise and resources. Following the earthquake and devastating tsunami in Japan on 11 March 2011, GSK Japan mobilised ‘Team access to medicines and healthcare As well as benefiting communities, our investment Orange’, employee volunteers who delivered food, strengthens our business by improving our reputation, services. We target support where we boosting employee morale and helping us build blankets, face masks and other emergency products to can make the most difference. relationships based on mutual understanding with people and our colleagues in affected areas in Tohoku district. An employee fundraising campaign raised a range of stakeholders. £303,000 to support the ongoing reconstruction and Our approach includes funding innovative programmes The programmes we support are designed to have a longrecovery efforts. that improve health through community engagement and term, sustainable impact. We set ambitious commitments behavioural change, donating medicines and expertise, and work with experienced partners. We also contributed essential medicines and GSK and reinvesting some of our profits to improve healthcare Consumer Healthcare products to the affected areas infrastructure. We also invest in science education and Read more in the Health for all section of our report, which valued at £2.2 million and donated £1.7 million in cash support relief efforts following natural disasters. includes details and progress on our commitments to: to the Japanese Red Cross. We also responded quickly • Our long-term albendazole donation programme which to make sure that there were minimal disruptions to targets two neglected tropical diseases the elimination of product supply, see page 72 for more detail. lymphatic filariasis (LF, also known as elephantiasis) and We have created an ‘Orange Scholarship’ fund treatment of children for intestinal worms on page 26. to support students affected by the earthquake. • Reinvest 20% of profits we make in Least Developed Thirty students studying pharmacy at two universities Countries (LDCs) back into healthcare infrastructure, in Tohoku started receiving scholarships of 50,000 yen partnering with three leading non-governmental (approximately £410) per month until their graduation organisations (NGOs) to address the shortage of trained to help continue their studies at university. frontline healthcare workers on page 19. • Our Personal Hygiene and Sanitation Education (PHASE) programme, run in partnership with NGOs, which aims to reduce diarrhoeal disease by improving water quality and encouraging people to wash their hands on page 27. We also encourage employees to get involved as volunteers through our Orange Day and PULSE initiatives and you can read more on page 50 about these. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 47 Our people and Our community investment – Performance in 2011 communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Performance in 2011 Over half of our cash giving of £57 million is targeted at Our giving in 2011 health programmes. This includes our partnerships with Our global community investment was £204 million AMREF, CARE International, Save the Children to support 1 £m ($328 million) in 2011. Overall giving remained constant training of frontline healthcare workers, as part of our 4 1 Cash 57 between 2010 and 2011 after excluding our one-off commitment to reinvest 20% of profits made in the Least 3 2 Product 126 donation of 24 million doses of H1N1 vaccination to Developed Countries. You can read more about these on 3 In-kind 4 the World Health Organization for use in developing page 20. We publish data about our charitable grants to 4 Management 17 2 countries in 2010. patient groups (page 79) and grants over £10,000 online. Total 204 We value donations at cost (average cost of goods) rather Our US Patient Assistance Programs account for almost than wholesale acquisition cost (WAC), a measure used half of our overall giving and you can read more about by some other companies, as we believe it is a more these in more detail on page 30. Several factors impacted accurate reflection of the true cost to GSK. We belong to our US programmes in 2011 and we expect these to the UK’s London Benchmarking Group (LBG) and the US Breakdown of our cash giving continue in 2012. These include the removal of several of Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP). our branded medicines given the commercial availability 1 % LBG guidelines report product donations at cost, whereas of low-cost generic products, a fall in patient enrolments 6 1 Health 52 5 CECP guidelines report product donations at market due to changes to Medicare Part D, and our switch from 2 Education 22 4 value. For benchmarking purposes we also report the retail to mail order which reduced our overall programme 3 Arts and culture 9 3 WAC value of our donations. The total value of 2011 costs (and are included in our figures). 4 Environment 2 global giving using WAC for product donations was 5 20% LDC reinvestment 7 £474 million ($764 million). Participation in our PULSE programme continues to 6 Other 8 increase with a further £1 million invested in 2011. PULSE 2 Our product donations (at cost) of £126 million are made volunteers continue to receive their full GSK salary during through three main programmes: placement. These along with programme operating costs • Our US Patient Assistance Programs to support low-income represent a £3.3 million in-kind donation in 2011. We also patients in the USA (£96 million) • Our humanitarian product donations (£4 million) began our investment in Olympics-related community programmes in 2011 such as Scientists in Sport and Your Help for Heroes Personal Best which you can read about on the next page. • Our donation of albendazole tablets for the lymphatic In the UK, GSK is supporting the new Phoenix Wellness filariasis (LF) elimination programme (£19 million) ViiV Healthcare has more than doubled its giving from Centre at Tedworth House Personnel Recovery and £8 million in 2010 to £18 million in 2011, driven by Assessment Centre in Tidworth, Salisbury for injured You can read about our policy and principles that expansion of its US patient assistance programme and servicemen and women with the charity Help for underpin our approach to product donations online. continued funding of its Paediatric Innovation Seed Fund Heroes. We will be providing funding of £1 million and Positive Action for Children Fund. You can read more over the next five years in support of this programme. about these on page 32 and 34. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 48 Our people and communities Feature: Bringing science to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We are using the excitement generated by the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games as an opportunity to advance scientific progress, inspire a new generation of young scientists and improve the health and well-being of communities and employees. Some of this will be achieved through our official London 2012 partnership, but we are also going beyond this commitment to create a positive and lasting legacy. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 49 Our people and Feature: Bringing science to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Promoting fair play and advancing scientific progress Inspiring young scientists Improving health and well-being in the community As the Official Laboratory Services Provider of the London 2012 has inspired GSK to create Scientists in We are using London 2012 as an opportunity to improve London 2012 Games, we are contributing our expertise in Sport, a school outreach programme. Jointly developed health and well-being through community initiatives research and development to support the integrity of the with KCL and UK Anti-Doping (UKAD), this helps such as Your Personal Best. This initiative with NHS Games and the health of athletes. Scientists from King’s 11–14 year olds understand the role science will play London will help to deliver a health legacy for London College London (KCL) will use the new World Antiin the Games and excites them about potential science 2012 by inspiring the 7.78 million people aged over Doping Agency (WADA) accredited laboratory, established careers. The children visit a university to participate in 55 with long-term health conditions to lead a more by GSK, to test for use of performance-enhancing drugs activities and hear about how science is used in sport. active lifestyle. during the Games. We are helping to recruit over At the same time we are running a UK-wide challenge Motivating our employees 100 PhD students, who will support KCL anti-doping for schools endorsed by the British Science Association, We have used our London 2012 partnership to experts to analyse over 6,000 samples – more than any where teams can design a portable anti-doping kit to recognise GSK employees who make a positive difference. tested during previous Games. GSK is currently working test for new substances. We have developed kits for We are using 100% of our ticket allocation for the to secure a sustainable future for the laboratory in the GSK Science Ambassadors to use in our outreach Olympic and Paralympic Games to reward employees hope that it could operate as a standalone business programme and a range of free resources for teachers who are demonstrably living the joint GSK and Olympic/ beyond the Games. GSK has also selected 10 employees and pupils available at www.scientistsinsport.com Paralympic ideals of integrity, equality, friendship who will manage Anti-Doping Control Centres at Our ambition is to reach every secondary school in the and excellence. Olympic and Paralympic venues where athletes will UK and get thousands of schoolchildren participating provide their samples. in our programmes. We will continue to help in the fight against doping after the Games and have committed to supply WADA with confidential information about medicines in early stage development that have the potential to be abused by athletes. This will allow them to develop testing techniques before these medicines are even marketed. Official Laboratory Services Provider GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 50 Our people and Our community investment – PULSE and employee volunteering communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  PULSE and employee volunteering Six months after completing PULSE, nearly 80% of Our other major volunteer programme, Orange Day, gives volunteers said that they were more energised by their employees one paid day off each year to volunteer for their We contribute time and expertise, as well as money and work at GSK. Eighty-three per cent of volunteers’ team chosen local community project. This year, thousands of products, to create positive change in the communities members at GSK said that PULSE had enabled volunteers US staff volunteered as part of the National Day of Service in which we operate. Our two volunteer programmes, to share a different external perspective that had helped and Remembrance on the tenth anniversary of 9/11. PULSE and Orange Day, provide employees with the to inform or shape GSK’s work, thinking or policy. Activities included packing more than 120,000 meals for opportunity to make an impact and develop their In 2010, 86% of the NGO managers said that their people in Haiti, Kenya and Nicaragua and flood victims in knowledge and capabilities. volunteer’s impact was sustainable six months after the USA. The national day was initiated by MyGoodDeed PULSE gives employees the chance to join a non-profit the PULSE assignment ended. a charity of which we are a founding sponsor. or non-governmental organisation (NGO) for a threeIn a recent international corporate volunteering or sixmonth, full-time placement. It enables employees benchmark study by an independent organisation, with leadership potential to develop professional skills in PULSE emerged as top-of-class compared to over new and challenging environments while helping partner 20 other international corporate volunteering organisations to develop and implement strategic plans, programmes. PULSE was differentiated from peer improve their processes and operations, and enhance programmes for its breadth, scope and duration of their communications and marketing. assignments, as well as incorporating rigorous processes We have worked with 58 PULSE partners supporting for measuring impact on partner organisations, GSK organisations that work on healthcare, education and and our volunteers. environmental issues in areas of great need and that have In 2012 we will evolve our programme and launch three a proven track record. In 2011 we started new partnerships ‘PULSE Pillars’, which will focus on multi-year, multi200 58 with 15 NGOs, including CARE International, JEN volunteer projects, strengthening our contribution in (a Japanese emergency relief charity), and the Philadelphia three areas: malaria, access to health, and children. Education Fund. There were 80 PULSE volunteers in 2011, up We will continue to improve our measurement to help from 58 in 2010, with volunteers coming from 22 countries us better understand the impact of PULSE. To further (17 countries in 2010). Nearly 200 employees from increase the diversity of PULSE volunteer and NGO PULSE volunteers PULSE partner 26 countries have served as PULSE volunteers since 2009. participants we will continue to support the PULSE since 2009 organisations Local Hub in Japan and will establish PULSE Local Hubs in Latin America and India. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 51 Our people and Case study Our community investment – PULSE and employee volunteering communities Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  IMPACT Awards Our annual IMPACT Awards recognise small and The Awards are open to charities with an annual medium-sized charities that are providing excellent turnover of less than £1.5 million (UK) or between and innovative local community healthcare in the UK $160,000 and $3 million (USA). As well as the prize and in the Philadelphia and Raleigh/Durham regions money, our IMPACT Assessment offers feedback and of the USA. advice to each winner to help them strengthen their management plans. Step Forward received £35,000 as the overall winner of the UK IMPACT Awards in 2011. This charity provides In the UK the winning and highly commended free and confidential advice and personal development organisations are invited to become part of the IMPACT services to disadvantaged young people in and around Awards Development Network, set up in 2008 to connect Tower Hamlets, London. Other winners, who received the winning charities and provide them with five days £25,000 each included Bryncynon Strategy in Cynon of organisational development training. The training is Valley, Wales, which develops innovative ways to funded and hosted at GSK and is facilitated by The King’s improve public health services in a deprived community Fund, which has over 30 years’ experience training senior affected by the loss of the local coal mining industry. leaders in the health sector. In the USA, awards of $40,000 are given to up to 10 organisations. This year these included Housing for New Hope, which helps homeless people to access healthcare services as part of their integrated approach to homelessness, and Phoenixville Healthcare Access Foundation, which assists uninsured and under-insured, lower-income individuals in obtaining dental, vision and prescription services. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 52 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our behaviour Contents Introduction 53 Clinical research 64 Ethical conduct 54 Patient safety 66 Preventing bribery Supply chain 68 Behaving in an open and corruption 54 The supply and Marketing our products 55 distribution process 69 and honest manner Feature: Changing the Our supplier standards 70 in all that we do way we incentivise our sales teams in the USA 56 Performance in 2011 71 Security of supply 72 Publishing payments to Supplier diversity 73 healthcare professionals 58 Public policy and Publishing grants patient advocacy 74 and donations 58 Trade and industry Training and awareness 58 associations 74 Monitoring and Public policy activity in 2011 75 compliance 59 Political contributions and Data privacy 60 lobbying expenditure 77 Research practices 61 Patient advocacy 78 Animal research 61 Human rights 80 We are building a strong values-based culture. We recognise + Click arrows above to that we need to be go to each section open about what we do, how we do it and the challenges we face. Our actions are backed by robust policies and strong compliance processes. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 53 Our behaviour Introduction Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our commitment to responsible, Ethical conduct We are committed to performance Progress in 2011 with integrity. We are building a strong values-based values-based business underlies culture by developing robust policies and compliance • Developed new sales models – de-coupling the pay of our sales representatives in the USA from the number everything we do including how processes, by employing the right people, being clear of prescriptions issued (page 56). about what we stand for and helping them in making we conduct and report our research, ethical decisions. • Updated our Global Code of Practice for Promotion and our sales and marketing practices, Research practices Investment in R&D is at the core Customer Interactions bringing greater consistency in our operating practices across the company (page 55). lobbying and policy activities and of our business and it is essential we meet consistently high ethical and quality standards in all that we do. • P ublication of payments, grants and donations made to our relationships with suppliers. We recognise that there are aspects of our research that healthcare professionals and organisations in the USA. can raise ethical concerns and we aim to be open about We continue to work towards disclosure in other We set high standards for our employees through markets (page 58). how we address these. our policies and compliance programmes and expect • R eached an agreement in principle with the the same standards of our suppliers, contractors and Supply chain An effective and responsibly managed US Government to conclude a number of ongoing business partners. Most importantly, we are building supply chain is essential for us to provide our medicines investigations into sales and marketing practices for a a culture in which decisions are guided by our values and products to our patients and consumers. We aim settlement payment of $3 billion. This is a necessary of: Transparency, Respect for People, Integrity and to work with responsible suppliers and set expectations step towards resolving long-standing matters which do Patient-Focus. and standards for ethical conduct, labour practices, not reflect the company that we are today (page 55). protection of human rights and for environment, health and safety management and performance. • R educed number of animals used by 9% in 2011 compared to 2010 (page 61). Public policy and patient advocacy Through our • D eveloped new ‘Scientific Engagement’ policy and public policy activity we support legislative measures and standards to reinforce a clear distinction between programmes that support scientific innovation and balance our scientific dialogue and our promotional activity, the interests of business with those of other stakeholders. ensuring we reflect our values in how we engage with We also work with patient and professional groups to help others (page 63). their members gain a stronger voice on healthcare. • N ew commitment to disclose results summaries Human rights We are committed to upholding the for investigational medicines after clinical study Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the core labour completion rather than after approval or termination standards set by the International Labour Organization, of an asset (page 65). and have signed the UN Global Compact. We aim to act • C onducted 326 clinical quality assurance assessments responsibly across all our spheres of influence including covering GSK and external research carried out on our employees, suppliers, local communities and society our behalf (page 65). more broadly. • Improvements made to patient safety system databases and monitoring (page 66). GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 54 Our behaviour Ethical conduct Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK. Preventing bribery and corruption Our anti-bribery and corruption programme was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2011 and it concluded Failure to uphold high ethical We do not tolerate bribery and corruption, as we make that risk in this area is well managed and recommended clear in our Preventing Corrupt Practices policy and our standards can erode trust in our Code of Conduct. Our performance is reviewed monthly some enhancements. These related to our due diligence procedures and anti-bribery and corruption training company and our products, damage by our Head of Governance, Ethics and Assurance and programme and we will implement these recommendations by our legal department. In 2011 we established an Antiour reputation and result in serious Bribery and Corruption Expert Forum which meets every during 2012. financial or legal consequences. two weeks to answer employee questions and advise Employees can read our anti-bribery policies and access on anti-bribery and corruption issues. Members of the our anti-bribery handbook and e-learning module via Our Code of Conduct sets out fundamental standards for forum include representatives from our Anti-Bribery and our intranet. The e-learning training is mandatory for all all employees. It is supported by the Employee Guide to Corruption team, legal and compliance functions, as managers and employees working in certain functions, Business Conduct, available in 22 languages, which helps well as business representatives. Minutes of the meetings such as the legal department or in regions where there employees make ethical decisions and emphasises our are distributed to the members of the forum as well as is a higher risk of corruption, and is supplemented by values: transparency, respect for people, integrity, and to compliance officers, who convey the key messages to face to face training for employees in high risk roles. focusing on the patient. employees. Where new guidance or documents are created By the end of 2011, over 37,000 employees had taken as a result of the issues discussed, these are also posted on the training. You can read our Anti-bribery and Our compliance programmes aim to embed a values-based corruption handbook online. our intranet site which all employees can visit. culture at GSK. In 2011 we launched ‘One Compliance’, an initiative to improve consistency in policy, We enhanced our screening process in 2011 to reduce We introduced anti-bribery and corruption audits in 2011, implementation and monitoring across all our business bribery and corruption risks associated with the use of with their frequency and timing determined by regular units and the different countries in which we operate. third parties, including distributors and consultants who risk assessments. These are designed to provide assurance work on GSK’s behalf in some markets. The screening, that bribery and corruption risks are being adequately which includes background checks, is designed to identify managed, and that our policies and procedures to mitigate any potential issues associated with third parties in higher risk are working effectively. The audits focus on areas that risk categories (for instance those acting for and on behalf pose a high risk from a bribery and corruption perspective, of GSK or interacting with government officials) before we including travel and entertainment expenses, petty cash, agree to do business with them. Any issues raised during and the use of consultants. screening must be addressed which may mean not proceeding with a proposed relationship, the insertion of additional contractual clauses, or enhanced monitoring and training for the third party. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 55 Our behaviour Ethical conduct – Marketing our products Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Marketing our products Global Code of Practice for Promotion We also strengthened a number of commercial practice and Customer Interactions policies in the USA in 2011, including enhancing oversight We market our prescription medicines and vaccines to and review of educational reprints, publications, healthcare healthcare professionals, hospitals and governments. Some To reflect our commitment to consistently high standards economic information and other materials used in people are concerned that marketing by pharmaceutical in sales and marketing, we reviewed and updated our promoting our medicines. Our US Pharmaceuticals business companies may exert undue influence on doctors, that sales Global Code of Practice for Promotion and Customer introduced a new policy governing support for US-based, representatives may not always give doctors full information Interactions in 2011. The Code, which covers areas such non-profit healthcare organisations and centralised the about the products they are promoting, or that there may be as providing information and fees for service payments to management and funding support for these. promotion of medicines for unapproved uses. Our existing healthcare professionals, samples, hospitality, grants and policies and updated Global Code of Practice for Promotion donations, will be rolled out in 2012 and published on our Direct-to-consumer marketing and Customer Interactions forbids these practices and other website. All employees who have contact with healthcare We advertise our prescription medicines directly to unethical conduct. We reinforce our policies through professionals, including our sales and marketing staff will consumers in the USA, New Zealand, Bangladesh and training and compliance procedures and by making sure be trained on the standards of the revised Code. South Korea. Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising of that the way we pay sales teams reinforces our values. Our regional and local policies, standard operating prescription medicines is not permitted in other markets. Read about remuneration of our sales teams overleaf. procedures and other codes provide additional guidance Promoting the use of prescription medicines directly to In recent years we have fundamentally changed our to employees reflecting differences in regulations, market consumers has been subject to criticism. We believe that procedures for compliance, marketing and selling in the structures and national healthcare systems. They are at responsible pharmaceutical advertising is a useful source USA to ensure that we operate with high standards of least as stringent as our Global Code, and in some regions of health information for patients. It helps to increase integrity and that we conduct our business openly and and countries may be more restrictive. We will review knowledge of conditions and educates patients about transparently. In 2011 we reached an agreement in principle and update all country-specific codes to make sure they treatment options. All our DTC advertising in the USA with the US Government to conclude a number of ongoing incorporate the requirements of the new Global Code is reviewed by legal, regulatory or medical specialists and investigations into sales and marketing practices for a of Practice for Promotion and Customer Interactions. new DTC television advertisements are submitted to the settlement payment of $3 billion. The final settlement In 2011 we further strengthened our standards governing US Food and Drug Administration for review and and Corporate Integrity Agreement, which is expected how we share scientific and clinical data on the medicines comment prior to broadcast. to address civil and criminal liabilities and the Group’s we are developing, as well as those already available to sales and marketing practices, remains subject to ongoing In 2011 we took the decision to stop television advertising patients, to ensure that there is a clear distinction between negotiation and is expected to be finalised in 2012. This is in the USA for erectile dysfunction medicines. Although appropriate scientific dialogue and legitimate promotional a significant step to resolving difficult and long-standing such advertising was legal, we made the decision to no activity. These new standards, introduced in April 2011, legal matters which do not reflect the company we are longer advertise these medicines on television out of are referred to as ‘Scientific Engagement’, and they impact today. We are fully committed to ensuring appropriate respect for viewers. the way we engage in scientific activities, such as advisory promotion of our medicines and to the standards rightly boards, publications, scientific congress activities and expected of us. medical education. You can read more about these standards on page 63. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 56 Our behaviour Feature: Changing the way we incentivise our sales teams in the USA Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our sales teams play an important role in providing physicians and other prescribers with up-to-date information on the safety and benefits of our medicines and vaccines. This information helps doctors make informed treatment decisions for their patients. It is critical that everything our representatives do and say is in line with our values and puts the interests of patients first. + GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 57 Our behaviour Feature: Changing the way we incentivise our sales teams in the USA Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We have developed new sales models to align with the Our new model for incentivising sales representatives changing market and expectations of our customers. who work directly with healthcare professionals aims For example we have modified the structure of our to reward how well our sales representatives support US sales team and in 2011 we were the first company their customers’ needs to achieve better patient outcomes, to de-couple the pay of our sales representatives in rather than basing bonuses on individual or territorythe USA from the number of prescriptions issued. based sales goals. Instead of measuring performance against individual sales targets we assess performance and In the past, multiple sales professionals assigned to determine bonuses on three factors: selling competency, different products might call on a physician or health customer evaluations, and the overall performance of the plan. Now, in many cases, one person may be responsible sales professional’s business unit. for a customer or a portfolio of products and will bring in specialists from the business when needed to This change further aligns our incentives with our values provide support. of transparency, respect for people, integrity and patient 3 factors 5,200 focus. We have shared information about our new model This change aligns with the changing healthcare with others, including the US Government. environment in the USA where physician practices and hospitals are consolidating, and decision-making is In Europe we have also changed the way we reward increasingly centralised. We believe our new approach pharmaceuticals field sales staff, replacing individual sales puts us in a strong position to meet the greater demand targets as the basis for reward with qualitative criteria, to assess performance US sales representatives from patients, healthcare providers and payers for higher overall business financial achievement and individualquality care, lower costs and better health outcomes. indexed performance measures. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 58 Our behaviour Ethical conduct – Publishing payments to healthcare professionals Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Publishing payments At the beginning of 2011 we signed a statement with a Training and awareness number of other leading healthcare companies through to healthcare professionals the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry Training and awareness programmes help employees (ABPI) committing to report payments in the UK annually understand the importance of ethical conduct and We make payments to healthcare professionals (HCPs) to at an aggregate level. This will begin in 2013 for payments of applying our policies in practice. Before hiring new help them participate in scientific conferences, to speak at made in 2012 and will cover payments made to healthcare recruits we carry out pre-employment checks to ensure meetings and conferences on behalf of GSK about products and disease or therapy areas relevant to us, to sit on and professionals for speaking and advisory services, as well they share GSK’s values. We include questions on ethics provide expertise at GSK advisory panels and to conduct as sponsorship. As a UK-based company, we will use this and integrity in our guides that are used during GSK sponsored research. These services are valuable to as the basis for our global standard across GSK while employee interviews. our business and to improving patients’ health, and GSK continuing to report payments at a named individual New employees complete induction training on the believes professionals should be fairly compensated if they level in the USA. GSK Code of Conduct and specialised training is provide services and expertise to us. However, payments provided for employees working in R&D, manufacturing, must not be excessive and support must never be an Publishing grants and donations and sales and marketing, where there are additional inducement or reward for prescribing our products. GSK is regularly asked to make grants and donations to regulatory requirements. We have committed to publishing the payments we make healthcare organisations to support a range of activities. Examples of training in 2011 included the launch of to HCPs. In the USA, the payments made to HCPs for Grants are monetary contributions which may be used ‘performing with integrity’ programmes for new staff in speaking and advisory services are published quarterly to fund the attendance of the organisation’s HCPs at a the USA, and quarterly training for US senior employees on our US website. For the first three quarters of 2011, GSK medical or scientific meeting by covering their expenses, on ‘leading with integrity’. We also updated our coaching paid 3,407 healthcare professionals a total of $22.9 million, to support research and to support independent medical tool for US sales employees to include four questions on excluding research and development payments. Fourth education programmes. Donations are non-monetary values and compliance to help supervisory staff better quarter figures for 2011 will be published on 30 March contributions, such as medical equipment or textbooks, assess the ethical behaviour of their sales teams. We have 2012. You can read more about our commitment to and for the benefit of patients and healthcare organisations. updated our personal development programmes in the disclosure of research payments made to healthcare USA to include performance and development objectives Separately we make community investment grants and professionals and their institutions on page 64. relating to how employees implement our values. product donations that are included in our disclosure In 2011 we made a commitment to publish payments of community investments (page 46). Grants made We require all managers and employees who interact with for services, grants and donations made to healthcare to patient advocacy organisations are covered later in healthcare professionals to confirm annually that they professionals and organisations outside of the USA during the section on page 78. comply with our ethics policies. Our certification process 2010. We remain fully committed to disclosing these will be supplemented with a new training programme for We publish grants and donations in the USA every quarter payments. However, achieving this is challenging – systems all employees to increase awareness, and we will introduce on our US website and have committed to extend this to and processes in each country need to be aligned to help us all grants and donations outside of the USA. We will align this during 2012. collate data across different systems and multiple currencies. our disclosure of grants and donations outside of the We have been working to create and introduce appropriate USA at an aggregate level to the same time frame as the processes that will ensure we can do this effectively and disclosure of payments made to healthcare professionals accurately. To enable robust and complete reporting consistently across the company we have taken the outlined above, publishing figures in 2013 for grants and decision to delay disclosure. donations made in 2012. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 59 Our behaviour Ethical conduct – Monitoring and compliance Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Monitoring and compliance Addressing misconduct We believe the increases seen in 2011 and in 2010 (1,742 employees disciplined) are due to the introduction All managers must ensure compliance with company In 2011 there were over 2,700 contacts made through of the ‘Attendance and payroll’ category in 2010. policies in their areas of responsibility. Our Corporate our ethics and compliance channels. These included These attendance issues are mainly reported from our Ethics and Compliance department monitors and tracks enquiries and requests for information or guidance as manufacturing business where we have implemented allegations and suspected legal, ethical or policy infractions. well as allegations of misconduct made via line managers, tighter controls to ensure we maintain and build on It ensures that all allegations are appropriately investigated. compliance officers, our confidential reporting lines our strong track record of compliance. Additionally, Disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal and and offsite post office box (in the USA). our continued focus on manufacturing quality is seen reporting to the relevant external authorities, is taken In 2011: through an increase in disciplinary numbers in the where necessary. Serious violations of our policies are Good Manufacturing Practice/Good Distribution • 1,828 employees were disciplined for policy violations reported to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. Practice (GMP/GDP) category in the same time period. • Of these, 308 were dismissed or agreed to leave the We are expanding our network of compliance officers Other categories have remained broadly consistent over company voluntarily (known as separations) and deputy compliance officers in our business units that time. • Other disciplinary actions included 1,520 documented and regions. These roles are closely aligned with our warnings Types of policy violations in 2011 businesses, working with them to identify and monitor business and product specific risks in the early, strategy • The 1,828 disciplinary actions included 66 cases of employees breaching sales and marketing codes % phases of work to mitigate risk at the outset of projects. 1 1 Attendance, payroll 38 To increase the independence of our compliance teams, • These 66 cases resulted in seven dismissals or separations 2 GMP/GDP* 17 compliance officers are now funded by, and report directly from the company. The remaining cases resulted in 3 Falsification of documents 10 6 to, our Corporate Ethics and Compliance department, documented warnings. 5 4 Code of Conduct 7 rather than their local business unit. 5 Marketing and In addition to appropriate discipline, employees staying 4 Employees are encouraged to seek help on ethical issues and with the company receive retraining and increased promotional activities 5 2 3 6 All other policy violations 23 to report any concerns or suspected cases of misconduct. monitoring. In some cases retraining is extended to an They can do this through their line manager, the Corporate employee’s colleagues to prevent them from making Total violations in 2011=1,828 Ethics and Compliance department, a compliance officer or similar mistakes. *GMP/GDP relates to Good Manufacturing Practice, compliance champion, GSK’s human resources and legal Good Distribution Practice departments, or through our Global Confidential Reporting Line or the US Integrity Helpline. Our Global Confidential Reporting Line is available in 70 different languages. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 60 Our behaviour Ethical conduct – Data privacy Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Breaches of external codes Data privacy Plans for 2012 We collect information centrally on breaches of external Data protection and security continues to be a high As part of our One Compliance initiative, we will industry or government promotional codes by our priority for GSK. We have established global privacy establish a Compliance Advisory Service that will advise commercial businesses. A breach is defined as a sales or principles to ensure that all personal data are collected, senior leaders in the business on risk associated with marketing infraction or violation of a law, obligation, used, processed, transferred and stored appropriately, emerging business strategies and will be responsible for code or standard resulting in a fine or censure of GSK by securely and in line with legal requirements. We have promoting a values-based compliance culture within a government agency or industry association. Breaches are created a Global Privacy Office to oversee our privacy the business. We will also enhance our Compliance usually available publicly on industry group or regulator processes and communicate best practices throughout GSK. Operations functions and investigation capabilities as websites, and are often published in local news media. we continuously improve our compliance efforts. In 2011 we began to implement ‘Binding Corporate Rules’ We were found to be in breach of external codes 35 times standards on data privacy to improve the efficiency of In our US Pharmaceuticals business, we have created in 2011 and 29 times in 2010. These included: transfers of personal data within the company and to and will implement a ‘Controls Centre of Excellence’ • Breaches of country specific regulations and codes – 37% increase confidence in the security of the personal data in 2012 which will ensure alignment and compliance to in 2011. The majority related to new consumer product with which we are entrusted. These Binding Corporate regulatory requirements and company policies. This will marketing and promotion regulations introduced by Rules are a European Commission approved approach mitigate risk, enhance governance and address our current local Ministries of Health. enabling companies to transfer personal data to affiliates and anticipated needs. This effort will drive accountability located outside the European Economic Area in compliance for business-driven controls, centralise monitoring and • Inappropriate promotion of pharmaceutical products – with UK and European data protection regulations. reporting and support the business to build and enhance 35% in 2011. These related to strict regulations on Our Binding Corporate Rules cover personal data held its controls capability. advertising materials for promotion of pharmaceutical on our employees, research subjects and healthcare products which our local operating companies must professionals who we partner with in research. adhere to. In 2011, Epsilon, one of our marketing services suppliers, Read more online We fully investigate every breach of an external code was the target of a malicious attack in which customer • GSK Code of Conduct and take steps to prevent a reoccurrence which may personal data was stolen – including names and email include retraining or other corrective action, including • Employee Guide to Business Conduct addresses. GSK was one of 100 companies affected by disciplinary action. We aim to continually improve our this security breach. • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme Handbook processes to ensure compliance with industry codes and • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme Third Party government regulations. Our data breach incident response team assessed the Guidelines situation, and we notified every GSK consumer affected by email within 11 days of the incident. We set up a hotline • GSK’s Preventing Corrupt Practices Policy for questions and complaints and advised consumers to • GSK and marketing practices be on the look-out for unusual or suspicious emails. + www.gsk.com/responsibility GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 61 Our behaviour Research practices Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  It is essential that we meet consistently To ensure we apply recognised standards and principles of Animal research good medical science, integrity, and ethics to the discovery, high ethical and quality standards development and marketing of GSK products, we have a Animal studies remain a small but vital part of our research. In many cases they are the only method that for research and development in all system of principles, policies and accountabilities, known can be used to demonstrate the effects of a potential new as medical governance. This framework ensures that: parts of our business, and in all the • patient safety is our fundamental operating principle medicine in a living body before it is tested in humans. Animal research can also provide vital information about countries where we operate. ahead of commercial or other interests the causes of diseases and how diseases may develop. • our research is conducted in an objective, scientific and Safety regulations require us to test all new medicines Patient safety is always our priority. We evaluate the ethical manner that protects and informs patients, on animals before they are evaluated in clinical trials. benefits and risks of our medicines at all stages of research prescribers and payers Some countries require additional animal testing for and after a new product is approved for sale. We are also • promotional practices and all the information we provide their market even though the medicines have been committed to transparency and to disclosing the results on our products are ethical, accurate and balanced approved for use elsewhere. of our clinical research. • we meet our legal and regulatory obligations and When animals are necessary for our research, we are We recognise that there are aspects of our research which support appropriate use of our products to maximise committed to acting ethically, providing for the animals’ can raise ethical concerns, including those relating to benefits and minimise risks for patients. health and well-being, and practising good animal animal and clinical research and the use of emerging Overall responsibility for this framework sits with our welfare. These principles are applied both to studies technologies. We aim to address any concerns by being Chief Medical Officer, who is supported by Medical carried out within GSK facilities and to those conducted open about our approach and regularly engaging with Governance Boards across the business to ensure the by external contractors on our behalf. academic scientists, regulators, policymakers and other stakeholders. consistent operation of medical governance. The 3Rs In 2011 we developed a new GSK policy with guidance Ultimately GSK would like to see the important benefits and clear accountabilities to re-enforce a clear distinction of research being applied to humans without the need for between scientific engagement and product promotion animal testing. But we do not believe this can be achieved (page 63). in the foreseeable future. Our goal is to use animals only when scientifically necessary, use as few as scientifically To guide our research we must understand the unmet feasible and to minimise pain and distress. medical needs of patients and focus our daily work on meeting these needs. Our Focus on the Patient Our scientists apply the 3Rs principles of Replacement, programme helps us to do this by bringing patients to Reduction and Refinement to all our biomedical research: GSK sites to speak directly to our R&D teams about their • Replacing animal research with other methods specific healthcare needs. Read about our R&D and this where possible programme on page 10. • Reducing the number of animals used while still providing information of a given amount and precision • Refining techniques to minimise pain and distress and maximise animal welfare. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 62 Our behaviour Research practices – Animal research Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We encourage a 3Rs culture at GSK through regular training Performance in 2011 Change in number of animals used by GSK of staff involved the care and use of animals, raising compared to key drivers of animal use In 2011 the number of animals used was 20% lower than awareness and encouraging best practice, and recognising in 2000 while the two main drivers of animal use – R&D employees who have made significant advances in investment and vaccine sales – have increased over the % implementing the 3Rs through our Animal Welfare Awards. same period. 300 Progress in the 3Rs Animal use declined 9% in 2011 compared to 2010. 200 Faulty genes cause or contribute to a number of serious We continue to see a year-on-year decrease since 2006, 100 and potentially fatal illnesses, such as cystic fibrosis and reflecting a number of factors including changing research some forms of motor neuron disease. A valuable method priorities, fewer vaccines requiring testing on animals before 0 in understanding potential treatments for these genetic batch release, and a continued focus on 3Rs initiatives. 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 disorders involves making small changes to the responsible Animal research conducted by contractors on our behalf Animals used within GSK facilities genes of rodents so that scientists have a model of the accounts for around 13% of our total animal use in 2011. Animals used by contractors on behalf of GSK human illness and can then examine how changes or R&D investment plus vaccine sales Most of the animals used in GSK research – including experimental medicines may affect the development or research carried out by contractors – are rodents, mainly R&D investment plus vaccine sales are the two main drivers of animal use. control of the condition. However, this process also leads rats and mice. Non-rodents account for 4.3% of the Figures are normalised to 2000, the first year of data after the formation of to the birth of animals that do not carry the modification number of animals used. GlaxoSmithKline. Data include animal research conducted by external and are therefore not suitable for the research. contractors on our behalf, data unavailable for 2000 and 2001. Less than 0.2% of the animals we use are non-human In 2011 GSK scientists developed a method to sample and primates and this number has decreased by one-half screen the DNA in the sperm of mice to determine which Species used in GSK animal research 2011 since 2009. We have made a voluntary commitment mice carried the desired modification. This means that to no longer perform research on great apes. Other % the male mice most likely to pass on the required gene Through our Future Strategy Group programme (see page 96) Fish 2.5 can be selected and used for breeding. This has led to an Rabbit 1.0 approximately 70% reduction in the number of animals we examined how we approach and conduct animal Dog 0.4 bred to achieve a stable genetically modified line. research on a global basis. The team drew on the views 5 4 NHP 0.2 The team that carried this out have shared their work of 150 stakeholders, including welfare organisations and 3 Ferret 0.1 through peer-reviewed scientific publications and regulators. An integrated strategy was proposed focusing on 2 Farm 0.1 presentations at conferences. (1) delivering the highest quality of science with the least reliance Bird 0.04 on animals. It included building on our commitment to 1 % Over 95% of animals used in this type of biomedical the development of innovative alternatives to animal 1 Mouse 74.7 research are rodents, the majority of which are mice. research, optimising animal studies through enhanced 2 Rat 15.0 More detail can be found in our published position online. scientific review, finding ways to maximise and harness 3 Guinea pig 5.8 the use of our research data, and bolstering our external 4 Other 4.3 collaborations in this area. This strategy was endorsed and 5 Other rodents 0.2 (1) Wilson & Sheardown, Transgenic Res. 2011 Apr;20(2):429-33. approved in 2011 for global implementation. NHP refers to non-human primates. Farm indicates use of pigs, goats and sheep. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 63 Our behaviour Research practices – Animal research Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Strategy, global governance and advocacy around animal Our principles for scientific engagement research will be the responsibility of the Office of the Chief of Animal Welfare and Veterinary Medicine. It is essential that our research and Five principles for Scientific channels. It provides a strict This will be separate from departments responsible for our products meet the needs of Engagement have been adopted framework to engage stakeholder daily care of our animals and accountable for delivering patients and reflect the latest which reinforce our commitment groups including healthcare the objectives identified by the Future Strategy Group. scientific thinking. To achieve this, that the intent and actions of professionals, payers, patient In 2011 we also assessed how one of our core principles for the development of medicines is scientific engagement will not advocacy and the media. animal research – the need for all research to be reviewed by carried out with discussion and stimulate or accelerate demand for Our focus on Scientific Engagement an ethical review panel – was being applied worldwide. exchange of scientific and medical GSK products, or gain favour with has resulted in some changes to We found a high level of consistency between topics that information between GSK and prospective prescribers or other the way we work. For example we local committees look at during their review process, and outside experts and stakeholders. customers. The principles ensure have strengthened the medical agreed six supplementary principles to help local ethical This helps to ensure that our research that GSK’s values of transparency, accountability and governance of review groups apply our policies in practice. These include adds to scientific understanding and integrity, respect and patient focus scientific engagement activities and the composition of ethical review panels, use of trained advances the care of patients. underpin our intentions and actions. where appropriate ensured that the and competent personnel, and evaluation of alleviation of However, it is important that this Scientific Engagement governs the budget for these activities resides in pain and distress. legitimate scientific engagement way we engage in publishing our the medical function. An example of does not and is not seen to have GSK has animal research laboratories in Europe, Asia and science in the scientific literature a change we have made is to postpone a promotional intent. North America. We aim for all of these to have achieved and present our science at scientific disease awareness activities where we accreditation by the Association for Assessment and In 2011 we developed a new GSK congresses; seek and gain advice only have a product in development, Accreditation of Laboratory Care (AAALAC) International. policy and standards to reinforce a from external stakeholders; provide until after product authorisation. In 2011 we achieved accreditation for facilities in Hungary clear distinction between scientific medical information to answer We firmly believe Scientific and France and our Sirtris facility in the USA. AAALAC dialogue and promotional activity. unsolicited questions about our Engagement is fundamental if GSK accreditation now covers 92.5% of the animals housed These new standards, introduced products; and provide or support is to develop medicines of value to in GSK facilities. in April 2011, are called ‘Scientific medical education. The Scientific patients. The strengthening of our Engagement’, and they govern Engagement policy in these areas standards is part of our ongoing the way we engage in scientific governs our approach before and commitment to continually evaluate activities, such as advisory boards, after a product gains necessary how we conduct our business and publications, scientific congresses authorisation and approval. In ensures we reflect GSK’s values in and medical education. addition our approach to Scientific how we engage with stakeholders, Engagement prior to product including healthcare professionals, authorisation covers congress physicians, payers and patients. sponsorships and using digital GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 64 Our behaviour Research practices – Clinical research Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Clinical research We use a variety of procedures to protect the confidentiality Working with healthcare professionals of research participants’ data and to ensure that an to conduct clinical research Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients enable us individual’s identifiable medical data are kept securely and to assess an investigational medicine’s potential or further GSK conducts clinical trials by working with healthcare protected from inappropriate use or disclosure. Read more evaluate the medicine once it has been approved for professionals who act as investigators for these studies. about our approach to privacy on page 60. marketing. We conduct clinical trials in accordance with Our policies require that all clinical trial investigators are the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines developed by We recognise that ongoing treatment of clinical trial selected solely on their qualifications to conduct good the International Conference on Harmonisation and the participants with medicines at the end of a trial is quality clinical research, and that their history of using principles contained in the World Medical Association sometimes required for the continued care of patients. or not using GSK products must not be taken into account. Declaration of Helsinki on the Ethical Principles for In general, we are not responsible for the funding of Payments are governed by contracts and any compensation Medical Research Involving Human Subjects (2008). medicines after a trial, because this is the responsibility reflects fair market value for the work performed or of governments and other providers as part of national Trial protocols are reviewed by an ethics committee that services provided. No payments are offered or made healthcare systems. However, before beginning trials is independent of GSK and is made up of members of the to influence investigators’ judgement on enrolment or in diseases or conditions that will continue after the public, medical professionals and scientists. An ethics maintenance of a research participant in a clinical study. completion of the trial, we must be assured that the committee has the power to reject or stop a clinical trial. Gifts are not permitted to any healthcare professional healthcare system is able to provide, and will take involved in research projects for GSK. We do not conduct clinical trials in countries when we responsibility for, the continued care of patients. know at the outset that we do not intend to pursue In exceptional and specific circumstances the provision We have made a commitment to disclose research payments registration and make the product available for use in that of medicines may be funded by GSK after the trial. made to healthcare professionals and their institutions. country. GSK-sponsored clinical trials are conducted to Read more in our policy on clinical trials in the Our first annual disclosure was made in the USA in 2011 the same ethical standards irrespective of where they take developing world online. and captures payments for all phases of medicine discovery place, and we require any contract research organisation and development, including clinical trials. See our US carrying out trial-related activities on our behalf to meet website for more detail. Outside the USA, we will disclose our standards. payments to healthcare professionals and their research institutions on an aggregate basis, commencing with the The safety of clinical trial participants is of paramount publication in 2013 of payments made during 2012. Read importance, and we evaluate safety throughout each more on page 58. phase of a clinical trial programme. Potential clinical trial participants must voluntarily confirm their willingness to participate, after being informed about the study and its benefits and risks. This is known as informed consent. We aim to provide information for potential trial participants in a non-technical style that a lay person can understand. In 2011 we reviewed and updated our informed consent form to make it clearer for patients. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 65 Our behaviour Research practices – Clinical research Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Training and auditing for clinical trials In addition, 34 investigations were conducted in response Public disclosure of clinical research to suspected irregularities at investigator sites, CROs and All employees involved in GSK-sponsored clinical research GSK is committed to the public disclosure of our clinical our own local operating companies. GSK fully investigates receive training on Good Clinical Practice (GCP). research that evaluates investigational or authorised any concerns or issues identified and takes corrective Employees must complete the required training before medicines, irrespective of whether the results are perceived action where appropriate. Corrective and preventative undertaking any roles relating to clinical research. In 2011 to be positive or negative for our medicines. We believe actions might include for example re-training and increased there were 96,169 GCP-related training activities. Each of this is fundamental to advancing medical science and monitoring. In cases where significant and persistent nonthese represents the successful completion of an e-learning informing prescribers and patients about scientific findings compliance is identified and where there is an impact on module or instructor-led course. relating to our medicines. This commitment is in addition patient safety or the integrity of data, more severe action to legal and regulatory requirements to disclose relevant Our risk management and compliance framework includes including termination of activities and reporting to data from clinical trials and safety information to independent audit and assessment of the conduct of regulators may be taken. regulatory authorities. clinical trials. Audits and assessments cover GSK systems Regulatory authorities also performed 65 inspections of and processes, as well as external contract research We disclose the results of research on our publicly GSK and the investigators we use to conduct clinical organisations and investigators conducting clinical accessible Clinical Study Register website, launched in trials in 2011. research on our behalf. We report audit results quarterly 2004, which receives an average of 9,653 visitors a month, to the R&D Compliance Board, and annually to the Risk In 2011, GSK completed its COMPAS trial (Clinical Otitis as well other databases and registers as required by laws Oversight and Compliance Council and the Audit and Media and Pneumonia Study) in Argentina, assessing and regulations (such as clinicaltrials.gov in the USA). Risk Committee of GSK’s Board of Directors. efficacy of pneumococcal vaccine Synflorix. In January Information available on the GSK site includes protocol 2012 this trial was the subject of media coverage regarding summaries for all ongoing studies and summaries of In 2011 we conducted 326 clinical quality assurance the administrative conduct of the trial. results from completed clinical studies. Read more in our assessments. For example: position on disclosure of clinical trial information online. • 173 investigator sites conducting GSK-sponsored clinical During regular monitoring in 2007–2008, we identified trials, representing around 5% of the sites that provide some administrative errors in the process of obtaining the primary data on which regulatory approval is based informed consent in a small proportion of 14,000 study Number of results summaries of GSK clinical trials participants. We proactively reported these to the national on the GSK Clinical Study Register • 9 GSK processes, including the process for review of regulator and immediately put a corrective action plan in clinical trial imaging data and the process for management place with the trial centres and doctors involved. At no Number of summaries (cumulative total) of human biological samples time was the safety of participants put at risk and the • 25 contract research organisations (CROs) carrying Regulator agreed that the trial could continue as planned. 2011 4,452 out clinical trials on GSK’s behalf 2010 4,069 We conduct clinical trials to the same high standards, 2009 3,687 • 7 GSK local operating companies involved in clinical irrespective of where in the world they are run. trial activities 2008 3,273 This includes the requirement to obtain informed consent • 10 New Drug Application (NDA) Annual Reports were 2007 3,089 from participants which is a fundamental principle of our reviewed prior to submission to the US Food and Drug 2006 2,760 behaviour. We continue to actively review our procedures Administration (FDA) – these provide an update on the 2005 2,125 to ensure best practice and minimise the risk of such status of each study completed or in progress. errors occurring in the future. 2004 143 GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 66 Our behaviour Research practices – Patient safety Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  During 2011 we changed our policy on the timing for the Patient safety Improvements and innovation disclosure of clinical research of our medicines. Previously we aimed to disclose results summaries from trials of Patient safety is always our priority and we evaluate the We continue to improve our patient safety systems, investigational medicines at the time of first approval or benefits and risks of our medicines and medical devices safety databases and monitoring processes. For example, following termination of the investigational medicine. at all stages of research, as well as after a new product in 2011 we: We have changed this approach to disclose results is approved for sale. • Developed enhancements to enable rapid review of safety following completion of studies rather than following All medicines have potential risks as well as benefits, information from observational data sources. approval or termination of the medicine. although not everyone who takes a medicine will • Worked with regulatory agencies and the Observational GSK made a commitment in 2009 to seek publication experience side effects. It is important that we identify, Medical Outcomes Partnership (OMOP), a public-private of the results of all clinical research that evaluates our evaluate and minimise safety concerns to ensure that partnership, to understand how best to detect safety issues. medicines as full papers in peer reviewed scientific the overall benefits of a medicine outweigh any risks. • Established a system that provides us with real-time alerts journals; these publications provide peer-reviewed context Product safety is assessed in clinical trials before a product of sudden changes in the number of adverse event reports and interpretation of research data. We are putting in can be approved for marketing. Sometimes adverse events received each month for a particular product. place the systems and resources to meet this commitment. (possible side effects) may only be detected after approval • Created a Pharmacovigilance Centre of Excellence when a product is being used by large numbers of patients. We have also committed to disclosing the full protocol to refine our approaches to medicine safety. Policies and a governance framework are in place to help for each study when the study is published as a full paper us detect and act on any adverse events. A dedicated team New capabilities in the scientific literature, so that interested parties can of scientists and healthcare professionals across the world see how the research was carried out. GSK is committed to providing transparent information have a specific role to monitor and communicate safety on health issues to patients, healthcare providers and Importantly, GSK’s policy prohibits ‘ghost writing’ issues to regulatory authorities. We also work with regulators. For example we are establishing new teams of journal manuscripts by requiring authorship and government officials, industry partners and policymakers to focus on the clinical effectiveness of GSK medicines – acknowledgements for scientific publications to be to enhance safety systems for medicines and vaccines. assessing their benefits and risks in development and the consistent with the requirements of the International Our Global Safety Board makes decisions on product post-approval period. GSK has several groups working to Committee of Medical Journal Editors guidelines. safety issues; its remit is to ensure that safety is a focus advance these capabilities internally and externally, and throughout product development and to review safety the goal of the new team is to achieve greater integration of GSK products on the market. The board is chaired of these efforts. This will allow us to give better evidence of by the Chief Medical Officer and composed of senior the clinical and comparative effectiveness of our medicines physicians and scientists. and build stronger regulatory files that inform physicians, regulators and payers of the value of our medicines. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 67 Our behaviour Research practices – Patient safety Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Collaborations on patient safety Benefit-risk management All adverse events reported to GSK are recorded on our We work with government officials, industry partners and global safety database and clinical trial database, and are We assess the balance between the benefits and risks of a policy makers to enhance safety systems for medicines investigated. We report potential safety concerns to particular medicine throughout its lifecycle – from early and vaccines. Two examples from 2011 of our many global regulatory authorities. Regulators in some countries also development, during clinical research and after the product collaborations include: publish information on adverse events on the internet. is on the market. All available safety information is evaluated • We are co-founders of the international Serious Adverse and documented to build a detailed benefit-risk profile of Responding to adverse events Events consortium (iSAEC), a non-profit collaboration each product. We use this information to develop a benefitAdverse events can affect the benefit-risk profile of a of over 20 partners including pharmaceutical companies, risk management plan, which identifies ways to improve a product and corrective actions may be needed to minimise academic institutions and regulatory bodies which is product’s benefits and minimise risks. Plans are reviewed the risk. This can include carrying out additional clinical working to improve patient safety by identifying genetic and updated regularly during clinical development and for research to further understand the concern, modifying variants that predict adverse events. iSAEC’s initial a period after a product is approved for marketing. the prescribing information, communications to research focused on drug-induced liver injury and Collecting and reporting safety data physicians and other healthcare providers, and drug-induced serious skin rashes, and in 2011 globally establishing specific methods to minimise risk – for agreed definitions of drug-induced liver injury (1) and We receive information on adverse events (possible side example by highlighting a warning in the prescribing an analysis of 50 drugs associated with serious skin effects) from several sources, including patients and information. Some products are subject to limited toxicity were published. (2) healthcare professionals, regulatory authorities and postdistribution programmes, for prescription by specialist marketing clinical research. All GSK staff undertake • Our participation in the Critical Path Institute’s doctors only. In certain cases it may be appropriate to stop mandatory training on adverse event reporting and are Predictive Safety Testing Consortium, an independent, a clinical trial or withdraw a product from the market. required to immediately report any issues relating to the non-profit organisation that brings together scientists Our global specialist committees review and approve the safety or quality of our medicines. Read more about our from industry and academia to share and validate their prescribing information for our medicinal products and expectations in our Code of Conduct. safety testing methods under the guidance of the US ensure this is updated when appropriate. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA). Several studies sharing new ways to predict safety issues in clinical trials and post Read more online marketing will be published and shared with US and • Clinical trials in the developing world European regulators. • Cloning technologies and stem cell research • Disclosure of clinical trial information • The care, welfare and treatment of animals • The role of transgenic animals in biomedical research (1) Aithal, GP. et al. 2011. Case Definition and Phenotype Standardisation in Drug-Induced Liver Injury. Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics, 89 (6) p.806. • U se of Non-human Primates (NHPs) in the Discovery and (2) Papay, J. et al. 2011. Spontaneous adverse event reports of Stevens– Development of Medicines and Vaccines Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis: detecting associations with medications. Pharmacoepidemiology and Drug Safety, Article first + www.gsk.com/reportsandpublications-policies published online: 5 Dec 2011. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 68 Our behaviour Supply chain Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Patients and consumers rely on Our manufacturing division has a strong track record of During 2010 we finalised an agreement with the US quality and compliance with current Good Manufacturing Government with respect to their investigation and are in us to provide an uninterrupted Practice (cGMP) requirements. We are committed to the process of negotiating a Corporate Integrity Agreement supply of medicines and products, continuous improvement in our manufacturing processes that will cover manufacturing compliance matters. and last year we invested over £400 million improving The second warning letter was issued in 2011 and manufactured to the highestand updating our equipment. We average more than concerns manufacturing standards at our Worthing facility. quality standards. 130 inspections by regulatory agencies each year at Impacted manufacturing was suspended until additional over 80 manufacturing sites located in over 30 countries. controls had been implemented and production has now An effective and responsibly managed supply and We have had two US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) resumed. Patients, consumers and the quality of our distribution system is essential for us to get high-quality warning letters for cGMP deficiencies since 2000, the products are always our priority. products to the right places at the right time. If we don’t year GlaxoSmithKline was formed. The first concerned do this, then people’s health may suffer and their lives manufacturing issues at the Cidra facility in 2002 which may even be at risk. To protect the interests of our patients were fully resolved before the site was closed in 2009 due and consumers, we aim to work with responsible suppliers to declining demand for the medicines made there. who meet the same quality, social and environmental standards as GSK. Human rights in the supply chain GSK strives to conduct business We consider human rights issues We will not knowingly use suppliers with third-party suppliers who during routine interactions with who are responsible for human rights share our commitment to high critical suppliers. Environmental, infringements. Where we identify ethical standards and operate in health and safety audits of potential human rights issues we make a responsible and ethical manner. new and existing critical suppliers recommendations for how the also include questions that help us supplier can improve performance Human rights clauses are included identify potential breaches of our and will follow-up where there are in all supplier contracts and covered human rights clauses. Suppliers are any significant gaps. by our Third Party Code of Conduct asked for information on policies available online. These include but We are members of the and practices relating to: are not limited to forced labour, Pharmaceutical Supply Chain child exploitation, slavery, workplace • Age limits for employees Initiative (PSCI), an industry conditions, non discrimination, • Discrimination against employees collaboration that has set out guiding wages, benefits and working hours. and the local population principles and standards for suppliers Read our human rights statement • Prevention of abuse of individuals that include human rights and online for more information on the labour issues. The PSCI is looking at • Wages, benefits and working hours clauses included in contracts. ways to improve supplier standards, • Rights for workers to organise and especially in emerging markets. recognition of worker organisations. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 69 Our behaviour Supply chain – The supply and distribution process Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our supply and distribution process The supply and distribution process Making our products requires the ingredients and materials we buy from suppliers to be fed into our The interests of patients and consumers must come first network of over 80 manufacturing sites in 32 countries. Ensuring a continuous supply at every stage of the supply and distribution process: We manufacture nearly 28,000 GSK products and produce of high-quality medicines is essential to the patients and Planning involves decisions on what we must make and approximately four billion packages annually, including Planning consumers who depend on deliver over the entire lifecycle of a product. This helps tablets, creams, ointments, inhalers, injections and our products, as well as to us configure the location, capability and capacity of our liquids. More than 26,000 people work for our Global the success of our business. Manufacturing and Supply (GMS) division. We also network of internal and third-party manufacturing sites We spend around £9 billion in order to maximise efficiency and security of supply. outsource just over 10% (in terms of production costs) with suppliers, with ~£2 billion Ensuring a continuous supply of high-quality medicines, of product manufacturing to third-party manufacturers on materials directly required vaccines and consumer healthcare products is essential to who provide us with finished or part-finished product. Buying for the manufacture of our the patients and consumers who depend on our products, Responsible manufacturing requires that the products products. This is spent as well as to the success of our business we make, and that are made for us, are of a consistently with 6,000 suppliers in high quality. 73 countries worldwide. Buying involves GSK spending around £9 billion with suppliers. Around £2 billion of this is spent on Distributing our products relies on working with other More than 26,000 people active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging companies to ship to customers in 150 countries. work in our manufacturing components and other materials that are directly required Products must be stored correctly and handled carefully and supply division, across for the manufacture of our products. This is spent with throughout distribution points and at their destination. Making over 80 sItes in 32 countries. 6,000 suppliers in 73 countries worldwide. We depend on This ensures patients and consumers get the full benefit of We make nearly 28,000 our products and it protects our reputation as a provider of our suppliers to consistently deliver value at low cost but GSK products and produce high-quality, effective medicines, vaccines and consumer ~4 billion packages annually. also to produce their goods in a responsible manner. We support impartiality in all phases of the procurement healthcare products. cycle and our standard payment term for all suppliers is Supplying our products means protecting our We ship our products to a minimum of 60 days from receipt of invoice. customers in over 150 countries, distribution system from disruption. We establish and ensuring products are stored maintain a contingency stock of active pharmaceutical Distributing correctly and handled carefully Regional distribution of total spend with all suppliers ingredients and finished product for our most important throughout distribution and at products, and especially for medically critical products. their destination. % We regularly assess supply chain risks and, where 5 6 1 1 Europe 39 4 appropriate, ensure we can get key raw materials and 2 US 31 We work to protect our ingredients from alternative suppliers if necessary. If we 3 Asia Pacific 18 distribution system from get this wrong, then there are possible ramifications for 4 Africa/Middle East 4 disruption, maintaining the health and well-being of our customers. Supplying contingency stocks and 3 5 Latin America 4 regularly assessing supply 6 Japan 4 2 chain risks. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 70 Our behaviour Supply chain – Our supplier standards Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our supplier standards Higher risk suppliers are identified and further assessed to GSK supports suppliers to improve their standards identify suppliers that may require further engagement or Our supplier expectations and standards for ethical monitoring. Higher risk suppliers are identified based on We work with suppliers to improve their standards, conduct, labour practices and protection of human rights, how critical they are to the supply chain, and what risk for example in 2011: EHS management systems, and interactions with GSK they pose to the business if they fail to meet our standards. Audits identified a number of significant supply employees are defined in our Third Party Code of The person with responsibility for GSK’s relationship with interruption risks as well as risks to life safety with one Conduct. The Code also requires that suppliers embed the supplier must ensure any potential risk with their of our Indian suppliers with whom we have multiple ethical standards within their own supply chains. supplier is appropriately managed, and will work with supply agreements. These were escalated within GSK and We require new suppliers to accept and comply with procurement colleagues and internal audit to investigate as a result we have restricted our supply arrangements with the principles of the Code before they can do business any concerns. Procurement risks are integrated into GSK’s this supplier until it provides evidence that environment, with GSK. overall risk management and compliance oversight process. health and safety is being managed responsibly and The Code was further updated and strengthened in 2011 If there are problems with a supplier, we will work with that significant risks are being effectively managed. to reflect the requirements of the UK Bribery Act. We them to improve the situation if possible but if there are The supplier is now working to address these concerns issued guidance to employees on the changes and added intractable difficulties we will end our relationship and improve processes and controls. additional clauses on anti-bribery and corruption to our with them. We also carried out in-depth audits with two of our contract templates and purchase order terms and Auditing suppliers critical suppliers – one in Europe and one in India – conditions. We believe that our policies and processes to focusing on specific key risks and reviewing their ensure respect for human rights, outlined in this report, Before selecting new critical suppliers – those that are governance and risk management processes. This align with the requirements of the US California pivotal to our business – we conduct an audit of their enabled us to build a closer, more productive Transparency in Supply Chains Act, which came into environment, health and safety performance, risks and relationship with these suppliers and to agree plans effect at the beginning of 2012. systems. Our audit tools also include questions that help for improvement that will help to mitigate these risks. Working with suppliers us assess potential suppliers’ performance against the We will extend this approach in 2012 to other human rights clauses included in supplier contracts. critical suppliers. New suppliers are required to meet the expectations of our Third Party Code of Conduct as outlined above. Our If we identify significant gaps in a supplier’s policies, procurement teams engage with existing suppliers to systems or performance, we will take one of a number of raise awareness about the Code and reinforce its ethical courses of action. We will recommend the use of external principles. All of our procurement staff with procurement consultants to support the supplier in making improvements responsibilities receive training on third-party management, and/or we may suspend or restrict supply until significant which includes supplier compliance with our human improvements are made. In some cases we may stop rights standards. Our ethics training for all employees also working with a supplier or decide not to work with a covers standards in the supply chain. potential new supplier. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 71 Our behaviour Supply chain – Performance in 2011 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We are collaborating with others in our industry through Performance in 2011 Supplier EHS audits 2007–2011 the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) to give (existing and potential suppliers) suppliers the information they need to meet industry We conducted environment, health and safety (EHS) expectations about labour, ethics and environmental, audits on 49 existing and potential suppliers in 2011. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 health and safety management systems. In 2011 PSCI Around 75% of these audits assessed suppliers in Asia. Americas 4 5 11 6 10 members have been developing guidelines, tools and Europe 7 5 13 18 8 The most significant EHS audit findings for suppliers mechanisms to enable a shared approach to audits. Asia 38 29 46 28 37 occurred mainly in emerging markets and included: Pilot audits have been proposed for 2012. deficiencies in fire risk management and emergency Africa 0 0 0 1 0 response capabilities; absence of fundamental risk Total number Quality audits of audits 49 39 70 53 55 controls for process safety; inadequate control of exposure We conduct an audit of quality standards for all new to hazardous substances; inadequate waste management manufacturing material suppliers. During 2011, over and environmental controls; and gaps in compliance Number and types of supplier audited on EHS 1600 quality audits were performed on GSK’s material supply with regulations. Three out of five potential new in 2011 (existing and potential suppliers) chain (suppliers that provide ingredients that form part of suppliers we audited in 2011 failed to meet our our products), taking the coverage of quality audits to 88% minimum requirements. Type of supplier Americas Europe Asia Total of manufacturing material suppliers. Of the companies Primary (raw materials, audited, 124 were not approved as GSK suppliers and Where we do find gaps and risks we consider the extent intermediates and 139 were approved providing they met certain conditions. of these and may take a number of actions. These include pharmaceutical ingredients) 0 5 29 34 restricting supply until significant improvements are Contract Manufacturing We have worked with a number of key suppliers to made, not using a potential new supplier, or working (Pharmaceutical develop quality improvement plans designed to bring with the supplier ensuring investment is made to address formulations) 3 2 0 5 them up to the standards that GSK expects of them. deficiencies. We always provide findings that will help Consumer Healthcare Work to educate suppliers about our quality requirements suppliers to make improvements. (excipients, actives, continued throughout 2011, with training sessions taking raw materials) 1 0 9 10 place in Nigeria, South Africa, China, Indonesia, Pakistan, India and the Philippines. GSK is part of Rx-360, an industry consortium that has 1,600 49 agreed sector-wide standards for quality audits of product ingredient suppliers. This will mean that suppliers used by a number of companies will be audited once rather than multiple times by each, and that the results can be shared between the purchasing companies. In 2011 the Quality audits of Environment, health and consortium began auditing suppliers on behalf of its our manufacturing safety audits of current members and by the year-end had carried out 20 audits. material suppliers and potential suppliers All findings were non-critical. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 72 Our behaviour Supply chain – Security of supply Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Security of supply Anti-counterfeiting GSK trains local staff on how to spot and report counterfeit products and we invest in measures to find Ensuring a continuous supply of high-quality medicines, An estimated one-third of all medicines, vaccines and serial offenders. Our analytical support team in the UK, vaccines and consumer healthcare products is essential to healthcare products in some parts of the world may be for example, has been trialling a test that uses the vapour the health of those who depend on our products, as well counterfeit. These counterfeits are almost certainly not of fake toothpaste to link counterfeit samples found as to the success of our business. supported by quality control, testing or monitoring, around the world. If the counterfeit manufacturer is later and often contain little, if any, of the legitimate active identified, it means that GSK will be able to provide The most significant threat to security of supply during ingredients needed. They might include impurities such evidence of the scale and scope of their illegal activities, 2011 was the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Within as colourants or micro-organisms. This means that many which will hopefully result in stiffer penalties. 24 hours we had mobilised a GSK crisis response team, patients in these countries may not be receiving the which despite difficulties affecting communications, air, As a founding member of the Pharmaceutical Security treatment they need. Or worse, they could be taking freight and road traffic, was able to monitor 112 suppliers Institute (PSI), GSK works closely with the wider substances that actually cause them harm. in Japan, providing 131 materials to 45 GSK sites pharmaceutical industry to investigate cases of Counterfeiting poses a threat to patient and consumer worldwide. In total only two materials went out of stock, counterfeiting, as well as with governments and health as well as a serious business threat to GSK and both supplied from one site, and we were able to ensure international organisations. Various GSK teams work other pharmaceutical companies. that disruption to patients – and to our business – together to investigate suspected incidents of counterfeit was minimal. We use anti-counterfeiting packaging features such as GSK products, conduct forensic analysis and initiate legal holograms, security seals and complex background action against offenders. patterns that are difficult for counterfeiters to photocopy and scan. Read about a pilot anti-counterfeiting programme we are conducting using text messaging with our Ampiclox antibiotic in Nigeria on page 19. Partnering with suppliers in a crisis When a major fire damaged a UK situation became a good example equipment were transferred to the factory owned by one of our key of how a strong partnership with a suppliers alternative factories, GSK suppliers in March 2011, the supplier can benefit both companies. sites, or other third-party continuity of supply for 14 GSK manufacturers. Within six hours of the start of the products was at risk. The launch fire, a crisis management team of By working together we were able to schedules for our new antiepileptic GSK and experts from the supplier maintain supplies of our medicines medicine, Trobalt, were also in was set up. For each of the 14 to patients, minimising disruption jeopardy. But because of our good products, a plan was put in place to and impact to the business. working relationship with the resume production as quickly as supplier, a potentially disastrous possible. Some products and GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 73 Our behaviour Supply chain – Supplier diversity Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  GSK anti-counterfeiting activity Supplier diversity We will work with business advocacy organisations, such as the National Association of Veteran Business Owners, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Small companies and those owned by women or people the US and UK National Minority Supplier Development Number of who belong to minority groups are often underCouncil, and the Women’s Business Enterprise National reported cases represented in the supply chains of large companies. Council to identify and develop small diverse businesses of counterfeit 378 367 259 289 429 248 as suppliers, particularly through development and GSK believes that small and diverse businesses have Number of raids 148 96 94 94 71 57 mentoring initiatives. significant potential to meet our procurement needs, and Number of arrests 181 132 129 84 127 94 we recognise the value they bring to their communities Our global supplier diversity initiatives outside the USA Cases in 2011 included: our work with the Indian police through job creation and revenue generation. Sourcing include sponsorship of the Global Link programme, to raid a factory near Delhi that was making a counterfeit from diverse suppliers has benefits for GSK, too. It helps which helps diverse suppliers around the world develop version of the children’s medicine Calpol, leading to two us comply with regulations in markets such as the USA, partnerships with local businesses, expand their arrests; 14 raids carried out in Pakistan, resulting in the encourages innovation and exposes us to new perspectives capabilities and access new technology. In 2011 we seizure of more than 10 different types of counterfeit and fresh ideas. Our supplier diversity programme is led targeted our efforts on the UK and South Africa. medicines and a number of arrests; and raids at from the USA, with support from our procurement counterfeiting factories in China. With our help the teams worldwide. Chinese Police concluded a long-term investigation In the USA, we are finding it a challenge to identify small by raiding two counterfeiting factories in Fuyang City, diverse businesses that fulfil federal size standards while at Guangdong Province and Yongcheng City, Henan the same time enabling us to reduce costs and consolidate Province. Twelve counterfeiters were arrested and our global suppliers. Our spend with small diverse suppliers counterfeit medicines to the value of 7.8 million RMB decreased by about 11% in 2011, however we plan to were seized. A network of Shanghai-based counterfeiters increase spend with small diverse businesses in 2012 selling products over the internet was also broken up. and beyond. Counterfeiting is not just a problem in emerging markets. Read more online In the USA an offender was sentenced during 2011 to seven years in prison and ordered to pay GSK Read more about our standards in: compensation of $417,000 after we found that packs • O ur Third Party Code of Conduct. of the weight-loss treatment Alli sold on eBay contained dangerous levels of the controlled substance sibutramine. • A nti-Bribery and Corruption Programme Third In the UK, a one-year sentence with fines was handed out Party Guidelines. to a pharmaceutical importer after a raid on his premises • O ur Human Rights Statement including clauses in uncovered 800 packs of illegally imported Seretide that our supplier contracts. had been placed in counterfeit packaging. • GSK on the counterfeiting of healthcare products + www.gsk.com/reportsandpublications-policies GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 74 Our behaviour Public policy and patient advocacy Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Through our public policy activity Lobbying and public policy activities are conducted Our industry association memberships include: by our external affairs teams in our major regions and Pharmaceutical industry organisations: Association of we support legislative measures and business units. They monitor proposed legislative reforms, the British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI); European programmes that encourage scientific policy developments and stakeholder concerns. They meet Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations regularly with government officials and others, such as (EFPIA); International Federation of Pharmaceutical innovation and balance the interests multilateral organisations and NGOs, to explain our views Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA); Japan of business with those of other on public policy issues and also respond directly when Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA); GSK is asked to comment. Lobbying on issues affecting Organisation of Pharmaceutical Producers of India (OPPI); stakeholders. We also work with the whole of the pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America patient and professional groups to industry is sometimes conducted through trade associations (PhRMA); China’s R&D-based Pharmaceutical Association and we may also hire lobbying consultants to support our Committee (RDPAC). help their members gain a stronger public policy work. Consumer industry organisations: the European Brands voice on healthcare. Trade and industry associations Association (AIM), Association of the European SelfGSK is a member of many national, regional and Medication Industry (AESGP), the European Cosmetics We recognise that some stakeholders have concerns about international trade and industry associations. Membership Association (Colipa) and the Union of European Soft business lobbying and we aim to address these by being of these groups can help to support the efficiency and Drinks Associations (UNESDA). open about our approach and the issues we engage on. effectiveness of our public policy work. General industry organisations: Intellectual Property It is important that lobbying through trade and industry Owners Association (IPO); International Chamber of associations reflects our policies and values. We work with Commerce (ICC); National Association of Manufacturers other members to set policies and may attend industry (NAM); Confederation of British Industry (CBI). association meetings with governments and other GSK’s chief executive, Sir Andrew Witty, is currently stakeholders. If an association adopts a public policy president of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical position we do not agree with, we will not participate in Industries and Associations. advocacy activity related to that subject. We will also raise any concerns we may have about a particular advocacy position directly with the association management team. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 75 Our behaviour Public policy and patient advocacy – Our public policy activity in 2011 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our public policy activity in 2011 Europe’s healthy ageing initiative The European Congressional leaders did not adopt mandated rebates Union has set up a pilot public-private partnership on in Medicare Part D in 2011, but may consider similar We believe that we conduct our advocacy work ‘active and healthy ageing’, which aims to increase the proposals in the coming years as they continue to look responsibly, make a valuable contribution to the debate average number of healthy life years by two. Our chief for ways to trim the federal budget in the USA. GSK and on issues that impact our business, and work to balance executive is on the steering group of the partnership. In our industry partners will analyse new proposals as they the interest of business with other stakeholders. January 2011, GSK submitted two proposals for action to become available and will continue to provide information We engaged on a wide range of issues around the world support the initiative – one on encouraging greater to lawmakers on the importance of maintaining patient during 2011. These included healthcare reform, pricing adherence to prescriptions among elderly people and the access to innovative pharmaceutical products and vaccines. and intellectual property issues. other on vaccination for the elderly. Our proposal on Patent litigation in Europe Discussions continued adherence to prescriptions was one of five actions that the The year was particularly challenging from a public policy during 2011 on the proposed introduction of a single Commission has now agreed to pursue and implement. perspective due to healthcare reforms in major markets European patent and a centralised court for patent GSK has been asked to lead this action through 2012 and and austerity measures being implemented in many litigation. GSK supports the principle of a single EU patent beyond. Our proposal on supporting more comprehensive countries arising from the economic crisis. Recognising as a potential way of reducing the cost of obtaining and vaccination programmes for elderly people will be the need for economic responsibility, we argued for an maintaining European patents. Provided that the quality discussed in 2012. approach to cost-cutting measures that would achieve of the judicial process is consistently of the highest order, an appropriate balance between managing costs and Medicare Part D in the USA We have been involved we also support the concept of a centralised court where incentivising innovation in the interests of patients, in defending Medicare Part D, a federal prescription drug disputes over European patents can be resolved on an EUpayers and our industry. insurance programme for Medicare beneficiaries. In 2011 wide basis in a timely and cost-effective manner. GSK has some federal lawmakers proposed that the pharmaceutical been discussing the reform project for many years with The examples here provide an insight into our approach industry should pay mandated rebates in Medicare Part D the European Commission and others, and we will and areas of focus during 2011: as a way to reduce the annual budget deficit in the USA. continue to be involved. Healthcare reform in the USA During 2011, in the GSK, along with industry partners such as PhRMA, wake of the passage of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, was opposed to the proposal because it would have GSK submitted comments on a number of proposed fundamentally altered the success of Medicare Part D’s regulations on healthcare reform implementation. We are competitive market-based structure. supportive of the Act’s goal to increase access to health GSK met federal lawmakers to raise their awareness of the insurance to a further 30 million Americans by 2020. success of Medicare Part D and to explain how the current We also support provisions of the law that expand access programme is already resulting in reduced healthcare to preventive services and that promote the development costs. For example, a study in the Journal of the American of value-based care delivery models (such as Accountable Medical Association found that improved access and Care Organizations and Patient Centered Medical Homes). adherence to medicines resulting from Part D saves We believe reforms should be implemented in ways Medicare about $1,200 per year in hospital, nursing home that recognise the role of medicines and vaccines in and other costs for each elderly person who previously reducing healthcare costs, improving health outcomes lacked comprehensive prescription drug coverage – for patients, and reducing the prevalence and costliness about $12 billion per year in savings across Medicare. of chronic disease. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 76 Our behaviour Public policy and patient advocacy – Our public policy activity in 2011 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Support for regulatory cooperation between the Tobacco dependence and cessation We encouraged Oncology drug parity Some insured cancer patients European Union and China China’s regulatory EU governments to ensure that national smoking in the USA have higher out-of-pocket costs if they are environment for pharmaceuticals is evolving, and there cessation strategies provide smokers with greater support prescribed oral anticancer drugs (covered as a drug is increasing cooperation between the European Union and motivation to stop. GSK, which sells tobacco cessation benefit) versus intravenous medicines (covered as a and China on these issues. GSK believes that a stronger products such as Nicorette and Niquitin, provides financial medical benefit). This disparity can lead to treatment regulatory environment in China that is aligned to support to the Smoke Free Partnership (SFP), an decisions based on the dosage form rather than the international standards will protect the interests of organisation that aims to promote tobacco control and most appropriate clinical option for the patient. patients and pharmaceutical companies. For example, policy research at European and national levels. Thanks We talked to patient organisations and legislators about under current regulations companies are required to to a GSK grant, SFP has developed a Smoke-Free Policy the importance of eliminating cost disparities between repeat in China all clinical trials for new vaccines, even Map for Europe. oral and IV oncology medicines, and five states adopted if these have been approved for marketing elsewhere. oncology parity legislation in 2011. Better oral health in Europe Oral diseases remain This delays registration of vaccines in China, and a major public health challenge in Europe representing Pricing in Saudi Arabia The Saudi Arabian therefore delays Chinese patients’ access to potentially 5-10% of annual public health spending and an estimated government is reforming legislation governing the pricing life-saving products and vaccines available elsewhere. cost to EU member states of €70 billion a year. We sponsored of pharmaceutical products. GSK believes that a more In 2011 we supported the European Commission and a new Platform for Better Oral Health in Europe, a joint transparent and easily understood system of pricing is EFPIA’s cooperation with China on these issues. initiative of the European Association of Dental Public needed to create stability in the marketplace and help This included support for a workshop on ‘Increased Health and the Association for Dental Education in improve access to medicines.Any new legislation should Cooperation in Clinical Trials and Quality Control – Europe to raise awareness of oral health issues and their support the swift introduction of new and innovative A Way forward to Foster Innovation, Competitiveness link to overall health, as well as to lobby for a common products, reward innovation, and treat local and and Trade’, held during an EU-China high-level regulatory approach to European oral health policy. multinational companies equally. Working through meeting devoted to pharmaceutical and vaccines issues trade associations, we advocated for more consultation Anti-counterfeiting in Europe We continued to in May 2011. on the proposed changes to make sure that any new advocate for a pan-European serialisation system system meets Saudi healthcare needs while addressing Non-communicable diseases As a member of the for medicines which we believe is needed to reduce the long term need for a sustainable pharmaceutical International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers opportunities for counterfeit medicines to enter the industry. We also focused on specific issues such as and Associations we helped develop a 10-point framework EU supply chain. If introduced, a pan-European system proposals that would impose more significant price for action for the industry on non-communicable diseases, would enable pharmacists across Europe to check whether discounts on patented products (mostly produced by in advance of the September 2011 United Nations summit a pack has already been dispensed elsewhere within the multinationals) than on generic medicines (mostly on this issue. EU – and therefore help to detect counterfeits. produced by local companies). Patent reform in the USA We lobbied in support of Faster patient access to medicines in Taiwan We the America Invents Act, patent reform legislation that worked with regulatory and health authorities to shorten became law in 2011. We believe modernisation of the the time it takes for new medicines to get to the market, US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) is necessary for example by speeding up the process for agreeing to create a predictable, equitable, efficient patent system; reimbursement prices. and to establish fair and reasonable boundaries for challenging patents at the USPTO and in the courts. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 77 Our behaviour Public policy and patient advocacy – Political contributions and lobbying Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Political contributions and lobbying expenditure In the USA, we spent $5,436,000 on federal lobbying activities in 2011. This includes the costs of salaries and GSK does not make corporate political contributions. benefits for all employees registered to lobby the US In the USA some employees choose to make personal Government; use of lobbying consultants; support political contributions through the GSK Political Action for lobbying contacts such as planning activities and Committee (PAC), which facilitates voluntary political research; running the GSK Washington DC government contributions by eligible employees, in accordance with affairs office; support staff; and the portion of trade the Federal Election Campaign Act. association fees associated with federal lobbying. In 2011 the GSK employees’ PAC contributed $612,500 – We also report our state lobbying expenses in line with 53% to Republicans, 45% to Democrats and 2% to applicable state laws. unaffiliated or other party candidates running for state and federal offices. Contributions to policy groups In 2011 costs associated with lobbying of EU institutions GSK contributes to various groups that provide a forum were in the range of €800,000-€825,000 and we declare for policy analysis and debate. This includes think tanks these in the EU Commission and European Parliament in a number of countries, and certain groups in the USA voluntary ‘Register of Interest Representatives’. that are organised under sections 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6) This includes running the Brussels advocacy office, and 527 of the US Internal Revenue Code. GSK requires salaries, external events, travel and accommodation, recipient organisations in the USA to agree to refrain from consulting costs and educational materials. This figure using any GSK funds to support or oppose federal, state takes into account the proportion of employee time and local candidates for political office. spent on representing GSK’s interests. In order to avoid double reporting on the Register, the figure excludes trade Read more online association membership fees as responsibility for declaring these lie with the respective organisations. We publish our positions on key issues online including: • Public health, access to healthcare and developing countries • Pricing, reimbursement and market access • Conducting our research and development • Our anti-bribery and corruption programme • O ur approach to intellectual property and counterfeiting of healthcare products • Environmental sustainability + www.gsk.com/reportsandpublications-policies GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 78 Our behaviour Public policy and patient advocacy – Patient advocacy Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Patient advocacy We have also set up advisory boards in the USA and We launched minimum standards on working with Europe that include representatives from a wide range patient groups in Europe at the end of 2011 to help ensure Patient groups – non-profit organisations founded by of patient groups. They also allow us to access the views that engagement with patient groups is prioritised and to patients, care-givers, family members and health of patient groups on subjects such as clinical trials, underscore our commitment to being a patient-centric professionals – are important stakeholders for GSK. pharmacogenetics, information provided to patients company. For example, the new standards state that the They engage with healthcare providers, governments, the and ethical issues. general manager of each country must meet a minimum media, and patients to promote improved treatment and number of patient groups each year and that employees services for patients. They also campaign on issues that Our engagement is not designed to market our products; should be trained on how to work to the highest ethical affect patients’ and care-givers’ lives, including increasing indeed we have strict rules about never promoting a GSK standards with patient groups. access to quality medicines, services and information on medicine to a patient group and never seeking endorsement disease. Some carry out research into the causes of and of a medicine from a patient group. We aim to be as In the USA our Advocacy & Alliance Development Center potential treatments for specific conditions. transparent as possible about who we work with and the of Excellence coordinates our engagement and funding funding we provide, publishing information on our website. with patient advocacy groups and professional associations We provide funding to patient groups to help with day-toat the national, regional and state levels. A coordinated day running costs and defined events or activities. Our Our standards for working with patient groups approach is particularly important during this period of support also includes educational assistance, training All GSK employees and relevant third parties who work significant healthcare reform. During 2011 the Center for staff, and collaboration on disease awareness and with patient groups must follow our guidelines and established a State Advocacy Team, which includes a team prevention projects. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). For example, we of six field-based staff who cover all states broken out into Our relationships with patient groups help us to better limit the amount of funding we can provide to 25% of a six regions. understand patient needs and their illnesses, which guides patient group’s overall funding and state that relationships We plan to extend the guidelines to our Emerging Markets our R&D. In turn, our support helps patient opinions to with patient groups must never be linked to promotion of and Asia Pacific region in the future. be heard in the healthcare debate. our products. We also provide training so that employees understand our requirements. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 79 Our behaviour Public policy and patient advocacy – Patient advocacy Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Workshops and educational support Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits European Patients’ Academy GSK holds regular workshops with patient groups. Our Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits (PALS) bring on Therapeutic Innovation These feature sessions on how helping patients to adhere patient advocates together to discuss health policy issues A patient-led consortium funded by the European to their drugs regimens can improve treatment outcomes. and develop new skills and ways to expand their influence. Commission and the trade association EFPIA is working In 2011 examples of sessions include: Additionally, PALS strengthen patient advocacy to create a European Patients’ Academy on Therapeutic • A workshop with patient group representatives from the organisations by educating advocates, creating connections Innovation (EUPATI), which will educate patient European Breast Cancer Coalition (Europa Donna) and and building a network of patient advocate organisations representatives on, among other things, the design and Independent Cancer Patients’ Voice on how to manage to improve the health of communities. conduct of clinical trials, drug safety and risk-benefit the side effects of oral cancer drugs for metastatic assessment, and patient involvement in drug development. In the USA, we implemented a new approach to PALS breast cancer. during 2011, to provide more engagement at the local GSK is an industry partner of EUPATI, contributing • A workshop on adherence to oral cancer treatment level. This included a series of Regional PALS (RPALS), expertise as well as staff time and funding to the project regimens with European patient groups. held in six states focusing on aspects of healthcare which starts in February 2012. • A meeting with members of LUPUS EUROPE (an umbrella reform such as the introduction of state health insurance Between 2012 and 2016, EUPATI will provide educational organisation of 23 national lupus self-help organisations) exchanges. We also held an event for patient groups in materials in six European languages targeting 11 European to understand the needs of patients with lupus and how Washington DC, exploring the role of national advocates countries. It aims by 2016 to have released good practice dialogue between patients and healthcare professionals in the implementation of healthcare reform. guidelines for patient involvement, and to have held five can be improved, leading to better treatment outcomes. In Europe we held PALS meetings in Bulgaria, Latvia, annual conferences and at least five regional workshops. • A seminar with patient advocates and academics on Germany, the Netherlands, and Switzerland. In addition, 100 leading patient advocates should how to deliver affordable cancer care in highhave completed its courses and 100,000 individuals income countries. should have used the EUPATI internet library on therapeutic innovation. Patient groups We publish information on all our work with patient groups online in our Europe, Asia Pacific, and Emerging Markets regions, as well as information on our support for patient groups working globally, including details of the funding received. We also voluntarily disclose our funding support on our US website and detailed information for GSK Australia and Canada can be found on their websites. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 80 Our behaviour Human rights Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  GSK is committed to upholding the We recognise our industry has a unique role to play in We recognise and support the role that the Convention efforts to improve health worldwide by developing safe on Biological Diversity (CBD) plays in providing a UN Universal Declaration of Human and effective treatment for ailments that affect patients’ framework for the conservation of biological diversity and Rights, the OECD Guidelines for health. We strive to make our medicines, vaccines and for protecting the rights of countries and communities products as widely available as possible while running to access and share benefits arising from it. Read more Multinational Enterprises and the our business in a sustainable way. about our approach to the CBD and use of biological core labour standards set out by the We put safeguards in place to ensure that the human materials online. International Labour Organization rights of people taking part in our clinical research are Maintaining high standards of human rights helps us get protected. These include the informed consent process the best from our employees, supports our relationships (ILO). We are a signatory to the UN and procedures to protect patient privacy. We are with communities near our sites, ensures supplier Global Compact, a voluntary global especially careful to protect the rights of children contracts run smoothly and provide a reliable supply of involved in our clinical trials. You can read more about high-quality products and protects our reputation. Read standard on human rights, labour, the our approach to clinical studies on page 64. more in our human rights statement online. environment and anti-corruption. We respect and promote the rights of people in the We note the Guiding Principles on Business and Human communities near our operations and through our efforts Rights endorsed by the United Nations Human Rights We believe governments have a responsibility to define to improve access to healthcare, working to help society Council in June 2011. We believe they represent a valuable and enforce a legal framework for human rights in more broadly fulfil its right to health. The UN Declaration contribution to the debate regarding how companies can accordance with international laws and agreements. of Human Rights states that “everyone has the right to a operationalise their human rights responsibilities though Businesses also have responsibilities. We have most direct standard of living adequate for the health and well-being appropriate due diligence. Going forward, we will consider control over human rights in our own operations and aim of himself and of his family, including medical care” and how best to respond to challenges set out in the principles. to act responsibly across all our spheres of influence which our activities to improve access to healthcare support this. includes our employees, suppliers, local communities and You can read more about these in the Health for all and society more broadly. Our people and communities sections earlier in this report. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 81 Our behaviour Human rights Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our approach to human rights Activities in embargoed countries Some stakeholders are concerned about GSK’s business activity in countries that are subject to a trade embargo, Our employment standards, which cover issues such as diversity, equal opportunities and such as Burma (Myanmar), North Korea, Iran, Sudan and Employees health and safety, protect employees’ human rights. Read more in Our People and Communities Syria. We share the UN’s belief that people should not on page 38 be denied access to medicines because of the regime operating in their country. We aim to provide medicines and vaccines in all countries Our Third Party Code of Conduct requires suppliers, contractors and business partners to meet that need and wish to purchase them, while observing any GSK standards for ethical standards and human rights. Environmental, health and safety (EHS) sanctions or trading controls which apply to those countries. Suppliers audits help us identify potential breaches of our human rights clauses. Read more in the supply chain section of Our behaviour on page 70. In many nations our long-standing commitment and presence pre-date the introduction of measures such as trade embargoes. During periods of governmentGSK aims to have good relationships with all the communities around our sites and to operate imposed trade embargoes, we have ensured continuity in ways that do not infringe their human rights. We put safeguards in place to ensure that the of supply (subject to any specific legal restrictions) due Communities human rights of people taking part in our clinical research are protected. Read more in the to the demand for our products. research practices section of Our behaviour on page 64. In embargoed countries, as in all countries where we do business, we support and are committed to upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights We can have an influence on human rights beyond our own operations. Our efforts to improve and the ILO core standards. We observe all local laws Society access to healthcare support society more broadly fulfil its right to health. Read more in Health and regulations. for all on page 08. Read more online We publish our positions online including: • O ur Human Rights Statement • GSK on the Convention on Biological Diversity + www.gsk.com/reportsandpublications-policies GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 82 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our planet Contents Introduction 83 Waste 88 Carbon 84 Minimising use Supply chain 84 of materials at source 89 Growing our business while Our operations 84 Environmental stewardship 90 protecting the natural resources Propellants Feature: Understanding 85 Environmental we all need for the future the impact of our governance Compliance 90 91 products 86 Water 88 Performance in 2011 92 Water in our operations 88 External assurance 94 + We are committed to minimising our environmental Click arrows above to go to each section impact across our value chain and lifecycle of our products by setting ambitious goals to reduce our carbon footprint, water and waste. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 83 Our planet Introduction Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We believe that it is possible to deliver Our targets and 2011 performance Progress in 2011 sustainable business growth while Performance (%) 2011 Target (%) Note 1 2015 2020 • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities by 5.3%; our overall CO2 impact rose slightly due to protecting the resources we need Carbon increased production volumes which increased impact for the future and safeguarding Reduction in GSK’s overall of travel and inhaler use by patients (page 84). carbon footprint across the the environment. value chain Note 2 10 25 • Reduced water use by 6.9% and waste sent to landfill by 25% with 30 sites now sending zero waste (page 88). Water We are implementing an environmental sustainability • Developing a product carbon footprint approach that strategy across our entire value chain – from raw materials Reduction in water will be used with our individual products to identify to product disposal. The strategy focuses on carbon consumption across the Note 2 carbon hotspots and measures to reduce them (page 86). dioxide and other emissions that contribute to climate value chain – 20 • Continued to pilot a take-back scheme for used inhalers change, water use, waste reduction, and environmental Reduction in GSK’s operational in the USA and UK, reducing waste and greenhouse gas stewardship – which covers the other impacts of our water consumption 6.9 20 – emissions (page 87). materials and products. By 2050, we aim to have Waste a carbon-neutral value chain. • Recycled our own waste PET plastic to make new Ribena Reduction in waste to landfill bottles (page 88). We have started to deliver on the strategy that we from our operations 25.5 25 100 • Received ‘A’ rating for performance and scored 93% revised in 2010. No simple set of measures will enable Reduction in total waste on disclosure in Carbon Disclosure Project assessment us to achieve our goals and many diverse actions will generated from our operations 1.2 25 50 (page 99). be needed, some of which are underway and some of Environmental Stewardship which we will need to define. • First office building certified as Gold under the LEED Mass efficiency of new environmental rating system (page 85). Along this journey we will be transparent about our pharmaceutical processes 2.2 2.5 5 • Published a report, with partners, exploring the impact performance and our progress. For example we participate Proportion of paper packaging of climate change on health (page 89). in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) assessment, where from sustainable sources Note 3 50 90 we scored 93% on disclosure and received an ‘A’ rating for Notes: performance in 2011. We also achieved Carbon Trust Targets for carbon, water and waste are absolute targets vs. 2010. (1)  Standard global certification for the second year in 2011. Mass efficiency and paper packaging are percentage targets. Annual performance not available for our overall carbon footprint or (2)  The table shows results against our main environmental water consumption – we will reassess our footprint across our value targets. More data are in the following pages and provided chain in 2015. in the detailed data download available online. (3) We are currently assessing our baseline for paper packaging. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 84 Our planet Carbon Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our long-term goal is for our entire Supply chain Our operations value chain to be carbon neutral Understanding the carbon footprint of our supply chain We reduced emissions of CO2-equivalents from our own is not straightforward as we use many varied and complex facilities by 5.3% in 2011. This includes energy and other by 2050. materials to make our products. To gain deeper insights production sources. Our main focus within our facilities we are working closely with key suppliers and the Carbon has been on energy efficiency activities where we have Analysis in 2010 examined our impacts across our value Trust Advisory consultancy to develop a product carbon seen a 7.2% decrease in CO2-equivalent emissions. This chain (see diagram) and estimated our total carbon footprint approach. This will be used for individual has been offset by increases in our manufacturing and footprint at about 14 million tonnes CO2-equivalents. products to identify carbon hotspots and measures to production volume. Production-related CO2-equivalent The largest contributors to our carbon footprint are supply reduce them. Our initial results show that the impacts emissions increased 5.4% and transport emissions chain material inputs (5.7 million tonnes), propellants vary widely from product to product, read more on page 86. increased 8.4%. The combined total reduction in facilities used in some of our inhalers (5.2 million tonnes) and and transport emissions was 2.6%. Read more on page 92. We have continued to make progress on sustainable our own operations (2.6 million tonnes). During 2011 we sourcing, including engaging NGOs to help us shape our Combined heat and power (CHP) generation is playing a made good progress in developing plans for each of these sourcing approach, and the development of a network of growing role in decreasing our carbon emissions. In 2011 areas, see page 92. sustainability advocates in our procurement organisation. we installed a further five CHP units, bringing the total to 16 operating units across 10 sites. Managing impacts through the value chain Materials Operations Distribution Propellants Use End of life SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 85 Our planet Carbon Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  CHP has helped our site at Irvine in Scotland to reduce Burning waste biomass to fuel Horlicks Propellants greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 12% over the past three years. The site, which makes the active ingredient Our Horlicks factories in India use coal to generate Eliminating CFC gases from our products (completed in for our antibiotic Augmentin in an energy-intensive process, power for the manufacturing process. This creates 2010) has substantially reduced inhaler emissions – from aims to help secure its energy supplies from renewable approximately 72,000 tonnes of CO2-equivalent 24 million tonnes CO2-equivalents in 1998 to less than sources by installing wind power. The first turbine should emissions a year, approximately 5% of the total for five million tonnes today. But more needs to be done be operating early in 2013, with two to follow subject to GSK’s operations. because the replacement propellant is still a very powerful planning approvals. Together they will deliver annual greenhouse gas (1,430 times more potent than CO2). In 2011 sites began trials to switch from burning savings of 8,000 tonnes of CO2-equivalents. We have also We increasingly supply dry powder inhalers which do not coal exclusively to blending it with waste biomass – a approved a £15 million project to convert waste to heat at use a propellant, but some patients such as children find renewable resource. We have tested a number of options our plant in Singapore, with estimated annual savings of them difficult to use so we continue to improve standard such as rice husk, pellets made from waste wood, 7,700 tonnes of CO2-equivalents from 2014. propellant-containing inhalers. sawdust, grain straw, cotton straw, and ground nut Saving energy is also a high priority in our office shells. If further trials in 2012 prove successful, we During 2011 GHG emissions from propellants increased buildings. In 2011 the vaccine site at Sainte-Foy in Quebec plan to blend up to 30% waste biomass at all three sites, by 2.9%. This was primarily due to increased sales. We are became our first office building to be certified as Gold avoiding 19,800 tonnes of emissions a year. In the currently investigating further improvements, including under the LEED environmental rating system. Our new longer term, we aim for 100% waste biomass for steam reducing the amount of propellant needed in an inhaler, pharmaceuticals headquarters building in Philadelphia generation and investment in combined heat and power and we are trialling take-back schemes which will also is planned to meet even higher environmental criteria. technology to generate our own electricity. avoid some propellant releases. Read more overleaf. A central fund is available to help develop specific Using waste biomass could also contribute to the local renewable energy and energy reduction projects. Over the economy by creating a market for waste that previously past four years it has supported over 800 projects which had limited value. For example the proposed pellet have saved approximately 170,000 tonnes of CO2supplier works with a micro-entrepreneur scheme equivalents. Details of our energy and carbon reduction which produces incomes for local people. performance can be found in the data download available online and on the Carbon Disclosure Project website. 80% reduction Inhaler emissions reduced from 24 million tonnes CO2-equivalents in 1998 to less than five million tonnes today SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 86 Our planet Feature: Understanding the impact of our products Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  When we analysed our carbon footprint across our value chain in 2010 this estimated our total footprint at about 14 million tonnes of CO2 and highlighted the main contributors to be emissions in our supply chain and propellant release during use of our inhaler products. We are building on this understanding and now need to know more about the impacts of our individual products. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 87 Our planet Feature: Understanding the impact of our products Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We are developing a product carbon footprint approach Taking back used inhalers Ventolin carbon footprint and initial results show that these vary widely from Collecting used inhalers avoids waste as well as greenhouse product to product. This is demonstrated in the contrast % gas emissions and in 2011 we extended a US trial of an between the carbon footprints of our propellant-based inhaler ‘take-back’ scheme to the UK. We work with (close to 0) Ventolin inhaler and our Advair Diskus dry powder inhalers. pharmacists to encourage patients to return empty 4.1 Carbon footprint of our respiratory products inhalers when they collect a new one. The pharmacist 0.5 sends the inhalers to GSK’s recycling partner, which 0.4 The carbon footprint of Ventolin showed that we need to separates the plastics for remanufacturing and captures 95 focus on reducing the release of the propellant HF134a any remaining aerosol propellant. The trial began in 2010 into the atmosphere as this is responsible for more than Materials in the USA in 225 pharmacies in five cities. 95% of its footprint (28 kg CO2-equivalent per device). Operations We are exploring a range of options including reducing In the UK, we extended an initial trial with the CoPackaging the amount of propellant needed, capturing propellant operative supermarket chain to 200 pharmacies. In the Transport lost during manufacturing, recycling used devices and six-month trial, an estimated 10% of purchased inhalers Propellant use investigating alternative propellants. were returned. Saving the propellant, which is a potent greenhouse gas, has avoided the equivalent of 35 tonnes of Advair Diskus carbon footprint The analysis of our Advair Diskus dry powder inhalers CO2 emissions. We plan to expand the programme in 2012. footprint showed that we need to focus on the plastics % used to make the device and the energy used in our own Impact of product use operations. Together these account for about 65% of the 17.0 We also need to understand better the environmental product footprint of the device (1 kg CO2-equivalent 25.9 impacts of our products when they are used by patients per device). Our short-term improvement priorities are 39.8 and consumers. In 2011 we commissioned a study of the focusing on options to recycle the plastics in the device 17.4 use-phase carbon footprint of our top 20 products and and improving energy efficiency in our own operations. based on this, estimate that our use-phase emissions are about one million metric tonnes of CO2-equivalent, Materials excluding the impact of propellants, Horlicks and our Operations toothpaste products. Packaging Transport We learned that emissions from product use are very dependent on the type of product and how it is used. For example, for a prescription medicine the largest usephase impact derives from the paper bag and labels attached to the medicines dispensed from the pharmacies. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 88 Our planet Water and Waste Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Water Water in our operations Recycling our waste Understanding the impact of our business and value chain We continue site-level action to improve water use, with Another innovation in 2011 led to our own waste PET on water is complex. Unlike carbon emissions whose a 6.9% reduction in 2011, see more on page 93. We have plastic being used to make bottles for Ribena. Previously, impacts are global, water use has both local and global developed a ’water kaizen’ rapid improvement process to waste contractors disposed of approximately 700 tonnes impacts and needs to take into account all users of a identify more efficient ways to use water. We piloted this of PET packaging trays used to deliver components to watershed as well as seasonality and water quality. approach at our Worthing and Maidenhead sites in the our sites at Ware, UK, and Evreux, France. Now this South-East of England and identified potential savings material is being recycled to create new Ribena bottles, GSK is active in the UN CEO Water Mandate, where we of more than 25%. Many of the opportunities are already saving approximately £700,000 and over 3,000 tonnes are co-sponsors of work to develop disclosure guidelines. being implemented without significant investment. of CO2-equivalent emissions a year. These guidelines will help companies to measure and Examples include fitting aerators to taps, decommissioning communicate performance more effectively. We hope it redundant equipment, optimising service water flows will ultimately lead to a water footprint approach similar and fitting trigger guns to water hoses. Both sites are to the greenhouse gas protocol. investigating other opportunities identified in the kaizen We are performing a high-level analysis across our entire process, such as whether high grade waste water from one value chain to quantify our overall water consumption part of the plant could be used elsewhere instead of using and to identify areas of risk or concern. This will help additional potable water. us understand our water impacts better and identify opportunities to reduce our overall impact. The initial Waste results suggest that the greatest contribution to our water We continued to make progress in reducing the impact footprint will come from the use of water associated with of waste in 2011 – total waste (hazardous and nonaround 20 raw materials in our supply chain. hazardous) fell by 1.2% and volumes to landfill were See also our work to reduce the spread of water-borne down by 25.5%. A total of 30 sites now send zero waste diseases on page 27. to landfill. Read more on page 93. Innovations drive down waste in many ways. For example, employees at Xochimilco, Mexico, found a way to use the panelling from our refrigerated vaccines shipping packaging as an insulation material for the construction industry. Reusing these materials is avoiding 64 tonnes of waste a year, which we previously paid to send to landfill. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 89 Our planet Waste Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Other examples of reducing packaging waste in 2011 Driving sustainability through external engagement include converting from glass to plastic bottles for Horlicks, reducing packaging material on consumer healthcare We continue our collaboration with the GSK-Singapore the pharmaceutical industry. In 2011 we co-published products, and converting from blister packs to film Partnership for Green and Sustainable Manufacturing. the Key Green Engineering research areas and metrics wrapping for our nasal spray Flixotide. We estimate these Through this programme, GSK proposes industry for green chemistry. (1) measures will avoid more than 10,000 tonnes of CO2problems in sustainability for study, and the academic In 2011 we published a report with Accenture and the equivalents a year. community prepares research proposals to solve these University of Oxford’s Smith School of Enterprise and problems. Two rounds of proposals have been awarded, We revised our Green Packaging Guide in 2011 to help the Environment exploring the impact of climate change and the first symposium has been held. In 2011 we designers avoid waste and choose the most sustainable on health. (2) We believe this is an important area which awarded another 14 grants to Singaporean researchers in option. The Guide includes sustainability assessment tools is little understood. The research suggested that while different areas of sustainable manufacturing, amounting covering energy and water use as well as the carbon there may be some benefits from temperature changes, to about S$8 million. footprint of packaging materials and transport. A carbon such as smaller malarial zones in parts of Africa, the tracker collects data to monitor progress. R&D has also worked with other industry partners to overall impact will be negative. Climate change could create a €20 million Sustainable Chemistry partnership threaten the lives and well-being of billions of people Minimising use of materials at source with academia through the European Innovative because extreme weather will directly increase disease We continue to work on increasing the efficiency in Medicines Initiative, which will start work in 2012. and death and indirectly result in some regions the use of materials in our new pharmaceutical products. GSK is also part of the American Chemical Society struggling for sufficient food, clean water and sanitation. The average mass efficiency of the new primary processes Green Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable, The world’s poorest people are likely to be most affected. transferred to manufacturing in 2011 was 2.2%, where we collaborate with other pharmaceutical This research is a starting point and we welcome the compared to our 2015 target of 2.5%, see page 93. companies on green chemistry and engineering in opportunity to work with others to develop a better We believe we can increase the mass efficiency of understanding of how the pharmaceutical industry products transferred to manufacturing to 3% by 2015 needs to respond. 14 €20 grants through measures such as solvent recovery. In 2011 we created a new R&D group working on second generation product development to improve the m sustainability profile of the R&D and manufacturing portfolio of projects through the product lifecycle. To Singaporean Creation of Sustainable These can be found online. Research areas: Org. Process Res. Dev., (1)  researchers in areas of Chemistry Partnership 2011, 15 (4), pp 900–911. Metrics: Org. Process Res. Dev., 2011, 15 (4), sustainable manufacturing through IMI pp 912–917. The report, Cimate Change and Health: Framing the Issue is available (2)  in the publications section of our website. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 90 Our planet Stewardship and Governance Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Environmental stewardship Environmental governance The CEO EHS and Sustainability Awards are a key tool for engaging employees. We refreshed the awards in 2011 to While the main themes of our environmental strategy are We made progress in 2011 on internal governance reflect the new strategies and aspirations. In particular, carbon, water and waste, we also work on a broad front of environmental sustainability, internal and we recognised projects that showed demonstrable benefits of environmental issues, including eliminating the use external engagement. to the business in our strategic areas. This year we received of materials of concern. Materials of concern are 90 applications (30% more than in 2010). In the Responsibility for environmental sustainability rests with chemicals where scientific evidence shows probable Environmental Sustainability category, the entries came the Corporate Executive Team (CET), which formally serious long-term effects to humans or the environment from more than 15 countries in the areas of carbon, water, reviews our performance each year. Read more about the and for which there is existing or potential future waste and general environmental sustainability. Some Corporate Responsibility Committee, which also reviews legislation that may restrict their use. In 2011 we used a examples of the awards include programmes for energy our progress, on page 95. total of 38 tonnes of such materials during development, reduction in our operations, an improved manufacturing compared to 73 tonnes in 2010. Our new Sustainability Steering Team met quarterly route for a new product, and water reduction initiatives in 2011. This consists of senior leaders from across at one site in Australia and one in the UK. Read about Some refrigerants (CFCs) which are ozone depleting the business who bring a commercial perspective to winners of the EHS categories on page 42. substances are still in use at 12 sites, so we have missed environmental debates and engage our local operating our target to eliminate CFC use by 2012. However in 2011 Our External Stakeholder Panel, which provided advice companies on the issues. This team is responsible for we reduced the mass of CFCs used by 24% compared to on environmental sustainability and other environment, shaping our environmental strategy so that it is integrated 2010, mainly due to CFC replacement. We will continue health and safety matters, met once in 2011. It will no into the business strategy and is both relevant and to pursue this in 2012. longer meet in its current form and we are currently stretching. In 2012 we will integrate environmental We restated our policy on pharmaceuticals in the sustainability through specific business unit goals, reviewing our approach, aiming to achieve deeper environment in 2011 to reflect the most recent scientific growing our environmental sustainability practitioner engagement with a more diverse and global group of advances and our current practices. Our position remains base and helping every employee to get involved through stakeholders, in line with our strategy of working across that none of our compounds would be expected to cause the creation of a network of site champions. the value chain. any human health or environmental impacts, but we Environmental sustainability is a key part of our continue to build a deeper scientific understanding of the environment, health, safety and sustainability (EHSS) issues in order to address concerns. We are evaluating policy, which the CET approved in 2008. It covers the amount of pharmaceuticals in the effluent from our fundamentals such as the approach to risk management, manufacturing facilities. We also support voluntary and our ambition for sustainability and our commitment responsible programmes dealing with the safe disposal to transparency. of unused medicines, which can be a source of pharmaceuticals in the environment. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 91 Our planet Compliance Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We remain vigilant to stay in full Internal audit compliance with all environmental We audit our operations, contract manufacturers and key suppliers based on the assessment of systems for managing laws and regulations. significant risks and impacts, compliance with legislation and performance against our environment, health, safety We incurred two environmental fines in 2011. and sustainability (EHSS) standards. The largest was RM1,500 (Malaysian Ringgit, Members of the EHSS audit team are all certified ISO approximately £310) in Kuala Lumpur for insufficient 14001 lead auditors and are part of the GSK Audit and space to store our scheduled waste prior to being collected Assurance function which provides an independent audit for destruction. and assurance capability, separate from the management The other fine was S$200 (Singaporean dollars, organisation. The function uses a risk-based audit process which follows the professional practices framework. approximately £100) at one of our sites in Singapore for Read more online potential of mosquito breeding in canvas sheets left The need for audit is determined by modelling key outdoors that collected rain water. risk indicators and trends in previous audit findings. We publish our positions online including: Both events were followed by corrective actions that The 2011 EHSS audit strategy prompted audits at • Climate change satisfied the requirements. 25 sites around the world which included a review • The impact of climate change on health of environmental management systems. In addition, GSK has been advised that it may be a responsible party the team carried out a theme audit of the management • Genetically modified micro-organisms and EHS at approximately 27 environmental remediation sites, of of hazardous waste across a number of R&D facilities. • Nanomaterials which 12 appear on the US National Priority List created by • Hazardous chemical management the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation In general, performance relating to the management and Liability Act (Superfund). of environmental risks was found to be well managed. • GSK and EU REACH Regulation Read more about EHS audits of key suppliers in the Supply • GSK and the Convention on Biological Diversity In most instances GSK’s involvement related to waste disposal sites where GSK is one of several responsible Chain section on page 71. • Pharmaceuticals in the environment parties. GSK’s potential liability varies greatly from site • Ozone depletion and metered-dose inhalers for asthma to site, and GSK routinely accrues funds to ensure that • Ozone depleting substances in plant and equipment we meet our obligations. + www.gsk.com/reportsandpublications-policies SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 92 Our planet Performance in 2011 Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  We have made progress on our Carbon Performance data summary environmental sustainability strategy, Our CO2 impact from operations fell, mainly driven by 2011 2010 Note 1 % change investment in projects supported by the climate change working towards our long-term aim programme. We also closed a number of facilities in 2011 Carbon (thousand tonnes CO2-equivalents per annum) to have a carbon neutral value chain but this was balanced by acquisitions and growth. Carbon footprint Note 2 14,000 – by 2050. Our overall impact from operations, transport and inhaler Climate change impacts from: use rose slightly due to increased production volumes which – Raw materials Note 2 5,660 – increased the impact of travel and inhaler use by patients. – Operations (operational energy More detailed information on our performance can be and other sources) 1706.5 1801.4 -5.3 found in the data download available online. – Transport 484.2 446.8 8.4 – Product transport 218.8 186.5 17.3 Climate change impact from operations, transport – Employee air travel 96.5 95.8 0.7 and inhaler use – Sales force vehicles 168.9 164.5 2.7 Million tonnes CO2-equivalents – Inhaler use by patients 4,782 4,647 2.9 Total Target 2015 6.2 Water (million cubic metres) 2011 4.8 1.4 0.5 0.3 7.0 Water use from operations 17.4 18.7 -6.9 2010 4.6 1.5 0.4 0.3 6.9 Waste (thousand tonnes) Use of inhalers by patients Operations energy Total operational waste generated 313.3 317.1 -1.2 Travel and transport Other sources – Total operational waste to landfill 12.8 17.2 -25.5 Other sources include waste treatment-related releases, production Non-hazardous waste generated 121.3 125.6 -3.6 releases, inhaler production losses and refrigerant losses. Travel and transport CO2 (not CO2-equivalent) exclude methane and N2O emissions. Hazardous waste generated 192.0 191.5 0.3 Notes: (1) 2010 values have been restated from our previous report where some estimated data for December 2010 were included when actual data were not available in time for report publication. (2) We will reassess our carbon footprint accross our value chain in 2015, annual performance is not available. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 93 Our planet Performance in 2011 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Water Waste Destination of waste Net water consumption has fallen due to a range of Total waste generated fell slightly, driven by non4 1 % water saving and recycled water use initiatives across hazardous waste reduction. This was achieved by waste 3 1 Reused/recycled 82 the business as well as some site closures. This reduction reduction projects and changes in production. We have 2 2 Incineration no has been offset through business growth, particularly in made big progress in our ‘zero to landfill’ programme energy recovery 9 consumer healthcare manufacturing and vaccines sites’ rolled out across the business. The majority of waste is 3 Incineration with expansion. More detailed information can be found in reused or recycled on-site, followed by incineration. energy recovery 6 the data download available online. Most of our recycled waste is solvents recovered on-site. 4 Landfill 4 More detailed information can be found in the data download available online. Net water consumption in our operations Total waste generated Mass efficiency Mass efficiency % Million cubic metres Million kilograms Total 6 2015 Target 14.9 2015 Target 238 2011 17.4 2011 192 121 313 2010 18.7 2010 191 126 317 3 3.6 Hazardous 1.9 Non-hazardous 1.3 0 0.5 0.8 Excludes non-routine waste from construction and demolition. stage 1 stage 2 stage 3 stage 4 stage 5 Range Average (2007–2011) Waste to landfill Chart shows the average and range of mass efficiency for each process Million kilograms development stage in our pipeline. Processes transferred from R&D to manufacturing during the 2007–2011 period average 3.6% mass efficiency. 2015 Target 12.9 The mass efficiency of the primary processes transferred during 2011 averaged 2011 12.8 2.2%. Stage 5 refers to transferred to manufacturing weighted average. 2010 17.2 SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 94 Our planet External assurance Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Basis of reporting and Short form external Assurance opinion external assurance assurance statement On the basis of the methodology described and the Energy and CO2 emissions data are collected from all verification work performed, we are satisfied that the data 78 of our pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare SGS UNITED KINGDOM LTD’s SHORT FORM REPORT ON collection and reporting processes in place are robust and manufacturing sites, 15 vaccines sites, 15 pharmaceuticals ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY DATA IN THE that the Environmental, Health and Safety data contained GLAXOSMITHKLINE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FOR 2011. and consumer healthcare R&D sites, the UK headquarters within the GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 is building and 62 offices and distribution centres. Water reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of and non-hazardous waste data are collected from all our SGS United Kingdom Ltd was commissioned by GSK’s Environmental, Health and Safety activities in 2011. manufacturing and vaccines operations, R&D and major GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to conduct an independent The assurance team is of the opinion that the report can assurance of the Environmental, Health and Safety data be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders. office locations. Based on our materiality assessment, we do not collect hazardous waste and wastewater data from in its Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report for 2011. The full Assurance Statement is available online. offices and sites that manufacture consumer healthcare The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included 2011 Signed: and nutritional products, while volatile organic compound environmental data contained in the ‘Our planet’ section For and on behalf of SGS United Kingdom Ltd (VOCs) are reported only from sites that manufacture of the report, 2011 Health and Safety data contained in Jan Saunders pharmaceuticals and contain R&D pilot plants. We use the ‘Our people and communities’ section of the report Systems and Services Certification the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for all of our calculations and the detailed data table. The SGS logo can be found United Kingdom, 3rd February 2012 of CO2 emissions from energy use, propellants and on each relevant page of the GSK CR Report to highlight www.sgs.com refrigerants. We use CO2 country factors for electricity published by the International Energy Agency in 2011. the data included in the assurance scope. GSK response to assurance This is the sixth year that SGS has reviewed the data in The scope of our assurance was selected based upon those material issues identified by GSK, and include We are pleased with SGS’s findings on good practice and the environment section of our Corporate Responsibility its recognition of our robust data collection, analysis and Report. Its independent view of our processes has been all Environment, Health and Safety Key Performance reporting. We are committed to continue improving, with very valuable and we have adopted its suggestions over Indicators (KPIs) subject to corporate level improvement the ultimate goal of continued provision of accurate data the years, improving our processes. targets. The assurance included interview and document to the public on our website. The data in the Corporate reviews at GSK facilities in London (UK), Irvine (UK), Sites were selected for review from all of the GSK Responsibility Report can be used by sites to improve their Slough (UK), Singapore, Poznan (Poland), Research businesses. For the site visits, there was special focus on management of their environmental, health and safety Triangle Park (USA) and Biopharm (USA). sites that had been top contributors to environmental programmes. In 2012 we will continue working with all emissions the previous year, sites that had implemented sites to improve their data submission, including providing innovative EHS projects, relatively new sites that had not comments for the explanation of trends in a complete and been previously visited by SGS for data verification and timely fashion. sites that had difficulty submitting data in a timely manner. Our responses to specific areas of the SGS full assurance statement can be found online. SGS verified GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 95 Governance and Governance management and management Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Our Board-level Corporate During 2011 the Committee members were Sir Christopher Our Principles Gent (Chair), Dr Stephanie Burns, James Murdoch and Responsibility Committee of Dr Daniel Podolsky. Going forward, James Murdoch has Our CR Principles are underpinned by our values and Non-Executive Directors provides decided to step down from the Board at this year’s AGM identify our key responsibility issues. They provide and will not be offering himself for re-election. guidance on the standards to which GSK is committed high-level guidance on our approach and the CR Committee review our progress on meeting The CEO and members of the Corporate Executive Team to corporate responsibility (CR) and (CET) are accountable for responsible management of the these commitments. Below we show how each of our Principles maps to one of the four key themes which reviews our policies and progress. business and participate in CR Committee meetings. we see as the most important for responsible and The Committee meets three times a year, receiving reports sustainable business growth. from member of CET and senior managers to review Health for all and ensure progress on meeting our CR Principles. The Committee reports its findings to the Board. • Access to medicines You can read the 2011 CR Committee Report in the • Research and innovation Governance section of our Annual Report online. To augment GSK’s engagement with stakeholder opinion, Our people and communities in March 2009 Sophia Tickell was appointed as an • Employment practices independent external adviser to the Committee. • Community investment Sophia is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from which she directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better societal and shareholder value. She also Our behaviour sits on the Expert Review Committee of the Access to • Standards of ethical conduct Medicines Foundation and is a member of the European • Products and customers Healthcare Innovation Leadership Network. Sophia has attended meetings of the Committee and provided • Leadership and advocacy independent advice and guidance on corporate • Human rights responsibility matters to both the Chairman and CEO. • Engagement with stakeholders In mid-2011, to avoid a conflict of interest with a new role which she was due to take on, Sophia decided to Our planet retire as an adviser to the Committee. • Caring for the environment More detail on each of the Principles is available online GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 96 Governance and management Our approach Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  CR covers a diverse range of issues Audit and assurance External assurance so we believe it should be managed We assess many aspects of our responsibility performance Our environment, health and safety reporting has been through our internal and external assurance processes. externally assured by SGS, an independent external assurer. within our business functions, where Our Audit and Assurance department has responsibility The assurance process includes verification of key the relevant subject experts work. for independently assessing, on a sample basis, the process environment, health and safety data through site visits and controls in place to comply with laws, regulations and and telephone calls to EHS professionals and review of We have a cross-functional team made up of company standards across GSK. Audits are focused on the systems and processes for collecting, collating, analysing representatives from key business areas which oversees key business risks areas for GSK. and interpreting the data. Read the assurance statement development, implementation and communication of The function has responsibility for independently assessing on page 94. policies, including any responsibility elements, across the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of GSK. Members of this team are senior managers with Previously we assured one other section of our report significant risk areas and reporting outcomes to the Audit direct access to our Corporate Executive Team. We have every other year. We are in the process of reviewing our and Risk Committee in line with an agreed Assurance Plan. a small central CR team which coordinates policy approach to assurance for the other sections of our development and reporting specifically relating to CR, Where issues are identified, the audit team will recommend CR Report. as well as communicating with responsible investors improvements. GSK managers develop action plans to and other stakeholders. address the causes of non-compliance and address gaps Risk management in internal controls. The department tracks these plans Our Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) through to completion and reports results to senior co-ordinates the management of significant business management and the Audit and Risk Committee. risks and oversees internal controls to ensure compliance Reviewing key business issues and Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC) Programme with applicable laws, regulations and GSK policies. strategic challenges builds on our values and standards to form a Non-financial and reputational risks are included in We have recently introduced Future Strategy Groups comprehensive and practical approach to compliance our core risk management processes. to review our approach to key business issues and in this complex risk area. The programme is overseen Our most significant risks, including non-financial risks, address strategic challenges. These are led from our by the ABAC team, who provide advisory support and and our risk management processes are described in our CEO’s office, providing valuable opportunities for highroutine audits of this risk (page 54). Annual Report. potential employees to work closely with the Corporate To supplement our traditional audit programme, Strategic Some of our business growth is achieved through Executive Team. The groups work to bring together Risk Evaluations (SREs) are conducted in partnership with acquisition. We have due diligence processes in place senior managers and experts from around the business the business to evaluate areas where GSK’s risk appetite which are designed to identify any risks posed by and are designed to allow innovative thinking and the and mitigation strategy are unclear or undefined based new business acquisitions, including ethical, social development of new approaches. In 2011 several FSGs on the emerging nature of the risk or the risk maturity or environmental risks. were convened and included focus on areas such as our level of GSK’s response. approach to malaria, access to healthcare and animal research. You can read more about our approach and Read more about assurance, internal audit and risk progress on these areas in the Health for all and management in the Governance section of our Research practices sections earlier in this report. Annual Report. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 97 Governance and The value of corporate management responsibility Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  The value of corporate responsibility Being a responsible business benefits both GSK and the • Facilitates greater access to markets and the ability • Increasing access by making our products more societies we operate in. It helps us operate efficiently, to to influence healthcare policy through improved accessible and affordable. gain the trust of our stakeholders, to create the products relationships with regulators and healthcare payers. • Investing in our people and the communities we that patients and healthcare payers really need and to Working with governments to increase access and operate in. foster the right conditions for the growth of our business. resolve healthcare challenges is particularly important. • Ensuring ethical standards in research and development Operating responsibly and fully integrating our principles • Helps us to anticipate and prepare for legislative changes and sales and marketing. into business strategies for the longer term: and remain competitive. • Our environmental impact, particularly relating • Supports our licence to operate and so our ability • Helps maintain support for the intellectual property to climate change. to improve people’s lives through our products. system by finding innovative ways to increase access to medicines. A number of factors influence our assessment • Builds trust in GSK and our products. including: our business strategy; our risk management • Reduces costs through increased environmental • Enhances our ability to attract, retain and motivate processes; stakeholder interest, including investor efficiency and more efficient use of resources. talented people. This is increasingly important as fewer feedback; changes in our business and operations, young people in our major markets choose scienceWe consider the following responsibility issues to be most for example the types of product we produce or the based careers. material to GSK: locations where we operate; existing and proposed legislation; and public opinion. • Supports constructive engagement with stakeholders. • The contribution we make to health and well-being This helps us to prevent avoidable conflict and through research, development, manufacture and identify innovative approaches that benefit GSK sale of medicines, vaccines and consumer and wider society. healthcare products. Our Annual Report You can read more about our business, our strategy and Do more, feel better, performance, as well as find live longer detail on corporate governance Annual Report for shareholders and risk management in our 2011 2011 Annual Report online. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 98 Governance and Stakeholder management engagement Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Stakeholder engagement and dialogue Stakeholder Examples of how we engage enables us to keep in touch with the Healthcare professionals (HCPs) • Sales representative meetings views and opinions of the societies in • Interactions during clinical studies and at conferences which we operate. It helps us identify • Engagement with professional organisations important issues and shape our Patients • Meetings between GSK scientists and patients through our responses in the interest of our ‘Focus on the Patient’ programme shareholders and wider society. • Our work with patient advocacy groups • Market research to understand patient needs Regular engagement means we are better informed of emerging and current issues and changing expectations. Governments and regulators • Our public policy work It provides an opportunity to voice our approach on • Advocacy on key issues such as access to healthcare responsibility issues, obtain important feedback and build trust. Most of this discussion takes place in the normal Investors • Meetings with investors and participation in key sustainability indexes course of business. We provide training to help managers • Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project in our markets to communicate with local stakeholders on our approach to responsible business and transparency. Employees • Regular employee surveys Some of the ways we engage with stakeholders are • Consultation with employee representatives on changes to the business outlined here and throughout this report. Local communities • Interactions at site level on a range of issues • Our community investment programmes Multilateral agencies • Engagement through our access to healthcare and public health initiatives Non-governmental organisations • Engagement on issues relating to access to medicines, community investment, public policy, and animal welfare Scientific community • Participation in academic collaborations • Participation in scientific debates Suppliers • Global and regional supplier review meetings • Meetings for diverse suppliers Peer companies • Pharmaceutical industry organisation meetings • Joint projects such as the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 99 Governance and management Performance Our approach Health for all 02  08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  GSK receives recognition and awards GSK was ranked top in the Access to Medicine Index for the second time in June 2010. across all areas of our business. The index ranking will be reviewed in 2012. It assessed 20 R&D-based pharmaceutical companies, and seven generics companies, on their performance against seven criteria: Here we provide a summary of our management, influence, R&D, pricing, patenting, capability and philanthropy. performance in key investor focused GSK was ranked highest in six of the seven categories. indexes and awards. GSK continued as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, which covers the top 10% of sustainable companies in each sector. GSK was awarded Bronze class distinction in the 2011 survey published in 2012. GSK was included in the FTSE4Good Index which benchmarks companies on corporate responsibility parameters including environmental sustainability, stakeholder relationships, human rights, supply chain labour standards and business ethics. GSK was also rated top in the healthcare sector in the new FTSE4Good ESG Rating, scoring 4.6 out of a maximum of 5. The assessment scores companies on their approach and performance based on publicly available information. The Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Leadership Index ranked GSK 29th of more than 400 global companies in 2011 with a score of 93% on disclosure and an ‘A’ rating for performance. In the 2011 Thomson Reuters Extel Sustainability and SRI Survey GSK won the ‘Leading Quoted Company for IR with Sustainability Investors’ Award. This is based on votes from European fund managers and investment banks. GSK Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 100 Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  Front cover (from left to right) Photo credits Early stage research into new biopharmaceuticals takes place at our large p02 From our Chairman – George Brooks R&D centre in Stevenage, UK. More than 12,500 people world-wide work p04 From our CEO – Tom Whipps in R&D in the search for new medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare p08 Health for all – Chris Martin (left), Tom Whipps (right) products. (George Brooks) p11 Focus on the patient – George Brook p16 Our approach to malaria – Tom Whipps A mother and child wait outside a malaria clinic in Tanzania. Over 15,000 p19 Using mobile phones to tackle counterfeiting in Nigeria – Tom Whipps children in seven countries across sub-Saharan Africa are taking part in an p26 Our approach to neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) – Marcus Perkins ongoing large-scale trial to evaluate our malaria vaccine candidate, RTS,S. p27 Measuring the impact of our PHASE programme – Chris Martin (Tom Whipps) p32 Treatment of children with HIV/AIDS – Chris Martin p35 Vijana Tunaweza NewalaJennifer McCleary-Sills/ICRW GSK is the Official Laboratory Services Provider for the London 2012 p36 Our people and communities – David Tett (left), George Brooks (right) Olympic and Paralympic Games. Our school outreach programme p46 Responding to the Japanese earthquake – AP Photo/The Yomiuri Shimbun, Scientists in Sport aims to inspire young people into science by Masataka Morita demonstrating the role that science plays in the Games. (David Tett) p48 Bringing science to the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games – David Tett Around 40% of our carbon footprint comes from propellants released p51 IMPACT Awards – STAMP productions during the use of our inhaler products. Our ‘take-back’ scheme, trialled p52 Our behaviour – Tom Whipps (left), George Brooks (right) in the US and UK, recycles returned empty inhalers – plastics for rep56 Changing the way we incentivise our sales teams in the USA – Sean Locke/ manufacturing and propellant for non-medical use. (Ian Enness) Getty Images Back cover p82 Our planet – Thampapon Otavorn/123RF (left), Impress Photography (right) Visual inspection of vials at our Zhangjiang site in China. Quality is at p85 Burning waste biomass to fuel Horlicks – Thampapon Otavorn/123RF the heart of all of our activities that support the discovery, supply and p86 Understanding the impact of our products – Ian Enness p87 Understanding the impact of our products – Impress Photography distribution of our products to patients and consumers. (Tom Whipps) p88 Recycling our waste – George Brooks A man with lymphatic filariasis (LF, also known as elephantiasis) cares for his legs to limit the effects of this disabling disease. GSK donates its albendazole treatment through the World Health Organization led effort to eliminate LF. (Marcus Perkins) A Red Cross doctor helps a victim from the Japanese disaster. GSK donated products worth £2.2 million and £1.7 million cash to the Japanese Red Cross. GSK Japan employee volunteers delivered food, blankets and other aid to affected areas. (AP Photo/The Yomiuri Shimbun, Masataka Morita) GSK’s PHASE programme, run in partnership with NGOs, works to improve water quality as well as educate communities on the importance of handwashing in reducing the spread of diarrhoea-related diseases. (Getty/Claudia Dewald) Printed on Amadeus 100 Offset, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification. All pulps used are made from 100% de-inked, post-consumer waste and are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and EU Eco-label certificates for environmental management. The mill has zero landfill and extremely low carbon emissions, leading the WWF to approve its papers as the most environmentally sustainable of uncoated recycled paper. Our approach 02  Health for all 08  Our people and communities 36  Our behaviour 52  Our planet 82  Governance and management 95  www.gsk.com Download PDFs of our reports from our website: • Annual Report • Corporate Responsibility Report Head Office and Registered Office GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 Registered number: 3888792 www.gsk.com +
