annual report 2011 changing the game Konecranes is an industry shaping, global group of dynamic Lifting Businesses™. We have a strong commitment to provide our customers with products and services of unrivalled quality, safety and reliability, which results in improved efficiency and performance of our customers’ businesses. Through applying both our unique knowledge and technology, and responsive service attitude of never letting the customer down, we are able to develop innovative and integrated lifting solutions that our customers can trust. These solutions help increase customers’ productivity and safety, thus showing that we are not just lifting things, but entire businesses. contents 2 konecranes in a snapshot 26 Corporate responsibility 4 2011 Highlights 32 GRI 6 CEO’s review 34 Corporate governance 8 Chairman’s letter 44 Risk management, internal control, and internal auditing 10 Company cornerstones 50 Group Executive board 11 Company Strategy 52 Extended management team 12 Business environment 54 Board of directors 14 Business area service 57 financial statement 2011 16 Business area equipment 122 shares & shareholders 18 Regional overview 126 investor information 20 Research & development 128 contact details 24 Product overview KONECRANES 2011 1 KONECRANES IN A SNAPSHOT Workstation crane Konecranes is a world-leading manufacturer of lifting equipment, serving manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports, and power plants with productivityenhancing lifting solutions and services. Our extensive resources, technologies, and proactive mindset ensure that we always deliver on our customer promise: Lifting Businesses™. market industrySales of leader leading EUR 1,896.4 in industrial cranes and technology million crane service in 2011 and global modular product platforms 11,651 Production facilities Sales and service locations employees in 16 in 47 in 2011 countries countries Head office listed on in Finland the NASDAQ OMX Exchange in Helsinki, Finland 2 KONECRANES 2011 Konecranes in a snapshot Business Areas Service Equipment Through its global service network, Konecranes’ Business Business Area Equipment offers components, cranes, and Area Service offers a full range of service solutions, maintematerial handling solutions for a wide range of industries, nance, and modernization for all brands and makes of cranes, including process industries, the nuclear sector, industries port equipment, and machine tools. Konecranes has 609 serhandling heavy loads, ports, intermodal terminals, shipyards, vice locations in 47 countries. and bulk material terminals. Products are marketed through a multi-brand portfolio that includes the Konecranes corporate Products brand and the STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, Verlinde, R&M, and Konecranes offers five different service levels covering the Sanma Hoists & Cranes power brands. following products: inspections, preventive maintenance programs, repairs and improvements, on-call service, spare Products parts, modernizations, and special services such as operaIndustrial cranes, including standard-duty cranes, heavy-duty tional service, remote services, and consultation. cranes, and workstation lifting systems such as load manipulators; components including wire rope hoists, crane kits, Market position electric chain hoists, manual hoists and accessories; nuclear The clear market leader in crane service, with the world’s cranes; port cranes; bulk material unloaders; lift trucks; and most extensive crane service network. One of the largest shipyard cranes. international providers of machine tool service. Market position Service contract base The world’s largest supplier of industrial cranes. A worldwide Approximately 410,000 units are covered by Konecranes leader in explosion-protected crane technology. A global leadmaintenance contracts, of which approximately 25 percent er in electrical overhead traveling cranes for process indusare manufactured by Konecranes. tries and shipyard gantry cranes. A global supplier of cranes and lift trucks for container handling and heavy unitized cargo and bulk material unloading. Annual production Tens of thousands of standard cranes, wire rope hoists, and electric chain hoists, and hundreds of heavy-duty cranes, hoisting trolleys, and heavy-duty lift trucks. Sales by business area ebit by business area 2011* personnel by business area 2011 Service MEUR 55.7 2011 Service, MEUR 796.1 Equipment MEUR 81.7 Service 5,980 Equipment, MEUR 1,201.4 *Excluding restructuring costs Equipment 5,621 40% 41% 48% 52% 60% 59% Konecranes in a snapshot KONECRANES 2011 3 2011 Highlights Growth in orders and sales, operating profit on previous year’s level • Demand for maintenance services continued to develop Major growth investments favorably throughout the year due to higher capacity • Konecranes continued to further strengthen its position utilization within customer industries. Demand for new in the world’s growing emerging markets, both organically equipment grew strongly during the first half of the year, and through bolt-on acquisitions. but showed signs of stabilization towards the end of • Konecranes made seven acquisitions in Chile, India, 2011 due to increasing macroeconomic tensions. GeoAustria, Germany, Spain, Switzerland, and Saudi Arabia graphically, the Americas saw the strongest growth in during 2011. demand. Order intake totaled EUR 1,896.1 million, an • Konecranes acquired 100 percent of the shares of increase of 23.4 percent compared to 2010. WMI Cranes Ltd. – one of India’s leading manufacturers • Konecranes’ order book as of the end of the year stood of heavy-duty cranes – in two phases. The acquisition at EUR 991.8 million, 31.2 percent higher than in 2010. marks an important step in strengthening Konecranes’ • Net sales increased by 22.6 percent compared to 2010 position in the growing Indian crane market. and totaled EUR 1,896.4 million. • In June, Konecranes acquired 100 percent of the Saudi• Operating profit before restructuring costs was EUR Arabian crane manufacturer, Saudi Cranes & Steel Works 117.2 million, 1.8 percent above the 2010 figure. OperFactory Company Limited. Saudi Cranes’ core business ating margin before restructuring costs was 6.2 percent is the design, manufacture, and sales of industrial of sales. cranes. • Operating profit including restructuring costs was EUR • Personnel numbered 11,651 as of the end of 2011, an 106.9 million, 4.9 percent below the 2010 figure. Opincrease of 1,609. Approximately one-third of this inerating margin including restructuring costs was 5.6 crease came from acquisitions. percent of sales. • R&D investments were 1.6 percent of net sales (2010: • The operating profit was held back by higher business 1.4 percent) development spending related to technology and IT. The • Konecranes launched the first service products in the sales mix was less favorable than in 2010 in both busiTRUCONNECT® remote services product family. The ness areas. TRUVIEW® remote data monitoring and reporting service collects actual usage data from cranes through a remote Performance by Business Area connection. TRUCARE® is a five-year full service contract • Net sales in the Service business area were 12.5 built around the TRUVIEW service. TRUEFFICIENCY Basic percent higher than in 2010, at EUR 796.1 million. Opremote service – an online production monitoring service erating profit before restructuring costs was EUR 55.7 – is available for Machine Tool Service (MTS). million, or 7.0 percent of net sales. Volume growth contributed positively to the operating profit, but the cost of expanding the branch network through organic growth and acquisitions affected the result. Some modernization projects also suffered from execution bottlenecks. • Net sales in the Equipment business area were 26.6 percent higher than in 2010, at EUR 1,201.4 million. Operating profit before restructuring costs was EUR 81.7 million or 6.8 percent of net sales. Profitability improved due to higher volumes, but was held back by higher input costs, which could not be fully passed onto product prices. 4 KONECRANES 2011 2011 highlights sales/orders, MEUR ebit/ebit margin, MEUR/% Order Book, MEUR Sales * Excluding capital gain Order intake ** Excluding restructuring costs 15% 10% 5% 118.8** 115.1** 117.2** 1,749.7 2,102.5 1,671.3 1,546.3 1,896.4 1,872.0 2,067.1 1,348.9 1,536.0 1,896.1 174.7* 248.7 757.9 836.3 607.0 756.2 991.8 0% 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 earnings & dividend Return on Equity, % Return on Capital per sharE, EUR *2007: Excluding capital gain: 47.3 % EmployeD, % Earnings per share, basic *2007: Excluding capital gain: 46.2 % Dividend per share * 2007 EPS excluding capital gain: EUR 1.95 ** The Board’s proposal to the AGM 1.11 51.2* 50.4* 2.17* 48.9 15.5 18.1 14.5 56.3 19.3 24.2 2.83 1.08 1.35 0.80 0.90 0.90 1.00 1.00** 17.1 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 net working capital, MEUR net debt/gearing, YEAR-END Market MEUR/% Capitalization*, MEUR Net debt * Excluding own shares Gearing 219.8 19.7 11.3 7.0 2.8 50.1 -17.4 -19.1 -3.8 166.4 263.8 138.8 191.6 318.9 -77.7 1,380 714 1,122 1,821 832 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 2011 highlights KONECRANES 2011 5 CEO’s review Dear Konecranes shareholders, customers, and employees, The world economy continued its fragile recovery in 2011 from and machine tools perform. We use this knowledge around the deep recession that began in late 2008 and impacted the clock to make our customers’ operations safer and more our markets for approximately 18 months. Key markets that productive.” The main purpose of the vision is to guide the had already begun to develop positively in the second half of development of our offering and our entire strategic thinking. 2010 continued to grow in 2011, but volumes stayed largely The key will be differentiation through service and technology below those seen in the record year of 2008. The Americas innovation. We want to offer a truly unique experience to our and Asia-Pacific regions were both remarkably strong, whereas customers, in addition to normal equipment deliveries and progress in traditional large markets in Western Europe was service. There is substantial potential for further developslower, owing to the hesitation of many businesses when conment in software, control systems, networking, and sensor sidering investment decisions in the region. Towards the end technologies, to name just a few areas. After a first year of of the year, the Chinese market also started to weaken, with intensive efforts, we are already monitoring the condition of several customers experiencing funding bottlenecks. over 1,000 pieces of equipment remotely. While these are still We are satisfied with our growth in 2011. Our order intake early learning experiences, it is a good start. was good through the year and rose in total by 23 percent Employee career development, training, and well being are compared to 2010. Sales growth was equally strong, and going to be increasingly important factors as companies strive we were able to quickly ramp up our delivery capacity from to improve their productivity and be an attractive alternative recession levels, despite some bottlenecks. After two years of for talented people. As the available workforce in Western declining sales, we can be pleased with a 23 percent growth countries is shrinking, it is vital that we find ways to increase in sales, which took us to our second-highest annual total the length of people’s careers by working together with our sales ever: approximately EUR 1.9 billion. employees. We have achieved encouraging results from comThe operating profit for the year, EUR 117 million before pany-sponsored fitness tests and coaching in Finland and restructuring costs, or 6.2 percent of sales, did not meet expect initiatives like these to lead to a permanent reduction our expectations. The fast operational ramp-up resulted in in sickness-related absence and early retirement. These are significant extra costs to deliver higher product and service true win-win investments: improvements in employees’ health volumes. Strong price competition in certain segments did increase both people’s quality of life and their productivity not allow us to fully pass on material and labor cost increasat work. es to customer prices. And finally, fixed costs in the service The name of the game in our business will increasingly be business, especially in Europe, grew too rapidly compared to emerging markets. The importance of Asia is growing rapidly, sales. As a result, we will prioritize profitability over growth and it is not ‘only’ about China and India. Indonesia and Vietin the short term. The main focus will be on costs and marnam are just two examples of countries where significant new gins, rather than network expansion or a maximum number opportunities are emerging. South America, particularly Chile of acquisitions. Once the service business is back to normal and Brazil, as well as the Middle East and Africa, are areas of profitability, we will return to our growth agenda. While the strong growth. In relative terms, we will increasingly steer our Group’s operating margin was below target, our return on field presence, product development, and manufacturing incapital employed was still reasonably good, at 17.1 percent. vestments to serve emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere. We launched a new corporate vision in 2011. Our comThe acquisitions we have recently made in China, India, Chile, mon long-term goal, giving direction to the entire organizaand Saudi Arabia support this plan. tion, is: “We know in real time how millions of lifting devices 6 KONECRANES 2011 CEO’s review changing the game through a unique customer experience It is not an easy task to forecast how our business will I would like to thank everybody who has contributed to the develop in 2012. Our starting-point is good, as we began the success of our customers and all our shareholders for their year with an order book 31 percent stronger than a year ago, trust during 2011. valued at just under EUR 1 billion. This will give us good visibility for the first half of the year. How the public sector debt crisis in the Western world will affect the financial market and Pekka Lundmark ultimately our customers’ ability to invest remains a concern, President and CEO however. Our forecast is that both our sales and operating profit for 2012 will exceed those for 2011. CEO’s review KONECRANES 2011 7 Chairman’s letter Dear Shareholders, One year ago we had every reason to be joyful: during 2010, This holding of treasury stock may come in handy going our stock had appreciated by over 60 percent and was one of forward. During volatile times, acquisitions are normally difthe winners on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. ficult to price correctly. The use of company shares as considI also saw it as appropriate to announce an end to the eration may provide an interesting option. As before, carefully recession that had started in September 2008 with the selected acquisitions remain an essential part of our growth collapse of Lehman Brothers, but which had really already strategy. started in mid-2007. Going forward, we have started 2012 under favorable ausLittle did we know one year ago what was going to happen picates. Orders on hand are at a good level, and increasing. during 2011. We all know now how the debt crisis has shaken With more stable sailing, our margins are increasing. The Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal… American market is developing well, and our market share The shaky outlook for Europe and uncertainty about the there is robust and growing. future of the Euro triggered a total shift in sentiment among We are systematically advancing our presence in other shareholders, and, I believe, among American shareholders growth markets, especially in India and China. We have in particular. opened a new subsidiary in Vietnam, and we are advancing Starting at the end of the first half of 2011, there has been our positions in the Middle East. Our order intake from South a significant drop in the amount of our non-Finland based America is increasing rapidly. shareholders. From a normal level of approximately 70 perEurope remains a question mark. We still see no credible cent of our total number of shareholders, our non-Finland solution with regards to the debt crisis. Banks are being told based shareholders are now at an all-time low of only 25 to increase their tier one capital. If bank shareholders are percent. unwilling to invest more capital – as they are with present This massive exodus naturally had a deep impact on the return prospects – banks will have to restrict lending. The share price. From levels of 30+ EUR per share at the beginimminent need for write-downs on certain national debt (actuning of the year, the share price hit a low of close to 13 EUR ally the ongoing write-down process) will put further pressure in December, down almost 60 percent. Towards the end of on lenders. The inability of European politicians to reach a 2011 and during the beginning of 2012, there has been some comprehensive solution further blurs the picture. recovery, approaching 20 EUR per share. For Konecranes, limited capital spending will certainly have From an operational point of view, 2011 was a successan impact. However, our biggest European market is Germany. ful year. Sales and orders recorded a healthy growth of 23 The German economy is robust. Few have noticed the fact percent. Coming from a non-growth environment in 2010, the that the single most important German economic driver is not shift to growth in 2011 took its toll on profits. However, marGerman exports (although German exports are doing well), but gins were stable, and profit increased somewhat. Measured German domestic investments. After years of low capex at as return on equity, we maintained a good level. home, German industry is now investing at home. Our balance sheet remained strong. At year-end, we Our biggest business in Europe is our service activity. Alshowed a net debt, which has not been the case during though Service as a business also varies with overall busiprevious years. However, that debt is, to a material extent, ness activity – cranes in mothballed factories do not need balanced by the value of our holdings of our own stock. At service – the service business shows a remarkable resilience year-end, a total of 6,042,456 Konecranes shares, or 9.6 in turbulent times. percent of our outstanding stock, was held by the company Pekka Lundmark, our CEO, writes in his column about our as treasury shares. We managed the timing of our stock purinitiatives in the field of caring for the wellbeing and motichases well, and the present value of the holding exceeds our vation of our personnel. From a Board perspective, we are purchase costs by a clear margin. excited about the motivation and enthusiasm that we see in 8 KONECRANES 2011 Chairman’s letter changing the game with a winning business model the company. The Board has also moved to renew the Group’s I wish to thank all shareholders that have stayed loyally on incentive system, to provide better alignment with shareholder board, and I would like to welcome all our new shareholders. returns. We are all partners in our long-term success. In summary, our Group has started the new year in growth mode, with increasing market share, with an enthusiastic crew, and with a winning business model of the best services and the most modern equipment. Our eyes are open for the Stig Gustavson challenges ahead of us in Europe. Chairman of the Board Chariman’s letter KONECRANES 2011 9 RTG crane LIFTING BUSINESSES WORLDWIDE THROUGH HIGH-CLASS OPERATION Mission: Values: not just lifting Trust in People things, but entire We want to be known for our great people. businesses. Total Service Commitment We want to be known for always keeping our promises. Vision: We know in real Sustained time how millions Profitability of lifting devices We want to be known as a financially sound company. and machine tools perform. We use this knowledge around the clock to make our customers’ operations safer and more productive. 10 KONECRANES 2011 COMPANY CORNERSTONES STRATEGY Differentiation through service and Dual-channel strategy technology innovation Given the very fragmented nature of the markets that we We at Konecranes are committed to providing excellent, proserve, we sell both directly to end-users and to small indeactive service and to never letting our customers down – by pendent crane-builders and industrial distributors. This dualalways being there when our customers need us. To ensure channel approach enables Konecranes to provide maximum that we are, we believe in the importance of continuously market coverage, while retaining economies of scale through developing our service offering and further enhancing the uniform product platforms. customer experience. Our other key differentiators are technology and innovaGlobal, demand-driven supply chain tion. We have continuously increased our R&D investments. Our global presence and our commitment to serving our cusSafety and quality remain high on our agenda and we are tomers, wherever they are, means that we need a global supcommitted to incorporating these into every aspect of our ply chain and one that offers similar capabilities worldwide mindset. to provide us with the optimum level of scalability. Our supply chain also needs to be flexible so that we can adapt to Lifting People fluctuations in demand, while offering competitive lead and Our employees, together with their expertise and their motivadelivery times, and avoid excessively large inventory levels. tion, are central to our success. This is why we continually invest in training and in developing people’s leadership skills. Real-time information The more capable our people are, the better both our service To ensure that we can make rapid and well-informed deciand our products will be. sions, Konecranes believes in decentralized decision-making and the benefits of taking decisions as close to the customer Global footprint as possible. Giving our people access to transparent, realKonecranes is committed to becoming an even more dynamic time information will be essential to improving our perforand global force in the lifting business. While we already have mance here, which is why we are investing in new-generation a presence in almost 50 countries, there are still many areas information systems to give us new capabilities. where Konecranes could offer more, both in terms of products and service. We believe that we can achieve this through a combination of ongoing organic growth and acquisitions. Rapid expansion in emerging markets will be key here. XA light crane system changing the game with excellent service and technology innovation Company strategy KONECRANES 2011 11 Business environment strong demand, despite macroeconomic worries Konecranes’ global market positions Market share of #1 #1 #3–5 #3–4 16% in crane in industrial in port cranes in lift trucks maintenance cranes & services components The 2011 business environment turned out to be a very mixed was robust throughout the year. Demand for new equipment one. Coupled with relaxed monetary policies and low interest among industrial customers was strong in all geographic arrates, the global economic situation was generally buoyant eas except Western Europe. The Americas saw the strongest in the first half of 2011. Export-led economies showed the growth in demand. Price competition remained intense. strongest level of recovery. Two events also shaped the busiHaving made a strong comeback in 2010, global container ness environment during the first half of the year: a powerful traffic showed further signs of strength, growing by about 7 earthquake and subsequent tsunami that shook northeastpercent in 2011. The strongest growth in container traffic was ern Japan on March 11, and unrest in North Africa and the seen in China and the rest of the Far East, closely followed Middle East. by Europe. This resulted in a continued high level of project Concern about budget deficits and the level of public debt activity with container ports globally. New emerging markets in Europe and the US started to impede the private sector’s such as sub-Saharan Africa have gained in importance due optimism towards the end of the second quarter, and the to population growth and infrastructure investments in the second half of the year was characterized by high economic region. Demand for automated solutions providing higher prouncertainty. China and India maintained high growth rates, ductivity and lower costs for large terminals continued to grow. but this meant an increase in inflationary pressures, against The demand for lifting equipment services improved in which governments took measures to cool the economy. the first half of the year due to higher capacity utilization in Higher interest rates and tighter credit availability resulted Konecranes’ customer industries. In the second half, the in a slow-down in economic activity in these countries during service market showed signs of stabilization, but remained the second half of the year. robust overall. Outsourcing of crane and machine tool mainteIn line with the general economic situation, industrial canance continued to develop favorably. New types of services pacity utilization in Europe and the US leveled off after having utilizing the latest IT and measurement technologies were nearly reached the level that prevailed before the start of the introduced. financial crisis in 2008. Having broken multi-year highs in the Recent commodity price inflation caused an upward presfirst quarter, purchasing managers’ indexes also fell back in sure on input costs, particularly in the component area. There the second and third quarters. During the fourth quarter, the were also availability issues related to certain components. indexes indicated slightly contracting business activity in EuAfter peaking in the first quarter, steel prices eased in the rope, but slightly expanding activity in the US. second quarter due to slower economic growth, and this trend Compared to 2010, the demand for new equipment imcontinued in the second half. The EUR appreciated against proved, as economic growth had eliminated much of the the USD during the first half, but depreciated towards the overcapacity within manufacturing industries. Accelerated end of the year. decision-making for industrial investments boosted the demand for industrial cranes and lift trucks during the first half Key business drivers of the year, while the demand for industrial cranes slackened The increasing economic power of emerging markets, such off during the second half. Demand for crane components as BRIC countries, continued to be clearly reflected in 12 KONECRANES 2011 Business environment Konecranes’ operations. Orders from emerging markets growth in the installed base of Western-type equipment. The accounted for approximately one-third of Group orders and preventive maintenance concept, which is already well-estabalmost 50 percent of orders in the Equipment business. lished in developed countries, is gradually gaining a foothold Thanks to investments in organic growth and acquisitions, in emerging markets as well. Konecranes has built up very strong positions in China and Automation, eco-efficiency, and safety are the key aspects India in particular. of the new equipment business in developed countries. While The market for services and lifting equipment differs siglocal products in emerging markets usually incorporate banificantly in developed and emerging economies. Outsourcsic robust technology, there is a clear trend towards similar ing continues to be concentrated in industrialized countries, features to those taken for granted in developed markets – while the concept of outsourced crane maintenance has only something that is clearly beneficial for technologically oriented recently started to gain ground in emerging markets with the companies such as Konecranes. changing the game with automation, ecoefficiency and safety Straddle carrier business environment KONECRANES 2011 13 Business Area Service Remote services improve safety and productivity Through its global service network, Konecranes’ Business Area Service offers a full range of service solutions, maintenance, and modernization for all brands and makes of cranes, port equipment, and machine tools. Demand for lifting equipment services improved during the first half of 2011. In the second half of the year, the service market showed signs of stabilization, but remained robust overall. The new TRUCONNECT® remote services family was well-received. A commitment to excellent, proactive, and real-time service Large investments affected is one of Konecranes’ strategic priorities. With 609 service profitability, as growth was slowerlocations in 47 countries, the company has the largest serthan-expected vice network in the industry and provides high-quality service The demand for lifting equipment services im24/7. proved in 2011 due to higher capacity utilization in Konecranes’ Service customers range from repair shops Konecranes’ customer industries. Despite industrial capacity and general manufacturing sites, with maintenance cranes utilization leveling off during the latter part of the year, particuand machine tools, to paper and steel mills, nuclear power larly in Europe, Service orders grew in all regions throughout plants, and ports with lifting equipment that require 24-hour the year. availability. Business Area Service invested heavily in system and techKonecranes offers a full range of service solutions for all nology development, service network expansion, and training its customers designed to match their individual maintenance to be able to deliver higher-value services and higher volumes and performance needs. These solutions vary from expert in the future. Growth in deliveries was slower than originally services related to a specific project or product to full service planned, which affected fixed cost absorption, and resulted in and material handling partnerships. All aim at giving customlower-than-expected profitability. Actions were initiated during ers the optimal package of services to help them increase the fourth quarter to reduce fixed costs, especially in Europe. the productivity of their businesses. Proportion of Key figures Group total, % 2011 2010 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 35 694.6 605.7 14.7 Order book, MEUR 14 135.1 103.3 30.9 Net sales, MEUR 40 796.1 707.8 12.5 Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 41 55.7 62.5 -10.8 Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, % 7.0% 8.8% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 39 49.4 62.5 -20.9 Operating margin (EBIT), % 6.2% 8.8% Personnel at the end of period 52 5,980 5,397 10.8 14 KONECRANES 2011 Business areas changing the game with PROACTIVE AND REAL-TIME service New orders for Konecranes’ Business Area Service grew Growing presence in South America in 2011 in all geographic regions. Orders received totaled In January 2011, Konecranes acquired Gruas Koman Limitada EUR 694.6 million (605.7), an increase of 14.7 percent. The in Santiago, Chile. The acquisition also included a start-up order book increased by 30.9 percent to EUR 135.1 million subsidiary in Peru, Koman Gruas Peru S.R.L. The acquired (103.3) compared to the end of 2010. Sales rose 12.5 percompanies specialize in providing advanced overhead lifting cent, to EUR 796.1 million (707.8). The operating profit exsolutions and maintenance services in Chile, Peru, and Bocluding restructuring costs was EUR 55.7 million (62.5) and livia, and have an installed base of almost 500 cranes, the the operating margin 7.0 percent (8.8). The number of units majority based on Konecranes technology. The acquisition in the maintenance contract base increased to 409,877 from consolidated Konecranes’ position as the leading service pro375,514 at the end of 2010, with an annual value of EUR vider in Chile and has given the Group a valuable foothold on 166.2 million (145.7). the Peruvian services market. As Konecranes also continued its organic growth in Brazil, its overall presence in the South Remote services move Konecranes American market strengthened significantly during the year. closer towards its new vision The Indian crane company WMI Cranes Ltd. (currently An innovative approach to product and service development named WMI Konecranes India Ltd.), which has been conis one of Konecranes’ competitive advantages. Konecranes solidated into Konecranes’ financial reporting as of February launched the new TRUCONNECT remote services family in 2011, has a delivered equipment base of more than 4,000 2011. TRUCONNECT services are based on a remote conneccranes. This offers excellent growth opportunities for Konetion between equipment and the Konecranes Remote Center. cranes’ maintenance services in India. Remote services enable Konecranes to help its customers In November 2011, Konecranes acquired ABB Schweiz improve the safe use of their equipment, provide the right AG’s crane systems business. With its large customer base, maintenance at the right time, and assess the lifecycle of good connections to a number of industries, and experienced crane components. This results in higher efficiency, as mainand highly qualified employees, this business will further tenance can be planned to match the actual usage and condistrengthen Konecranes’ position in Switzerland. tion of cranes. By the end of the year, Konecranes had over Konecranes Service’s broad maintenance contract base 1,000 active remote connections to cranes in place. Remote and emphasis on long-term contracts and a high level of cusservices are an important step in moving Konecranes closer tomer satisfaction gives the Group a strong base for future towards its vision of knowing in real time how its customdevelopment, even when faced with a potential economic ers’ equipment performs and using this knowledge to benefit downturn. The substantial investments made in technology customers. and the service network in 2011 are expected to yield clear benefits in the coming years. Business areas KONECRANES 2011 15 Business Area equipment Strengthening Konecranes’ presence in emerging markets Konecranes’ Business Area Equipment offers lifting equipment and material handling solutions for industrial use, typically in general manufacturing, process industries, power plants, industries handling heavy loads, ports, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. Demand for new equipment improved during 2011 compared to 2010, although price competition remained intense. Business Area Equipment continued to consolidate its markets in emerging countries. Business Area Equipment has an extensive and diverse global dustrial cranes and components during the first half of the customer base. General manufacturing represents the largyear, while the demand for industrial cranes slackened off est single customer segment, while ports, oil & gas, mining, during the second half of the year due to growing economic automotive, warehousing, entertainment, energy, steel, petrouncertainty. Geographically, the Americas saw the strongest chemicals, shipyards, and paper are also important customer growth in demand, but most of Western European markets industries. remained subdued. Markets in Asia-Pacific grew strongly durKonecranes is the world’s largest supplier of lifting equiping the first three quarters of the year, but cooled down during ment for industrial purposes, with a product range that covers the fourth quarter. industrial cranes, wire rope and chain hoists, crane compoThe continued strength in global container traffic acceleratnents, workstation lifting systems, manual hoists, and meed decision-making for investments in new container handling dium to heavy forklifts. equipment such as port cranes and lift trucks. Project activity Konecranes’ material handling solutions for containers level was high across the globe. Demand for automated soluinclude ship-to-shore (STS) cranes, rubber tired gantry (RTG) tions that provide higher productivity and lower costs for large cranes, rail-mounted gantry (RMG) cranes, automated conterminals continued to grow. tainer yards with stacking cranes, straddle carriers, reach Despite continued growing uncertainty, Business Area stackers, and masted lift trucks. Konecranes also offers a full Equipment improved its overall performance in 2011 comrange of cranes for shipyard use, high-capacity grab unloaders pared to 2010. Order intake increased 28.5 percent to EUR for large bulk terminals, and a complete portfolio of material 1,291.5 million (1,004.9). Sales totaled EUR 1,201.4 million handling equipment for nuclear power plants. (948.6) which was an increase of 26.6 percent on 2010. Operating profit excluding restructuring costs was EUR 81.7 Good performance in a weaker million (67.4) and operating margin 6.8 percent (7.1). Profiteconomic environment ability was held back by investments in business development Compared to 2010, the demand for new equipment improved, related to technology and IT, as well as the fact that product as economic growth has eliminated a large portion of overprice increases lagged behind input costs and price competicapacity within manufacturing industries. The consequent tion remained intense throughout the year. increase in industrial investments boosted demand for inProportion of Key figures Group total, % 2011 2010 Change, % Orders received, MEUR 65 1,291.5 1,004.9 28.5 Order book, MEUR 86 856.7 652.9 31.2 Net sales, MEUR 60 1,201.4 948.6 26.6 Operating profit (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 59 81.7 67.4 21.3 Operating margin (EBIT), excluding restructuring costs,% 6.8% 7.1% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 61 77.7 64.7 20.2 Operating margin (EBIT), % 6.5% 6.8% Personnel at the end of period 48 5,621 4,600 22.2 16 KONECRANES 2011 Business areas position on emeRging mARKets chAnging FuRtheR stRengthened And new smARt eQuipment solutions intRoduced the gAme with smart solutions Konecranes continued to develop its existing operations in emerging markets, where the local economies are growing faster than in traditional industrialized markets. the Group also strengthened its presence in these markets through acquisitions. Konecranes acquired the leading indian manufacturer of heavy-duty cranes, WMi cranes Ltd., in two phases. in the first phase in February, Konecranes acquired 51 percent of shares in the company. in the second phase finalized in august, Konecranes acquired the remaining 49 percent of shares. to further expand its operations in south america, Konecranes acquired chilean-based Gruas Koman Limitada, a specialist in advanced overhead lifting solutions. the acquisition of the saudi-arabian crane manufacturer saudi cranes consolidated Konecranes’ position in this growing market area. With a strong presence in china, india, and the Middle east, together with ongoing organic development in south america and africa, Konecranes is now relatively wellpositioned in the world’s emerging markets – and will continue to work determinedly to further expand this presence. the most significant new orders booked in 2011 included 20 rtG cranes and four super post panamax sts cranes for a container terminal in the Us, 19 industrial cranes for a saudiReach stacker arabian steel mill, a total of 30 rtGs for various customers in Brazil, nigeria and indonesia, and a giant Goliath gantry crane for a Brazilian shipyard. Konecranes launched a number of advanced remote diagnostics features for its products during 2011. these offer customers improved safety and higher efficiency, as crane maintenance can be planned according to actual usage and condition. a new straddle carrier, the BoXrUnner™, was also introduced. this gives large container terminal operators a flexible and efficient means of moving containers from shipto-shore cranes to automated stacking cranes. Konecranes also continued work on increasing its range of smart equipment solutions. BUsiness areas KonecRAnes 2011 17 Regional overview Close to customers all over the world Konecranes is committed to becoming an even more global force in the lifting business. To maximize its potential to understand the operations and needs of different industries and build long-term customer relationships, Konecranes’ operations are divided into three geographical regions – Americas (AME), Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia-Pacific (APAC). Americas Nordic Konecranes holds a strong position in the Americas, particuKonecranes’ market position is very strong in the Nordic counlarly the US. The Americas accounted for 29 percent of sales tries. Service accounts for a high percentage of sales and a in 2011. The US is the most developed market in terms of significant part of the service business is based on long-term outsourced crane services, and more than half of Konecranes’ contracts. The customer base is wide, with the main segsales in the Americas are service-related. South America, parments being pulp & paper, general manufacturing, and energy. ticularly Chile and Brazil, is growing strongly. General manuThe Nordic economies showed moderate growth during 2011, facturing, together with steel and automotive, are the largest with the exception of Sweden, where growth was significant. market segments. Despite economic uncertainty Konecranes • Largest markets: Finland, Sweden. saw strong demand growth in both Service and Equipment. • Largest markets: the US, Canada, and Mexico. Eastern Europe • Operations: 2,513 employees, 138 service locations. Konecranes is improving its position in Eastern Europe and is • Manufacturing: 8 plants manufacturing industrial & prowell on the way to becoming the leading Western crane supplicess cranes, including nuclear cranes, hoists, parts, and er. Equipment accounts for a high percentage of sales, while related components. service sales are growing, particularly to foreign companies • Key brands: Konecranes, P&H® (through Morris Material investing in the region. The most active customer segments Handling), STAHL CraneSystems, R&M, and Crane Pro are petrochemicals, metals, and general manufacturing. EastParts. ern European markets all grew in 2011, particularly Russia, where rising oil and gas prices acted as a major economic Europe, Middle East and Africa driver. The economies of Central Eastern Europe also grew, EMEA is Konecranes’ largest region, accounting for 50 perwith Poland showing the strongest development. cent of sales in 2011. The region comprises both mature • Largest markets: Russia, Poland, and Hungary. markets, with a high proportion of service sales, and fastgrowing economies where service is still small compared to Middle East equipment sales. The proportion of service outsourced to The Middle East continues to show high potential, with large specialists varies widely from country to country. investments taking place in infrastructure, petrochemicals, • Operations: 6,144 employees, 354 service locations. and general manufacturing. Equipment accounts for a high • Manufacturing: 13 plants manufacturing cranes and percentage of sales. Konecranes’ main areas of business are hoists, lift trucks, and steel structures for larger cranes. petrochemicals, energy, metals, ports, and general manufac• Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, turing. Demand remained at a reasonably good level throughand Verlinde. out the year. • Largest markets: the U.A.E., Saudi Arabia, and Egypt. Western Europe In the mature Western European market, customer focus Africa tends to be aimed at enhancing efficiency and productivity Demand in Africa is growing, with many countries continuing in material handling to offset high labor costs. Service repto invest in ports and other infrastructure. Konecranes focusresents a variable proportion, between 30 and 70 percent, es on North Africa, South Africa, and other coastal markets. of Konecranes’ sales in the area, with significant variations Equipment accounts for a high percentage of sales, primarily from country to country. Slow economic growth continued to related to logistics, metals, and mining. The African market affect demand for equipment while service performed well. was strong and continued to grow in 2011. The volume of • Largest markets: Germany, the UK, France, the Netherlogistics-related investments increased and the same trend lands, and Austria. is expected to continue in 2012. 18 KONECRANES 2011 regional overview Konecranes regions Main production sites Sales and service locations AME EMEA APAC (Americas) (Europe, Middle East, Africa) (Asia-Pacific) sales sales sales 29% (549.1 MEUR) 50% (950.9 MEUR) 21% (396.4 MEUR) personnel personnel personnel 21% (2,513) 53% (6,144) 26% (2,994) • Largest markets: South Africa, Algeria, Morocco, Ghana, are general manufacturing, paper, steel, automotive, power, Nigeria, Kenya, and Tanzania. and ports. All APAC economies saw strong GDP growth in 2011, except Japan. Asia-Pacific • Largest markets: China, India, Australia; Indonesia and Konecranes is recognized as the technology leader in APAC some of the other countries in South-East Asia are beand has a very strong market position across the region. coming more important for Konecranes. APAC accounted for 21 percent of sales in 2011. Significant • Operations: 2,994 employees, 117 service locations. industrial investments are continuing in the region’s emerging • Manufacturing: 7 plants, including joint ventures, manueconomies, resulting in high demand for Konecranes equipfacturing hoists, industrial and process cranes, steel ment. To support its growing installed base, Konecranes has structures, lift trucks, and port cranes. fast-tracked the development of its service network in the • Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, region, particularly in China and India. In mature markets such Verlinde and Sanma Hoists & Cranes. as Australia, the service business is much bigger than the equipment business. The main customer segments in APAC regional overview KONECRANES 2011 19 ReseARch & development developing smARt solutions to impRove sAFety, pRoductivity, And eneRgy eFFiciency Konecranes is committed to continuously developing its equipment solutions and service offering by making innovative use of the latest technology. it develops efficient products and services that increase customers’ productivity while prioritizing safety and the environment. Konecranes’ service contract base covers almost 410,000 in 2011, Konecranes continued to strengthen its innovaitems of equipment supplied by Konecranes and other manution. research and product development spending totaled facturers, and is an important source of input for the comeUr 29.6 million (21.5), equivalent to 1.6 percent (1.4) of pany’s product development work. almost 3,800 service pernet sales. sonnel around the world and close to 1.6 million customer contacts every year give Konecranes a thorough understanddevelopment Focused on AutomAtion ing of its customers’ needs. the specific needs of customers And soFtwARe solutions operating in emerging markets have been a new focus area automation and software solutions were among the focal over the last few years. areas of Konecranes’ r&D work in 2011. these are belifting unit capacity price (tons ) (k€) 1,000 1 100 1,000 10,000 scalable sMarton® crane family crane monitoring new cabin system series 100 near Guard system smart Feature package for wire rope hoist platform hybrid 10 straddle carrier with supertechnology review capacitors truconnect® for acquired wire remote service 1 rope hoist family (continuous 24/7 care electric chain hoist platform covering equipment condition and safety) 0.1 Manual chain hoist series for european and Us Markets 1 3 6 12 24 lead time Development work covers our entire product offering. (months) 20 KonecRAnes 2011 r&D changing the game by increasing the productivity of customers’ operations Polar crane Key priorities of Konecranes’ R&D work Safety Productivity In addition to state-of-the-art technology, safety is alKonecranes develops efficient products and servicways a key area of focus for Konecranes. Preventing es that increase the productivity of its customers’ both injuries and damage to loads are top priorities in operations by delivering the best life cycle value. research and product development. TRUVIEW®remote Konecranes’ smart solutions make cranes much data reporting, active, sensor-based safety features, easier to handle by simplifying difficult maneuvers, shock load elimination, and sway control features are eliminating load sway, and helping position loads just some examples of Konecranes’ innovative soluon predefined places. TRUVIEW remote data reporttions to improve safety. ing helps optimize maintenance by enabling it to be based on actual crane usage. Environmental issues Industrial design Environmental issues are taken into account throughIndustrial design forms an important part of out the life cycles of Konecranes’ products. Particular Konecranes’ product design process and helps difattention is given to things such as efficient material ferentiate the Konecranes brand. High standards of usage, recyclability, and energy efficiency. Over 98 industrial design also allow Konecranes to incorporate percent of the material used in a typical Konecranes greater efficiency, user-friendliness, cost savings, and crane is recyclable. Energy-saving frequency converter new materials into its products. technology is available with Konecranes equipment and enables up to 70 percent of braking energy to be fed back into the network. R&D KONECRANES 2011 21 ing developed to facilitate new features and functionalities Emerging markets increasingly when using Konecranes equipment and in communications important between Konecranes and its customers. A good example of As the number and production volumes of customers operthis approach are the active safety features incorporated into ating in emerging markets are growing, Konecranes is conKonecranes’ forklift trucks, which features sensors to detect tinuing to emphasize the needs of these customers in its obstacles and warn operators, enhancing overall safety. R&D work. Emerging markets are divided into two distinctly In line with its new vision, Konecranes wants to be able to different segments in terms of equipment and solution reuse real-time information to make its customers’ operations quirements, and Konecranes needs to be able to offer both safer and more productive. TRUCONNECT® remote services, advanced high-tech solutions and basic lifting equipment. one of the newest innovations in Konecranes Service busiBoth segments are growing rapidly, and Konecranes wants ness, will help the company live up to this vision. Launched to develop and offer suitable solutions for customers’ needs in 2011, the new TRUVIEW® remote data monitoring and rein both. porting service continuously collects actual usage data from In addition to in-house research and development work, equipment over a remote connection and provides customers Konecranes is continuing to cooperate closely with its customwith a real-time view of their equipment’s operating condition. ers, suppliers, research institutions, and universities. CompreThis translates into improved safety and higher efficiency for hensive product testing at its own facilities and those of its customers, as maintenance can be planned according to acpartners will continue to form an integral part of Konecranes’ tual usage and condition. development work in the future. Konecranes’ FH cabin, also launched in 2011, provides a highly ergonomic and efficient working environment. The cabin was designed using a user-centered approach that included observing users’ activities during their work and interviewing them to identify the type of improvements they wanted. By offering optimal working conditions and making work easier, the new FH cabin will make it possible to achieve substantial productivity improvements. Konecranes’ product offering will be supplemented by a new product family of chain hoists to be launched during the first half of 2012. The starting-point for planning this product family was to double the service life of chain hoists and improve their reliability, usability, and safety significantly. These targets will be met through a mix of structural redesign and new safety features. Load-sensitive inverter technology for industrial cranes Konecranes’ aim is to increase customers’ productivity, while also delivering enhanced environmental performance. 2011 saw the launch of a new generation of hoist inverter technology that helps speed up customer operations and reduce energy consumption. By using load-sensitive lifting speeds, motor output has been reduced by 50 percent, resulting in a compact and lightweight design. Customers benefit from quick installation, faster crane operation, and energy savings throughout a hoist’s life, as well as better safety, thanks to the use of variable lifting speeds. 22 KONECRANES 2011 R&D changing the game with advanced solutions to improve safety Heavy-duty crane R&D KONECRANES 2011 23 pRoduct oveRview mAchine tool seRvice provides service, maintenance, and modernization for all makes of machine tools used in the engineering industry. our offering ranges from maintenance for a single machine to total partnership agreements covering a customer’s entire equipment base. seRvice And modeRniZAtion tRuconnect® Remote seRvices activities focus on maximizing the availability and productivity offer services based on a remote connection between equipof customers’ equipment, while minimizing the cost of ownerment and the Konecranes remote center. the remote conship. We offer five solutions known as contact, condition, nection provides online reports on the usage and condition care, commitment and complete ranging from individual of equipment and also makes it possible to carry out remote contracts covering an individual piece of equipment to fulltroubleshooting and provide technical support. service and material handling partnership. woRKstAtion cRAnes loAd mAnipulAtoRs stAndARd duty cRAnes offer ergonomic handling for loads up are designed for sophisticated material feature Konecranes’ cXt® hoist and to 7,500 kg. typical customers include handling applications, and are typically have lifting capacities up to 80 tons. manufacturing workshops, automotive used in delicate assembly processes these cranes are typically used in genmanufacturers, and renewable energy in the aerospace and automotive ineral manufacturing, the automotive, utilities. dustries, for example. steel, pulp & paper, construction, and renewable energy sectors, aerospace, and petrochemicals. FoRKliFt tRucKs with lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 60 tons are used for transporting ReAchstAcKeRs materials in process industries – such are used to stack containas forest products, steel, paper, and ers in small and mediumconcrete – and at ports. sized terminals and railroad terminals. 24 KonecRAnes 2011 proDUct oVerVieW ship-to-shoRe cRAnes are used for loading and unloading containers from ships. Konecranes’ sts cranes have a lifting capacity of up to 65 tons and an outreach of up to 61 meters. heAvy duty cRAnes are engineered for demanding lifting applications and heavy loads. typical customers include the steel, aluminum, mining, general manufacturing, pulp & paper, petrochemical, cement, power, and waste-to-energy industries. nucleAR cRAnes are used across the industry, from lifting reactor heads to handling nuclear fuel, and are found in nuclear power plants, radioactive waste facilities, and at nuclear fuel production sites. Konecranes can supply its own equipment, as well as p&h® branded cranes, hoists and other safety-related equipment under its 10cFr50 appendix “B” nuclear quality program. yARd cRAnes include rtGs, rMGs and automatic stacking cranes (asc) used for stacking containers high and wide at ports and intermodal terminals. these cranes usually have a lifting capacity of around 50 tons and can stack one over five containers high and six plus truck lanes wide. stRAddle cARRieRs are used for transporting containers from shipside to container yards and loading areas. they typically have a lifting capacity of 50 tons and can stack containers one over three high. BRAnds the Group’s brand strategy is based on the corporate Konecranes master brand, complemented with a portfolio of freestanding power brands. KonecranesgoliAth shipyARd cRAnes branded products are sold directly to end-usspan up to 220 meters and are designed for ers, while power-branded products are sold to handling ship sections in shipyards. they can distributors and independent crane builders. handle loads up to 2,200 tons and can lift up to Konecranes’ power brands include r&M, 112 meters high. stahL cranesystems, sWF, Verlinde, and sanma hoists & cranes. proDUct oVerVieW KonecRAnes 2011 25 Corporate responsibility Konecranes is committed to lifting its customers’ businesses responsibly. We believe that sustainable growth depends on strong and responsible performance. We are committed to increasing the value of our shareholders’ investment, while respecting our personnel, the environment, and the societies in which we operate. Continuous improvement is the guiding principle in everything we do. Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our day-to-day Konecranes’ corporate operations. As a global business, we promote the wellbeing responsibility focus areas of communities around the world and abide by good corporate governance practices. All of our operations are guided by our corporate values and our Code of Conduct that define how Sma rt er we manage our business. We recognize the importance of a e ty of number of international initiatives and conventions, such as af ng s the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and are a ri member of the UN Global Compact initiative. We have incorpofe rated these principles into our Code of Conduct and published specific sets of guidelines covering areas such as safety and corporate the environment. responsibility Fair The Konecranes Corporate Responsibility Steering Group e pla o pl is intended to foster discussion on corporate responsibility issues and oversee management in these areas. The Steering Pe y Group includes senior managers and representatives from our business areas, production, product development, human resources, and legal affairs. en vir t The Steering Group met twice during 2011 and also dison m en cussed some issues during online meetings. The Extended Update on development areas from 2010 Development area Status Accident and near hit reporting tool introduced globally. Reporting tool in use at most locations. Data enables deeper analyzes and more effective preventive action planning. Safety innovation idea project implementation continued. Idea handling and implementation has continued. Project essentially completed. More proactive (leading) safety indicators established. More proactive safety indicators have been discussed and developed. Data for indicators not yet globally available. HR process support and roll-out of ‘People System’ information People System in use in most countries. Progressed as system. planned. Value-based behavior included in measuring performance during Process created, but implementation postponed to 2012. development discussions. Strong emphasis on leadership development at all organizational Numerous leadership programs took place during 2011. Good levels. leadership results in the 2011 Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS). Improvements in main development areas identified in the 2010 Planned improvements completed in many units and locations. Employee Satisfaction Survey. Based on the results of the 2011 ESS, there have been improvements in key development areas. First environmental product declarations published. Environmental product declaration for wire rope hoist published. Environmental product declarations for other product families are under development. Sufficient skilled trainers available to provide environmental ‘Train the trainer’ approach adopted. Two professional training in local languages. environmental management training sessions held during 2011. 26 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate responsibility KONECRANEs’ StAKEHOLDERS Konecranes aims to recognize and meet different stakeholders’ needs and expectations in the area of corporate responsibility as elsewhere. In this chart, we have listed some examples of stakeholder groups and how we engage in dialogue with them. Customers Personnel Continuous dialogue as part of normal business and There are multiple channels for employee dialogue, for exthrough customer satisfaction indicators and surveys. ample the Konecranes employee satisfaction survey and various feedback channels. Suppliers and subcontractors Students, universities, and • Continuous dialogue as part of normal business and research institutes Supplier Days event. • Student cooperation in the form of trainee and thesis • Environmental and ethical requirements included in work opportunities. general terms and conditions. • Cooperation in different kinds of research programs with universities and research institutes. Shareholders There are also many other stakeholder groups, such as loThe Annual Report is one way of providing information on cal communities, the authorities, media, interest groups, Konecranes’ corporate responsibility performance and actrade unions, and non-governmental organizations. We use tions for investors and engaging in dialogue. multiple dialogue channels for communicating with these groups. Management Team held an afternoon workshop on CR in the SAFETY COMES FIRST spring. Safety always comes first for us. People develop, build, operKonecranes follows Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) prinate, and maintain lifting equipment in challenging locations ciples in its reporting on corporate responsibility, and aims to and under varying conditions. We want all Konecranes employmeet the expectations of its stakeholders – such as customees, customers, and subcontractors to arrive home in good ers, owners, and current and future personnel – and build health after the working day – and we want to be the safety a solid foundation for dialogue on corporate responsibility leader in our industry. issues. Reporting complies with GRI Level C requirements, The members of the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) based on our self-assessment. A table of GRI compliance can network continued to work closely together in 2011, and cobe found on page 32. operation was intensified in a number of areas. Additional Corporate responsibility reporting covers the same timeprofessionals have joined the network from new countries and frame as our financial reporting, the calendar year, and curprojects, giving the network wider overall coverage. The highrently covers all our major production units and operations. light of the year was Konecranes HSEQ Days event (Health, Businesses acquired during 2011 are not included, however. Safety, Environmental and Quality Days), organized in ScotThe reported indicators have been chosen because they are land. the most relevant in terms of our operations and our stakeSafety risk management training for network members and holders. The data behind these indicators has been collected Group management was started in 2011, aimed at enhancing from our internal information systems, supplemented with insafety management competence and people’s understanding formation sourced separately. Some of the data included has of Konecranes’ main occupational safety risks and their resbeen scaled up to provide an overall view of our performance, pective controls. Training will continue during 2012. which could result in inaccuracies in some figures. Accident and near hit reporting was improved in 2011, Konecranes’ most important stakeholders include sharewith the introduction of the dedicated near hit reporting tool holders, customers, personnel, suppliers and other partners, in a number of new countries. The tool is currently used in 26 the authorities, local communities, and the media. During countries and covers around 90 percent of personnel. New 2011, we improved various aspects of our communications reporting features were also introduced, and summary reports and reporting, and added a corporate responsibility section can now be generated globally or by local contacts for their to the Group’s main Web site. location, for example. Data collected by the system is used Corporate responsibility KONECRANES 2011 27 Competence development will ensure our access to future talent Case Competence building and personal development are encourSafety and aged at Konecranes, and are reflected in the extensive trainenvironmental cross ing offering available to Konecranes personnel. Measured in auditing in wire rope terms of average number of training days, Konecranes clearly hoist manufacturing invests in its people. The level and quality of our training Wire rope hoist manufacturing units located in Häwere also ranked highly by personnel in the 2011 Employee meenlinna, Shanghai, and Springfield conducted cross Satisfaction Survey (ESS). Three leadership training programs auditing in the safety and environmental management continued in 2011: area during 2011, with safety and environmental con• Konecranes Academy, 180 people graduated during tacts auditing each other’s units. This has helped 2011 (middle management & experts) improve the sharing and implementation of best • Konecranes Master, 50 people graduated during the practices, cooperation, and learning. Units received 2010-2011 programs (senior management) a number of improvement suggestions and many of • Konecranes Champion, 90 people graduated during these have already been implemented or are under 2011 (top management). development. Job rotation was an increasingly important issue for Konecranes in 2011. Job rotation is designed to ensure that Konecranes has the right resources in the right places, to support employee development and offer career opportunities, enhance information sharing, and build company culture. Job as the base for planning corrective and preventive actions rotation is also discussed in employees’ TPP (Trust, People, and for ensuring that these focus on the appropriate topics. Performance) development discussions as part of the review Safety-related near hit reports, for example, have shown that of their personal development plans. the main reasons for near hits relate to the loss of control of Various new internal practices to support job rotation were equipment, such as hand-held tools, and equipment failures. introduced during 2011. Senior management also helped set Fingers and hands are people’s most vulnerable areas, aca positive example, with several job rotation changes taking cording to an analysis of data from all reported accidents. place in Group management. Near hit data will help us continue promoting appropriate working methods and focus our awareness-raising efforts. Continuous improvement in job satisfaction Lost time accident frequency (LTA) figures are detailed through TPP discussions in the table below. LTA figures showed that safety improved Global job satisfaction surveys are an important tool and indiin all business areas during 2011. Despite proactive safety cator for Konecranes. We carried out our fifth survey in 2011, management, one fatal accident took place within the Group covering more than 9,000 employees. The data this provided in 2011 involving a subcontractor working at our production enabled us to compare our performance to that recorded in site in India. the four previous ones and that of other companies. The response rate at Group level was 86 percent in 2011, LIFTING PEOPLE the highest in the five-year history of the survey. The results There is a great mix of talented Konecranes employees beshowed that overall job satisfaction has increased and that hind our customer promise: ‘Lifting Businesses™’. The wellmanagement and leadership feedback has improved. The corbeing and competence of our people are the keys to our sucrelation between annual development discussions and the cess. Acting more concertedly as one company is increasingly satisfaction of our people was also clearly visible. Overall, important to our success in the global marketplace. respondents felt less stressed compared to 2010, although Lost time Accident Frequency BUSINESS AREAS LTA1, 2011 LTA1, 2010 LTA1, 2009 Konecranes total 9.5 11.7 13.0 Service 11.7 13.0 15.0 Equipment 8.0 12.0 12.0 LTA1= (number of accidents /working hours performed) * 1,000,000 Including operatives and office staff 28 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate responsibility there were some local differences in these figures. The bigHR practices and processes and will contribute to creating a gest improvement areas were found in the clarification of orcommon ‘language’ within our organization. ganizational and job roles and responsibilities. Konecranes tracks figures and indicators related to emAnnual development discussions are one-to-one meetings ployee demographics, such as employee turnover, which may between managers and employees, during which people’s reflect job satisfaction and leadership quality, and takes corgoals and personal development plans – such as training rective action where needed. Globally speaking, Konecranes needs, career development wishes, and interest in job roranks well, with an employee turnover of less than ten pertation – are discussed and entered into the Group’s skills cent. Other indicators include workforce by region, employdatabase. Respondents who have had a discussion with their ment type, and age structure. In terms of gender diversity, supervisor during the previous 12 months appear more satwe operate in a male-dominated industry, which is reflected in isfied than those who have not. Discussion activities have education and training for our industry and in the job applicacontinuously improved, and the completion rate in 2011 was tions we receive. We are reporting on wider diversity indica85 percent. tors publicly for the first time this year. People System supports good HR practices SMALLER ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Konecranes’ human resources information system, known We work hard to develop our environmental management, as the People System, gathers all employment-related inforwhich enables comprehensive target-setting and monitoring mation online in one place. Implementation of the system of results. Energy efficiency, recycling, waste disposal, and started as a pilot project in Finland in 2010, and a broaderchemical management are key issues for Konecranes. based roll-out took place in 2011. The People System is now Safety and environmental management personnel work in use in most Konecranes countries, and over 9,000 employvery closely with each other at Konecranes due to the synerees already use it. The new system will help support good gies between these areas, and improvements are made hand NUMBER OF PERSONNEL, NUMBER OF PERSONNEL, End of the year Average workforce 21% by region AME 53% APAC 26% EMEA 8,404 9,904 9,782 10,042 11,651 8,005 9,222 9,811 9,739 10,998 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 gender 16% structure Male Female 84% Case Konecranes won a safety award in the UK Konecranes UK Ltd. won a Gold Award in the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Occupational Health and Safety Awards 2011 for what the jury described as the company’s ongoing commitment to striving for continuous improvement. 5% age structure The RoSPA reviews not only accident records, but also entrants’ over26% < 30 arching health and safety management systems, including important prac19% 30–39 tices such as leadership and workforce involvement. 40–49 Winning the RoSPA Gold Award is a very positive achievement and high25% 25% 50–59 lights Konecranes’ commitment to safety. > 59 Corporate responsibility KONECRANES 2011 29 agement categories. Konecranes’ environmental incident reporting was developed as part of the accident and near hit Case online reporting tool in 2011, and this new functionality will US wellbeing program: be rolled out in 2012. moving Towards a We are also seeking to improve communication on the Healthier Lifestyle environmental aspects and features of products. The Group’s Konecranes’ Americas region launched a wellbeing first environmental product declaration – for a wire rope hoist program in fall 2011 to encourage employees to exer– was released at CeMAT in May. cise more. Pedometers were distributed to all employees to encourage everyone to participate. Environmental aspects Participants tracked how many miles they walked The most significant environmental aspects related to between October 16 and December 10. ‘Walk to HQ Konecranes’ production operations include energy usage, in Hyvinkää, Finland and back’ was set as a humorwaste handling, and chemical storage and usage. Fuel conous target. 463 participants logged 84,032 kilomesumption and emissions from the vehicle fleet are also imters (52,215 miles) between the start of the program portant for the service business. Environmental indicators in October and the end of November alone; it seems related to these areas are reported in the Environmental Data that our Americans colleagues are really keen to visit Table. Hyvinkää! Although questions and enquiries related to water are becoming increasingly prominent in sustainability indexes and other questionnaires, water-related issues are not significant for Konecranes, as we use very little process water in production and our water usage is mainly limited to wash rooms in hand. Management system and process development work and drinking water. We may, however, start reporting on water was started in 2011 aimed at developing a globally harmoissues to ensure that we also provide public coverage of this nized and systematic approach, including common templates. area. Proactive communication on corporate responsibility issues and current focus areas also continued. SMARTER OFFERING Two environmental management training sessions for Usability, eco-efficiency, and safety are the guiding principles Konecranes’ environmental contact people took place in in the lifecycle of Konecranes’ lifting equipment and service 2011, and will be followed by further training for other manoffering. We are proud of the eco-efficiency and safety feaEnVIrOnmental data 2011 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS 2011 2010 2009 Total emissions/sales tCO2e /MEUR 85 124 125 Total energy consumption/sales MWh / MEUR 224 332 319 Scope 1, energy consumption and direct Vehicle fleet fuel consumption, MWh 151,000 220,200 283,219 emissions Natural gas consumption, MWh 65,300 54,000 62,400 Direct emissions, tCO2e 53,400 85,000 102,600 Scope 2, energy consumption and indirect Electricity consumption, MWh 135,000 158,000 149,000 emissions District heat consumption, MWh 74,000 80,500 39,000 Indirect emissions, tCO2e 73,000 73,000 52,000 Scope 3, other indirect emissions Business travel, tCO2e 11,100 10,000 27,500 Commuting to work, tCO2e 23,000 22,950 24,000 WASTE (TONS) Metal scrap1) 13,500 12,500 9,000 Cardboard, paper, and wood1) 3,500 5,500 7,000 Hazardous and electronic, and electrical waste2) 2,800 1,100 1,300 Mixed waste 3) 1,150 950 900 Total numbers extrapolated based on data collected from the majority of manufacturing locations and major service units. 1) Waste streams go for recycling 2) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, and other adequate treatments depending on location 3) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, and landfill depending on location 30 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate responsibility tures of our equipment and service offering, and of the overall user experience, both tangible and intangible, that we are able to give customers. Many cutting-edge features have been part of our offering for years. Airbalancer Konecranes released its first environmental product declaration in May 2011, for the CXT wire rope hoist. Another new, cutting-edge environmental feature is ECO-driving, a new control system that offers fuel savings of up to 40 percent in Konecranes heavy-duty forklift trucks and reach stackers. Konecranes launched the new FH cabin for both yard cranes and electric overhead cranes in 2011, providing drivers with a highly ergonomic and efficient working environment. TRUCONNECT®remote services for cranes, based on a remote connection between cranes and the Konecranes Remote Center, are another example of our smarter offering. FAIR PLAY As we are a part of a complex business ecosystem, we want to ensure that we act as transparently as possible and are fully accountable. We pay special attention to cooperation with our suppliers, and completed 38 supplier audits in 2011 and organized a Supplier Day for 65 of our suppliers, where corporate responsibility was one of the topics covered in the agenda. We also Case announced our target for 2015 at the 2011 Supplier Days, which is to have quality, safety, and environmental manageWellbeing ment systems in place at our top 250 suppliers by the end Konecranes launched a pilot project in Finland in of 2015. 2010 aimed at improving employees’ physical wellWe have made our Code of Conduct publicly available on being. This offered all employees the opportunity to our website, and also offer our personnel and other stakeholdparticipate in a fitness test and tailor-made individual ers a confidential e-mail channel (compliance@konecranes. fitness programs. The initial results of the project com) for reporting misconduct. All reports are investigated have seen a significant reduction in sick leave and an and action taken if needed. improvement in employees’ physical condition. Information on corporate responsibility and our Code of Conduct is included in the online training material we provide to people joining Konecranes to ensure that they are aware of our ethical rules from the very start of their employment. Two types of online training are already available: onboarding Case material at our public website for potential future employees and induction online training material for new recruits. Noise Konecranes understands that different customers and We received some complaints about noise disturbindustries have different requirements, and aims to develop ing our neighbors at a few production locations. To strong, long-term customer relationships. Our existing cusanalyze the situation, Konecranes commissioned tomer partnerships, together with our service contract base, monitoring services from a third party, which showed offer us an excellent foundation for growth, by expanding cothat levels are within acceptable limits. Operational operation and selling additional services. changes were nevertheless introduced at one locaOne of the tools we use to further improve our customer tion and a sound source was enclosed to minimize service is known as Customer’s Voice. This tool, which is depotential disturbance at another location. signed to evaluate how our customers perceive us, has been in use for three years, and our goal is to interview hundreds of customers globally by phone every month. Please contact corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com on corporate responsibility matters. Corporate responsibility KONECRANES 2011 31 GRI content index Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Profile 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO's statement 6 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 12–13, 44–49 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 34 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 24–25 2.3 Operational structure 3, 34 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 2 2.5 Number of countries and location of operations 2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2 2.7 Markets served 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2 2.9 Significant changes 4 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 29 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 27 3.2 Date of most recent report 27 3.3 Reporting cycle 27 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 31, 128 3.5 Process for defining report content 27 3.6 Boundary of the report 27 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or boundary 27 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint ventures 27 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases for calculations 27 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Not applicable 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting perios 4 3.12 GRI content index 32–33 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 34 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Board 36 4.3 Independence of the Board members 36, 54–55 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee consultation 28, 35 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to organization's performance 40–42 4.7 Processes for determining expertise 37 4.8 Values, mission and business conduct principles 10, 26 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing risk management 44 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's performance 37 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 27 4.15 Identification of stakeholders 27 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 27, 35 32 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate responsibility Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Management approach and performance indicators (core indicators, unless marked to be additional) Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 69 – 106 Financial review part costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligation 101 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 86 Labor practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 19, 29 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 29 Partly covered LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number 28 of workrelated fatalities by region LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 29 reviews (additional indicator) Human rights HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 31 Partly covered screening on human rights and actions taken. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to 46 Partly covered corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and 31, 46 Partly covered procedures Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are 20-22 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 30 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 30 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and 21-22, 31 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives (additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 30 Partly covered (additional) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 30 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 30 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 30 Partly covered (additional) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 30 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent 21-22, 30 of impact mitigation Corporate responsibility KONECRANES 2011 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, Company) is a Finnish public and was approved by the Board of the Securities Market limited liability company, which complies with the Finnish ComAssociation. The Code can be found at www.cgfinland.fi. panies and Securities Market Acts, the rules of NASDAQ OMX Konecranes complies with all the recommendations of the Helsinki, and other regulations concerning public companies, Code with no exceptions. Konecranes has issued a Corporate as well as Konecranes’ Articles of Association, in its decisionGovernance Statement based on Recommendation 54 of the making and administration. Code and a Remuneration Statement based on RecommendaKonecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Govertion 47. See www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate nance Code 2010 that came into force on October 1, 2010 Governance for details. Corporate governance structure of Konecranes Group Konecranes Group Konecranes Plc Articles of Association General Meeting Auditor (Shareholders) Code of Conduct Group’s internal rules, Board of Directors regulations and Group Policies Laws, Audit Committee Internal rules and Audit regulations Nomination and Compensation Committee President and CEO Group Administration Group Executive Board and Support Functions Extended Management Team BA Equipment Market Operations BA Service Business Component manufacturing Business Units and strategic sourcing Units 34 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate Governance General Meeting after the record date of a General Meeting do not affect a The General Meeting of Shareholders is the Company’s highshareholder’s right to participate in a General Meeting or a est decision-making body in which shareholders exercise their shareholder’s number of votes. decision-making power and right of supervision and control A registered shareholder wishing to participate in a Genover the Company’s business. eral Meeting must notify the Company of his/her intention in An Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held within the order and during the period prescribed in the Notice of the six months after the end of a financial year. An Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. A notification by a holder of nomineeGeneral Meeting (EGM) must be held if shareholders with at registered shares for temporary inclusion in the Company’s least 10 percent of shares so demand in writing to consider shareholders’ register is understood as prior notice of particia specific issue. pation in the General Meeting. Matters to be discussed at the AGM are defined in Article 10 of Konecranes’ Articles of Association and in Chapter 5, Proxy representative and powers of attorney Paragraph 3 of the Companies Act. These matters include the A shareholder may participate in a General Meeting in person adoption of the financial statements, distribution of profits, or through proxy representation. A proxy representative shall discharging Board members and the Managing Director from produce a dated proxy document or otherwise demonstrate in personal liability, the election of Board members and audia reliable manner his/her right to represent the shareholder tors, and the fees payable to them. Konecranes’ Articles of at the Meeting. When a shareholder participates in a General Association can be consulted at the Company’s website at Meeting through several proxy representatives representing www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. the shareholder’s shares held in different securities accounts, the shares by which each proxy representative represents the Information on General Meetings for shareholder shall be identified in connection with registration. shareholders Shareholders are requested to inform the Company of any The Board of Directors (Board) shall convene an AGM or EGM proxies for a General Meeting when they notify their participaby publishing a notice on the Company’s website or in one tion. A shareholder and his/her representative may bring an or more national newspapers or by sending a written notice assistant to a meeting. to shareholders by mail no more than three (3) months and no less than three (3) weeks before the General Meeting of Shareholder’s right to ask questions and make Shareholders. The Notice of the General Meeting shall include proposals for resolutions a proposed agenda. Every shareholder at a General Meeting has the right to ask The Company will disclose on its website the date by which questions related to an item on the Meeting’s agenda. A a shareholder shall notify the Board of Directors of an issue shareholder may send his or her question to be submitted to that he or she requests be included in the agenda. the Meeting to the Company in advance. A shareholder also The Company will publish the decisions made at General has the right to table draft resolutions at a Meeting in matters Meetings as stock exchange releases and on the Company’s that fall within the competence of the General Meeting and website without delay after meetings. The minutes of the Genthat are on the agenda. eral Meeting, including those appendices of the minutes that are part of decisions made by the Meeting, will be posted Attendance of Board members, the Managing on the Company’s website within two weeks of a General Director, and Auditors at the General Meeting Meeting. The President and CEO, holding the position of Managing Director under the Companies Act, the Chairman of the Board, Attendance of shareholders and a sufficient number of directors shall attend General Holders of nominee-registered shares are advised to request Meetings. In addition, the Company’s Auditor shall be prestheir custodian bank to provide them with instructions reent at Annual General Meetings. garding registration in the Company’s shareholders’ register, A person proposed as a director for the first time shall the issuing of proxy documents, and registration for the Genparticipate in the General Meeting that decides on his/her eral Meeting well in advance of a Meeting. Custodian banks’ election unless there is good reason for not attending. account management organizations will register a holder The Annual General Meeting for 2011 was held on March of nominee-registered shares wishing to participate in the 31, 2011 in Hyvinkää, Finland. A total of 367 shareholders General Meeting to be temporarily entered in the Company’s representing approximately 46.8 percent of votes participated shareholders’ register. In order to be entitled to attend an either in person or by proxy. AGM or EGM, a shareholder must be registered as a shareholder in the Company’s shareholders register maintained by Documents relating to General Meetings Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record day for the Meeting. A The Notice of a General Meeting, the documents to be subshareholder whose shares are registered in his/her personal mitted to the Meeting, and draft resolutions will be available Finnish book-entry account is registered in the Company’s on the Company’s website at least three weeks before the shareholders’ register. Changes in shareholdings that occur Meeting. Corporate governance KONECRANES 2011 35 Board of Directors Charter of the Board of Directors his/her consent. Any candidates proposed after the invitation The Board of Directors of the Company has approved a written has been sent shall be announced separately. The Company Charter governing its work. The Charter supplements the prowill publish the biographical details of the candidates on the visions of the Finnish Companies Act and the Company’s ArCompany’s website. ticles of Association. Information in the Charter is intended to In 2011, the Board of Directors consisted of eight (8) enable shareholders to evaluate the operation of the Board. members: The Charter can be consulted on the Company’s website at • Mr. Svante Adde www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. • Mr. Tomas Billing (until March 31, 2011) • Mr. Kim Gran Responsibilities • Mr. Stig Gustavson (Chairman) The Board is responsible for the administration and prop• Mr. Tapani Järvinen er organization of the Company’s operations. The Board is • Mr. Matti Kavetvuo vested with powers and duties to manage and supervise the • Ms. Nina Kopola (as of March 31, 2011) Company’s administration and operations as set forth in the • Ms. Malin Persson Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and any other ap• Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen plicable Finnish laws and regulations. The Company aims to comply with all applicable rules and regulations affecting the Biographical details of the Board of Directors are presented Company or its affiliates (Group Companies) outside Finland, on pages 54–55 and can also be found at www.konecranes. provided that such compliance does not constitute a violation com > Investors > Corporate Governance. of Finnish law. The Board has a general obligation to pursue the best Independence of the Board of Directors interest of the Company and all of its shareholders, and is Under the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010, the accountable to the Company’s shareholders. Board members majority of directors shall be independent of the Company. shall act in good faith and with due care, exercising their In addition, at least two directors of this majority shall be business judgment on an informed base in what they believe independent of the Company’s major shareholders. The Board to be the best interest of the Company and its shareholder shall evaluate the independence of directors and report which community as a whole. directors it determines to be independent of the Company and The Board shall decide on the business strategy of the which directors it determines to be independent of significant Company, the appointment and dismissal of the President and shareholders. CEO, the deputy to the President and CEO, and other senior All other members elected to Konecranes’ Board of Direcmanagement, Group structure, acquisitions and divestments, tors, except Mr. Stig Gustavson, are deemed independent of financial matters, and investments. It shall also continuously the Company. Mr. Gustavson is deemed dependent of the review and monitor the operations and performance of Group Company based on the Board’s overall evaluation relating to Companies, risk management, and the Company’s compliance his former and current positions in Konecranes, combined with applicable laws, as well as any other issues determined with his substantial voting rights in the Company. by the Board. The Board shall keep itself informed of issues All Board members are independent of the Company’s sigand business activities of major strategic importance to the nificant shareholders. Company on an ongoing basis. More detailed criteria for independence are listed in RecThe Board shall appoint a secretary to be present at all ommendation 15 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code Board meetings. 2010. The Code is available online at www.cgfinland.fi. Election and term of office Meeting procedures and self-assessment The AGM elects Konecranes’ Board of Directors for a term In addition to the Board and its Secretary, the Company’s of one (1) year. According to the Articles of Association, the President and CEO and CFO shall attend Board meetings. Board shall have a minimum of five (5) and a maximum of The agenda of Board meetings and background material will eight (8) members. The Board elects a Chairman from among be delivered to Board members prior to meetings. The Board its members. There is no provision in the Articles of Associashall meet as often as necessary to properly discharge its tion to appoint Board members according to a specific order. responsibilities. There shall be approximately eight regular Candidate Board members will be announced in invitations meetings a year; the Board may convene whenever necessary to General Meetings, provided that the proposal has been in addition to these meetings. made by the Nomination and Compensation Committee, or if The Board convened 12 times during the 2011 financial the candidate is supported by at least 10 percent of the total year. The attendance of members at the meetings was as votes of all Company shares and the candidate has given follows: 36 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate Governance board meetings 2011 Nomination and Compensation Board Meetings Audit Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Member Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Stig Gustavson 12/12 100% 4/4 100% Svante Adde 12/12 100% 4/4 100% Tomas Billing 0/1 0% 0/1 0% Kim Gran 12/12 100% 1/4 25% Tapani Järvinen 12/12 100% 4/4 100% Matti Kavetvuo 11/12 92% 4/4 100% Nina Kopola 11/11 100% 2/3 67% Malin Persson 11/12 92% 4/4 100% Mikael Silvennoinen 11/12 92% 3/4 75% The average attendance of members at Board meetings was All the members of the Audit Committee are deemed to be 95.8 percent. independent of the Company and its significant shareholders. The Board and its Committees shall conduct an annual All members have sufficient corporate management expertise. performance evaluation to determine whether the Board and In addition, Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. Kim Gran, and Mr. Mikael its Committees are functioning effectively. The Board shall esSilvennoinen have a degree in business administration and/ tablish the criteria to be used in these evaluations, which will or economics. be conducted as internal self-evaluations. The performance The Audit Committee convened four times in 2011, and review shall be discussed with the entire Board after the end the average attendance of members at meetings was 75.0 of each fiscal year. percent. The attendance of members at meetings is shown in the table on Board meetings. Board committees The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee and the NomiNomination and Compensation Committee nation and Compensation Committee. Both Committees were The Board shall appoint the members and the Chairman of first formed in 2004. the Nomination and Compensation Committee from among its members. The Nomination and Compensation Committee Audit Committee shall have 2–4 non-executive Board members, the majority of The Board shall appoint the members and the Chairman of whom shall be independent of the Company. the Audit Committee from among its members. The Audit The Committee shall prepare matters related to things Committee shall have at least three (3) non-executive Board such as the appointment of the members of the Board of members that are independent of and not affiliated with the Directors, President and CEO and other senior management, Company. At least one member must be independent of sigevaluate the President and CEO’s performance and remuneranificant shareholders. tion, and make recommendations on the Company’s incentive The Audit Committee assists the Board in its responsibilicompensation plans. The Committee’s tasks and responsities relating to the appropriate arrangement of the control of bilities are defined in its Charter, which is based on a Board Company accounts and finances pursuant to the Companies resolution. The Charter of the Nomination and Compensation Act. The tasks and responsibilities of the Committee are deCommittee is available on the Company’s website at www. fined in its Charter, which is based on a Board resolution. The konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. Charter of the Audit Committee is available on the Company’s The Nomination and Compensation Committee shall meet website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Govat least once a year. The Chairman shall present a report on ernance. each Nomination and Compensation Committee meeting to Under its charter, the Audit Committee shall meet at least the Board. four times a year. The Chairman shall present a report on As of March 31, 2011, the Board’s Nomination and Comeach Audit Committee meeting to the Board. pensation Committee comprised the following four (4) memAs of March 31, 2011, the Board’s Audit Committee combers: prised the following four (4) members: • Mr. Matti Kavetvuo (Chairman), • Mr. Svante Adde (Chairman), • Mr. Stig Gustavson (member), • Mr. Kim Gran (member), • Ms. Nina Kopola (member), • Mr. Tapani Järvinen (member), • Ms. Malin Persson (member). • Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen (member). Corporate governance KONECRANES 2011 37 Mr. Stig Gustavson is deemed to be dependent on the ComGroup Executive Board pany, while all other members are independent of the ComThe Group Executive Board consists of the following mempany. All members are deemed independent of the Company’s bers: significant shareholders. • Mr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO (Chairman of The Nomination and Compensation Committee convened Group Executive Board) four times in 2011, and the average attendance of members • Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President and Head at meetings was 87.5 percent. The attendance of members of Business Area Service (until December 31, 2011), at meetings is shown in the table on Board meetings. Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area Equipment (as of January 1, 2012) Fees paid to the Board of Directors • Mr. Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice President and Head of The remuneration paid to Board members is resolved by the Business Area Service (as of January 1, 2012) Annual General Meeting. More information on the Board’s • Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President and Head of remuneration can be found on page 40 under Remuneration Business Area Equipment (until December 31, 2011), of the Board of Directors. Executive Vice President and Head of Market Operations (as of January 1, 2012) President and CEO • Mr. Harry Ollila, Executive Vice President and Head of Konecranes’ President and CEO holds the position of ManagMarket Operations (until December 31, 2011) ing Director under the Companies Act. The Board decides on • Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer the appointment and dismissal of the President and CEO. The • Mr. Pekka Lettijeff, Chief Procurement Officer (until DePresident and CEO may be a member of the Board of Direccember 31, 2011) tors, but may not act as its Chairman. The current President • Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, Chief Technology Officer (until December and CEO, Mr. Pekka Lundmark, is not a member of the Board 31, 2011, acting CTO as of January 1, 2012). of Directors. The biographical details of Group Executive Board members Responsibilities can be found on Pages 50–51. Under the Companies Act, the President and CEO is responThe Group Executive Board assists the President and CEO, sible for the day-to-day management of the Company in acbut has no official statutory position based on legislation or cordance with instructions and orders given by the Board. The the Articles of Association. In practice, however, it plays a sigPresident and CEO may undertake actions which, considering nificant role in the Company’s management system, strategy the scope and nature of the Company’s operations, are unusupreparation, and decision-making. al or extensive, only with the authorization of the Board. The As of January 1, 2012, various job rotations and organizaPresident and CEO shall ensure that the Company’s accounttional changes took place in Konecranes’ top management. ing practices comply with the law and that its financial affairs Job rotation enables experience and skills to be transferred have been arranged in a reliable manner. The President and across the organization. CEO is also responsible for preparing matters presented to As planned earlier, Mr. Harry Ollila stepped down from his the Board and for the Company’s strategic planning, finance, duties as Head of Market Operations and Mr. Mikko Uhari, financial planning, reporting, and risk management. previously Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area Equipment, succeeded him as the Head of Market OperaPresident and CEO’s contract tions. Mr. Hannu Rusanen, previously Executive Vice President The terms and conditions of the President and CEO’s conand Head of Business Area Service, succeeded Mr. Mikko tract of employment are specified in writing in a document Uhari as Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area approved by the Board. Equipment. The President and CEO’s contract of employment may be Mr. Fabio Fiorino, previously Vice President, Head of Serterminated with six months’ notice at any time by either the vice, Region Americas, succeeded Mr. Hannu Rusanen as President and CEO or the Company. In the event that the ComExecutive Vice President and Head of Business Area Service. pany terminates the contract without due cause, the Company Furthermore, as of January 1, 2012, Business Area Equipshall pay the President and CEO compensation corresponding ment changed its structure to increase organizational clarto 18 months’ salary and fringe benefits, in addition to the ity and operational efficiency. A new Product Management salary for the notice period. When the President and CEO and Engineering organization was established to manage reaches the age of 60 years, both he and the Company may and coordinate products and engineering activities. At the request his retirement with a target pension of 60 percent of same time, the Global Procurement and Global Component his underlying income, excluding bonuses. Manufacturing Units were combined to form one Supply Chain Management Unit. Group management Konecranes has a two-tier operative management structure Extended Management Team consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and the ExIn addition to Group Executive Board members, the members tended Management Team (EMT). of the Extended Management Team include the Senior Vice 38 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate Governance Presidents of the Company’s regional organizations; the Vice Business Areas’ operations are interlinked and synergyPresident, General Counsel; the Vice President, Human Redriven. Business Area Executive Vice Presidents are responsources; the Vice President, Marketing & Communications; sible for the day-to-day management of their Business Areas, the Chief Information Officer; and as of January 1, 2012, the which in turn are ultimately responsible for the Group’s finanChief Supply Chain Officer, the Deputy Head of Business Area cial performance. Equipment and Deputy Head of Business Area Serivce. Four Regional Senior Vice Presidents are responsible for The Extended Management Team consists of the following managing the Group’s activities in geographical areas under members: Market Operations. The Regional organization brings together • Mr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO Business Areas to form a uniform customer interface for the • Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President and Head Group, with the primary goal of maximizing the Group’s posiof Business Area Service (until December 31, 2011, tion within each Region. Regional Senior Vice Presidents have Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area line responsibility for equipment sales and service, within Equipment (as of January 1, 2012) the guidelines given by the Business Areas. Additionally, they • Mr. Fabio Fiorino, Executive Vice President and Head of are responsible for coordinating and providing administrative Business Area Service (as of January 1, 2012) services for operations not directly reporting to them, such • Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President and Head of as manufacturing. Business Area Equipment (until December 31, 2011), Group Staff forms a common resource for handling matters Executive Vice President and Head of Market Operations of importance for the whole Group. (as of January 1, 2012) • Mr. Harry Ollila, Executive Vice President and Head of Meeting Practices Market Operations (until December 31, 2011) The GXB convenes as frequently as necessary, normally on a • Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer monthly basis. The EMT shall convene regularly twice a year. • Mr. Pekka Lettijeff, Chief Procurement Officer (until DeIn addition, the EMT shall conduct monthly reviews of busicember 31, 2011), Chief Supply Chain Officer, Head of ness performance and financial results, together with other Supply Chain Management (as of January 1, 2012) executive managers under the chairmanship of the President • Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, Chief Technology Officer (until December and CEO. Business Areas and Regions have their own man31, 2011), Head of Product Management and Engineeragement teams that convene on a regular basis. ing and Deputy Head of Business Area Equipment (as of January 1, 2012) Remuneration • Mr. Pierre Boyer, Senior Vice President and Head of Business Area WEMEA (Western Europe, Middle East and Principles applied to remuneration schemes Africa) (until November 3, 2011) The thinking behind the Company’s remuneration schemes is • Mr. Aku Lehtinen, Senior Vice President and Head of to motivate personnel to achieve good performance and enRegion NEI (Nordic, Eastern Europe and India) (until sure their commitment to Konecranes’ business targets. The November 3, 2011), Senior Vice President and Head of goal of remuneration schemes is to promote the Company’s Region WEMEA (Western Europe, Middle East and Africa) competitiveness and long-term financial success and to con(as of November 4, 2011) tribute to the favorable development of shareholder value. • Mr. Tomas Myntti, Senior Vice President and Head of The objective is that all Company employees should have a Region NEI (Nordic, Eastern Europe and India) (as of variable component based on their performance as a part of November 4, 2011) their overall remuneration. The amount of this variable com• Mr. Tom Sothard, Senior Vice President and Head of Reponent varies according to a person’s duties, organizational gion Americas level, and responsibilities. Typically, the variable components • Mr. Ryan Flynn, Senior Vice President and Head of Reused in remuneration are based on the Company’s financial gion APAC (Asia-Pacific) results and/or of the unit in question and personal achieve• Ms. Sirpa Poitsalo, Vice President, General Counsel ments. Remuneration schemes are drawn up in writing and • Ms. Jaana Rinne, Vice President, Human Resources numerical evaluation is used whenever possible. • Mr. Mikael Wegmüller, Vice President, Marketing and Communications Decision-making process • Mr. Antti Koskelin, Chief Information Officer The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved • Mr. Marko Äkräs, Vice President, Deputy Head of Busiby the AGM on the basis of a proposal made by the Nominaness Area Service (as of January 1, 2012). tion and Compensation Committee. The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews and The biographical details of Extended Management Team memissues guidelines for the Company’s remuneration schemes. bers can be found on pages 50–53. The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the The Extended Management Team will focus on a systemPresident and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and atic review of the progress of strategy implementation. other relevant facts, the Board determines the total remuneration package paid to the President and CEO. Corporate governance KONECRANES 2011 39 In addition, the Nomination and Compensation Committee Fees paid to the Board of Directors confirms remuneration packages for Group Executive Board Annual fee 2011 members who report directly to the President and CEO. Remuneration packages for other Extended Management Team Chairman of the Board 100,000.00 members are confirmed by the President and CEO. Vice Chairman 64,000.00 All other remuneration packages are also confirmed by the Board member 40,000.00 ’one above’ principle, i.e. a superior’s superior must always Fee per Board Committee meeting 1,500.00 approve a person’s remuneration principles. Board members were also compensated for their travel expenses. Remuneration of the Board of Directors The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved Remuneration for Board members may also be paid in the by the AGM. Compensation to the Board as confirmed at the form of Company shares. Board members employed by the latest AGM is shown in the Fees paid to the Board of DireCompany do not receive separate compensation for their tors table. Board membership. Non-executive members of the Board of Directors do not receive stock options. Total compensation paid to the Board of Directors 2011 Number of Annual fee paid shares as part of Fee for committee in cash for 2011, Fee paid in shares compensation in meetings 2011, EUR in 2011, EUR 2011 EUR Paid in total 2011 Stig Gustavson, 60,234.88 39,765.12 1,788 6,000.00 106,000.00 Chairman of the Board Svante Adde, 24,076.16 15,923.84 716 6,000.00 46,000.00 Board member Kim Gran, 24,076.16 15,923.84 716 1,500.00 41,500.00 Board member Tapani Järvinen, 24,076.16 15,923.84 716 6,000.00 46,000.00 Board member Matti Kavetvuo, 24,076.16 15,923.84 716 6,000.00 46,000.00 Board member Nina Kopola, 24,076.16 15,923.84 716 3,000.00 43,000.00 Board member (31.3.2011>) Malin Persson, 24,076.16 15,923.84 716 6,000.00 46,000.00 Board member Mikael Silvennoinen, 24,076.16 15,923.84 716 4,500.00 44,500.00 Board member Total 228,768.00 151,232.00 6,800 39,000.00 419,000.00 Remuneration of the President and CEO Additionally, the Board of Directors can, but is not obligated The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the to set certain strategic targets that can trigger an additional President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and bonus, which can be a maximum of 50 percent of the Presiother relevant facts, the Board determines the total compendent and CEO’s annual base salary. sation package paid to the President and CEO. The pension scheme states that when the President and The compensation package includes basic salary, fringe CEO reaches the age of 60 years, both he and the Company benefits, pension scheme, and performance-related bonus may request his retirement with a target pension of 60 perscheme. The President and CEO’s bonus scheme is based cent of his underlying income, excluding bonuses. on Group profitability and growth, and the maximum bonus is Salary and benefits paid to the President and CEO are 50 percent of the President and CEO’s annual base salary. shown in the table. 40 KONECRANES 2011 Corporate Governance Compensation paid to the President and CEO Salary, bonus and other benefits 2011, EUR 2010, EUR Salary and benefits 440,140 402,022 Bonus 330,066 176,880 Option rights owned (# of options Dec. 31) 174,000 194,000 Shares owned (# of shares Dec. 31) 180,000 180,000 Additional shares as a result of the Share Swap (# of shares) 83,606 83,606 Total shares owned (# of shares) 263,606 263,606 Retirement age 60 years 60 years Target pension level 60 % 60 % Period of notice 6 months 6 months Severance payment 18 months salary and 18 months salary and fringe benefits fringe benefits At the end of 2011, Konecranes had a loan receivable of EUR ceived new Konecranes Plc shares in return. The new shares 217,197 from the President and CEO, Mr. Pekka Lundmark, are subject to the transfer restriction determined by the Board with an interest rate of 2.039 percent. The loan relates to a of Directors in May 2009 and which will expire on November tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme directed to 1, 2012. President and CEO Pekka Lundmark had a 27.9 the President and CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pendpercent share in KCR Management Oy and as a result of the ing against the payment and the loan is effective until the Share Swap he received 83,606 Konecranes shares. KCR appeal is resolved. Management Oy was merged into Konecranes Plc effective Konecranes Group executives established a company on December 31, 2011. named KCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Management The new shares were registered in the subscribers’ bookOy acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the market. entry accounts and entered into the Trade Register on January The acquisition was financed by capital investments by the ex13, 2011 and were subject to public trading on NASDAQ OMX ecutives, totaling approximately EUR 1.3 million, as well as by Helsinki from January 14, 2011. a loan in the approximate amount of EUR 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR Management Oy was owned by the Remuneration of Group Management (Extended executives who belonged to the Group Extended Management Management Team) Team upon the establishment of KCR Management Oy. The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews and The arrangement extended and continued the incentive issues guidelines for the Company’s remuneration schemes. scheme provided to the Company’s President and CEO in In addition, the Nomination and Compensation Committee 2006. In connection with the establishment of the new arconfirms remuneration packages for Group Executive Board rangement, the five-year transfer restriction relating to the members who report directly to the President and CEO. Re100,000 shares sold to the President and CEO in connection muneration packages for other Extended Management Team with the 2006 incentive scheme was amended, enabling the members are confirmed by the President and CEO. CompensaPresident and CEO to divest these shares on the market, tion packages normally include basic salary, fringe benefits provided that the funds so received were invested in KCR (typically use of a company car and mobile phone), contriManagement Oy. bution-based pension schemes, and performance-related According to the agreements governing KCR Management bonus schemes. Bonus schemes are always based on writOy, the latter had an obligation to repay the loan granted by ten contracts. Bonus criteria vary, but are usually based on Konecranes Plc prematurely in the event that the share price the Group’s five Key Performance Areas: Safety, Customer, of Konecranes Plc exceeded a certain level determined in the People, Growth, and Profitability. Bonuses are related to an agreements other than temporarily. This condition was met individual’s performance and that of the unit that he/she bein December 2010. The Board of Directors of Konecranes longs to. Numerical performance criteria are used rather than Plc decided that the loan should be repaid through a Share personal assessments, whenever possible. The maximum boSwap whereby Konecranes Plc acquired all the shares in KCR nus percentage is based on the individual’s responsibilities Management Oy. To implement the share swap, the Board of and in 2011 varied between 30 and 50 percent of individuals’ Directors of Konecranes Plc decided on a directed share issue annual base salary. in which the Company offered, in derogation from shareholdThe Finnish members of the Extended Management Team ers’ pre-emptive subscription rights, a total of 281,007 new participate in a contribution-based group pension insurance Konecranes shares to the shareholders of KCR Management scheme, which can be withdrawn from the age of 60. However, Oy against share considerations (Share Swap). As part of the retirement age of the members of the EMT is according the Share Swap, the shareholders of KCR Management Oy to the Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). conveyed the KCR Management Oy shares they held and reCorporate governance KONECRANES 2011 41 remuneration paid to management: extended management team, excluding the president and ceo salary, bonus and other benefits 2011, eur 2010, eur salary and benefits 2,705,215 3,084,611 Bonus 667,241 396,534 option rights owned (# of options as of Dec. 31) 777,500 957,000 shares owned (# of shares as of Dec. 31) 256,218 256,218 additional shares as a result of the share swap (# of shares) 167,618 183,467 total shares owned (# of shares) 423,836 439,685 Konecranes Group executives established a company named guidelines offer advice on the acceptable (maximal) dilution Kcr Management oy in May 2009. Kcr Management oy effect, levels of incentives, lock-up periods, length of proacquired 517,696 Konecranes plc shares from the market. grams, etc. the company’s option plans have been designed the acquisition was financed by capital investments by the to comply with these guidelines in all their essentials. executives totaling approximately eUr 1.3 million, as well as the purpose of the option schemes is to motivate key pera loan in the approximate amount of eUr 7.1 million provided sonnel to contribute to the long-term success of the company by Konecranes plc. Kcr Management oy was owned by the and to create a common understanding of and commitment executives who belonged to the Group extended Management to the creation of shareholder value. a further purpose is to team upon the establishment of Kcr Management oy. create a joint sense of common ownership among managers, Kcr Management oy had an obligation to repay the loan which is seen as valuable for a company like Konecranes with granted by Konecranes plc prematurely in the event that the operations covering many countries, cultures, and customer share price of Konecranes plc exceeded a certain level deindustries. termined in the agreements other than temporarily. this conthe Board decides on the distribution of options to key dition was met in December 2010. the Board of Directors personnel under a proposal made by the president and ceo. of Konecranes plc decided that the loan should be repaid in granting options to the president and ceo, the Board acts through a share swap whereby Konecranes plc acquired all independently. Konecranes plc’s outstanding stock option the shares in Kcr Management oy. to implement the share plans include option series 2007B, 2009a, 2009B, and swap, the Board of Directors of Konecranes plc decided on a 2009c. series 2007c was not distributed and, according to directed share issue in which the company offered, in derogathe terms and conditions of 2007c stock option, these stock tion from the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights, a options expired on December 31, 2009. the terms and conditotal of 281,007 new Konecranes shares to the shareholders tions of stock option plans and the number of unsubscribed of Kcr Management oy against share consideration (share stock options based on outstanding stock option plans and swap). as part of the share swap, the shareholders of Kcr the number of employees belonging to stock option plans can Management oy conveyed the Kcr Management oy shares be consulted on the company’s website at www.konecranes. they held and received new Konecranes plc shares in return. com > investors > share information > stock option plans. the new shares are subject to the transfer restriction deteras of the end of 2011, approximately 220 employees were mined by the Board of Directors in May 2009 and expiring on part of the Group’s stock option plans. More information on november 1, 2012. Kcr Management oy was merged into stock options can be found on page 96 of the Financial stateKonecranes plc effective on December 31, 2011. ments, note 29. the new shares were registered in the subscribers’ bookentry accounts and entered into the trade register on January Remuneration statement 13, 2011 and were subject to public trading on nasDaQ oMX Konecranes has issued a remuneration statement in achelsinki from January 14, 2011. cordance with recommendation 47 of the Finnish corporate there were no loans issued by the company to the exGovernance code 2011. the remuneration statement is tended Management team (excluding the president and ceo) available on the company’s website at www.konecranes.com at the end of 2010 or 2011. > investors > corporate Governance. stock option plans insideR AdministRAtion the company has issued stock option plans for its key emthe Board has approved a set of insider rules for Konecranes ployees, including top and middle management, and employbased on the Finnish securities Markets act, standards isees in certain expert positions. sued by the Financial supervision authority, and the nasDaQ stock option plans require a corresponding resolution by oMX helsinki Guidelines for insiders in force as of october a General Meeting, and all plans have been adopted by the 9, 2009. relevant General Meetings. certain large institutional shareKonecranes’ public insider register includes the members holders have adopted guidelines for stock option plans. these of the Board of Directors, the president and ceo, the secre42 KonecRAnes 2011 corporate GoVernance Goliath shipyard crane tary to the Board, the auditor, the members of the extended to the Board’s audit committee on a regular basis, Management team, as well as other persons holding a comand is obliged to audit the validity of the comparable position in the Group, as decided by the company. in pany’s accounting and closing accounts for the addition, Konecranes’ company-specific permanent insiders financial year and to give the General Meeting includes persons defined by the company, who regularly posan auditor’s report. Konecranes’ auditors are sess insider information due to their position in the company. elected by the aGM and hold office until further persons registered in the public insider register and notice. the same auditor with principal responthe permanent insider register are not allowed to trade in sibility may not serve for more than seven Konecranes securities during a period commencing on the financial years. a proposal for the election first day after the end of each calendar quarter and ending of external auditors made by the audit comupon the publication of the company’s corresponding interim mittee shall be announced in the invitation report or financial statement bulletin. Furthermore, trading is to the aGM. the audit committee strives not allowed during the entire publication day. the company to put the selection of the external auditor also maintains project-specific insider registers for all insider out to tender at regular intervals. projects. people listed in these registers are prohibited from ernst & Young oy, authorized public actrading in Konecranes’ shares until termination of the project. countants, has been the company’s external auditor since 2006. the General counsel maintains Konecranes’ register of Mr. roger rejström served as principal auditor in 2011. insider holdings and is responsible for monitoring compliance ernst & Young oy and its affiliated audit companies received with insider guidelines and the duty to declare. the company 1,572,000 eUr in fees for auditing Konecranes Group commaintains its public insider register in euroclear Finland Ltd.’s panies in 2011, and fees of 742,000 eUr for non-audit sersire system. vices. Konecranes public insiders’ share and option holdings can be consulted using the netsire register. Audit the main function of statutory auditing is to verify that Konecranes’ financial statements represent a true and fair view of the Group’s performance and financial position for the financial year, which is the calendar year. the auditor reports corporate GoVernance KonecRAnes 2011 43 RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes’ Board of Directors has defined and adopted a As part of its strategy, Konecranes strives to maintain a set of risk management principles based on widely accepted wide geographical presence to balance out economic trends international good management practices. The Audit Commitin different market areas. Konecranes also aims to limit the tee evaluates and reports on the adequacy and appropriaterisks resulting from changes in demand in different customer ness of internal controls and risk management to the Board. segments and demand for certain products by maintaining a diverse customer base and offering a wide range of products Risk management principles and services. Risk is anything that will clearly affect Konecranes’ ability to In 2011, Konecranes continued to dedicate substantial achieve its business objectives and execute its strategies. resources to enhancing its visibility in the marketplace and Risk management is part of Konecranes’ control system and actively pursuing available opportunities. is designed to ensure that any risks related to the company’s business operations are identified and managed adequately Customer credit risks and appropriately to safeguard the continuity of Konecranes’ Challenges with customer payments could adversely affect business at all times. Konecranes’ financial situation. To limit this risk, we apply The Group’s risk management principles provide a basic a conservative credit policy towards our customers. It is framework for risk management across Konecranes, and each Konecranes practice to review customers carefully before Group company or operating unit is responsible for its own entering into a formal business relationship and to require risk management. This approach guarantees the best possicredit reports from new customers. The credit risks of our ble knowledge of local conditions, experience, and relevance. customers are mitigated with advance payments, letters of The Group’s risk management principles define risk mancredit, payment guarantees, and credit insurance where appliagement as a continuous and systematic activity aimed at cable. Using these tools and by carefully monitoring customer protecting employees from personal injury, safeguarding the payments we have successfully limited our credit risks. Durassets of all Group companies and the Group as a whole, and ing 2011, Konecranes further developed its Trade & Export ensuring stable and profitable financial performance. By miniFinance Department to support all business units with relmizing losses due to realized risks, and optimizing the cost evant expertise. of risk management, Konecranes can safeguard its overall long-term competitiveness. Technology risks Konecranes recognizes that there are various threats and opSignificant risks for Konecranes portunities related to the development of new products and Konecranes has assessed its strategic, operational, financial, services in its business. Active management of intellectual and hazard risks. The list of risks below and the risk manageproperty rights is essential in the global marketplace. ment methods described here are intended to be indicative Konecranes monitors market developments and its comonly and should not be considered exhaustive. petitors continuously to identify signs of potential changes in products, markets, and customer needs at an early stage. Market risks Dedicated, process-driven product development operations Demand for Konecranes’ products and services is affected by have sustained Konecranes’ leadership in offering advanced the development of the overall global economy and the busitechnologies, products, and services to lift its customers’ ness cycles of Konecranes’ customer industries. Capital exbusinesses. Acquisitions have and will continue to be made penditure on industrial cranes varies with the development of to gain access to advanced technologies where appropriate. industrial production and production capacity, while demand Konecranes ensures that its innovations are protected by for port equipment follows trends in global transportation and, international patents wherever applicable, and protects its over the shorter term, port investment cycles. Demand for trademarks as well. maintenance services is driven by customers’ capacity utiDuring 2011, Konecranes increased its activities in delization rates. In addition to risks related to sales volumes, veloping markets. We completed various acquisitions and adverse changes in demand can also result in overcapacity focused on products that improve our opportunities where and affect market prices. growth exists. In developed markets, Konecranes invested in Konecranes’ aim is to increase the proportion of its serautomation, software products, and connectivity solutions to vice revenue in its total revenue stream and thereby reduce improve customers’ added value and support our new vision. its exposure to economic cycles. In general, the demand for Konecranes launched the TRUCONNECT® family of remote service is less volatile than that for equipment. services that enhance our knowledge of installed products 44 KONECRANES 2011 Risk management by refining crane usage and sensory data into meaningful carrying out thorough due diligence analyses, using external information. After professional analysis at Konecranes’ Global advisors when needed. Technical Centers, we can improve our customers’ businessDuring 2011, the emphasis of acquisition process developes through enhanced product and service options. ment shifted towards the integration of acquired companies. Conducting business in emerging and developing Production risks markets Konecranes’ strategy is to maintain in-house production of key Konecranes has manufacturing and supplier networks in many components that have high added value and/or provide core developing countries. A large part of sales also takes place competitive advantages. There are specific risks involved with in emerging and developing countries. Sudden changes in different aspects of production, such as production capacity the political environment, economic, or regulatory framework management, operational efficiency, continuity, and quality. of these areas can have an adverse effect on Konecranes’ Efforts have continued to further develop production operabusiness. Konecranes conducts careful studies of the polititions. Continuous replacement investments and enhanced cal, social, and economic environment in these countries to maintenance of production equipment have been carried out. ensure that it is aware of developments there. The capacity of acquired companies has become an integral The risks related to emerging and developing markets are part of the global production network on a phased basis. Risk balanced by Konecranes’ strong global presence and stable management is an essential element of production strategy. service operations in developed countries in Europe and The safety and security of key facilities continued to improve North America. during 2011. Emerging countries will represent a significant market opportunity in the future, as economic growth is expected to Material management and procurement risks be faster in developing areas than the global average; and Material management and procurement operations require a Konecranes will continue its efforts to expand its presence proactive approach and development to avoid risks related in these areas. to issues such as pricing, quality, capacity, availability, and Konecranes is continuing to invest in emerging and develstock values. Inefficiencies in these areas could affect the oping markets via acquisitions and strengthening its existing performance of Konecranes adversely. Konecranes manages presence. During 2011, for example, we finalized a major its purchases and the logistics of materials and components acquisition of WMI Cranes Ltd. in India and strengthened our of substantial importance for its operations on a centralized presence in Brazil. basis. Contracts with key suppliers are designed to optimize these purchases globally. Personnel During 2011, Konecranes continued to develop the qualKonecranes’ ability to operate is dependent on the availability and scope of supplier cooperation and its audit process. ity, capabilities, and expertise of professional personnel. The We have also improved demand-supply monitoring, balancing, ability to recruit and retain personnel is of key importance and forecasting to improve our ability to respond to customer for the future success of the company, and any failure to do needs rapidly. so may adversely affect Konecranes’ ability to execute its strategies. An annual employee satisfaction survey provide Quality risks important information about employees’ overall job satisfacHigh-quality products, business procedures, processes, and tion, leadership, and engagement. Survey results are used to services play a key role in minimizing Konecranes’ business support development activities in areas such as communicarisks. Most companies in the Group and all major Group option and leadership. erations use certified quality procedures. Several existing Konecranes manages its personnel-related challenges quality certificates were updated and new ones received in through a professional human resources team, utilizing ex2011. Determined certification work is continuing. ternal resources where applicable. Harmonized people proDuring 2011, Konecranes continued to develop both local cesses and systems are now deployed almost everywhere and global quality improvement processes by utilizing local within Konecranes. quality improvement teams and a global quality task force to During 2011, Konecranes continued to invest in training, support local efforts. Supplier quality has been developed in and feedback indicates improved training quality. We also the same way. increased appraisal discussion activity, which resulted in a substantial improvement in indices related to job satisfaction, Supplier risks leadership quality, and employee engagement. All of these Konecranes recognizes that price and continuity risks are aswere visible in the latest employee satisfaction survey, which sociated with some of its key suppliers, as they could be difattracted an increased number of participants. ficult to replace. In the event of major production problems, this could undermine Konecranes’ delivery capability. Quality Acquisitions risks and defects associated with subcontracted components Unsuccessful acquisitions or the failure to successfully inare quality risks for Konecranes. tegrate an acquired company could result in reduced profitTo reduce subcontracting risks, Konecranes constantly ability or hamper the implementation of corporate strategy. seeks competitive and alternative suppliers while improvKonecranes reduces the risks associated with acquisitions by ing cooperation with existing suppliers. When available, risk management KONECRANES 2011 45 XA light crane system alternative suppliers enhance price competition, increase mentation phase during 2012. Konecranes IT was operated production capacity, and reduce Konecranes’ risks of single as a business support function with a presence in roughly 20 supplier dependency. countries in 2011. During 2011, Konecranes focused on ensuring the quality of cooperation to generate mutual benefits with critical suppliContract and product liability risks ers. Improvement of Konecranes’ quality processes enhanced Konecranes can be subject to various legal actions, claims, the links between Konecranes’ supplier quality and our cusand other proceedings in various countries typical for a comtomers’ quality experience. pany in this industry and consistent with a global business that encompasses a wide range of products and services. IT risks These matters may involve contractual disputes, warranty Konecranes IT is responsible for all IT services, applications, claims, product liability (including design defects, manufacand assets used by Group companies. Konecranes’ operaturing defects, failure to post appropriate warnings, and astions depend on the availability, reliability, quality, confidenbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and other matters tiality, and integrity of information. Any and all information involving claims related to general liability. These risks are security risks and incidents may affect business performance managed by continuously monitoring operations, improving adversely. product safety, training customers, and making use of detailed Konecranes uses reliable IT solutions and employs effisales terms. Konecranes also issues written policies in some cient information security management to avoid data loss cases to ensure compliance with legislation, regulations, and and prevent the confidentiality, availability, or integrity of data Konecranes’ own principles across the Konecranes Group. from being compromised. User care and support is exercised Great emphasis is placed on training to ensure that employwith internal and outsourced IT services to ensure the high ees are aware of and comply with the applicable legislation, availability, resiliency, and continuity of services, and rapid regulations, and principles relating to their work. Konecranes’ recovery in the event of any temporary loss of key services. Legal Department retains outside experts to assist here when Konecranes IT successfully completed the consolidation necessary. of datacenters and network services during 2011, enabling Konecranes to focus IT development on areas of higher added Illegal activities value and enhanced business focus. Konecranes aims to comply with all applicable laws and regDuring 2011, Konecranes IT continued the development ulations, but breaches of the company’s policies resulting of global business applications following business process in illegal activities can threaten the company. Konecranes harmonization. During 2012, Konecranes will start the impleconsiders the potential risks involved to be limited, however, mentation of these applications, covering risks in schedule, although it recognizes that even small-scale illegal activity cost and content. Realization of the schedule risk may lead could damage its reputation and affect its financial status and to delays in business benefit realization. Content risk could results adversely. Internal procedures, supervision, audits, be realized if the intended business model cannot be impleand practical tools are used to reduce Konecranes’ exposure mented as planned in respect of selected applications. Deto these types of risks. lays in schedules and challenges with implementations may During 2011, Konecranes continued internal training on lead to a rise in total project costs. The majority of ongoing good governance and management practices and started to business process harmonization projects will be in the impleextend training to the supplier base. 46 KONECRANES 2011 Risk management Damage risks Insurance Damage risks include business interruption risks, occupaThe Group reviews its insurance policies as part of its overall tional health and safety-related risks, environmental risks, fire risk management on a continuous basis. Insurance policies and other disasters, natural events, and premises security are used to cover all risks that are economically feasible or risks. Konecranes identifies and assesses these risks conotherwise reasonable to insure. tinuously as part of its business processes. To mitigate these During 2011, Konecranes enhanced controls to ensure risks, we have adopted a number of occupational health and that applicable insurance cover is deployed in an appropriate safety guidelines, certification principles, rescue planning, and and timely way in all countries. premises security instructions. Konecranes has also sought to prepare for the materialization of these risks through variInternal Auditing ous insurance programs and by continuously improving its Konecranes’ Internal Audit function is an independent, objecpreparedness to deal with various potential crisis situations. tive assurance and consulting unit, which assists the orgaDuring 2011, Konecranes continued the determined develnization in achieving its objectives. The unit evaluates the opment of occupational safety at all levels. Special attention efficiency of risk management, control, and governance prohas been paid to harmonizing all our factories, branches, and cesses and investigates all reports of suspected incidents. offices to the same level. India and China are examples of The latter can be made in person or through a new confidenthis work. tial e-mail reporting channel. The Internal Audit unit operates according to an audit plan Financial risks approved by the Board’s Audit Committee. The unit’s working Konecranes manages most of its financial risk on a centralmethods are based on the professional standards laid down ized basis through its Group Treasury. Group Treasury funcby the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). The approach of Intions within Konecranes Finance Corporation, operating as ternal Audit focuses on process-oriented engagement rather a financial vehicle for the Group at Corporate Headquarters. than solely entity-based auditing. Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center that Administratively, Internal Audit reports to the Group CFO; strives to maximize its profits, but rather its role is to help and Internal Audit activities are reported to the Board’s Audit the Group’s operating companies reduce the financial risks Committee on a regular basis. associated with global business operations, such as market, credit, and liquidity risks. The most significant market risk Internal control and risk management relates to foreign currency transaction risk. related to financial reporting The responsibility for identifying, evaluating, and controlling Internal control related to financial reporting is designed to the financial risks arising from the Group’s global business provide reasonable assurance concerning the reliability of fioperations is divided between business units and Konecranes nancial reporting and the preparation of financial statements Finance Corporation. for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted Units hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. The accounting principles, applicable laws and regulations, and majority of the Group’s financial risks are channeled through other requirements covering listed companies. Risk manageKonecranes Finance Corporation, where they can be evaluated ment is considered an integral part of running the Konecranes and controlled efficiently. business. Konecranes’ corporate risk management principles Almost all funding, cash management, and foreign exprovide a basic framework for risk management, while each change transactions with banks and other external counGroup company or operating unit is responsible for its own terparties are carried out centrally by Konecranes Finance risk management. This principle is also followed in risk manCorporation in accordance with the Group’s Treasury Policy. agement related to financial reporting. Only in a few special cases, where local central bank regulations prohibit the use of Group services for hedging and fundControl environment ing, is this done directly between an operating company and The Group operates in a matrix organization, one dimension of a bank under the supervision of Group Treasury. which is formed by the two business areas, Service and EquipKonecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system ment. Both business areas are further divided into several that enables transactions to be processed in real time and business units, supply units, and various support functions. provides in-depth records of activities and performance. StanBusiness areas are responsible for issues such as product/ dard reporting is done on a weekly basis and covers Groupservice offering and global profitability. level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign currency The other dimension of the matrix organization is Market transaction exposure, debt positions, derivatives portfolios, Operations. These front-line operations are managed and conand counterparty credit exposure for financial transactions. In trolled through four regions: Americas, APAC, WEMEA (Westaddition, all Group companies participate in monthly manageern Europe, Middle East and Africa), and NEI (Nordic, Eastern rial and statutory reporting. Europe and India). Market operations is responsible for areas See Note 3 to the Financial Statements and the Board such as Konecranes’ regional and country organizations inof Directors’ Report for a detailed overview of financial risk cluding sales activities and service operations. management. Financial targets are set and planning/follow-up activities are executed along both dimensions of the matrix organization in accordance with the overall business targets of the risk management KONECRANES 2011 47 Control Environment Board of Directors Review of financial performance Overview of financial Audit Committee reporting process External Audit CEO and Group management Business supervision and monitoring Feedback Internal Audit Management teams in Business supervision and monitoring Business Areas and Regions Feedback Reporting units Business Controlling Konecranes Financial Reporting manual (Controller’s Manual) Function Control activities Main features of Internal Control related to financial reporting Konecranes Group. The operations of the Service business Group and management’s business supervision and monitorare typically monitored based on profit-responsible service ing procedures. The Group has identified and documented branches (on average 320 in 2011), which are further consolithe significant internal controls that relate to its financial dated to country and region levels, and business units (5 in processes either directly or indirectly through other process. 2011). The Equipment business is mainly monitored via busiThe total number of identified financial internal controls is ness units (5 in 2011), which are divided into business lines. approximately 100. All legal entities and business units have Corporate Governance and business management at their own defined controller functions. Representatives from Konecranes are based on the company’s values of trust in controller functions participate in planning and evaluating unit people, total service commitment, and sustained profitability. performance, and ensure that monthly and quarterly financial The control environment is the foundation for all the other reporting follows the Group’s policies and instructions and components of internal control and for promoting employthat all financial reports are delivered on time in accordance ees’ awareness of key issues; and supports the execution with schedules set by the Group. of strategy and regulatory compliance. The Board of DirecManagement follow-up is carried out through monthly mantors and Group Management are responsible for defining the agement reporting routines and performance review meetings. Konecranes Group’s control environment through corporate These meetings are conducted by business units/business policies, instructions, and financial reporting frameworks. areas, on country, regional, and Group level, and cover a reThese include the Konecranes Code of Conduct and the view of the competitive situation, market sentiment, order Konecranes Controller’s Manual, which constitutes the main intake and order book, monthly financial performance, quartool for accounting and financial reporting principles in respect terly and rolling 12-month forecasts, as well as safety, people, of providing information, guidelines, and instructions. The inand customer topics. Group management separately follows terpretation and application of accounting standards is the up the most important development activities; for example responsibility of the Global Finance function. Guidelines and major IT development activities are monitored in the Busiinstructions for reporting are updated when necessary and ness Infrastructure Board and R&D projects in the Technolare reviewed at least once a year. ogy Board. These Management Boards convene typically on a quarterly basis. Control activities Konecranes Group management has operational responMonitoring sibility for internal controls. Financial control activities are The Group conducts an annual self-assessment through its integrated into the business processes of the Konecranes controllers to monitor the effectiveness of selected financial 48 KONECRANES 2011 Risk management changing the game with high-quality business procedures and processes Forklift truck internal controls. The Group also has an Internal Audit funcDevelopment during 2011 tion, which is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the Konecranes continued its IT system projects (ERP for both effectiveness of Konecranes’ risk management and internal Service and Equipment business areas, CRM and People control system. Internal Audit plans its work in cooperation system) to further develop and implement harmonized prowith the Audit Committee, which approves an annual internal cesses, increase operational visibility and improve decisionaudit plan. The Audit Committee receives direct reports from making, and reduce the overall number of various IT systems. external auditors and discusses and follows up their findings. The pilot unit of the ERP system was launched at the end of External auditors are also represented at Audit Committee September 2011 and implementation roll-outs will continue in meetings. The Group’s financial performance is reviewed at other units over the next few years. Konecranes also drafted every Board meeting, and the Board of Directors and the a Financial Shared Service Center concept designed to offer Audit Committee review all external financial reports before mainly transaction handling services, financial master data they are made public. maintenance, and some financial accounting services from regional centers to individual Konecranes companies. As part Communication of this new concept, the first Financial Shared Service Center The Controller’s Manual, together with reporting instructions should become operational during 2012. and policies, are stored in the Konecranes intranet for access The internal control environment will be improved using by personnel. The Group, Business Areas, and Regions also common, unified processes and a common system platform. arrange meetings to share information on financial processes Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls will become and practices. Information for the Group’s stakeholders is more transparent following the implementation of the ERP regularly communicated via the Konecranes Group’s website. system. Financial Shared Service Centers will create a uniTo ensure that the information provided is comprehensive fied framework for transactional processing and provide an and accurate, the Group has established a set of external enhanced segregation of duties. communications guidelines. These define how, by whom, and when information should be issued; and are designed to ensure that Konecranes meets all its information obligations and to further strengthen internal controls related to financial reporting. risk management KONECRANES 2011 49 Group executive board 2011 Pekka Lundmark Ari Kiviniitty b. 1963 b. 1957 President and CEO Chief Technology Officer Member of the Group Executive Board since 2004 Member of the Group Executive Board since 2005 Employed since 2004 Employed 1983 M.Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: Group Executive Vice President Vice President, Standard Lifting Equipment; KCI Konecranes Hackman Abp 2002 – 2004: CEO 2002 – 2004: Managing Director, Hoist factory; KCI Konecranes Startupfactory 2000 – 2002: Managing Partner 1999 – 2001: R&D Manager; KCI Konecranes 1996 – 1998: Nokia Corporation 1990 – 2000: various executive positions Technical Director, Components, Singapore Other current key positions of trust: Marimekko Ltd.: Chairman of Other current key positions of trust: Member FEM (The European the Board; Federation of Finnish Technology Industries: Chairman of Federation of Materials Handling Equipment Manufacturers), the Board; Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: Vice Chairman Member of Technology Industries of Finland Business and of the Board Technology Working Group Shares: 263,606 Shares: 17,634 Option to acquire: 174,000 shares Option to acquire: 63,000 shares Pekka Lettijeff Harry Ollila b. 1961 b. 1950 Chief Procurement Officer Executive Vice President, Head of Market Operations Member of the Group Executive Board since 2008 Member of the Group Executive Board since 1994 Employed 2008 Employed 1991 University Degree in Business Administration, University of Växjö, M.Sc. (Eng.) Sweden Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Primary working experience: Nokia Siemens Networks 2005 – 2009: President, Region Northeast Asia; KCI Konecranes 2007 – 2008: Head of Global Purchasing; Nokia Networks 2001 – 2005: Group Vice President, Group Development; KCI 2001 – 2008: VP, Supply Network Management and VP, Sourcing; Konecranes 1997 – 2001: Country Executive, Europe; KCI Astra Zeneca 2000 – 2001: VP, Global Supply and Purchasing; Konecranes 1994 – 1997: Technical Director; Ahlström Osakeyhtiö General Motors 1994 – 1999: several executive positions in 1972 – 1991: various positions including Ahlström Pyropower Purchasing in the USA and Germany; Saab Automobile 1986 – 1994: 1986 – 1991: Technical Director; Pyropower Corporation, USA several executive positions in Purchasing in Sweden and Germany 1981 – 1986: Director of Projects and Engineering Current key position of trust: Sanitec Corporation: Member of the Shares: 153,273 Board Option to acquire: 77,000 shares Shares: 15,664 Option to acquire: 45,000 shares 50 KONECRANES 2011 Group Executive Board Teo Ottola Hannu Rusanen b. 1968 b. 1957 Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President, Head of Business Area Service Member of the Group Executive Board since 2007 Member of the Group Executive Board since 2004 Employed since 2007 Employed 2003 M.Sc. (Econ.) M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Elcoteq SE 2004 – 2007: CFO KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2003 – 2006: Country Executive Elcoteq Network Oyj 1999 – 2004: Senior Vice President (Business Nordic; ABB Finland 1995 – 2002: Vice President, Service; Control and Accounting) Tampella Oy 1982 – 1995: various management positions in Finland Elcoteq Network Oyj 1998 – 1999: Group Business Controller and in the USA Elcoteq Lohja Oy 1996 – 1998: Business Controller Shares: 44,385 Rautaruukki Oy 1992 – 1996: Financial Planner Option to acquire: 89,000 shares Shares: 24,385 Option to acquire: 111,000 shares Mikko Uhari b. 1957 Executive Vice President, Head of Business Area Equipment Member of the Group Executive Board since 1997 Employed 1997 Lic. Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2005 – 2009: President, New Equipment Business Areas; KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: President, Special Cranes (Heavy Lifting); KCI Konecranes 1997 – 2003: President, Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; KONE Corporation 1982 – 1997: various managerial positions at Wood Handling Division, (Andritz as of 1996 –) including: 1996 – 1997 Group Vice President, Marketing; 1992 – 1996: Group Vice President, Project Business; 1990 – 1992: Director, Wood Handling Unit, Finland Shares: 99,135 Option to acquire: 96,000 shares Group Executive Board KONECRANES 2011 51 Extended Management team 2011 Ryan Flynn Antti Koskelin b. 1971 b. 1970 Senior Vice President, Head of Region APAC (Asia-Pacific) Chief Information Officer, CIO Member of the Group Extended Management Team since 2009 Member of the Extended Management Team since 2009 Employed since 2005 Employed 2009 MBA, BCom B.Sc. (Information Technology) Primary working experience: Konecranes Plc., China 2005 – 2009: Primary working experience: Director, Ports & Lift trucks; NFS Industrial Machinery, South Nokia Corporation 1994 – 2008: several global leadership positions Africa 2003 – 2005: General Manager; Afinta Motor Corporation, in the USA and in Finland. South Africa 1996 – 2000: Director; Standard Bank, South Africa Shares: 280 1990 – 1996: Business Manager Option to acquire: 30,000 shares Shares: 1,000 Option to acquire: 49,000 shares Aku Lehtinen Tomas Myntti b. 1969 b. 1963 Senior Vice President, Head of Region NEI (Nordic, Eastern Europe Senior Vice President, Head of Region NEI (Nordic, Eastern Europe and India) until November 3, 2011. As of November 4, 2011, Senior and India) as of November 4, 2011 Vice President, Head of Region WEMEA (Western Europe, Middle Member of the Extended Management Team since 2011 East and Africa). Employed 2008 Member of the Extended Management Team since 2010 M.Sc. (Eng.) Employed since 1994 Primary working experience: Konecranes 2010 – 2011: Vice M.Sc. (Eng.) President, Head of Industrial Cranes, Region NEI; Konecranes Primary working experience: Konecranes 2008 – 2010: Director, 2009: Director, Market Operations, Head of Global Key Account South East Europe; KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2006 – 2008: Management and Sales Development; Director, RTG Cranes; KCI Konecranes 2005 – 2006: Sales Director, Konecranes 2008: Director, Business Development, Business Area Yard Cranes; KCI Konecranes 2001 – 2004: Sales Manager, Port New Equipment; TietoEnator Oyj 2007 – 2008: Chief Marketing Cranes; KCI Konecranes 2000 – 2001: Product Manager; KCI Officer, Business Area Telecom and Media; Hantro Products Oy Konecranes 1994 – 2000: various project & product management 2000 – 2007: Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing; responsibilities in Asia, Middle East and Europe. Cadence Design Systems 1996 – 2000: Global Account Director; Shares: Intel Corporation 1994 – 1996: Global Account Manager; Option to acquire: 49,500 shares Cap Gemini 1989 – 1994: Various management positions; Digital Equipment Corporation 1984 – 1989: Various positions Shares: Option to acquire: 15,000 shares 52 KONECRANES 2011 Extended management team Sirpa Poitsalo Jaana Rinne b. 1963 b. 1962 Vice President, General Counsel Vice President, Human Resources Member of the Extended Management team since 2009 Member of the Extended Management team since 2009 Member of the Group Executive Board 1999 – 2009 Member of the Group Executive Board 2007 – 2009 Employed 1988 Employed 1986 LL.M. M.Sc. (Econ.) Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes 1997 – 1998: Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Assistant General Counsel; KCI Konecranes/KONE Corporation, 2004 – 2006: Director, Human Resources for Service; KCI 1988 – 1997: Legal Counsel Konecranes 1997 – 2004: different positions within human Shares: 30,367 resources in Standard Lifting; KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes Options to acquire: 48,000 shares 1986 – 1997: different positions in finance Shares: 6,967 Option to acquire: 30,000 shares Tom Sothard Mikael Wegmüller b. 1957 b. 1966 Senior Vice President, Head of Region Americas Vice President, Marketing and Communications Member of the Extended Management team since 2009 Member of the Extended Management team since 2009 Member of the Group Executive Board 1995 – 2009 Member of the Group Executive Board 2006 – 2009 Employed 1983 Employed 2006 B.Sc. (Marketing) M.Sc. (Econ.) Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes 2001 – 2006: Primary working experience: Publicis Helsinki Oy 2003 – 2006: President, Global Maintenance Services; KCI Konecranes Chief Operating Officer; SEK & GREY Oy 2000 – 2003: Planning 1995 – 2002: Group Vice President, North America; KONE Group Director; Publicis Törmä Oy 1997 – 2000: Planning Group Corporation/KCI Konecranes 1989 – 2001: President, Maintenance Director; Finelor Oy (now L’Oreal Finland Oy) 1993 – 1997: Sales Services, North America; KONE Corporation 1984 – 1988: Vice and Marketing Manager; Chips Abp 1991 – 1993: Product Group President, Maintenance Services, North America; Robbins and Manager Myers 1980 – 1984: District Manager Shares: 6,967 Shares: 23,779 Option to acquire: 30,000 shares Option to acquire: 45,000 shares Pierre Boyer b. 1959 Primary working experience: Various positions within Carrier Senior Vice President, Head of Region WEMEA (Western Europe, Corporation during 1995 – 2006, prior to joining Carrier, Boyer Middle East and Africa) until November 3, 2011 worked at the Groupe Legris Industries’ mobile crane division, PPM. Member of the Extended Management Team 2009 – 2011 Shares: 18,579 Member of the Group Executive Board 2006 – 2009 Options to acquire: 81,000 shares Employed 2006 HEC Paris Extended management team KONECRANES 2011 53 board of directors 2011 Stig Gustavson Svante Adde b. 1945 b. 1956 Chairman of the Board since 2005. Board Member since 1994 and Board Member since 2004, Member of the Audit Committee since Member of the Nomination and Compensation Committee since 2004 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2008. 2006. M.Sc. (Eng.), Dr.Tech. (hon.) B.Sc. (Econ. and Business Administration) Principal occupation: Board memberships Principal occupation: Managing Director, Pöyry Capital Limited, Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes Plc 1994 – 2005: London President and CEO; KONE Cranes division 1988 – 1994: President; Primary working experience: Compass Advisers, London KONE Corporation 1982 – 1988; Sponsor Oy 1978 – 1982; RAY (Raha2005 – 2007: Managing Director; Ahlstrom Corporation Automaattiyhdistys) 1976 – 1978 and Wärtsilä Oy Ab 1970 – 1976: 2003 – 2005: Chief Financial Officer; Lazard London and Stockholm Holder of various executive positions 2000 – 2003: Managing Director; Lazard London 1989 – 2000: Current key positions of trust: Ahlström Capital Oy: Chairman of the Director; Citibank 1979 – 1989: Director Board; Cramo Plc: Chairman of the Board; Dynea Oy: Deputy Chairman Current key positions of trust: Meetoo AB: Member of the Board of the Board; Handelsbanken Regional Bank Finland: Chairman of Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. the Board; Oy Mercantile Ab: Vice Chairman of the Board; Vaisala Shares: 5,111 Group: Member of the Board; IK Investment Partners: Senior Regional Advisor; Technology Academy Foundation: Chairman of the Board Stig Gustavson is deemed to be dependent of the company based on the Board’s overall evaluation relating to his former and current positions in Konecranes combined with his substantial voting rights in the company. He is independent of any significant shareholder. Shares: Kim Gran Tapani Järvinen b. 1954 b. 1946 Board Member since 2007 and Member of the Audit Committee Board Member since 2009 and Member of the Audit Committee since 2007. since 2009. B.Sc. (Econ) M.Sc. (Eng), Lic. Sc. (Tech.) Principal occupation: President and CEO, Nokian Tyres plc Principal occupation: Board memberships Primary working experience: Nokian Tyres, Car and Van tyres Primary working experience: Outotec Oyj 2006 – 2009: President 1995–2000: Vice President and CEO; Outokumpu Technology, Finland 2003 – 2006: President and Current key positions of trust: The Rubber Manufacturers’ CEO; Outokumpu Oyj, Finland 2000 – 2005: Executive Vice President Association: Chairman of the Board; Chemical Industry Federation and Member of the Group Executive Committee; Compañía Minera of Finland: Vice Chairman of the Board; YIT Plc: Member of the Zaldívar, Chile 1994 – 2000: General Manager and CEO Board; Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce: Member of the Current key positions of trust: Okmetic Oyj: Vice Chairman of the Board; Nokian Tyres plc: Member of the Board; Ilmarinen Mutual Board; Outotec Oyj: Member of the Board; Normet Oy: Member of the Pension Insurance Company: Member of the Supervisory Board Board; Talvivaara Mining Company Plc: Member of the Board; Dragon Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. Mining Ltd, Australia: Member of the Board Shares: 4,343 Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. 54 KONECRANES 2011 Board of directors Shares: 2,604 Matti Kavetvuo Nina Kopola b. 1944 b. 1960 Board Member since 2001 and Chairman of the Nomination and Board Member since 2011 and Member of the Nomination and Compensation Committee since 2009. Compensation Committee since 2011. Member of the Audit Committee 2004 – 2008. M.Sc. (Chemical Eng.), Lic. Sc. (Tech.) M.Sc. (Eng.), B.Sc. (Econ.) Principal occupation: President and CEO, Suominen Corporation Principal occupation: Board memberships and Suominen Group Primary working experience: Pohjola Group Plc 2000 – 2001: CEO; Primary working experience Valio Ltd 1992 – 1999: CEO; Orion Corporation 1985 – 1991: CEO; Dynea Oy 2008 – 2011: Executive Vice President, President Instrumentarium Corp. 1979 – 1984: President Europe; Dynea Oy 2006 – 2008: Executive Vice President, Global Current key positions of trust: Lassila & Tikanoja Plc: Vice Market Applications; Dynea Oy 2005 – 2006: Group Vice President, Chairman of the Board; Orion Corporation: Vice Chairman of the Marketing; Dynea Industrial Resins 2003 – 2005: Marketing Board Manager; Dynea Oy 2001 – 2003: Controller, Group Finance; Dynea Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. Oy 2000 – 2001: Manager Business Analysis; Fortum Oil&Gas Shares: 5,259 1999 – 2000: Product specialist Current key position of trust: The Chemical Industry Federation of Finland: Member of the Board Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. Shares: 716 Malin Persson Mikael Silvennoinen b. 1968 b. 1956 Board Member since 2005 and Member of the Nomination and Board member since 2008 and Member of the Audit Committee Compensation Committee since 2005. since 2008. M.Sc. (Eng.) M.Sc. (Econ.) Principal occupation: President and CEO, Volvo Technology Principal occupation: President and CEO, Pohjola Bank Plc Corporation Primary working experience: Pohjola Group 1989 – 1997: Holder Primary working experience of various executive positions; Wärtsilä Group 1986 – 1989: Group Volvo Group: Holder of various executive positions including: Treasurer AB Volvo: Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business Current key positions of trust: Pohjola Insurance Group Plc: Development; Volvo Transport Corporation: Vice President, Business Chairman of the Board; Unico Banking Group: Member of the & Logistics Development Steering Committee Current key positions of trust: Hexpol AB: Member of the Board; Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. Volvo Trucks AB: Member of the Board Shares: 3,043 Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. Shares: 4,259 Board of directors KONECRANES 2011 55 Automatic stacking crane 56 KONECRANES 2011 Financial statements Contents 58 112 Report of the Parent company statement Board of Directors of income – FAS 69 113 Consolidated statement Parent company cash flow of income – IFRS statement – FAS 70 114 Consolidated Parent company balance balance sheet – IFRS sheet – FAS 72 116 Consolidated statement NotEs to the parent company of changes in equity – IFRS financial statement 73 120 Consolidated cash flow Board of Director’s statement – IFRS proposal to the AGM 74 121 NotEs to the consolidated Auditor’s financial statements report 107 122 Konecranes Shares & Group 2007–2011 shareholders 108 126 Calculation of Investor key figures information 109 128 Company Contact list details Financial statements KONECRANES 2011 57 Report of the Board of Directors MARKET REVIEW The demand for lifting equipment services improved in the The business environment 2011 turned out to be a very first half of the year due to a higher capacity utilization in mixed one. Coupled with continuously easy monetary policies ­Konecranes’ customer industries. In the second half of the and low interest rates, the global economic situation was year, the service market showed signs of stabilization, but generally buoyant in the first half of 2011. Export-led econoremained robust overall. Outsourcing of crane and machine mies showed the strongest level of recovery. In addition, two tool maintenance continued to develop favorably. New types events shaped the business environment during the first half of services utilizing the latest IT and measurement technoloof the year: a powerful earthquake and subsequent tsunami gies were introduced. that shook northeastern Japan on March 11, and unrest in Recent commodity price inflation caused an upward presNorth Africa and the Middle East. sure on input costs, particularly in the component area. Concern about the budget deficits and the level of public There also were availability issues related to certain compodebt in Europe and the US started to impede the private secnents. After peaking in the first quarter, steel prices eased tor’s optimism towards the end of the second quarter, and in the second quarter due to slower economic growth, and the second half of the year was characterized by high ecothis trend continued in the second half of the year. The EUR nomic uncertainty. China and India maintained high growth appreciated against the USD during the first half, but deprecirates but this meant an increase in inflationary pressures, ated towards the end of the year. against which the governments took measures in order to Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in cool the economy. Higher interest rates and tighter credit the sections below refer to the same period in the previous availability saw a slow-down in economic activity in these year. countries during the second half of the year. In line with the general economic situation, industrial ORDERS RECEIVED capacity utilization in Europe and the US leveled off after havIn 2011, orders received grew by 23.4 percent to EUR ing nearly reached the level that prevailed before the start of 1,896.1 million (1,536.0). Orders received grew by 14.7 perthe financial crisis in 2008. Having broken multi-year highs in cent in Service and by 28.5 percent in Equipment. Orders the first quarter, purchasing managers’ indexes also fell back received increased in all geographic areas. Order growth was in the second and third quarters. During the fourth quarter, strongest in the Americas. Acquisitions contributed about 4 the indices indicated slightly contracting business activity in percent to the orders received in January–December. Europe but slightly expanding activity in the US. The fourth quarter order intake decreased by 0.8 perCompared to 2010, the demand for new equipment cent from a year before but increased by 3.4 percent from improved, as economic growth had eliminated much of the the third quarter to EUR 473.9 million (477.7). Order intake overcapacity within manufacturing industries. Accelerated increased by 18.7 percent in Service but decreased by 9.5 decision-making for industrial investments boosted the percent in Equipment. Orders received rose in the Americas demand for industrial cranes and lift trucks during the first but fell in EMEA and Asia-Pacific. half of the year, while the demand for industrial cranes slackened off during the second half of the year. Demand for crane ORDER BOOK components was robust throughout the year. Demand for The value of the order book at year-end 2011 totaled EUR new equipment among industrial customers was strong in all 991.8 million (756.2), which is 31.2 percent higher than at geographic areas except Western Europe. The Americas saw the end of 2010. The order book decreased by 4.6 percent the strongest growth in demand. Price competition remained from the third quarter, when it stood at EUR 1,040.1 million. intense. Service accounted for EUR 135.1 million (14 percent) and Having made a strong comeback in 2010, the global conEquipment for EUR 856.7 million (86 percent) of the total tainer traffic showed further signs of strength, growing by end-December order book. about 7 percent in 2011. The strongest growth in container traffic was seen in China and the rest of the Far East, closely SALES followed by Europe. This resulted in a continued high level of Group sales in full-year 2011 increased by 22.6 percent project activities with container ports globally. New emerging and totaled EUR 1,896.4 million (1,546.3). Sales in Service markets, such as sub-Saharan Africa, have gained in imporincreased by 12.5 percent and in Equipment by 26.6 pertance due to population growth and infrastructure investments in the region. Demand for automated solutions that provide higher productivity and lower costs for large terminals continued to grow. 58 KONECRANES 2011 Report of the Board of Directors Net sales by region, MEUR Change % at Change Change comparable 10–12/2011 10–12/2010 percent 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 percent currency rates EMEA 294.0 253.7 15.9 950.9 812.4 17.0 15.4 AME 174.8 135.8 28.7 549.1 468.2 17.3 21.6 APAC 129.4 79.9 61.9 396.4 265.6 49.2 52.4 Total 598.2 469.4 27.4 1,896.4 1,546.3 22.6 23.5 cent. Acquisitions contributed about 4 percent to sales in the restructuring of operations in Europe. The consolidated January–December. operating margin fell to 5.6 percent (7.3). The operating marFourth-quarter sales rose by 27.4 percent from the corregin decreased in Service to 6.2 percent (8.8) and in Equipsponding period in 2010 to EUR 598.2 million (469.4). Sales ment to 6.5 percent (6.8). increased in Service by 11.1 percent and in Equipment by The consolidated operating profit in the fourth quarter 36.7 percent. totaled EUR 37.2 million (45.8). The consolidated operating In 2011, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 50 margin in the fourth quarter fell to 6.2 percent (9.8). The (53), Americas 29 (30) and APAC 21 (17) percent. operating margin declined in Service to 6.2 percent (10.5) and in Equipment to 7.0 percent (9.5). CURRENCY RATE EFFECT In January–December, both business areas benefited In a year-on-year comparison, the currency rates had a negafrom higher volumes compared to the previous year. However, tive effect on orders and sales in January–December. The the operating profit was held back by the higher business reported order intake rose by 23.4 percent and by 24.4 perdevelopment spending related to the technology and IT. Also, cent at comparable currency rates. Reported sales increased the sales mix in both business areas was less favorable than by 22.6 percent and by 23.5 percent at comparable currency a year before. rates. In the fourth quarter, the reported order intake fell by In Service, the costs of expanding the branch network 0.8 percent whereas the decline at comparable currencies through organic efforts as well as through acquisitions, taxed was 1.0 percent. The reported sales increased by 27.4 perthe operating profit. Furthermore, certain modernization projcent and by 27.9 percent at comparable currencies. ects suffered from execution bottlenecks. In Service, the reported January–December order intake Due to intense competition, the product price increases growth of 14.7 percent was below the growth of 16.1 perlagged the input cost development, mainly in Industrial cent at comparable currencies. In Equipment, reported Cranes, which had an adverse impact on Equipment’s operatorders increased by 28.5 percent and by 29.2 percent at ing profit. comparable currencies. Service sales grew by 12.5 percent In 2011, depreciation and impairments totaled EUR in reported terms and by 13.7 percent at comparable cur41.3 million (31.1). Impairments related to the restructurrencies. In Equipment, the corresponding figures were 26.6 ing of operations in Europe amounted to EUR 4.2 million of percent and 27.3 percent. the above amount. In 2011, the amortization arising from In 2011, the currency rate differences had a slightly negapurchase price allocations for acquisitions represented EUR tive impact on the Group’s operating margin compared with 14.4 million (8.5) of depreciation and impairments. the previous year. In 2011, the share of the result of associated companies and joint ventures was EUR 3.8 million (2.5). FINANCIAL RESULT Net financial expenses in January–December totaled EUR The consolidated operating profit in full-year 2011 totaled 14.9 million (3.6). Net interest expenses accounted for EUR EUR 106.9 million (112.4), decreasing in total by EUR 5.5 6.1 million (1.3) of it, and the remainder was mainly attribmillion. The operating profit includes restructuring costs of utable to unrealized exchange rate differences related to EUR 10.3 million (2.7) booked in the fourth quarter due to Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2011 59 the hedging of future cash flows that are not included in the Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 219.8 million (-17.4) at hedge accounting. the end of 2011. Solidity was 34.5 percent (44.7) and gearThe January–December profit before taxes was EUR 95.8 ing 50.1 percent (-3.8). million (111.3). The Group’s liquidity remained healthy. At the end of the Income taxes in January–December were EUR 30.8 milfourth quarter, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR lion (33.1). The Group’s effective tax rate was 32.2 percent 72.7 million (98.5). None of the Group’s EUR 200 million (29.8). committed back-up financing facility was used at the end of The January–December net profit was EUR 64.9 million the period. (78.2). On October 13, ­Konecranes announced that it has signed In 2011, basic earnings per share were EUR 1.11 (1.35) a new five-year Bank Term Loan of EUR 100 million with and diluted earnings per share were EUR 1.10 (1.34). Pohjola Bank. The loan will be used for general corporate In 2011, the return on capital employed was 17.1 percent purposes and to prolong the maturity profile of the Group’s (24.2) and return on equity 14.5 percent (18.1). financial liabilities. ­Konecranes paid dividends to its shareholders that BALANCE SHEET amounted to EUR 60.0 million or EUR 1.00 per share in April The year-end 2011 consolidated balance sheet amounted 2011. ­Konecranes Plc repurchased own shares worth EUR to EUR 1,446.3 million (1,175.5). Total equity at the end of 51.3 million in the third quarter, which reduced equity by the the report period was EUR 438.8 million (456.2). Total equity same amount. attributable to equity holders of the parent company at yearend 2011 was EUR 433.2 million (450.5) or EUR 7.57 per CAPITAL EXPENDITURE share (7.64). In 2011, the capital expenditure excluding acquisitions and Net working capital at year-end 2011 totaled EUR 318.9 investments in associated companies amounted to EUR million, which was EUR 32.8 million more than at the end of 32.4 million (22.3). This amount consisted of investments the third quarter and EUR 127.3 million more than at yearin machines, equipment, properties and information techend 2010. Compared to previous year, net working capital nology. Capital expenditure including acquisitions was EUR rose due to higher inventories and receivables. 112.5 million (68.8). Fourth quarter capital expenditure excluding acquisitions CASH FLOW AND FINANCING was EUR 9.9 million (11.0) and including acquisitions was Net cash from operating activities in full-year 2011 was EUR 12.3 million (22.4). EUR -20.8 million (57.4), representing EUR -0.35 per share (0.97). In the fourth quarter, net cash flow from operating ACQUISITIONS activities was EUR 10.4 million (31.2). Cash flow before In 2011, the capital expenditure on acquisitions and investfinancing activities was EUR -146.5 million (-7.5). Cash flow ments in associated companies was EUR 80.1 million before financing activities in the fourth quarter was EUR (46.5). During January–December, ­Konecranes made seven -12.5 million (21.0). acquisitions in Chile, India, Austria, Germany, Spain, Switzerland and Saudi Arabia. The net assets of the acquisitions were recorded at EUR 42.9 million and goodwill of EUR 37.2 million was booked from the acquisitions. 60 KONECRANES 2011 Report of the Board of Directors On October 11, 2010, ­Konecranes announced that it During 2011, implementation of the Lifting people strathad entered into an agreement to acquire the Indian crane egy continued. Lifting people is one of the strategic cornercompany WMI Cranes Ltd. (“WMI”). ­Konecranes received the stones and it focuses on good company culture, true leadrequired regulatory approvals during first quarter of 2011 ership, performance management and ensuring competent and WMI has been consolidated into ­Konecranes’ financial resources. The global job satisfaction survey was carried out reporting from February 01, 2011. for the fifth time with an exceptionally high response rate and ­Konecranes acquired WMI’s shares in two phases. In the the results were showing good progress in all the measured first phase in February, ­Konecranes acquired 51 percent of areas. the shares in the company. In the second phase finalized Focus on competence development continued in all funcin August, ­Konecranes acquired the remaining 49 percent of tions and areas. Development of leadership skills continued the shares. The total price for 100 percent of the shares in in all organizational levels. Approximately 100 members of WMI amounted to INR 3,438 million (EUR 54.4 million). In the top management participated in the renewed ­Konecranes addition an equity investment amounting to INR 140 million Champion program. Performance management and espe(EUR 2.3 million) has been made into WMI’s equity in accorcially TPP development discussions were widely emphadance with the share purchase agreement. sized, and their positive impact was clearly visible also in the The acquisition marks an important step in strengthening results of global job satisfaction survey. ­Konecranes’ position in the growing Indian crane market. On December 21, 2011, ­Konecranes announced that it In June, ­Konecranes acquired 100 percent of the Saudi has initiated actions in the fourth quarter to lower the cost Arabian crane manufacturer Saudi Cranes & Steel Works base in Europe. The actions are estimated to affect approxiFactory Company Limited (“Saudi Cranes”). Saudi Cranes is mately 125 employees within the ­Konecranes Group. With headquartered in Al Jubail Industrial City and the company these planned actions ­Konecranes targets annual cost savhas approximately 100 employees. Saudi Cranes’ core busiings of approximately EUR 9 million. ­Konecranes incurred ness is the design, manufacturing and sales of industrial restructuring costs of EUR 10.3 million due to these actions cranes. The company previously had a license agreement in the fourth quarter of 2011 of which asset write-downs with ­Konecranes. The acquisition creates an excellent base amounted to EUR 4.2 million. for establishing and developing services in the Saudi Arabian In 2011, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR market. 530.3 million (468.7). PERSONNEL In January–December, the Group employed an average of 10,998 people (9,739). On December 31, the headcount was 11,651 (10,042). At year-end 2011, the number of personnel by Business Area was as follows: Service 5,980 employees (5,397), Equipment 5,621 employees (4,600) and Group staff 50 (45). The Group had 6,144 employees (5,751) working in EMEA, 2,513 (2,259) in the Americas and 2,994 (2,032) in the APAC region. Approximately one-third of the personnel increase came from the acquisitions. Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2011 61 BUSINESS AREAS Service Orders in full-year 2011 totaled EUR 694.6 million (605.7) quarter sales totaled EUR 234.9 million (211.3) representshowing an increase of 14.7 percent. New orders grew in all ing a year-over-year increase of 11.1 percent. Fourth quargeographic regions and in all business units. The order book ter operating profit before restructuring costs was EUR 20.9 rose to EUR 135.1 million (103.3) at year-end representing million (22.1), and the operating margin 8.9 percent (10.5). an increase of 30.9 percent. Sales rose by 12.5 percent to Operating profit after restructuring costs was EUR 14.6 milEUR 796.1 million (707.8). Operating profit before restruclion (22.1) and 6.2 percent of sales (10.5). turing costs of EUR 6.3 million (0.0) was EUR 55.7 million The annual value of the contract base increased to EUR (62.5) and the operating margin 7.0 percent (8.8). Oper166.2 million (145.7) at year-end 2011. At year-end 2011, ating profit after restructuring costs was EUR 49.4 million the total number of items of equipment included in the main(62.5) and 6.2 percent of sales (8.8). The restructuring costs tenance contract base was 409,877 (375,514). related to the European-wide cost savings program. Growth in The number of service technicians at year-end 2011 was deliveries was slower than originally planned, which affected 3,796 (3,466), which is 330 or 9.5 percent more than at the fixed cost absorption in the expanded service network. In year-end 2010. addition, the sales mix effects were negative due to the slow growth of demand in spare parts. Moreover, certain modernization projects suffered from execution bottlenecks. The fourth quarter order intake rose by 18.7 percent from the previous year and totaled EUR 183.3 million (154.4). Orders were higher than a year ago in all regions. FourthChange Change Service 10–12/2011 10–12/2010 percent 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 percent Orders received, MEUR 183.3 154.4 18.7 694.6 605.7 14.7 Order book, MEUR 135.1 103.3 30.9 135.1 103.3 30.9 Contract base value, MEUR 166.2 145.7 14.1 166.2 145.7 14.1 Net sales, MEUR 234.9 211.3 11.1 796.1 707.8 12.5 EBITDA, MEUR 19.9 24.7 -19.7 63.3 73.2 -13.5 EBITDA, % 8.5% 11.7% 8.0% 10.3% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -3.1 -2.6 16.3 -11.7 -10.6 10.9 Impairments, MEUR -2.2 0.0 -2.2 -0.1 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 14.6 22.1 -33.9 49.4 62.5 -20.9 Operating profit (EBIT), % 6.2% 10.5% 6.2% 8.8% Restructuring costs, MEUR -6.3 0.0 -6.3 0.0 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 20.9 22.1 -5.3 55.7 62.5 -20.9 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 8.9 10.5% 7.0% 8.8% Capital employed, MEUR 190.9 163.3 16.9 190.9 163.3 16.9 ROCE% 27.9% 42.5% Capital expenditure, MEUR 3.5 5.5 -36.7 9.3 11.3 -18.1 Personnel at the end of period 5,980 5,397 10.8 5,980 5,397 10.8 62 KONECRANES 2011 Report of the Board of Directors Equipment Orders in full-year 2011 totaled EUR 1,291.5 million ability improved due to higher volumes but it was held back (1,004.9) showing an increase of 28.5 percent. Orders by the higher business development spending related to the grew in all regions. The growth was particularly high in the new products and IT. Also, the sales mix was less favorable Americas. Orders for Industrial Cranes accounted for approxithan a year ago. Due to intense competition, the product mately 45 percent of the orders received and were higher price increases lagged the input cost development, mainly in than a year before. Components generated approximately 25 Industrial Cranes, which had an additional adverse impact on percent of the new orders and were above last year’s level. the operating profit. The combined orders for the other business units (Nuclear The fourth quarter order intake fell by 9.5 percent and Cranes, Port Cranes and Lift Trucks) amounted to approxitotaled EUR 316.1 million (349.2). The fourth quarter order mately 30 percent of the orders received and were higher intake rose in the Americas, but declined EMEA and Asiathan a year ago. The order intake included large port and Pacific. The comparison period included significant contracts shipyard crane orders in the first, third and fourth quarters. for port cranes. The fourth quarter sales totaled EUR 394.4 The order book increased by 31.2 percent from previmillion (288.5) and were 36.7 percent higher than a year ous year to EUR 856.7 million (652.9). Sales increased by ago. The fourth quarter operating profit before restructuring 26.6 percent to EUR 1,201.4 million (948.6). Operating costs was EUR 31.5 million (27.4), and the operating margin profit before restructuring costs of EUR 4.0 million (2.7) 8.0 percent (9.5). The fourth quarter operating profit after was EUR 81.7 million (67.4) and the operating margin 6.8 restructuring costs was EUR 27.5 million (27.4), and the percent (7.1). Operating profit after restructuring costs was operating margin 7.0 percent (9.5). EUR 77.7 million (64.7) and 6.5 percent of sales (6.8). ProfitChange Change Equipment 10–12/2011 10–12/2010 percent 1–12/2011 1–12/2010 percent Orders received, MEUR 316.1 349.2 -9.5 1,291.5 1,004.9 28.5 Order book, MEUR 856.7 652.9 31.2 856.7 652.9 31.2 Net sales, MEUR 394.4 288.5 36.7 1,201.4 948.6 26.6 EBITDA, MEUR 36.1 32.8 10.4 104.8 84.7 23.7 EBITDA, % 9.2% 11.4% 8.7% 8.9% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -6.7 -5.3 24.8 -25.0 -19.4 29.0 Impairments, MEUR -2.0 0.0 -2.0 -0.6 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 27.5 27.4 0.2 77.7 64.7 20.2 Operating profit (EBIT), % 7.0% 9.5% 6.5% 6.8% Restructuring costs, MEUR -4.0 0.0 -4.0 -2.7 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 31.5 27.4 14.8 81.7 67.4 21.3 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 8.0% 9.5% 6.8% 7.1% Capital employed, MEUR 426.1 243.1 75.3 426.1 243.1 75.3 ROCE% 23.2% 28.6% Capital expenditure, MEUR 6.5 5.5 17.2 23.2 11.0 110.0 Personnel at the end of period 5,621 4,600 22.2 5,621 4,600 22.2 Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2011 63 Group overheads Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, however, no longer Unallocated Group overhead costs in 2011 were EUR 20.3 than until September 30, 2012. The Board of Directors did million (14.8), representing 1.1 percent of sales (1.0). not use this authorization in 2011. The decisions are explained in more detail in the release ADMINISTRATION covering the resolutions of the AGM, which is available on the company’s website at www.­Konecranes.com. Decisions of the Annual General Meeting In its first meeting held after the Annual General Meeting, The Annual General Meeting of ­Konecranes Plc was held the Board of Directors elected Mr. Stig Gustavson to continue on Thursday, March 31, 2011. The meeting approved the as Chairman. Mr. Svante Adde was elected Chairman of the Company’s annual accounts for the fiscal year 2010 and disAudit Committee, and Mr. Kim Gran, Mr. Tapani Järvinen and charged the members of the Board of Directors and ManMr. Mikael Silvennoinen as Committee members. Mr. Matti aging Director from liability. The AGM approved the Board’s Kavetvuo was elected Chairman of the Nomination and Comproposal that a dividend of EUR 1.00 per share will be paid pensation Committee, and Mr. Stig Gustavson, Ms. Nina from the distributable assets of the parent company. Kopola and Ms. Malin Persson were elected as Committee The AGM approved the proposal of the Nomination and members. Compensation Committee that the number of members With the exception of Mr. Stig Gustavson, the Board memof the Board of Directors is eight (8). The Board members bers are deemed to be independent of the Company under elected at the AGM in 2011 are Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. Kim the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. Mr. Gustavson Gran, Mr. Stig Gustavson, Mr. Tapani Järvinen, Mr. Matti is not deemed independent of the Company based on the Kavetvuo, Ms. Nina Kopola, Ms. Malin Persson, and Mr. Board’s overall evaluation relating to his former and current Mikael Silvennoinen. positions in ­Konecranes, combined with his substantial votThe AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue as ing rights in the Company. the Company’s external auditor. All Board members are independent of significant shareThe AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on holders of the company. the repurchase of the Company’s own shares and/or on the acceptance of the Company’s own shares as a pledge. The Changes in Group Management amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as The Board of Directors of ­Konecranes Plc made the following a pledge shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, which appointments, effective January 1, 2012: corresponds to approximately 9.6 percent of all the shares As planned earlier, Harry Ollila will step down from his in the Company. The authorization is effective until the end position as a Head of Market Operations and member of the of the next Annual General Meeting, however, no longer than Group Executive Board. until September 30, 2012. The Board of Directors decided Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President and Head of Busito repurchase a maximum amount of 3,000,000 Company’s ness Area Equipment, will succeed Harry Ollila as an Execuown shares no earlier than August 16, 2011 and no later tive Vice President and a Head of Market Operations. than March 1, 2012. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President and Head of The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on Business Area Service, will succeed Mikko Uhari as an Executhe issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of spetive Vice President and a Head of Business Area Equipment. cial rights entitling to shares referred to in chapter 10 secFabio Fiorino, Vice President, Head of Service, Region tion 1 of the Finnish Companies Act. The amount of shares Americas, will succeed Hannu Rusanen as an Executive Vice to be issued based on this authorization shall not exceed President and a Head of Business Area Service. He will also 9,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approximately 14.5 become a member of the Group Executive Board. percent of all the shares in the Company. The authorization Ari Kiviniitty is appointed Senior Vice President, Head of is effective until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, Product Management and Engineering. He also acts as a however no longer than until September 30, 2012. The Board deputy to Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Head of Business Area Equipof Directors did not use this authorization in 2011. ment. Mr. Kiviniitty also continues as the acting Chief TechThe AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on nology Officer until a new person will be appointed to this the transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorization position. is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which correPekka Lettijeff is appointed as Chief Supply Chain Officer, sponds to approximately 9.6 percent of all the shares in the Head of Supply Chain Management. Company. This authorization shall be effective until the next 64 KONECRANES 2011 Report of the Board of Directors From January 1, 2012, Mr. Kiviniitty and Mr. Lettijeff will SHARES SUBSCRIBED UNDER STOCK not continue as members of the Group Executive Board in OPTION RIGHTS their new positions, as they will report to Mr. Rusanen, ExecuPursuant to ­Konecranes Plc’s stock option plans, 958,300 tive Vice President, Head of Business Area Equipment. new shares were subscribed and registered in the Finnish As of January 01, 2012, the Group Executive Board (GXB) Trade Register in January–December 2011. As a result of comprises of the following members: these subscriptions, the total number of ­Konecranes Plc’s • Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO, and Chairman of shares, including treasury shares, rose to 63,241,427. the Group Executive Board The stock options issued under ­Konecranes Plc’s ongo• Mikko Uhari, Market Operations ing stock option plans (2007 and 2009) at end-December • Hannu Rusanen, Business Area Equipment 2011 entitle the holders to subscribe to a total of 3,144,200 • Fabio Fiorino, Business Area Service shares, which would increase the total number of ­Konecranes • Teo Ottola, Finance and headquarter functions Plc’s shares, including treasury shares, to 66,385,627. The • Ari Kiviniitty, Chief Technology Officer (until a new person option programs include approximately 220 key persons. will be appointed to this position) All shares carry one vote per share and equal rights to dividends. Other issues The terms and conditions of the stock option programs are At the end of the year 2011, ­Konecranes had a loan receivavailable on the ­Konecranes’ website at www.­Konecranes. able of EUR 217,197 from the President & CEO Pekka Lundcom. mark with interest rate of 2,039 percent. The loan relates to a tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme directed MARKET CAPITALIZATION AND TRADING to the President & CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pendVOLUME ing against the imposed payment, and the loan is effective The closing price for ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on the NASuntil the appeal is resolved. DAQ OMX Helsinki on December 31, 2011 was EUR 14.54. ­Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate GoverThe volume-weighted average share price in January–Decemnance Code 2010 approved by the Board of the Securities ber was EUR 22.83, the highest price being EUR 34.17 in Market Association. ­Konecranes has issued a Corporate February and the lowest EUR 13.18 in November. In JanuGovernance Statement based on the recommendation 54 of ary–December, the trading volume on the NASDAQ OMX the Code, which can be reviewed on the corporate website of Helsinki totaled 125.6 million of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares, ­Konecranes at www.­Konecranes.com. corresponding to a turnover of approximately EUR 2,868 million. The average daily trading volume was 496,544 shares, SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARES representing an average daily turnover of EUR 11.3 million. In The company’s registered share capital totaled EUR 30.1 miladdition, approximately 95 million ­Konecranes’ shares were lion on December 31, 2011 and the number of shares includtraded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading faciliing treasury shares was 63,241,427. ties and bilateral OTC trades) in 2011, according to Fidessa. On December 31, 2011, ­Konecranes Plc was in the posOn December 31, 2011, the total market capitalization of session of 6,042,456 own shares, which corresponds to 9.6 ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR percent of the total number of shares having a market value 919.5 million including treasury shares. The market capitalof EUR 87.9 million on that date. ization was EUR 831.7 million excluding the treasury shares. ­Konecranes Plc repurchased 3,000,000 own shares in public trading on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki in the third quarter, which corresponds to 4.7 percent of the total number of FLAGGING NOTIFICATIONS AND OTHER shares. The consideration paid for the shares amounted to ANNOUNCEMENTS BY SHAREHOLDERS EUR 51.3 million, which reduced equity by the same amount. On January 5, 2011, BlackRock, Inc. informed ­Konecranes A total of 281,007 new shares subscribed in the that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. BlackRock Inc. ­Konecranes Plc’s share issue directed to the shareholders held 6,441,109 shares in ­Konecranes Plc on January 4. The of KCR Management Oy, following the share swap announced holding corresponds to 10.39 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s on December 14, 2010, were entered into the Trade Register shares and votes. on January 13, 2011. On January 13, 2011, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed ­Konecranes that their holding had decreased below 10 percent. HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,215,568 shares in Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2011 65 ­ onecranes Plc on January 13, 2011, which is 9.98 percent K through KCR Management Oy on August 22, 2011, which is of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. K. Hartwall Invest Oy 0.82 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG, who will in On September 29, 2011, ­Konecranes received a disclopractice cooperate with HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters consure according to which, the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in cerning their ownership in ­Konecranes Plc, held 6,347,968 ­Konecranes Plc has decreased below 5 percent. BlackRock, shares on January 13, 2011, which is 10.19 percent of the Inc. held 3,135,985 ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on September shares and votes in ­Konecranes Plc. 28, 2011, which is 4.96 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares On January 14, 2011, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed and votes. ­Konecranes that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. HTT On October 5, 2011, ­Konecranes received a disclo2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,230,568 shares in ­Konecranes Plc sure according to which, the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in on January 14, 2011, which is 10.00 percent of ­Konecranes ­Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. BlackRock, Inc. Plc’s shares and votes. K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöverheld 3,172,115 ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 4, Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG, who will in practice coop2011, which is 5.02 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and erate with HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters concerning their votes. ownership in ­Konecranes Plc, held 6,362,968 shares on On October 12, 2011, ­Konecranes received a discloJanuary 14, 2011, which is 10.22 percent of the shares and sure according to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in votes in ­Konecranes Plc. ­Konecranes Plc has decreased below 5 percent. BlackRock, On March 4, 2011, ­Konecranes received a discloInc. held 3,110,058 ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 11, sure according to which, the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in 2011, which is 4.92 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and ­Konecranes Plc had decreased below 10 percent. BlackRock, votes. Inc. held 6,121,545 ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on March 3, On December 28, 2011, ­Konecranes received informa2011, which is 9.83 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and tion according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board votes. of Directors Stig Gustavson has donated all his shares in On March 8, 2011, ­Konecranes received a disclo­Konecranes Plc to his near relatives, retaining himself the sure according to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated ­Konecranes Plc had exceeded 10 percent. BlackRock, Inc. shares. The donation encompasses in total 2,069,778 held 6,362,798 ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on March 7, 2011, shares, which corresponds to approximately 3.27 percent of which is 10.21 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and the all company’s shares and voting rights. votes. No other disclosures concerning changes in holdings were On March 9, 2011, ­Konecranes received a discloreceived in 2011. sure according to which, the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in ­Konecranes Plc had decreased below 10 percent. BlackRock, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Inc. held 6,093,644 ­Konecranes Plc’s shares on March 8, In 2011, ­Konecranes’ research and product development 2011, which is 9.78 percent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and expenditure totaled EUR 29.6 (21.5) million, representing votes. 1.6 (1.3) percent of sales. R&D expenditure includes prodOn August 18, 2011, ­Konecranes disclosed that its uct development projects aimed at improving the quality and total holding of ­Konecranes Plc had exceeded 5 percent as cost efficiency of both products and services. a result of the repurchase of the company’s own shares. ­Konecranes continued the development of a new global ­Konecranes Plc was in the possession of 2,683,000 own electric chain hoist platform. New modern product series is shares directly and 517,696 own shares indirectly through designed to fulfill the needs of multiple sales channels. The KCR Management Oy on August 17, 2011, which is 5.06 perproduct series incorporates a very broad technical feature cent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. list gathered from several geographical markets. The series On August 23, 2011, ­Konecranes disclosed that its has also been designed to support global approach in manudirect holding of ­Konecranes Plc had exceeded 5 percent facturing and sourcing from the day one. The first models as a result of the repurchase of the company’s own shares. of the new extensive product family were launched in 2011; ­Konecranes Plc was directly in the possession of 3,196,813 more new models will be introduced in 2012. own shares on August 22, 2011, which is 5.05 percent of Ergonomics is highly important to our customers, when ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. In addition, ­Konecranes using our products and services. This means ease of use, Plc was in the possession of 517,696 own shares indirectly consistent and inspiring design, and overall low physical and mental stress. One concretized outcome of the development 66 KONECRANES 2011 Report of the Board of Directors work in that area was the new cabin series for the port and economy, due, for example, to the sovereign credit crisis. A industrial process cranes. The product was developed from decrease in demand for ­Konecranes’ products and services bottom up focusing on the driver’s daily life. The new cabin may have a negative effect on the Group’s pricing power and series was launched in spring and it already received very result in decrease in profits, a possible impairment of goodpositive customer feedback in trade shows and exhibitions. will and other assets, or inventory obsolescence. The new product sets the industry benchmark in the area of The economic growth has had an inflationary impact ergonomics. on the raw material prices, which may have an effect on Consistent improvement in eco-efficiency is one of the ­Konecranes’ profits if product sales prices could not be cormain themes in all of the ­Konecranes product development. respondingly adjusted due, for example, to intense competiIt positively resulted in the delivery of a hybrid straddle carrier tion. In addition to ­Konecranes’ own assembly operations, to EUROGATE in Germany. The straddle carrier was equipped the lack of raw materials and components may cause bottlewith the most modern super capacitor system available that necks, which may consequently result in delays of deliveries is able to receive and store the energy released while the and increased costs. load is lowered. The stored energy can be used in the next A renewed shortage of credit may cause difficulties for lifts. ­Konecranes’ customers, suppliers, and financial and other The first products under TRUCONNECT® remote sercounterparties. The risk may be realized as a shortage of vices were launched in 2011. ­Konecranes TRUCONNECT® supplies or defaulting liabilities. remote services for cranes and machine tools are based Challenges in financing may force customers to postpone on a remote connection between the equipment and the projects or even to cancel existing orders. A renewed down­Konecranes remote center. The TRUCONNECT®product family turn in the world economy would increase postponement of includes different services enabled by remote connection, all deliveries and cancellations of orders. Advance payments are of which are aimed at helping the customer to improve safety an integral part of ­Konecranes’ project business and they and optimize the maintenance of the equipment. The service have played a crucial role in mitigating the adverse effects was well received and we already have more than a thousand from postponements of certain deliveries and minor cancelunits of equipment connected to the service. lations. ­Konecranes intends to avoid incurring costs of major projects under construction in excess of advance payments. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Group’s other risks have remained unchanged and the pivDuring 2011, the corporate responsibility work continued with otal risks are presented in the Annual Report. roll-out and communication of the five CR focus areas: safety, people, environment, smarter offering and fair play. The topLITIGATION ics were presented and discussed at all major ­Konecranes Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings are pendevents, such as ­Konecranes Conference and ­Konecranes ing against the Group in various countries. These actions, Supplier Days. The previously established a global network claims and other proceedings are typical for this industry and of safety, environmental and quality professionals started to consistent with a global business offering that encompasses show results. Common practices are being created together, a wide range of products and services. These matters involve and the network is sharing best practices, for example, on contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (includchemical and waste management guidance. ing design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to warn Environmental aspects improved on two fronts: prodand asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability and other ucts and own operations. In 2011, there were visible envimatters involving claims of general liability. ronmental achievements related to products in the form of While the final outcome of these proceedings cannot be smarter offering and improved communication of product predicted with certainty, ­Konecranes is of the opinion, based related environmental questions. Safety indicators showed on the information available to date and considering the overall improvement. Accident and near hit reporting tool grounds presented for such claims, the available insurance was in wider use enabling wider data analyzes. This, in turn, coverage and the reserves made, that the outcome of such enables a sharper focus on preventive and corrective actions actions, claims and other proceedings, if unfavorable, would to improve safety. not have a material adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal short-term risks and uncertainties of the Group derive from a possible renewed downturn in the world Report of the Board of Directors KONECRANES 2011 67 MARKET OUTLOOK BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROPOSAL FOR Forecasting the demand continues to be challenging due to DISPOSAL OF DISTRIBUTABLE FUNDS the macroeconomic uncertainties. Based on the current offer The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR base, the demand outlook is stable. However, due to the 135,183,409.18 of which the net income for the year is EUR timing of large port crane projects, the quarterly Equipment 40,050,228.07. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR order intake may fluctuate. 366,767,000. According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable FINANCIAL GUIDANCE funds of the company are calculated based on the parent Based on the order book, we forecast year 2012 sales and company’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determinoperating profit to be higher than in 2011. ing the amount of the dividend the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity of the parent company and the economic circumstances subsequent to the financial year end. Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.00 be paid on each share and that the remaining nonrestricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Helsinki, February 2, 2012 ­Konecranes Plc Board of Directors 68 KONECRANES 2011 Report of the Board of Directors Consolidated statement of income – IFRS 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2011 2010 Note: 4, 6, 7 Sales 1,896,376 1,546,314 8 Other operating income 4,104 3,564 10 Depreciation and impairments -41,281 -31,144 11–13 Other operating expenses -1,752,332 -1,406,328 Operating profit 106,867 112,406 20 Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ result 3,823 2,526 14 Financial income and expenses -14,921 -3,593 Profit before taxes 95,769 111,339 15 Taxes -30,842 -33,138 Net profit for the period 64,927 78,201 Net profit for the period attributable to Shareholders of the parent company 65,477 79,412 Non-controlling interest -550 -1,211 16 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.11 1.35 16 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.10 1.34 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2011 2010 Net profit for the period 64,927 78,201 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 3,454 19,395 Cash flow hedges -4,607 -2,399 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 1,129 624 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax -24 17,620 Total comprehensive income for the period 64,903 95,821 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company 64,964 96,590 Non-controlling interest -61 -769 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS KONECRANES 2011 69 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Note: Non-current assets 17 Goodwill 115,342 84,367 18 Other intangible assets 81,615 68,331 19 Property, plant and equipment 125,436 99,148 Advance payments and construction in progress 40,019 19,040 20 Investments accounted for using the equity method 34,567 31,927 21 Available-for-sale investments 1,382 1,382 Long-term loans receivable 239 255 32 Deferred tax assets 47,933 40,725 Total non-current assets 446,533 345,175 Current assets 22 Inventories 347,468 269,897 24 Accounts receivable 405,850 315,771 Loans receivable 341 1,804 25 Other receivables 44,763 28,774 Current tax assets 10,174 10,638 26 Deferred assets 118,507 104,949 27 Cash and cash equivalents 72,668 98,453 Total current assets 999,771 830,286 TOTAL ASSETS 1,446,304 1,175,461 70 KONECRANES 2011 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Note: Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Share issue 0 8,739 38 Fair value reserves -2,936 542 Translation difference 3,481 516 Paid in capital 43,711 10,473 Retained earnings 254,098 281,431 Net profit for the period 65,477 79,412 28 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 433,211 450,493 Non-controlling interest 5,542 5,722 Total equity 438,753 456,215 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 129,116 32,874 31 Other long-term liabilities 58,709 56,958 32 Deferred tax liabilities 26,626 18,089 Total non-current liabilities 214,451 107,921 33 Provisions 54,104 50,117 Current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 163,883 50,212 7 Advance payments received 174,077 154,018 Progress billings 4,736 24,945 Accounts payable 152,301 117,174 34 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest bearing) 25,520 23,166 Current tax liabilities 8,781 14,081 34 Accruals 209,698 177,612 Total current liabilities 738,996 561,208 Total liabilities 1,007,551 719,246 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,446,304 1,175,461 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS KONECRANES 2011 71 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share Cash Non-conShare premium Share flow Trans­lation Paid in Retained trolling Total (1,000 EUR) capital account issue hedges difference capital earnings Total interest equity Balance at 1 January, 2011 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 8,739 542 516 10,473 360,843 450,493 5,722 456,215 Options exercised 24,647 24,647 24,647 Share issue -8,739 8,590 -149 -149 Dividends paid to equity holders -60,035 -60,035 -60,035 Share based payments recognized against equity 4,804 4,804 4,804 Purchase of treasury shares -51,271 -51,271 -51,271 Business combinations -243 -243 -119 -362 Total comprehensive income -3,478 2,965 65,477 64,964 -61 64,903 Balance at 31 December, 2011 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 0 -2,936 3,481 43,711 319,575 433,211 5,542 438,753 Balance at 1 January, 2010 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 0 2,317 -18,437 9,039 340,247 402,546 4,569 407,115 Options exercised 1,434 1,434 1,434 Share issue 149 149 149 Dividends paid to equity holders -53,018 -53,018 -53,018 Share based payments recognized against equity 3,565 3,565 3,565 Employee benefit scheme for executive management* 8,590 -7,800 790 -871 -81 Business combinations -638 -638 2,793 2,155 Donations** -925 -925 -925 Total comprehensive income -1,775 18,953 79,412 96,590 -769 95,821 Balance at 31 December, 2010 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 8,739 542 516 10,473 360,843 450,493 5,722 456,215 * Consolidation of KCR Management Oy (incentive arrangement for Konecranes Group executive management) ** Donations (after taxes) to Finnish Universities based on the decision made by AGM 72 KONECRANES 2011 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2011 2010 Note: Cash flow from operating activities Net income 64,927 78,201 Adjustments to net profit for the period Taxes 30,842 33,138 Financial income and expenses 15,273 3,794 Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ result -3,823 -2,526 Dividends income -352 -201 Depreciation and impairments 41,281 31,144 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets -98 -646 Other adjustments 2,606 563 Operating income before change in net working capital 150,656 143,467 Change in interest-free short-term receivables -92,007 -49,673 Change in inventories -56,797 -7,198 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 29,603 10,809 Change in net working capital -119,201 -46,062 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 31,455 97,405 14 Interest received 6,467 2,094 14 Interest paid -10,712 -5,774 14 Other financial income and expenses -6,634 -5,029 15 Income taxes paid -41,422 -31,250 Financing items and taxes -52,301 -39,959 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES -20,846 57,446 Cash flow from investing activities 5 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -73,593 -11,481 5 Divestment of Group companies, net of cash 0 920 20 Acquisition of shares in associated company 0 -26,969 Capital expenditures -53,323 -29,246 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 948 1,582 15 Dividends received 352 201 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -125,616 -64,993 Cash flow before financing activities -146,462 -7,547 Cash flow from financing activities 28.1 Proceeds from options exercised and share issues 24,498 1,247 28.3 Purchase of treasury shares -51,271 0 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 162,395 316 Repayments of long-term borrowings -64,634 -8,414 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) short-term borrowings 107,093 17,661 Change in long-term receivables 17 1,431 Change in short-term receivables 1,587 -45 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent -60,035 -53,018 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 119,650 -40,822 Translation differences in cash 1,027 9,282 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -25,785 -39,087 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 98,453 137,540 27 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 72,668 98,453 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -25,785 -39,087 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS KONECRANES 2011 73 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION ventures is shown in the consolidated statement of income Konecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a as a separate item. Finnish public limited company organized under the laws of Non-controlling interest is presented separately under Finland and domiciled in Hyvinkää. The company is listed on equity in the balance sheet. the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. Intracorporate transactions and internal margins in inventories have been eliminated in the consolidated financial 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES statements. 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments have been prepared in accordance with International FinanThe preparation of the financial statements in accordance cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. with IFRS requires management to make estimates and The consolidated financial statements have been prejudgments that affect the valuation of reported assets and pared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative finanliabilities and other information, such as contingent liabilities cial instruments and available-for-sale investments that have and recognition of income and expenses in the statement of been measured at fair value. The carrying values of recogincome. Although these estimates and judgments are based nized assets and liabilities that are hedged items in fair on the management’s best understanding of current events value hedges, and are otherwise carried at cost, are adjusted and circumstances, actual results may differ from the estito record changes in the fair values attributable to the risks mates. that are being hedged. The consolidated financial statements are presented in 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies thousands of euros; notes to the financial statements in millions of euros and all values are rounded to the nearest thouForeign currency items and sand (€000) except when otherwise indicated. exchange rate differences Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies have been valued Principles of consolidation at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. Realized The consolidated accounts include the parent company exchange rate differences, as well as exchange rate gains Konecranes Plc and those companies in which the parent or losses resulting from the valuation of receivables and company holds directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of liabilities, have been included in the Statement of income. the voting power at the end of the year. Unrealized exchange rate differences relating to hedging of An associated company is a company in which the Group future cash flows, for which hedge accounting is applied, are holds 20–50 percent of the voting power and has significant recorded in the equity. In consolidation, the statements of influence over the company but not control over its financial income of foreign entities are translated into euros at the and operating policies. A joint venture is a company where average exchange rate for the accounting period. The balthe group has a joint control over the entity. ance sheets of foreign entities are translated at the year-end Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the exchange rate. Translation differences resulting from conpurchase method according to which the acquired company’s verting the shareholders’ equity of foreign subsidiaries have identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are been included in equity. measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirer’s Derivative financial instruments interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabiliand hedge accounting ties and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Global operations expose the Group to currency risk and to a Investments in associated companies and joint ventures less significant interest rate risk. have been accounted for in the consolidated financial stateThe Group uses derivative financial instruments (primarily ments using the equity method. These interests are consolforward contracts) to hedge its risks associated with foreign idated in accordance with the equity method, under which currency fluctuations relating to certain commitments and they are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the forecasted transactions. Group’s share of the company’s net assets. Goodwill arisDerivative financial instruments are used for hedging puring on acquisition is included in the carrying amounts of the poses in accordance with the Group’s hedging policy and investments and tested for impairment as part of the investnot for speculative purposes. These instruments are initially ments. Goodwill is not amortized. The Group’s share of the measured at fair value at the contract date, and are re-mearesults of operations of the associated companies and joint 74 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements sured to fair value based on the market value quoted at subEmployee benefits (pensions) sequent reporting dates. The Konecranes companies have various pension plans in For certain large crane projects the Group applies hedge accordance with local conditions and practices. Pensions are accounting compatible with IAS 39. Changes in the fair value generally managed for the Group companies by outside penof derivative financial instruments that are designated as sion insurance companies or by similar arrangements. effective hedges of future cash flows are recognized directly Under defined contribution plans, expenses are recognized as other comprehensive income in cash flow hedges, while for the period the contribution relates to. The ­Konecranes ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income Group accounts for the Finnish system under the Employees’ statement. The Group’s policy with respect to hedging the Pensions Act (TyEL) within insurance system as a defined foreign currency risk of a firm commitment and highly probcontribution plan. able forecasted transaction is to designate it as a cash flow Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the hedge. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or highly balance sheet equals to the net of the present value of probable forecasted transaction results in the recognition of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability assets at the balance sheet date together with adjustments is recognized, the associated gains or losses on the derivafor unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecogtive that had previously been recognized in the equity will be nized pension service costs. The Group has applied the IAS recorded to the statement of income. 19 corridor approach to actuarial gains and losses. ActuHedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging arial gains or losses will be recognized in the statement of instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or income during the expected average remaining working lives no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, for of employees participating in the plan if they exceed 10 perforecasted transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on the cent of the greater of the fair value of the defined benefit plan hedging instrument recognized in the equity is retained in the assets or the present value of the defined benefit obligation. equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged If the defined benefit pension plan is closed, the actuarial transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulagains and losses, which exceed the corridor, are recognized tive gain or loss recognized in the equity will be transferred to in the statement of income. profit or loss for the period. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruLeases ments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recogLease contracts, in which the Group assumes an essennized in the statement of income as they arise. tial part of risk and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases. In finance leases, the assets and accumuRevenue recognition lated depreciation are recognized in fixed assets and the corRevenue from the sale of goods is recognized after the risks responding lease obligations are included in interest-bearing and rewards connected with ownership of the goods sold liabilities. have been transferred to the customer. Normally, revenue Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases recognition takes place when the goods have been handed and the lease payments of these leases are recognized as over to the customer according to the contractual terms. rental expenses in statement of income. Revenues from services are recognized when the services have been rendered. Valuation of inventories Large crane projects revenue is recognized according to Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition the percentage of the completion (POC) method. Most significost or, if lower, at the likely net realizable value. Semi-mancant projects relate to harbor and shipyard cranes. The stage ufactured goods have been valued at variable production of completion of a contract is determined by the proportion costs with addition of allocated variable and fixed overheads. that the contract costs incurred for the work performed to Work in progress of uncompleted orders includes direct labor date bear to the estimated total contract costs. and material costs, as well as a proportion of overhead costs related to production and installation. Research and development costs Research and development costs are charged as expenses Goodwill and other intangible assets during the year in which they are incurred, since future potenGoodwill arising from an acquisition represents the excess of tial economic benefits of new products can only be proven the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiafter their introduction to the market. able net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually. Government grants Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable and trademarks and software licenses. They are stated at assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching cost and amortized on the straight-line basis over expected conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to useful lives, which may vary from 4 to 20 years. an expense item, it is recognized as income over the period Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amornecessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the tized, but they are tested annually for impairment. costs that it is intended to compensate. When the grant relates to an asset, it is deducted from the acquisition cost of the asset. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 75 Impairment testing of goodwill occur. Provisions arise from restructuring plans, onerous conGoodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for tracts, guarantee and claim works. Obligations arising from impairment annually or whenever events or changes in cirrestructuring plans are recognized when the detailed and forcumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be mal restructuring plans have been established, the personrecoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodnel concerned have been informed and when there is a valid will is allocated to groups of cash-generating units (CGU) by expectation that the plan will be implemented. using the Group’s management reporting structure. If the carrying amount for a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an Income tax impairment loss equal to the difference will be recognized. Taxes shown in the consolidated statement of income include income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax legislations, Property, plant and equipment tax adjustments from previous years as well as the effect of Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accuthe annual change in the deferred tax liability and deferred mulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciatax assets. tion is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calcuuseful economic life of the assets as follows: lated on all temporary differences arising between the tax • Buildings 5–40 years basis and the book value of assets and liabilities. Deferred • Machinery and equipment 4–10 years tax is not recognized for non-deductible goodwill on initial No depreciation is recorded for land. recognition and temporary differences in investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probably will not reverse in Impairment of assets subject to amortization and the foreseeable future. The main temporary differences arise depreciation from unused tax losses, depreciation differences, provisions, The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortidefined benefit pension plans, inter-company inventory marzation and property, plant and equipment is reviewed for gin and fair valuation of derivative financial instruments. In impairment whenever events and changes in circumstances connection with an acquisition, the Group records provisions indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be for deferred taxes on the difference between the fair values recoverable. of the net assets acquired and their tax bases. A deferred If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount of the tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is probable that assets will be estimated. An impairment loss is recognized in it can be utilized. the statement of income when the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying amount. 2.4 Application of new and amended IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations Account and other receivables The following new and amended standards and interpretaAccount and other receivables are initially recorded at cost. tions became effective in the year 2011: Provisions are made for doubtful receivables on individual • IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial assessment of potential risks, and are recognized in the Reporting Standards – Limited Exemption from Comparastatement of income. tive IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters • IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures (Revised) Cash and cash equivalents • IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation – ClassificaCash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call tion of Right Issues (Amendment) deposits with banks and other liquid investments with maturi• IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requireties of less than three months. Bank overdrafts are included ment (Amendment) in short-term interest-bearing borrowings under current liabili• IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity ties. Instruments The year 2011 new and amended standards have immaterial Share-based payments impact on financial statements. The Konecranes Group has issued equity-settled stock options to its key personnel. The stock option holder is entiThe following new and amended standards and interpretatled to subscribe shares in Konecranes Plc in accordance tions are effective in the year 2012 with the terms of the stock option programs. The fair value • IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial of the stock options is measured at the grant date and the Reporting Standards (Amendment) – Severe Hyperinflaoptions are recorded as expense in the statement of income tion and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters during the vesting period in accordance with IFRS 2. The valu• IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures (Amendment) ation of the options is based on the Black & Scholes formula. • IAS 12, Income Taxes (Amendment) – Deferred Taxes: When the options are exercised, the equity is increased by Recovery of Underlying Assets the amount of the proceeds received. The year 2012 new and amended standards will have immaterial impact on future financial statements. Provisions Assuming EU endorses the revised standard prior to the Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the end of the first quarter in 2012, Konecranes will adopt the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a revised IAS 19, Employee benefits effective for annual periresult of a past event and it is considered certain or likely to ods on or after 1 January 2013 already in 2012. The major 76 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements change will be that for defined benefit plans, the ability to Treasury. Depending on the business area and the probability defer recognition of actuarial gains and losses (i.e. the corof the cash flows, the hedging covers operative cash flows for ridor approach) has been removed and actuarial gains and the next 1–24 months and is done by using internal foreign losses are recognized in Other Comprehensive Income when exchange forward contracts. This way, Konecranes Finance they occur. This will decrease the retained earnings 1.1.2011 Corporation can manage the currency rate risk of the whole by approximately EUR 4 million. Group. The foreign currency funding of the other Group companies and possibly some external foreign currency funding 3. Management of financial risks can net some of these foreign currency items. The residual The Group uses an approach in which most of the managenet exposure can be covered with commercial banks using ment of financial risks is centralized to Konecranes Group foreign exchange forward contracts or currency options. Only Treasury. Group Treasury functions within the legal entity the items belonging to hedge accounting cannot be netted Konecranes Finance Corporation, operating as a financial out against other internal items. These instruments are used vehicle for the Group in Corporate Headquarters. With cenwhen the hedging effect cannot be obtained through internal tralization and netting of internal foreign currency cash flows, netting and matching of cash flows within the Group. the external hedging needs can be minimized. The business units’ commercial bids in a foreign currency Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in can be hedged by using currency options, but, in general, the sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The using currency clauses covers the risk. company aims to service the operative companies of the For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge Group in reducing their financial risks. accounting compatible with IAS 39. Hedges are done by The Group’s global business operations involve financial using foreign exchange forward contracts. Currently, only USD risks in the form of currency, interest rate, commodity, credit denominated projects are included in the hedge accounting. and liquidity risks. The Group’s objective is to increase the The hedge accounting portfolio comprises both USD sales short-term stability of the financial environment for the busiand purchases. At the end of 2011, the hedge accounting ness operations by reducing the negative effects caused by net cash flows totaled USD 143 million (USD 153 million in price fluctuations and other uncertainties in the financial 2010). markets. The following table shows the transaction exposure of The responsibility of identifying, evaluating and controlKonecranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2011 ling the financial risks arising from the Group’s global busiand December 31, 2010 (in EUR millions): ness operations is divided between the business units and ­Konecranes Finance Corporation. 31.12.11 31.12.10 Units hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. As a AUD 8 2 result of this, most of the financial risks of the Group are conCAD 1 1 centrated into one company, Konecranes Finance CorporaCHF 5 7 tion and can be evaluated and controlled in an efficient way. GBP -4 -13 Almost all funding, cash management and foreign INR 1 2 exchange with banks and other external counterparties are JPY 0 1 centralized to Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance NOK 1 1 with the Group’s Treasury Policy. Only in a few special cases, SEK -32 -42 when the local central bank regulation prohibits using group SGD 0 -2 services in hedging and funding, this must be done directly THB 0 1 between an operative company and a bank under the superviUSD 151 84 sion of the Group Treasury. Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, which enables practically a real-time processing of transactions and in-depth records of activities and performance. The standard reporting is done on a weekly basis and it covers group-level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign currency transaction exposure, debt positions, portfolio of derivatives and counterparty credit exposure for financial transactions. In addition, all group companies participate in the monthly managerial and statutory reporting. Currency rate risk The Group’s global business operations generate exchange rate risk. However, most of the business units only have transactions in their own currency, i.e. these units have their sales & costs as well as internal funding from Konecranes Finance Corporation in their local home currency. Only 18 out of some 100 Group companies operate regularly in a foreign currency. These companies hedge their currency rate risk with Group Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 77 The following table shows the translation exposure of the costs reported in euros asymmetrically. The EBIT change Group as of 31.12.2011 and 31.12.2010 (in EUR millions): affecting the operating profit margin (relative profitability) is only approximately EUR 7 million, when dollar appreciates 10 31.12.11 31.12.10 percent. This is due to the fact that the exchange rate change AED 4 4 impacts mostly both group’s revenues and costs and only AUD 6 6 partly either of these. The transaction position is estimated BRL 0 -1 for the calendar year and the estimate of the effects is based CAD 26 24 on the assumption that the USD denominated transactions CHF 1 1 are not hedged. The profitability is affected by the portion of CLP 4 3 the Group’s EBIT generated in USD (translational effect) and CNY 94 69 by the USD operations of the Group companies with euro as DKK 1 0 home currency and generating EBIT in euros (transactional GBP 5 8 effect). The equity is affected by the change in EBIT and by HUF 2 1 the portion of the Group’s equity in USD. INR 12 0 IDR -1 0 Interest rate risk JPY -3 0 Changes in market interest rates have an impact on Group’s MXN 3 3 net interest expenses and the market value of interest rate MYR 2 3 derivatives. The objective for interest rate risk management NOK -4 -3 is to reduce the volatility impact the market interest rate PLN 1 1 changes cause by optimizing the allocation between flow risk RON 1 1 and price risk according to principles set in Capital structure RUB 4 3 management. SAR 1 0 Approximately 96% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabiliSGD 13 19 ties are denominated in euro (93% in 2010). Please see SEK -13 -13 Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the TRY 4 4 currency split of outstanding debt. UAH -12 -13 The Group’s funding is kept mainly in short periods (floatUSD 66 101 ing rate). In 2011 Konecranes drew a five year bilateral Term ZAR 0 1 Loan for EUR 100 million to prolong the Group’s debt maturity profile. The interest rate risk related to Term Loan cash flows Currently, none of the non-euro denominated shareholders’ are partially hedged with interest rate derivatives belonging equity of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries (i.e. the translation to hedge accounting. For hedging purposes interest rate exposure) is hedged. swaps, forward rate agreements, interest rate futures and Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Stateinterest rate options can be used. ments for the notional and fair values of derivative financial The Group’s interest bearing liabilities at the end of 2011 instruments. were EUR 293 million (EUR 83 million in 2010). The average Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and interest rate for short term loans was 1.73% (3.19%) and for equity of the Group. The U.S. dollar has clearly the biggest long term loans 2.53% (3.81%). A change of one percentimpact, as many of large crane projects are denominated in age point in interest rates in Group’s long term debt portfolio USD and the Group has a lot of local business operations in would have following effect on Group’s income statement and the United States. A depreciation of the USD has a negative equity: impact. The following table shows the magnitude of the effects Change 2011 2010 that changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate would have on in Interest Income 2011 Income 2010 the Group’s annual EBIT and equity. An appreciation of the rates statement Equity statement Equity US dollar for ten percent increases the operating profit by +1% -0.4 2.5 -0.3 EUR 19.6 million (10.2 million in 2010) and equity by EUR 1% 0.4 -2.6 0.3 6.7 million (10.8 million in 2010). Table figures in EUR million, the USD effect simulated: The effect on income statement is comprised of Group’s floating long term debt which is recognized through the stateChange in EUR/USD 2011 2011 2010 2010 ment of income. The effect on equity is comprised of the rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity changes in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging the long +10% -17.7 -6.1 -9.7 -10.3 term debt portfolio. The proportion of fixed interest loans in the loan portfolio can be increased by means of interest rate -10% +19.6 +6.7 +10.2 +10.8 derivatives. As a consequence of this treasury policy, the Group’s average interest rate level, in general, can be higher Appreciating dollar has also a positive impact on Group’s than the market level of short-term interest rates when low operating profit margin, when it affects the revenues and rates prevail and, on the other hand, lower than the market level when high rates prevail. Please see Note 30.3 of the 78 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Consolidated Financial Statement for sensitivity analysis of a number of banks, not just one or two. However, counterparthe Group’s interest rate risk. ties for financial instruments are limited to the core banks of the Group. These are all major banks with good credit ratCommodity risk ings. The majority of all financial instruments are of shortBy using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce term nature, with maturity of less than one year. There are the negative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. The no significant deposits or loans granted with external counoverall importance of the energy price risk is small compared terparties, except a few small loans with companies, which to other financial risks and cannot be described as signifithe Group has a minority interest in. These loans totaled EUR cant. 0.3 million at the end of 2011 (EUR 2.1 million in 2010). Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial StateThe Group has bank risk exposure in form of cash at bank ments for the notional and fair values of derivative financial accounts around the world. Despite the active cash manageinstruments (including electricity forwards). ment structures the Group has in place, some cash holdings Steel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement globally with several banks are needed to ensure the liquidity process. Price changes naturally affect the future procureof Group companies. Group Treasury follows closely the bank ment, but these changes can be taken into consideration in risk exposure in Group according to principles set in Treasury the price quotes to the end customers. Policy and takes necessary actions for reducing the risk. In large crane projects, the steel structures are sub-contracted and as a normal part of the sub-contracting process, Liquidity risks the steel is included in the price of the sub-contracting (i.e., Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or fundthe price is fixed with the sub-contractor). ing. Lack of funding might jeopardize normal business operaThe Group procures steel and steel components and thus tions and eventually might endanger the ability to fulfill daily has an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of steel payment obligations. can impact the profitability of customer projects or cause For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has estabinventory obsolescence. lished a EUR 200 million committed revolving credit facility with an international loan syndication (2010–2015). To Credit and counterparty risks cover the short-term funding needs, Konecranes Finance Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial Corporation can borrow from institutional investors through counterparty to meet its commercial payment obligations. To six domestic commercial paper programs (totaling EUR 480 limit this risk, the Group applies conservative credit policy million). In addition, business units around the world have towards customers. It is Konecranes practice to review cusoverdraft facilities totaling some EUR 100 million to cover the tomers carefully before entering formal business relationship day-to-day funding needs. and require Credit Reports from new customers. Customer It is the Group’s policy to keep minimum amount of cash Credit risks are mitigated with Advance Payments, Letters in the balance sheet as deposits or any other liquid assets of Credits, Payment Guarantees and Credit Insurance where to maximize the return of capital employed. Cash and cash applicable. With these actions and careful monitoring of equivalents totaled EUR 72.7 million at the end of 2011 the customer payments credit risks can be mitigated. Dur(EUR 98.5 in 2010). ing 2011 Konecranes has further developed Trade & Export See Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements Finance –department to support all business units with for the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. required expertise. The business units manage credit risks related to their Capital structure management commercial flows. There is currently no significant concentraThe primary objective of the Group’s capital structure mantion of credit risk regarding the commercial activities, as the agement is to ensure that it maintains a good credit risk stanumber of customers is high and their geographic distributus and a healthy capital ratio to support its business operation is wide. It is the Group’s policy not to fund its customers tions. At the same time, the Group also aims to maximize beyond regular payment terms. Please see Note 24 of the shareholder value by effective use of capital. Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of an aging The Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes it analysis of accounts receivable. The theoretical maximum to adjust to probable changes in economic conditions. These credit risk equals the carrying amount of receivables. There actions may include adjusting the dividend payment to shareare also some additional receivables, which relate to the perholders, buying back own shares or issuing new shares. centage of the completion revenue method used in long-term The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing projects, and these are partly covered by advance payments. ratio. This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabiliPlease see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements ties less liquid assets less loans receivable to total equity. for details. At the end of 2011, the gearing ratio was 50.1% (-3.8% in Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a 2010). financial institution to meet its payment obligations regarding The Group has no quantitative targets for the capital strucfinancial instruments. All credit risks related to other financial ture but the optimal long-term gearing ratio is in the range of instruments than the regular accounts receivable are man50–80%. However, in the short term, the gearing can also be aged by Konecranes Group Treasury. There is no concentrasignificantly higher or lower than this range. tion of credit risk regarding the financial instruments, since The Group decides on the split between long-term and investments are rare and hedging instruments are done with short-term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The folNotes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 79 lowing table shows the rough guidelines for the portion of ment as its primary business segments. The business areas long–term debt of total debt under different gearing ratio levare based on the Group’s managerial reporting and organizaels: tional structure. Konecranes Group’s highest operative decision maker is the President and CEO with the support of the Gearing ratio Portion of long–term Group Executive Board (GXB). level of total debt The assets and liabilities of the business areas include Under 50% Under 1/3 only items directly connected with the business as well as Between 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 the goodwill related to them. Unallocated items, including Over 80% Over 2/3 Group Headquarters, include tax and financial income and expenses, which are managed on group level, as well as items which can not be allocated to the business areas. The Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly As its secondary segments, Konecranes Group reports basis. During 2011 or 2010, no changes have been made three geographical areas, which are the main market areas: in the objectives, policies or processes. The objectives of the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), AME (Americas) and Group’s capital management have been met in recent years. APAC (Asia-Pacific). Sales are reported by the customer location and assets and capital expenditure by the location of the assets. 4. Segment information Intracorporate transfer prices are based primarily on the Konecranes changed its structure from the beginning of market prices. 2010 so that Business Areas Standard Lifiting and Heavy Lifting were merged into one Business Area; Equipment. Primary business segment reporting was also changed to match with this operational change. Thus from 2010 onwards Konecranes reports two Business Areas: Service and EquipAll figures are in millions of euros unless otherwise indicated. 4.1. Business segments Unallocated Elimina2011 Service Equipment items tions Total Orders received 694.6 1,291.5 -90.1 1,896.1 Order book 135.1 856.7 991.8 Sales to external customers 767.4 1,129.0 1,896.4 Inter-segment sales 28.7 72.4 -101.1 0.0 Total net sales 796.1 1,201.4 -101.1 1,896.4 EBITDA 63.3 104.8 -18.8 -1.2 148.1 EBITDA, % 8.0% 8.7% 7.8% Depreciation and amortization 11.7 25.0 0.3 37.1 Impairment of assets 2.2 2.0 4.2 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 55.7 81.7 -19.1 -1.2 117.2 % of net sales 7.0% 6.8% 6.2% Operating profit including restructuring costs 49.4 77.7 -19.1 -1.2 106.9 % of net sales 6.2% 6.5% 5.6% Assets 348.7 888.7 208.9 1,446.3 Liabilities 157.8 462.7 387.0 1,007.6 ROCE% 27.9% 23.2% 17.1% Capital expenditure 9.3 23.2 32.4 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 3.8 3.8 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 34.6 34.6 Personnel 5,980 5,621 50 11,651 80 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Unallocated Elimina2010 Service Equipment items tions Total Orders received 605.7 1,004.9 -74.6 1,536.0 Order book 103.3 652.9 756.2 Sales to external customers 668.0 878.3 1,546.3 Inter-segment sales 39.8 70.3 -110.1 0.0 Total net sales 707.8 948.6 -110.1 1,546.3 EBITDA 73.2 84.7 -14.1 -0.3 143.6 EBITDA, % 10.3% 8.9% 9.3% Depreciation and amortization 10.6 19.4 0.4 30.4 Impairment of assets 0.1 0.6 0.8 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 62.5 67.4 -14.5 -0.3 115.1 % of net sales 8.8% 7.1% 7.4% Operating profit including restructuring costs 62.5 64.7 -14.5 -0.3 112.4 % of net sales 8.8% 6.8% 7.3% Assets 310.2 647.0 218.3 1,175.5 Liabilities 146.9 403.9 168.4 719.2 ROCE% 42.5% 28.6% 24.2% Capital expenditure 11.3 11.0 22.3 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 2.5 2.5 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 31.9 31.9 Personnel 5,397 4,600 45 10,042 4.2. Geographical segments 2011 EMEA* AME APAC Total External sales* 950.9 549.1 396.4 1,896.4 Assets 787.2 351.0 306.9 1,445.2 Capital expenditure 22.1 3.1 7.2 32.4 Personnel 6,144 2,513 2,994 11,651 * External sales to Finland EUR 99.8 million 2010 EMEA* AME APAC Total External sales* 812.4 468.2 265.6 1,546.2 Assets 640.4 306.8 228.2 1,175.5 Capital expenditure 13.4 2.2 6.7 22.3 Personnel 5,751 2,259 2,032 10,042 * External sales to Finland EUR 88.9 million Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 81 5. Acquisitions Acquisitions in 2011 On October 11, 2010, Konecranes announced that it had The acquisition marks an important step in strengthening entered into an agreement to acquire the Indian crane comKonecranes’ position in the growing Indian crane market. The pany WMI Cranes Ltd. (“WMI”). Konecranes has received the acquisition has a neutral impact on the EPS in 2011. required regulatory approvals during first quarter of 2011 The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of and WMI has been consolidated into Konecranes’ financial the acquired business at the date of acquisition are sumreporting from February 1, 2011. marized below. Konecranes acquired WMI’s shares in two phases. In the During the fourth quarter a retrospective adjustment was first phase in February, Konecranes acquired 51 percent of made to the provisional carrying values of the acquired busithe shares in the company. In the second phase finalized ness in accordance with IFRS3. As a result of the adjustin August, Konecranes acquired the remaining 49 percent of ments, inventory value decreased with EUR 1.8 million and the shares. The total price for 100 percent of the shares in deferred tax assets increased with EUR 1.1 million and proWMI amounted to INR 3,438 million. In addition an equity visions with EUR 1.8 million. Comparing to the preliminary investment amounting to INR 140 million has been made purchase price allocations, the goodwill increased EUR 4.1 into WMI’s equity in accordance with the share purchase million and intangible assets decreased with EUR 2.3 million agreement. and deferred tax liabilities decreased with EUR 0.8 million. 2011 2011 2011 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 8.3 8.3 0.0 Technology 9.9 9.8 0.0 Other intangible assets 2.3 2.3 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 5.8 0.0 5.8 Inventories 10.1 0.6 9.6 Deferred tax assets 1.2 0.0 1.2 Account receivables and other assets 19.1 0.0 19.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 0.0 0.2 Total assets 56.9 21.0 35.9 Deferred tax liabilities 7.3 6.8 0.5 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 3.3 0.0 3.3 Account payables and other current liabilities 22.1 0.0 22.1 Total liabilities 32.7 6.8 25.9 Net assets 24.2 14.2 10.0 Purchase consideration transferred** 56.3 Goodwill 32.1 Cash outflow on acquisition** Purchase consideration, paid in cash 54.4 Transactions costs* 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -0.2 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 54.8 *Transaction costs of EUR 0.6 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. **Cash outflow on acquisition differs from purchase consideration due to the currency rate differences. 82 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In addition, Konecranes completed six other acquisitions durnorth of Barcelona, in Catalonia. The service business has ing January–December 2011. approximately 20 employees. In early January 2011 Konecranes acquired Gruas Koman At the end of June Konecranes acquired 100 percent of Limitada, the former licensee of Konecranes in Recoleta, the Saudi Arabian crane manufacturer Saudi Cranes & Steel Santiago, Chile. The acquisition also includes the Peruvian Works Factory Company Limited (“Saudi Cranes”). Saudi start-up subsidiary, Koman Gruas Peru S.R.L. The companies Cranes is headquartered in Al Jubail Industrial City and the specialize in providing advanced overhead lifting solutions company has approximately 100 employees. Saudi Cranes’ and maintenance services in Chile, Peru, and Bolivia. core business is designing, manufacturing and selling indusIn March 2011 Konecranes acquired the assets and trial cranes. The company previously had a license agreeoperations of lift truck service company Zeiss Staplerservice ment with Konecranes. GmbH, headquartered in Sommerein, Austria. The company During the third quarter 2011 Konecranes made no acquiis specialized in lift truck maintenance service, and the sales sitions, but in November 2011 Konecranes acquired ABB and rental of lift trucks. Schweiz AG’s crane systems business. The acquired entity, During June 2011 Konecranes finalized three acquisiwhich is based in Baden-Dättwil, Switzerland, has 30 employtions. At the beginning of the month Konecranes acquired the ees. The entity was originally established to serve ABB’s own assets of German machine tool service company Schneider crane systems. Werkzeugmaschinen GmbH in Heilbronn, Baden-WürtenThe fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of berg in south-west Germany. The company is specialized in these acquired businesses at the date of acquisitions are maintenance services of machine tools in the engineering summarized in the following table as consolidated figures, industry in western Germany. The company has 16 full time since none of them alone has relevance if treated as sepaemployees. rate entities. Later in June Konecranes made an acquisition of the service business assets of Spanish crane and service company Eleve S.L. The company is located in Badalona, 5 kilometers Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 83 2011 2011 2011 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 9.9 9.9 0.0 Technology 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 5.3 0.0 5.3 Inventories 7.3 0.6 6.7 Account receivables and other assets 5.3 0.0 5.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1.0 0.0 1.0 Total assets 28.8 10.5 18.3 Deferred tax liabilities 2.2 2.2 0.0 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 0.7 0.0 0.7 Account payables and other current liabilities 7.1 0.0 7.1 Total liabilities 10.1 2.2 7.9 Net assets 18.7 8.3 10.4 Purchase consideration transferred** 23.8 Goodwill 5.1 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration, paid in cash 20.4 Transactions costs* 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -1.0 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 20.0 Purchase consideration: Purchase consideration, paid in cash 20.4 Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 3.4 Contingent consideration liability 0.0 Total purchase consideration 23.8 *Transaction costs of EUR 0.6 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies includIn October 2010 Konecranes expanded in Africa by acquiring WMI Cranes Ltd. have contributed EUR 61.7 million of ing 100 percent of the shares in crane service and modsales and EUR -0.1 million EBIT. If the combinations had ernization company Techniplus S.A.R.L. in Morocco. This is taken place at the beginning of the year, Konecranes Group’s Konecranes’ first acquisition in North Africa. Techniplus has 2011 sales would have been EUR 1,910.8 million and EBIT 120 employees and net sales of EUR 7 million (2009). EUR 107.8 million. During October and November Konecranes increased its ownership in Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy from 16 percent to Acquisitions in 2010 93 percent. Company develops material handling solutions During January–December, Konecranes made altogether nine and employs 22 people. acquistions. Six of these were small acquisitions related to From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies machine tool service (MTS) business in Denmark, the United have contributed EUR 8.1 million of sales and EUR 0.2 milKingdom and the United States. lion EBIT. If the combinations had taken place at the beginIn July 2010 Konecranes acquired the service company ning of the year, Konecranes Group’s 2010 sales would have Bouyer Manutention (BM) based in Tours, France. BM has been EUR 1,556.8 million and EBIT EUR 112.6 million. 38 employees and net sales of approximately EUR 5 million The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of (2009). the acquired businesses at date of acquisitions are summarized in the following table. 84 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2010 2010 2010 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 6.2 6.2 0.0 Technology 3.3 -2.4 5.7 Other intangible assets 0.3 0.2 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.2 0.9 Inventories 0.8 0.2 0.6 Account receivables and other assets 4.6 0.0 4.5 Cash and cash equivalents 2.4 0.0 2.4 Total assets 18.7 4.5 14.2 Deferred tax liabilities 0.9 0.9 0.0 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 1.8 0.0 1.8 Account payables 3.4 0.0 3.4 Other liabilities 2.7 0.0 2.7 Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 0.0 Total liabilities 8.8 1.0 7.9 Net assets 9.9 3.5 6.4 Purchase consideration transferred 19.5 Goodwill 9.6 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration, paid in cash 13.2 Transactions costs* 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -2.4 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 11.3 Purchase consideration: Purchase consideration, paid in cash 13.2 Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 3.3 Contingent consideration liability 3.0 Total purchase consideration 19.5 *Transaction costs of EUR 0.4 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. Acquisition of associated company: Increase in ownership interest of a subsidiary: On March 23, 2010 Konecranes purchased 29,750 shares In June 04, 2010 Konecranes finalized the agreement (22.0% of the share capital and voting rights) in the Japato increase its ownership in Japanese company MHS nese hoist, crane and material handling equipment company ­Konecranes Co., Ltd. to 100% by acquiring the remaining Kito Corporation (“Kito”). The purchase price for the shares 35% stake from Meidensha Corporation. The purchase price in Kito was JPY 111,800 per share. The total value of the was recognized as decrease of non-controlling interest and stake purchased amounted to approximately JPY 3.3 billion retained earnings. (EUR 27 million). The purchase was financed with existing cash reserves. Divestments 2010 Furthermore, Kito repurchased 10.0% of the share capital During the fourth quarter of 2010 Konecranes sold the on March 24, 2010. Post the share purchase by Konecranes hoist distribution business of Japanese subsidiary MHS and the Kito share buyback, Konecranes has approximately ­Konecranes Co.,Ltd. to Kito Corporation. 24.4% of the voting rights in Kito. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 85 6. Distribution of sales 10. Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2011 2010 Sale of goods 1,331.7 1,017.9 10.1. Depreciation and amortization 2011 2010 Rendering of services 564.4 528.2 Intangible assets 18.6 13.4 Leasing of own products 0.1 0.0 Buildings 2.4 2.1 Royalties 0.1 0.3 Machinery and equipment 16.2 14.9 Total 1,896.4 1,546.3 Total 37.1 30.4 7. Percentage of completion method 10.2. Impairments 2011 2010 and advances received Machinery and equipment 0.0 0.6 7.1. Percentage Intangible rights 1.0 0.1 of completion method 2011 2010 Goodwill 3.2 0.0 The cumulative revenues of Total 4.2 0.8 non-delivered projects 255.9 145.9 Advance received from percentage of completion method 171.2 133.7 11. Other operating expenses Receivables from the revenue 2011 2010 recognition netted with the advances received 164.7 87.9 Change in work in progress -28.4 -18.4 Production for own use -1.8 -0.5 7.2. Advance Material and supplies 792.6 578.1 payments received 2011 2010 Subcontracting 154.9 120.2 Advance received from percentage Wages and salaries 424.8 371.3 of completion method (netted) 6.4 45.7 Pension costs 36.7 31.2 Other advance received from customers 167.7 108.3 Other personnel expenses 68.9 66.2 Total 174.1 154.0 Other operating expenses 304.7 258.2 Total 1,752.3 1,406.3 8. Other operating income Research and developments costs recognized as an expense 2011 2010 in other operating expenses amount to EUR 29.6 million in Profit of disposal of fixed assets 0.3 0.6 the year 2011 (EUR 21.5 million in 2010). Rental income 0.7 0.9 Indemnities 0.7 0.9 12. Personnel expenses Other 2.4 1.1 and number of personnel Total 4.1 3.6 12.1. Personnel expenses 2011 2010 9. Government grants Wages and salaries 424.8 371.3 Pension costs: Defined benefit plans 6.8 5.3 2011 2010 Pension costs: Investment grants in building, Defined contribution plans 29.9 25.8 machinery and employment grants 0.3 0.2 Other personnel expenses 68.9 66.2 Grants for research Total 530.3 468.7 and development 0.7 0.4 Total 1.1 0.5 12.2. Average personnel 2011 2010 The average number of personnel 10,998 9,739 Personnel 31 December, 11,651 10,042 of which in Finland 1,977 1,800 12.3. Personnel by Business Area at end of period 2011 2010 Service 5,980 5,397 Equipment 5,621 4,600 Group Staff 50 45 Total 11,651 10,042 86 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13. Management compensation Board of Directors The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved Approximately 40 percent of the annual remuneration will by the Annual General Meeting on proposal by the Nomination be paid in Konecranes’s shares purchased from the market. and Compensation Committee. The AGM 2011 confirmed an The remuneration may be paid also by transferring treasury annual fee of EUR 100,000 for the Chairman of the Board shares based on the authorization given to the Board of (2010: EUR 100,000), EUR 64,000 for the Vice Chairman of Directors by the General Meeting. In case the purchase of the Board (2010: EUR 64,000), and EUR 40,000 for other shares cannot be carried out due to reasons related to either Board members (2010: EUR 40,000). In addition, compenthe Company or the Board member, the annual remuneration sation of EUR 1,500 was approved for attendance at Board shall be paid entirely in cash. committee meetings (2010: EUR 1,500). Travel expenses will be compensated against receipt. 2011 2011 2010 2010 Total Number Total Number Total compensation compen­sation, of shares as part compen­sation, of shares as part to the Board of Directors EUR of com­pensation EUR of com­pensation Chairman of the Board 106,000 1,788 104,500 1,718 Board members 313,000 5,012 316,000 4,122 Total 419,000 6,800 420,500 5,840 President and CEO At the end of year 2011, Konecranes had a loan receivable The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the of EUR 217,197 from President & CEO Pekka Lundmark with President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and the interest rate of 2.039%. (EUR 211,736 with the interest relevant facts, the Board sets the total compensation packrate of 2.544% in 2010). The loan relates to a tax payment age for the President and CEO. resulting from the incentive scheme directed to the President & CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pending against the 2011 2010 imposed payment and the loan is effective until the appeal Salary and benefits, EUR 440,140 402,022 is concluded. Bonus, EUR 330,066 176,880 Total compensation, EUR 770,206 578,902 Group Executive Board & Extended Management Team Konecranes has a two-tiered management structure. The Shares owned (number of shares) 180,000 180,000 structure consists of the Group Executive Board and the Shareholding in Konecranes Plc through Extended Management Team. The Group Executive Board the Share Swap (number of shares)* 83,606 83,606 comprises President and CEO, and Chairman of the Group Total shares owned Executive Board; Executive Vice President and Head of (number of shares) 263,606 263,606 Business Area Service; Executive Vice President and Head of Business Area Equipment; Executive Vice President and Option rights owned Head of Market Operations; Chief Financial Officer; Chief (number of options) 174,000 194,000 Procurement Officer and Chief Technology Officer. Share-based payments costs In addition to the Group Executive Board members, the (options), EUR 446,848 424,136 members of the Extended Management Team include the Senior Vice Presidents of the regional organization (4 perRetirement age 60 years 60 years sons); Vice President, General Counsel; Vice President, Pension target level 60% 60% Human Recourses; Vice President, Marketing and CommuniPeriod of notice 6 months cations; and the Chief Information Officer. 18 months salary At the end of 2011, Extended Management Team conSeverance payment and fringe benefits sisted of totally 15 persons (15 persons at the end of 2010). The Nomination and Compensation Committee of the Board reviews Group compensation policies and issues guidelines Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 87 for the same. In accordance with these guidelines, the NomiThe new shares are subject to the transfer restriction nation and Compensation Committee confirms compensadetermined by the Board of Directors in May 2009 and expirtion packages for those Group Executive Board members who ing on 1 November 2012. report directly to the President and CEO. For other Extended The new shares have been registered on the subscriber’s Management Team members, the compensation packages book-entry accounts and entered into the Trade Register on are confirmed by the President and CEO. January 13, 2011 and are subject for public trading on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Oy from January 14, 2011. Extended Management Team There were no loans to the Extended Management Team excluding the President and CEO 2011 2010 (excluding the President and CEO) at end of the period 2011 and 2010. Salary and benefits, EUR 2,705,215 3,084,611 There are no guarantees on behalf of the Extended ManBonuses, EUR 667,241 396,534 agement Team in year 2011 and 2010. Total compensation, EUR 3,372,456 3,481,145 14. Financial income and expenses Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (number of shares) 258,948 256,218 14.1. Financial income 2011 2010 Shareholding in Konecranes Plc Dividend income on available-for-sale through the Share Swap investments 0.4 0.2 (number of shares)* 164,888 183,467 Interest income on bank Total Shareholding in Konecranes deposits and loans 4.1 3.6 Plc (number of shares) 423,836 439,685 Fair value gain on derivative financial instruments 0.9 1.4 Option rights owned Exchange rate gains on interest (number of options) 777,500 957,000 bearing assets and liabilities 5.6 5.2 Share-based payments costs, EUR 1,356,568 1,210,648 Other financial income 0.1 0.1 Total 10.9 10.5 * The Konecranes Group executives established a company 14.2. Financial expenses 2011 2010 named KCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Management Interest expenses on liabilities 10.8 6.1 Oy acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the marFair value loss on derivative ket. The acquisition was financed by capital investments by financial instruments 13.3 2.5 the executives, in the total approximate amount of EUR 1.3 Exchange rate loss on interest million, as well as by a loan in the approximate amount of bearing assets and liabilities 0.0 0.7 EUR 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR ManageOther financial expenses 1.7 4.8 ment Oy was owned by the executives who belonged to the Total 25.8 14.1 Group Extended Management Team upon the establishment of KCR Management Oy. According to the agreements governing KCR Management Financial income and expenses net -14.9 -3.6 Oy, KCR Management Oy had an obligation to repay the loan granted by Konecranes Plc prematurely in case the share price of Konecranes Plc other than temporarily exceeds The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used a certain level determined in the agreements. This condito hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects. The cash tion was met in December 2010. The Board of Directors of flow hedges of the expected future cash flows are assessed ­Konecranes Plc decided that the loan will be repaid through a to be highly effective and a net unrealized effect of EUR -2.9 share swap whereby Konecranes Plc acquires all the shares million (2010: EUR 0.5 million) with deferred taxes of EUR in KCR Management Oy. To implement the share swap, the 0.9 million (2010: EUR 0.2 million) relating to the hedging Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc decided on a directed instruments is included in the equity. The hedged operashare issue in which the Company offers, in derogation from tive cash flows are expected to occur during the next 3–18 the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights, a total of months. 281,007 new Konecranes shares to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy against share consideration (Share Swap). In the Share Swap, the shareholders of KCR Management Oy conveyed the KCR Management Oy shares they hold and received new Konecranes Plc shares in return. 88 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15. Income taxes 16. Earnings per share 15.1. Taxes in statement Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net of Income 2011 2010 income attributable to the shareholders of the parent comLocal income taxes of pany by the weighted average number of shares outstanding group companies 35.7 37.5 during the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by Taxes from previous years 0.9 -1.2 adjusting the weighted average number of shares with the Change in deferred taxes -5.7 -3.1 stock options outstanding per December 31. Total 30.8 33.1 2011 2010 15.2. Reconciliation of income Net profit attributable to shareholders before taxes with total of the parent company 65.5 79.4 income taxes 2011 2010 Weighted average number of shares Profit before taxes 95.8 111.3 outstanding (1,000 pcs) 58,982 58,922 Tax calculated at the domestic corporaEffect of issued share options tion tax rate of 26% (2010: 26%) 24.9 28.9 (1,000 pcs) 380 352 Effect of different tax rates of Diluted weighted average number of foreign subsidiaries 2.4 2.9 shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 59,362 59,274 Taxes from previous years 0.9 -1.2 Tax effect of non-deductible Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.11 1.35 expenses and tax-exempt income 1.7 1.2 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.10 1.34 Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses of the current year 3.8 4.5 Tax effect of utilization of previously 17. Goodwill and goodwill unrecognized tax losses -0.3 -0.4 impairment testing Tax effect of recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses* -6.6 -1.9 General principles Tax effect of recognizing the controlled The goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) temporary difference from investment being the lowest level of assets for which there are sepain subsidiaries** 3.2 0.0 rately identifiable cash flows. These CGUs are then aggreTax effect of tax rate change 0.0 -0.2 gated to the Business Unit (BU) level which is the lowest Other items 0.8 -0.7 operative management reporting level at which goodwill is Total 30.8 33.1 monitored and for which the impairment testing is primarily done. In 2010 the testing was primarily performed at CGUlevel as the management reporting, business responsibilities Effective tax rate % 32.2% 29.8% and follow up did not support the BU level. The recoverable amounts of the BUs and CGU are deter* The US operations have been able to fully utilize the carry mined based on value in use calculations (discounted cash forward losses during the last five years. Due to the past flow method). In those cases where a CGU forms a stand and estimated future result development Group decided to alone business where synergies with the rest of the respecincrease the valuation of deferred tax asset by calculating it tive BU activities are difficult to assess, the goodwill is tested from the next 10 years’ carry forward losses instead of previon the CGU level. The forecasting period of cash flows is ously used 3 years’ losses. five years and it is based on financial forecasts of each BU’s management, adjusted by Group management if needed. The ** Konecranes decided in 2011 to distribute dividends from forecasts have been made based on BU specific historical Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd and recognized the data, order book, the current market situation and industry withholding tax of 5% from company’s retained earnings as specific information of the future growth possibilities. The repatriating dividends is a change from a prior strategy. The calculated cash flows after the five-year forecasting period tax treaty withholding tax rate for dividend repatriation is 5% are based on a zero percent growth estimate on sales and but still a dispute with the Chinese tax administration exists operating margin. Calculations are prepared during the fourth whether higher regular withholding tax rate of 10% should be quarter of the year. used. The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the weighted average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based on Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 89 risk free long term government bond rates and market and Total Goodwill in Business industry specific risk premiums. These risk premiums are Segments after impairments 2011 2010 derived based on the business portfolio of companies which BU Industrial Cranes 45.1 15.0 operate in a similar industry as the BUs. The average disBU Lifttrucks 14.2 13.6 count rate used in 2011 is 11 percent (a weighted average of CGU STAHL Konecranes GmbH, a range from 9 to 30 percent). In 2010, the pre-tax discount Germany 20.4 20.4 rate used was 11 percent (a weighted country specific averCGU Konecranes Lifting Systems 5.7 7.7 age of a range from 9 to 29 percent). The business risk distriGoodwill in Equipment total 85.4 56.7 bution of the tested BUs were considered when determining the discount rates in use and the discount rates account for BU Port Service 13.2 13.8 the average cost of capital for all BUs. BU Crane Service 8.1 4.6 Goodwill allocation to main cash-generating BU Machine Tool Service 4.8 5.4 Units (CGUs), Business Units (BU) and CGU Suomen Teollisuusosa operations 3.9 3.9 business segments: Goodwill in Service total 30.0 27.7 The Group’s total goodwill is allocated to the Business Units (BU) as indicated in the table below. The table also shows Total Goodwill in Business separately the goodwill of those individual CGUs that repreSegments as of December 31 115.3 84.4 sent stand alone businesses and thus are extracted from BU level for goodwill impairment testing purposes (tested separately). As a result of the annual impairment test in 2010, no goodIn Group’s assets, there is also included EUR 10.4 milwill was written off. lion intangible assets with indefinite useful life arising from the acquisition of R. Stahl AG’s material handling division, Goodwill 2011 2010 which consists of the trademark of the brand name ‘Stahl’. Acquisition costs as of January 1 85.7 75.7 The carrying amount of this asset is tested on a yearly basis Increase 37.2 10.0 by using a similar kind of impairment testing method as the Translation difference -0.2 2.9 goodwill. Acquisition costs as of December 31 122.7 88.5 Accumulated impairments Sensitivity analyses as of January 1 -4.1 -4.1 In addition to impairment testing using the base case Impairments for the financial year -3.2 0.0 assumptions, three different sensitivity analyses were performed: Total as of December 31 115.3 84.4 • A discount rate analyses where the discount rate was increased by 5 percentage points • A Group management adjustment to the future profitability. Each BU and stand alone CGU cash flow was analyzed separately by the Group management. Based on the BU specific historical data and future growth prospects the cash flows were decreased by an average -11% (BU and CGU specific rage -5–20%) • A higher discount rate (+5%) analyses combined with lower (-5–20%) cash flows as mentioned above Goodwill testing results: As a result of the impairment test and sensitivity analyses in 2011 a EUR 2.0 million impairment need was identified for Konecranes Lifting Systems as the future discounted cash flows did not support the asset value tested. Due to restructuring and discontinuing parts of BU Machine Tool Service (MTS) business, a total of EUR 0.8 million of goodwill was written off from this BU. For BU Port Service the write off need due to same reasons as for BU MTS was EUR 0.4 million. In total the amount of goodwill impairments in 2011 was EUR 3.2 million. 90 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18. Other intangible assets 18.1. Patents and trademarks 2011 2010 18.3. Other intangible assets total 2011 2010 Acquisition costs as of January 1 28.8 27.1 Acquisition costs as of January 1 140.6 124.9 Company acquisitions 0.0 0.3 Increase 3.7 3.9 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.5 Decrease -3.2 -1.8 Translation difference 0.3 0.8 Company acquisitions 30.0 13.3 Acquisition costs as of December 31 29.1 28.8 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.7 Accumulated amortization Impairment -0.9 -0.1 as of January 1 -10.2 -8.7 Translation difference -0.1 -0.3 Amortization for financial year -1.4 -1.5 Acquisition costs as of December 31 170.1 140.6 Total as of December 31 17.4 18.6 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -73.1 -59.7 18.2. Other (including service Accumulated amortization relating contracts, software) 2011 2010 to disposals 3.1 0.8 Acquisition costs as of January 1 111.8 97.8 Amortization for financial year -18.6 -13.4 Increase 3.7 3.9 Total as of December 31 81.6 68.3 Decrease -3.2 -1.8 Company acquisitions 30.0 12.9 Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents Transfer within assets 0.0 0.2 and trademarks and software licenses. They are stated Impairment -0.9 -0.1 at cost and amortized on the straight-line basis over their Translation difference -0.4 -1.1 expected useful lives. The normal amortization period varies Acquisition costs as of December 31 141.0 111.8 from 4 to 20 years. Intangible assets having an indefinite Accumulated amortization useful life are tested for impairment annually. On December as of January 1 -62.9 -51.0 31, 2011, the intangible assets having indefinite useful life Accumulated amortization relating consisted of the Stahl trademark, totally EUR 10.4 million. to disposals 3.1 0.8 As there is no foreseeable limit on the period over which the Amortization for financial year -17.1 -11.9 asset is expected to generate net cash inflows for the entity, Total as of December 31 64.2 49.7 it is classified as intangible assets having indefinite useful life. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 91 19. Property, plant and equipment 19.1. Land 2011 2010 19.4. Property, plant and Acquisition costs as of January 1 2.6 2.5 equipment total 2011 2010 Increase 2.3 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 230.7 213.6 Company acquisitions 0.8 0.0 Increase 32.7 22.7 Translation difference 0.0 0.1 Decrease -10.5 -20.0 Total as of December 31 5.7 2.6 Company acquisitions 14.7 1.3 Transfer within assets -0.2 -0.1 Impairment 0.0 -0.7 19.2. Buildings 2011 2010 Translation difference -0.9 13.9 Acquisition costs as of January 1 35.0 29.6 Acquisition costs as of December 31 266.5 230.7 Increase 6.8 4.3 Accumulated depreciation Decrease -0.3 -0.8 as of January 1 -132.0 -131.6 Company acquisitions 6.6 0.0 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 9.5 17.2 Translation difference 1.3 1.8 Depreciation for financial year -18.6 -17.2 Acquisition costs as of December 31 49.4 35.0 Total as of December 31 125.4 99.1 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -5.2 -3.0 Accumulated depreciation 20. Investments accounted for relating to disposals 0.2 0.3 using the equity method Depreciation for financial year -2.4 -2.1 2011 2010 Total as of December 31 42.0 30.2 Acquisition costs as of January 1 31.9 4.5 Share of associated companies There were no buildings which belong to finance lease at the result after taxes* 3.8 2.5 end of year 2011 and 2010. Dividends received -1.2 -2.1 Acquisitions 0.0 27.0 19.3. Machinery and equipment 2011 2010 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 Acquisition costs as of January 1 193.1 181.5 Total as of December 31 34.6 31.9 Increase 23.5 18.3 * Including adjustments from purchase price allocation. Decrease -10.2 -19.2 Company acquisitions 7.4 1.3 Transfer within assets -0.2 -0.1 Impairment 0.0 -0.7 Translation difference -2.2 12.0 Acquisition costs as of December 31 211.3 193.1 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -126.9 -128.6 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 9.4 16.8 Depreciation for financial year -16.2 -15.1 Total as of December 31 77.7 66.3 The balance value of machinery and equipments which belong to finance lease is EUR 8.6 million in the year 2011 (EUR 8.6 million in 2010). 92 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method by companies Carrying amount of the Total asset Total liability 2011 investment value 1) value 1) Revenue 1) Profit/loss 1) Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 0.6 2.2 1.5 1.0 0.1 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 0.4 1.6 1.2 1.1 0.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 1.7 4.8 3.1 4.1 0.7 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.7 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 1.0 3.8 2.8 4.8 0.6 Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kito Corporation 29.4 69.1 32.1 67.1 0.8 Crane Industrial Services LLC 0.7 1.7 1.1 2.6 0.1 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 34.6 84.7 42.5 83.9 2.3 Carrying amount of the Total asset Total liability 2010 investment value 1) value 1) Revenue 1) Profit/loss 1) Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 0.5 2.0 1.4 1.0 0.0 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 0.3 1.1 0.7 0.9 0.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 1.0 3.2 2.4 4.4 0.4 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.8 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 0.8 3.5 2.1 4.2 0.5 Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kito Corporation 27.6 57.7 22.3 53.0 0.1 Crane Industrial Services LLC 0.9 1.4 0.6 2.8 0.4 Translation difference -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 31.9 70.5 30.2 69.5 1.4 The investment value of the shares in the associated companies consists of the Group’s proportion of the associated companies at the acquisition date, adjusted by any variation in the shareholders’ equity after the acquisition. See also the Company list for listing the ownership of the associated companies and joint venture. The market value of Kito Corporation shares owned by Konecranes as at December 31, 2011 amounted to EUR 17.4 million. Konecranes has made an impairment test on its shareholding of Kito corporation based on estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the associate and according to the calculation the recoverable value has been higher than the carrying value, as a result of which no impairment charges has been recognized. The low market value of Kito Corporation is due to the non liquid nature of the share in Tokyo Exchange. 1) Total asset and liability value, revenue and profit/loss represent the Group’s share of these investments according to the latest published financial information. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 93 21. Available-for-sale investments 2011 2010 Acquisition costs as of January 1 1.4 1.8 Transferred to subsidiary and associated company shares 0.0 -0.2 Transfer within assets 0.0 -0.2 Total as of December 31 1.4 1.4 Investments for available-for-sale investments consist of shares in unlisted companies and are measured at cost, because the range of reasonable fair value estimates is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed. See also Company list for detailed list of available-for-sale investments. 22. Inventories 2011 2010 Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods 132.5 105.5 Work in progress 176.8 139.0 Finished goods 20.2 15.0 Advance payments 17.8 10.3 Total 347.5 269.9 23. Valuation and qualifying accounts Balance at the Trans­ Utilized Provision Balance beginning lation during the not at the end 2011 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 15.8 0.2 4.7 2.8 5.5 14.0 Provision for obsolete inventory 19.4 0.3 2.0 1.1 3.4 20.0 Balance at the Trans­ Utilized Provision Balance beginning lation during the not at the end 2010 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 20.3 1.2 4.7 6.3 5.4 15.8 Provision for obsolete inventory 14.4 0.7 2.5 0.1 6.9 19.4 24. Ageing analysis of Accounts receivable are initially measured at cost (book accounts receivable values represent their fair values). Accounts receivable are subject to only minor credit risk concentrations due to the 2011 2010 Group’s extensive customer portfolio. Credit losses recogUndue accounts receivable 236.1 207.3 nized for the financial year totaled EUR 4.7 million (EUR 4.8 Accounts receivable million in 2010). 1–30 days overdue 71.4 51.9 Accounts receivable 25. Other receivables 31–60 days overdue 35.7 21.2 Accounts receivable 2011 2010 61–90 days overdue 27.7 15.9 Bills receivable 18.0 10.4 Accounts receivable more Value added tax 26.8 18.3 than 91 days overdue 35.0 19.4 Total 44.8 28.8 Total 405.9 315.8 94 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26. Deferred assets 27. Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 2011 2010 Interest 1.2 2.1 Cash in hand and at bank 58.0 75.4 Receivable arising from percentage Short-term deposits 14.7 23.0 of the completion method 66.4 55.3 Total 72.7 98.5 Prepaid expenses 12.6 9.8 Other 38.3 37.8 Short-term deposits are with a maturity of less than three Total 118.5 104.9 months. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value, which corresponds to their fair value. 28. Equity Number of Share Share Paid in 28.1. Shareholders’ equity shares capital premium capital As of January 1, 2010 58,812,624 30.1 39.3 9.0 Share subscriptions with options and transfer of own shares 147,040 0.0 0.0 1.4 As of December 31, 2010 58,959,664 30.1 39.3 10.5 Share subscriptions with options 958,300 0.0 0.0 24.6 Share issue due to the incentive arrangement for Konecranes Group executive management (KCR Management Oy) 281,007 0.0 0.0 8.6 Purchase of treasury shares -3,000,000 0.0 0.0 0.0 As of December 31, 2011 57,198,971 30.1 39.3 43.7 The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, 2011 2010 share premium account, share issue, fair value reserves, Number of Number of translation difference, paid in capital and retained earnings. 28.3. Treasury shares shares shares Konecranes’ share has no nominal value. The company has As of January 1 3,042,456 3,060,296 one series of shares. All issued shares are fully paid. The Decrease 0 -17,840 share premium account includes the value of shares, which Increase 3,000,000 0 exceeds the accounting par value of the shares, for shares Total as of December 31 6,042,456 3,042,456 issued before September 1, 2006. Fair value reserves include changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments used to hedge operational cash flows. Translation differProposal by the Board of Directors to authorize ences comprise the differences arising from the elimination the Board of Directors to decide on the of net investments in non-euro foreign subsidiaries. The paidrepurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge in capital includes the portion of shares’ subscription price, of the Company’s own shares: which is not recorded to share capital or according to IFRS The AGM on March 31, 2011 authorized the Board of Directo liabilities. The paid-in capital includes also other capital tors to decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance contributions to the Group, which are not recorded to some as pledge of the Company’s own shares as follows: other reserve within the equity. The paid-in capital includes The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or also the possible amount of share capital decrease, which is accepted as pledge shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in not netted against accumulated losses or is not distributed total, which corresponds to approximately 9.6% of all of the to shareholders. shares in the Company. However, the Company together with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or hold as 28.2. Distributable earnings pledge more than 10 per cent of all the shares in the ComSee page 120 / Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual pany. Only the unrestricted equity of the Company can be General Meeting. used to repurchase own shares on the basis of the authorization. Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in public trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a price formed on the market. Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 95 The Board of Directors decides how own shares will be 29. Option rights and other repurchased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be share-based payments repurchased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be The Annual General Meeting on March 6, 2007 approved the repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the shareholdBoard’s proposal that the key employees of the Konecranes ings of the shareholders (directed repurchase). Group are granted the maximum of 3 million option rights. Own shares can be repurchased to limit the dilutive The option rights entitle to an aggregate 3 million Company effects of share issues carried out in connection with possishares. ble acquisitions, to develop the Company’s capital structure, Option rights are divided into three series (2007A, 2007B to be transferred in connection with possible acquisitions, to and 2007C), whose subscription periods are staggered so pay remuneration to Board members or to be cancelled, prothat the share subscription period for the option rights of the vided that the repurchase is in the interest of the Company first series begins on May 2, 2009 and ends for the option and its shareholders. rights of the last series on April 30, 2013. The authorization is effective until the end of the next The subscription price of shares for all 2007 series is Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 30 at least EUR 25.72 which was the volume-weighted average September 2012. price of the Konecranes share in the Helsinki Stock Exchange between April 1–April 30, 2007. The Board may decide to Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide increase the subscription price of the shares from above for on the issuance of shares as well as on the option rights series 2007B and 2007C before such options issuance of special rights entitling to shares rights are allocated to the option right holders. For series The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the 2007B, the subscription price was the same EUR 25.72 issuance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights when series 2007B was granted to the key employees on entitling to shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the June 12, 2008. The series 2007C was not allocated during Finnish Companies Act as follows. the year 2009 and the allocation time expired 31.12.2009. The amount of shares to be issued based on this authoAt the end of 2011, altogether 953,000 shares (2010: 0 rization shall not exceed 9,000,000 shares, which correshares) had been subscribed for the stock options pursuant sponds to approximately 14.5 percent of all of the shares in to the 2007A and 5,300 shares (2010: 0 shares) for 2007B the Company. stock option plans. The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Koneissuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. cranes Plc has on March 12, 2009 accepted the issue of The issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to stock options to the key personnel of Konecranes Plc (Comshares may be carried out in deviation from the shareholdpany) and its subsidiaries. The maximum total number of ers’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). However, the authoristock options issued is 2,250,000, and they entitle their zation cannot be used for incentive arrangements. owners to subscribe for a maximum total of 2,250,000 The authorization is effective until the end of the next new shares in the Company or existing shares held by the Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 30 Company. The Board of Directors shall resolve whether September 2012. new shares in the Company or existing shares held by the Company are given to the subscriber. Of the stock options, Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize 750,000 are marked with the symbol 2009A, 750,000 are the Board of Directors to decide on the transfer marked with the symbol 2009B and 750,000 are marked of the company’s own shares: the with the symbol 2009C. The period for the option rights The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the of the first series begins on April 1, 2012 and ends for the transfer of the Company’s own shares as follows: option rights of the last series on April 30, 2016. The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 The share subscription price for stock options will be shares, which corresponds to approximately 9.6% of all of based on the prevailing market price of the Konecranes Plc the shares in the Company. share on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. in April 2009, April The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of 2010 and April 2011. the transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be Should the Company distribute dividends, from the share carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription price of the stock options, shall be deducted the rights (directed issue). The Board of Directors can also use amount of the dividend decided after the beginning of the this authorization to grant special rights concerning the Comperiod for determination of the share subscription price but pany’s own shares, referred to in Chapter 10 of the Combefore share subscription, as per the dividend record date. panies Act. However, the authorization cannot be used for The subscription prices were for series 2009A EUR 14.55 incentive arrangements. (after year 2009 and 2010 dividend distribution EUR 12.65), This authorization shall be effective until the next Annual for series 2009B EUR 23.79 (after year 2010 dividend distriGeneral Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than bution EUR 22.79) and for series 2009C EUR 31.37. until 30 September 2012. 96 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.1.Summary of the Konecranes Plc’ Option Plans Maximum number Maximum number of shares the stock of shares Share option plan entitles Subscription that still can be subscription Stock Option to subscribe for price/ share (EUR) subscribed period 2007B 1,000,000 25.72 935,700 2.5.2010–30.4.2012 2009A 750,000 12.65* 733,000 1.4.2012–30.4.2014 2009B 750,000 22.79** 744,000 1.4.2013–30.4.2015 2009C 750,000 31.37 731,500 1.4.2014–30.4.2016 Total 3,250,000 3,144,200 * The original subscription price was EUR 14.55 ** The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 29.2. Changes in the number of shares of option rights outstanding 2011 2010 Number of shares of option rights outstanding as of January 1 3,370,000 2,773,400 Granted during the year 787,000 776,000 Forfeited during the year -49,500 -47,000 Exercised during the year -958,300 -129,200 Expired during the year -5,000 -3,200 Total number of shares of option rights outstanding as of December 31 3,144,200 3,370,000 The total cost of the option programs for the financial year 2011 was 4.8 MEUR (2010: 3.6 MEUR). Option program costs are included in personnel expenses and credited to the shareholders’ equity. 29.3. Assumptions made in determining the fair value of stock options The fair values for the options have been determined using the Black & Scholes method. The fair values for stock options have been calculated on the basis of the following assumptions: Pekka Lund­mark’s incentive 2007B 2009A 2009B 2009C scheme 2007 Subscription price of the share, EUR 25.72 12.65* 22.79** 31.37 12.00 Fair market value of the share, EUR 26.47 17.65 24.22 32.30 24.74 Expected volatility, % 18% 25% 23% 20% 18% Risk-free interest rate, % 4.70% 3.27% 2.15% 2.82% 4.0% Expected contractual life in years 0.3 2.3 3.3 4.3 0.1 Grant date fair value of the stock options, EUR 3.63 6.52 6.19 8.17 11.31 The above calculations are based on the 4–6 year implied volatility of the Konecranes Plc share price estimated by a market participant who actively trades stock options. * The original subscription price was EUR 14.55 ** The original subscription price was EUR 23.79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 97 30. Interest-bearing liabilities 2011 2011 2010 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 30.1. Non-current amount value amount value Loans from financial institutions 106.6 106.6 7.5 7.5 Pension loans 15.1 15.1 18.9 18.9 Finance lease liabilities 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.3 Other long-term loans 1.9 1.9 1.2 1.2 Total 129.1 129.1 32.9 32.9 2011 2011 2010 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair 30.2. Current amount value amount value Loans from financial institutions 0.7 0.7 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 Finance lease liabilities 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.3 Commercial papers 144.7 144.7 26.0 26.0 Other short-term loans 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.7 Overdraft 11.2 11.2 16.4 16.4 Total 163.9 163.9 50.2 50.2 The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities portfolio on December 31, 2011 was 2.53% (2010: 3.81%) and that on current liabilities was 1.73% (2010: 3.19%). The effective interest rate for EUR-loans varied between 0.93%–6.68% (2010: 1.14%–6.95%). 30.3. Currency split and repricing schedule of outstanding debt without currency hedges 2011 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016EUR 280.9 2.1 years 1.23 2.8 154.4 9.1 6.6 6.1 104.7 CNY 0.6 2.0 years 7.65 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 INR 8.6 1.0 years 12.00 0.1 8.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 USD 1.8 2.0 years 3.46 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 GBP 0.3 2.0 years 6.68 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 PLN 0.1 1.0 years 6.00 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 SAR 0.7 1.0 years 9.00 0.0 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 SGD 0.1 1.9 years 1.97 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 ZAR 0.0 1.4 years 8.81 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 293.0 1.60 2.9 163.9 9.3 6.6 6.1 107.0 2010 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015EUR 72.0 2.1 years 3.34 0.7 46.5 9.0 4.5 4.2 7.9 CLP 0.4 1.0 years 6.17 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 CNY 0.2 0.3 years 5.35 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 USD 10.3 1.1 years 4.67 0.1 3.0 1.5 0.8 1.2 3.9 GBP 0.1 2.0 years 2.68 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 PLN 0.1 1.0 years 5.19 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 SGD 0.0 1.5 years 1.78 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 ZAR 0.0 1.5 years 7.42 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 83.1 3.53 0.8 50.2 10.6 5.2 5.4 11.8 1) Effect of one percent rise in market interest rates on the Group’s net interest expenses over the following 12 months. All other variables have been assumed constant. 98 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities 2011 Maturity of financial liabilities Amoun Debt type drawn 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 107.3 0.7 0.7 1.9 1.9 101.8 0.4 Finance lease liabilities 8.6 3.2 4.4 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.0 Commercial paper program 144.7 144.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 18.9 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 0.0 Other long-term debt 2.2 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.7 Overdraft 11.2 11.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 293.0 163.9 9.3 6.6 6.1 105.9 1.1 2010 Maturity of financial liabilities Amoun Debt type drawn 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 7.5 0.0 1.7 0.8 1.2 1.2 2.7 Finance lease liabilities 8.5 3.3 4.7 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 Commercial paper program 26.0 26.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 22.8 3.8 3.8 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.8 Other long-term debt 1.8 0.7 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 Overdraft 16.4 16.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 83.1 50.2 10.6 5.2 5.4 5.2 6.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 99 30.5. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities classified based on IAS 39 2011 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amorby balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets tized cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.2 0.2 0.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 37.2 Other financial assets 1.4 1.4 1.4 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 0.4 0.4 0.4 Account and other receivables 450.6 450.6 450.6 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 5.9 5.9 5.9 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 72.7 72.7 72.7 27 Total 6.3 523.9 1.4 531.2 531.2 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 129.1 129.1 129.1 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 2.3 37.2 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 163.9 163.9 163.9 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 6.0 6.0 6.0 37.2 Account and other payables 177.8 177.8 177.8 34.2 Total 8.3 470.8 476.8 476.8 2010 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amorby balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets tized cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.3 0.3 0.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 37.2 Other financial assets 1.4 1.4 1.4 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 1.8 1.8 1.8 Account and other receivables 344.5 344.5 344.5 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 8.6 8.6 8.6 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 98.5 98.5 98.5 27 Total 9.2 445.1 1.4 455.1 455.1 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 32.9 32.9 32.9 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 37.2 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 50.2 50.2 50.2 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 6.2 6.2 6.2 37.2 Account and other payables 140.3 140.3 140.3 34.2 Total 6.7 223.4 229.6 229.6 100 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31. Employee Benefits The Konecranes Group companies have various pension 31.3. Movements of the plans in accordance with local conditions and practices. The present value of defined benefit obligation 2011 2010 pension plans are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans. The Group has a significant Obligation as of January 1 101.7 88.3 defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom and GerTranslation difference 1.3 1.7 many. The Konecranes Group accounts for the Finnish sysBusiness combinations 1.0 0.0 tem under the Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) as a defined Reclassification of pension liabilities 1.2 0.8 contribution plan. Past service cost 0.6 0.4 31.1. Amounts recognized Settlements and curtailments -0.1 -0.9 in the balance sheet 2011 2010 Current service cost 2.5 1.9 Present value of obligation Interest cost 5.1 5.0 wholly unfunded 59.6 58.5 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) 0.1 9.6 Present value of obligation Benefits paid (-) -5.3 -5.0 wholly or partly funded 48.5 43.2 Obligation as of December 31 108.1 101.7 Defined benefit plan obligations 108.1 101.7 Fair value of plan assets -44.9 -39.1 31.4. Movements of the Deficit (+) / Surplus (-) 63.2 62.6 fair value of plan assets 2011 2010 Unrecognized net actuarial Fair value of plan assets gain (+)/loss (-) -4.5 -5.6 as of January 1 39.1 33.9 Total 58.7 57.0 Translation difference 1.2 1.1 Business combinations 0.5 0.0 31.2. Components of defined Expected return on plan assets 2.2 2.2 benefit plan recognized in statement of income 2011 2010 Employer contributions 2.4 2.6 Current service cost 2.5 1.9 Settlements and curtailments 0.6 -0.5 Interest cost 5.1 5.0 Actuarial gains (+) / losses (-) 0.8 2.0 Expected return on plan assets -2.2 -2.2 Benefits paid (-) -2.0 -2.1 Past service cost 0.6 0.4 Fair value of plan assets as of December 31 44.9 39.1 Settlements and curtailments 0.0 -0.4 Net actuarial gain (-)/loss (+) 31.5. Defined benefit plan: recognized in year 0.7 0.7 the main actuarial Total 6.8 5.3 assumptions 2011 2010 Discount rate % 3.10–8.75 3.10–8.25 Expected return on plan assets % 4.00–8.75 6.30–8.00 Future salary increase % 2.50–15.00 2.50–6.00 Future pension payment increase % 1.50–4.00 1.50–3.50 The expected return on plan assets was determined by considering the expected returns available on the assets. Expected returns on equities reflect long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets and the returns of bonds are based on the terms of agreement. 31.6. Amounts for the current and previous periods: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Defined benefit obligation 108.1 101.7 88.3 77.2 98.3 Fair value of plan assets -44.9 -39.1 -33.9 -27.9 -40.1 Surplus (-) /deficit (+) 63.2 62.6 54.4 49.3 58.2 Actuarial losses (-) / gains (+) on plan liabilities -0.1 -9.6 -7.2 7.5 -0.9 Actuarial losses (-) / gains (+) on plan assets 0.8 2.0 2.8 -5.5 0.0 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 101 32. Deferred tax assets and liabilities the carry-forward losses totally amounting to EUR 125.9 mil32.1. Deferred tax assets 2011 2010 lion (EUR 121.1 million in 2010). The carry-forward losses, Employee benefits 8.6 8.5 for which no deferred tax assets are recognized due to the Provisions 13.6 12.7 uncertainty of the utilization of the losses, amounted to EUR Unused tax losses 15.9 12.5 77.5 million in the year 2011 (EUR 83.7 million in 2010). Other temporary difference 9.9 7.0 The main portion of carry-forward losses relates to Morris Total 47.9 40.7 Material Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in 2006. The overall losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. amounted to 32.2. Deferred tax liabilities 2011 2010 EUR 55.4 million (EUR 62.9 million in 2010). The Group has recorded a deferred tax asset amounting to EUR 12.4 million Intangible and tangible assets 20.9 16.0 (EUR 9.7 million in 2010) based on the tax losses estimated Other temporary difference 5.7 2.1 to be utilized during the years 2012–2021 amounting to EUR Total 26.6 18.1 34.3 million. Since the result performance of US operations have been able to fully utilize the carry forward losses during Konecranes has not recognized the temporary differences the last five years Group decided to increase the valuation of in investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probdeferred tax asset by calculating it from the next ten years’ ably will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The biggest carry forward losses instead of previously used three years’ temporary difference for which no deferred tax liability has losses. For the amount of EUR 21.1 million tax loss carrybeen recognized relates to the distributable profits in Canaforwards deductible over the period 2022–2031 no deferred dian subsidiaries. The estimated withholding tax 5 per cent tax asset has been recognized due to uncertainties and limiamounts EUR 1.2 million. tations on deductible annual amounts. Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax assets 32.3. Tax losses carried forward on December 31 by the most significant countries as followAt the end of year 2011, Konecranes recorded a deferred ing: tax asset of EUR 15.9 million (EUR 12.5 million in 2010) on Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2011 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 55.4 20.5 8.1 12.4 Germany 7.7 1.9 1.9 0.0 The Netherlands 10.1 2.6 1.1 1.4 Austria 16.1 4.0 3.0 1.0 Spain 10.0 3.0 3.0 0.0 Italy 3.9 1.3 1.3 0.0 Finland 3.8 0.9 0.0 0.9 Japan 6.9 2.8 2.8 0.0 Other 11.9 6.6 6.5 0.1 Total 125.9 43.7 27.8 15.9 Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2010 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 62.9 23.9 14.0 9.7 Germany 8.9 2.3 2.3 0.0 The Netherlands 9.0 2.3 0.7 1.6 Austria 14.0 3.5 2.5 1.0 Spain 8.2 2.5 2.5 0.0 Italy 3.4 1.2 1.2 0.0 Finland 1.7 0.5 0.5 0.0 Other 13.0 4.5 4.3 0.2 Total 121.1 40.7 28.0 12.5 102 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33. Provisions Pension Restructurcommit2011 Warranty ing ments Other Total Total provisions as of January 1 24.7 7.4 4.4 13.6 50.1 Translation difference 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.7 Increase through business combination 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.9 Additional provision in the period 8.9 7.6 0.1 4.7 21.3 Utilization of provision 5.0 3.6 0.7 3.8 13.1 Unused amounts reversed 3.6 0.4 0.0 1.9 5.9 Total provisions as of December 31 25.5 11.3 3.9 13.4 54.1 Pension Restructurcommit2010 Warranty ing ments Other Total Total provisions as of January 1 26.1 16.7 3.9 14.4 61.1 Translation difference 0.6 0.1 0.3 0.7 1.7 Increase through business combination 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Additional provision in the period 9.4 3.4 0.7 5.6 19.0 Utilization of provision 8.0 11.6 0.4 5.1 25.2 Unused amounts reversed 3.5 1.1 0.0 2.0 6.6 Total provisions as of December 31 24.7 7.4 4.4 13.6 50.1 The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to 35. Lease liabilities the repair or replacement of products during their warranty period. The warranty liability is based on historical realized 35.1. Finance lease 2011 2010 warranty costs for deliveries of standard products and serMinimum lease payments vices. The usual warranty period is 12 months. For more within 1 year 3.3 2.9 complex contracts, mainly including long-term projects, the 1–5 years 6.0 5.9 warranty reserve is calculated contract by contract and the over 5 years 0.0 0.0 warranty could be up to two years. The restructuring proviTotal 9.3 8.8 sion is recognized when the Group has prepared a detailed reorganization plan and begun implementation of the plan or announced the matter. Pension commitments include proviPresent value of finance lease sions for local pension schemes. within 1 year 3.2 2.8 Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations 1–5 years 5.4 5.3 and loss contracts. over 5 years 0.0 0.0 Total 8.6 8.1 34. Current liabilities Konecranes Group has finance leases mainly for vehicles 34.1. Accruals 2011 2010 with an average of four years leasing time. Wages, salaries and 35.2. Operating leases 2011 2010 personnel expenses 70.6 62.6 Minimum lease payments Pension costs 5.0 3.8 within 1 year 31.2 30.3 Interest 1.7 1.0 1–5 years 60.9 56.8 Late cost reservations 85.7 83.9 over 5 years 9.6 12.9 Other items 46.7 26.3 Total 101.8 100.0 Total 209.7 177.6 34.2. Other current liabilities Operative rental expenses (non-interest bearing) 2011 2010 during the year 33.2 29.2 Bills payable 2.3 1.0 Value added tax 14.1 11.7 The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agreeOther short-term liabilities 9.1 10.5 ments of factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and Total 25.5 23.2 Hämeenlinna, Finland. They are valid for 10–12 years, unless Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 103 the lessee extends the lease period by five years. The lesContingent liabilities relating to litigation see is entitled to exercise the 5-year extending option three Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings pend consecutive times. The Group has various other operating against the Group in various countries. These actions, claims leases for office equipments, vehicles and premises with and other proceedings are typical of this industry and consisvarying terms and renewal rights. tent with a global business offering that encompasses a wide range of products and services. These matters involve con36. Contingent liabilities tractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including and pledged assets design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, vehicles and other matters 2011 2010 involving claims of general liability. For own commercial obligations While the final outcome of these matters cannot be preGuarantees 371.2 347.2 dicted with certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on Leasing liabilities 101.8 100.0 the information available to date and considering the grounds presented for such claims, the available insurance coverage Other 0.1 0.1 and the reserves made, that the outcome of such actions, Total 473.0 447.3 claims and other proceedings, if unfavorable, would not have a material, adverse impact on the financial condition of the Leasing contracts comply with normal practices in the counGroup. tries concerned. 37. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2011 2011 2010 2010 Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Fair value Foreign exchange forward contracts 479.0 -7.6 397.2 2.1 Currency options 15.0 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 70.0 -1.1 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 1.8 -0.2 2.4 0.4 Total 565.9 -9.0 399.6 2.5 Derivatives are used for hedging currency and interest rate risks as well as risk of price fluctuation of electricity. Company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used to hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects and to interest rates of certain long-term loans. IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive the fair value. This classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: • Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments • Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the financial instrument, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) • Level 3 inputs for the financial instrument that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) Classification of financial instruments within the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy: level 2 for all values as at 31 Dec 2011. 104 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37.1. Breakdown of nominal values of derivative financial instruments Hedging derivative Remaining maturities 2011 Remaining maturities 2010 financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 278.5 29.3 307.8 79.4 60.9 140.3 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 70.0 70.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 278.5 99.3 377.8 79.4 60.9 140.3 Non-hedging derivative Remaining maturities 2011 Remaining maturities 2010 financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 171.3 0.0 171.3 254.4 2.5 256.9 Currency options 15.0 0.0 15.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.8 1.0 1.8 1.2 1.3 2.4 Total 187.2 1.0 188.2 255.6 3.7 259.3 Derivative financial Remaining maturities 2011 Remaining maturities 2010 instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 449.8 29.3 479.0 333.9 63.3 397.2 Currency options 15.0 0.0 15.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 70.0 70.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.8 1.0 1.8 1.2 1.3 2.4 Total 465.7 100.2 565.9 335.0 64.6 399.6 37.2. Breakdown of fair values of derivative financial instruments 2011 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 5.0 0.4 -7.6 -1.2 -3.4 Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.9 -1.1 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 5.0 0.4 -7.8 -2.0 -4.5 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.9 0.0 -5.1 0.0 -4.2 Currency options 0.0 0.0 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity forward contracts 0.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.1 -0.2 Total 0.9 0.0 -5.3 -0.1 -4.4 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 5.9 0.4 -12.7 -1.2 -7.6 Currency options 0.0 0.0 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.9 -1.1 Electricity forward contracts 0.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.1 -0.2 Total 5.9 0.4 -13.2 -2.1 -9.0 Notes to the consolidated financial statements KONECRANES 2011 105 2010 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.9 0.3 -0.3 -0.1 0.9 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 0.9 0.3 -0.3 -0.1 0.9 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 7.0 0.0 -5.3 -0.4 1.2 Electricity forward contracts 0.7 0.2 -0.5 0.0 0.4 Total 7.7 0.2 -5.9 -0.5 1.6 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 7.9 0.3 -5.6 -0.5 2.1 Electricity forward contracts 0.7 0.2 -0.5 0.0 0.4 Total 8.6 0.5 -6.2 -0.5 2.5 38. Hedge reserve of cash flow hedges 39. Related party transactions The related parties of Konecranes are associated companies 2011 2010 and joint ventures, the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Balance as of January 1 0.5 2.3 Group Executive Board. Gains and losses deferred to equity (fair value reserve) -4.6 -2.4 Transactions with associated companies and joint ventures 2011 2010 Change in deferred taxes 1.1 0.6 Sales of goods and services Balance as of December 31 -2.9 0.5 with associated companies and joint ventures 10.9 8.5 The Group applies hedge accounting to certain large cranes Receivables from associated projects in which expected cash flows are highly probable companies and joint ventures 3.0 5.6 and to interest rates of certain long-term loans. Purchases of goods and services from associated companies and joint ventures 2.4 0.9 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 0.0 0.0 Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at the normal market price. Key management compensation The Board of Directors, the CEO and Extended Management Team. See Note 13. of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 106 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Konecranes Group 2007–2011 Business development 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Orders received MEUR 1,896.1 1,536.0 1,348.9 2,067.1 1,872.0 Order book MEUR 991.8 756.2 607.0 836.3 757.9 Net sales MEUR 1,896.4 1,546.3 1,671.3 2,102.5 1,749.7 of which outside Finland MEUR 1,796.6 1,457.4 1,575.1 1,979.6 1,652.2 Export from Finland MEUR 570.7 427.2 488.4 700.1 579.8 Personnel on average 10,998 9,739 9,811 9,222 8,005 Personnel on 31 December 11,651 10,042 9,782 9,904 8,404 Capital expenditure MEUR 32.4 22.3 25.7 22.3 25.2 as a percentage of net sales % 1.7% 1.4% 1.5% 1.1% 1.4% Research and development costs MEUR 29.6 21.5 22.0 19.0 16.2 as % of Group net sales % 1.6% 1.4% 1.3% 0.9% 0.9% Profitability Net sales MEUR 1,896.4 1,546.3 1,671.3 2,102.5 1,749.7 Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 106.9 112.4 97.9 248.7 192.3 as percentage of net sales % 5.6% 7.3% 5.9% 11.8% 11.0% Income before taxes MEUR 95.8 111.3 88.6 236.2 178.8 as percentage of net sales % 5.1% 7.2% 5.3% 11.2% 10.2% Net income (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 64.9 78.2 62.5 166.6 129.2 as percentage of net sales % 3.4% 5.1% 3.7% 7.9% 7.4% Key figures and balance sheet Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 438.8 456.2 407.1 400.7 280.8 Balance Sheet MEUR 1,446.3 1,175.5 1,060.4 1,205.4 956.9 Return on equity % 14.5 18.1 15.5 48.9 51.2 Return on capital employed % 17.1 24.2 19.3 56.3 50.4 Current ratio 1.3 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.3 Solidity % 34.5 44.7 45.1 39.9 36.1 Gearing % 50.1 -3.8 -19.1 2.8 7.0 Shares in figures Earnings per share, basic EUR 1.11 1.35 1.08 2.83 2.17 Earnings per share, diluted EUR 1.10 1.34 1.08 2.82 2.13 Equity per share EUR 7.57 7.64 6.84 6.75 4.80 Cash flow per share EUR -0.35 0.97 3.79 1.82 3.08 Dividend per share EUR 1.00* 1.00 0.90 0.90 0.80 Dividend / earnings % 90.1 74.1 83.3 31.8 36.9 Effective dividend yield % 6.9 3.2 4.7 7.5 3.4 Price / earnings 13.1 22.9 17.7 4.3 10.9 Trading low / high** EUR 13.18/34.17 19.08/32.04 10.61/22.04 9.90/32.50 20.68/34.90 Average share price** EUR 22.83 23.84 16.66 21.05 27.41 Share price on 31 December** EUR 14.54 30.89 19.08 12.08 23.58 Year-end market capitalization MEUR 831.7 1,821.3 1,122.1 713.6 1,379.6 Number traded** (1,000) 125,626 88,013 113,270 171,519 128,266 Stock turnover % 219.6 149.3 192.6 290.4 219.2 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 58,982 58,922 58,922 58,726 59,609 Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 59,362 59,274 59,086 58,987 60,507 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 57,199 58,960 58,813 59,070 58,506 * The Board’s proposal to the AGM ** Source: NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Konecranes Group 2007–2011 KONECRANES 2011 107 Calculation of key figures Net profit for the period Return on equity (%): X 100 Total equity (average during the period) Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost Return on capital employed (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts (average during the period) Current assets Current ratio: Current liabilities Shareholders’ equity Solidity (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Gearing (%): X 100 Total equity Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share: Average number of shares outstanding Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share, diluted: Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Equity per share: Number of shares outstanding Net cash flow from operating activities Cash flow per share: Average number of shares outstanding Dividend per share Effective dividend yield (%): X 100 Share price at the end of financial year Share price at the end of financial year Price per earnings: Earnings per share Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price at the end of year Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares 108 KONECRANES 2011 Calculation of key figures Company list Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Parent Book value company’s Group’s (1,000 EUR) of shares share % share % Finland: Konecranes Finance Oy 46,448 100 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 14,677 28 100 Subsidiaries owned by the group Book value Group’s of shares share % Australia: Konecranes Pty Ltd. 168 100 Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H 1,718 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 16,833 100 Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 0 100 Brazil: Konecranes Talhas, Pontes Rolantes e Serviços Ltda. 3,010 100 Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Hydramach ULC 0 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Cayman Islands: Morris Middle East Ltd. 0 100 Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 1 100 China: Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 1,948 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 3,825 100 Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co Ltd 1,868 100 Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co. Ltd 17,124 65 Stahl CraneSystems Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 183 100 SWF Krantechnik Co., Ltd. 602 100 Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 455 100 Denmark: Konecranes A/S 76 100 Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Finland: Konecranes Service Oy 2,615 100 Konecranes Software Products Oy 1,014 100 Konecranes YardIT Oy 4,935 100 Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 Permeco Oy 113 100 Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 5,365 100 France: Bouyer Manutention S.A. 1,516 100 CGP-Konecranes S.A. 1,212 100 KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 Konecranes (France) S.A. 0 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.A.S. 0 100 Verlinde S.A. 2,782 99.6 Germany: Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Konecranes Holding GmbH 15,262 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Stahl CraneSystems GmbH 30,776 100 Konecranes GmbH 4,300 100 SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 Greece: Konecranes Hellas Lifting Equipment and Services S.A. 60 100 Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 792 100 Konecranes Supply Hungary Kft. 1,406 100 India: Konecranes India Private Ltd. 927 100 Stahl CraneSystems (India) Pvt. Ltd. 54 100 WMI Konecranes India Ltd. 56,718 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 0 100 Company list KONECRANES 2011 109 Book value Group’s of shares share % Italy: Konecranes S.r.l. 4,390 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.r.l. 110 100 Japan: Konecranes Company Ltd. 5,141 100 Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 52 100 Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 714 100 Mexico: Konecranes Mexico SA de CV 2,185 100 Morocco: Techniplus S.A. 5,876 99.9 The Netherlands: Konecranes BV 18 100 Konecranes Holding BV 13,851 100 Norway: Konecranes A/S 8,584 100 Konecranes Norway Holding A/S 3,588 100 Peru: Konecranes Peru S.R.L 0 100 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z o.o. 810 100 Portugal: Ferrometal Lda. 1,556 100 Romania: Konecranes S.A. 98 100 Russia: ZAO Konecranes 161 100 Saudi Arabia Saudi Cranes & Steel Works Factory LLC 10,652 100 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte Ltd 49,117 100 Konecranes Pte Ltd 1,846 100 Morris Material Handling Pte Ltd. 260 100 Stahl CraneSystems Pte. Ltd. 0 100 Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 South Africa: Konecranes Pty Ltd 3,356 100 Spain: Konecranes Ausió S.L. 16,299 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.L. 0 100 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,534 100 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 26,073 100 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Switzerland: Konecranes AG 404 100 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd.* 100 49 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 53 100 Ukraine: JSC Craneservice Ukraine 0 100 Konecranes Ukraine JSC 2,048 100 ZAO Zaporozhje Kran Holding* 998 49 ZAO Zaporozhkij Zavod Tjazhelogo Kranostorenia* 546 49.23 United Arab Emirates: Stahl CraneSystems FZE 221 100 Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 United Kingdom: Axis Machine Tool Engineering Limited 0 100 Bond Engineering (Maintenance) Ltd. 0 100 Electron Services Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes Machine Tool Service Ltd. 2,922 100 K&B Machine Tool Services Ltd. 0 100 KCI Holding U.K. Ltd. 13,656 100 Konecranes (U.K.) Ltd. 7,985 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 6,419 100 Stahl CraneSystems Ltd. 0 100 U.S.A. KCI Holding USA, Inc. 53,901 100 Konecranes, Inc. 41,186 100 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 Merwin, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 55,211 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 6,337 100 Stahl CraneSystems Inc. 0 100 Vietnam: Konecranes Vietnam Co.,Ltd 194 100 * Konecranes Group has the majority representation on the entity’s board of directors and approves all major operational decisions and thereby Konecranes consolidates them in the Group’s financial statements. 110 KONECRANES 2011 Company list Investments accounted for using the equity method Assets Group’s value share % China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd 585 25 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 355 30 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 1,729 28 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 312 25 Levelec S.A. 219 20 Manulec S.A. 243 25 Manelec S.a.r.l. 73 25 Sere Maintenance S.A. 47 25 Japan: KITO Corporation 29,400 24.4 Saudi Arabia: Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 988 49 Thailand: Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0 49 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0 49 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 691 49 Available-for-sale investments Book value Group’s of shares share % Estonia: AS Konesko 498 19 Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5.26 Fimecc Oy 120 5.69 Levator Oy 34 19 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Societe d'entretrien et de transformation d'engins mecaniques 0 19 Indonesia: Pt Technocranes International Ltd. 3 15 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 12 10 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 4 10 Others: 263 Total: 1,382 Company list KONECRANES 2011 111 Parent company statement of income – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2011 1 Jan–31 Dec 2010 Note: 4 Sales 83,576 55,951 Other operating income 1,358 0 5 Depreciation and impairments -2,099 -1,872 6 Other operating expenses -76,801 -57,754 Operating profit 6,034 -3,676 7 Financial income and expenses 14,821 25,974 Income before extraordinary items 20,855 22,299 8 Extraordinary items 27,495 44,130 Income before appropriations and taxes 48,350 66,429 9 Income taxes -8,300 -10,057 Net income 40,050 56,372 112 KONECRANES 2011 Parent company statement of income – FAS Parent company cash flow – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2011 1 Jan–31 Dec 2010 Cash flow from operating activities Operating income 6,034 -3,676 Adjustments to operating profit Depreciation and impairments 2,099 1,872 Extraordinary income 44,130 47,980 Other adjustments -1,358 136 Operating income before changes in net working capital 50,905 46,312 Change in interest-free short-term receivables -13,243 -11,684 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 17,128 8,039 Change in net working capital 3,885 -3,645 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 54,790 42,667 Interest received 2,251 1,539 Interest paid 0 -230 Other financial income and expenses -80 -96 Income taxes paid -15,069 -8,087 Financing items and taxes -12,898 -6,874 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 41,892 35,793 Cash flow from investing activities Investments in other shares 0 -81 Capital expenditure to tangible assets -1,408 -206 Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets -29,289 -7,543 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 0 0 Dividends received 13,125 24,300 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -17,572 16,470 Cash flow before financing activities 24,320 52,263 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options excercised and share issues 24,498 1,247 Purchase of treasury shares -51,271 0 Repayments of long-term receivables 62,980 0 Dividends paid -60,553 -53,484 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -24,346 -52,237 Cash and cash equivalents from KCR Management Oy 211 0 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 185 26 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 27 1 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 212 27 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 185 26 Parent company cash flow – FAS KONECRANES 2011 113 Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Note: NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 10 Intangible rights 5,475 3,670 Advance payments 31,740 5,864 37,215 9,534 Tangible assets 11 Machinery and equipment 1,711 795 1,711 795 12 Investments Investments in Group companies 50,649 50,731 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 515 515 51,164 51,246 Total non-current assets 90,090 61,575 CURRENT ASSETS Long-term receivables Loans receivable from Group companies 82,696 152,646 82,696 152,646 Short-term receivables Accounts receivable 1,971 1,981 Amounts owed by Group companies Accounts receivable 24,529 15,765 Advance payments paid 0 160 Other receivable 0 4 14 Deferred assets 27,647 44,530 Other receivables 5,168 1,435 14 Deferred assets 6,943 3,529 66,257 67,403 Cash in hand and at banks 212 27 Total current assets 149,166 220,077 TOTAL ASSETS 239,257 281,651 114 KONECRANES 2011 Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Note: 15 EQUITY Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Share issue 0 149 Paid in capital 35,120 10,473 Retained earnings 60,013 123,868 Net income for the period 40,050 56,372 204,563 260,242 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Other long-term liabilities 78 0 78 0 Provisions 294 0 Current liabilities Accounts payable 5,209 4,521 Liabilities owed to Group companies Accounts payable 17,560 3,365 16 Accruals 1,214 191 Other short-term liabilities 502 414 16 Accruals 9,837 12,919 34,322 21,410 Total liabilities 34,694 21,410 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 239,257 281,651 Parent company balance sheet – FAS KONECRANES 2011 115 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 1. Accounting principles 6. Other operating expenses The financial statements of the company have been prepared and personnel in euro and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Finland. Costs and expenses in the Statement of Income were as follows: 2011 2010 2. Extraordinary items Wages and salaries 16.9 14.0 The extraordinary items in the financial statements include received group contributions. Pension costs 3.3 2.5 Other personnel expenses 0.8 0.7 3. Research and development costs Other operating expenses 55.8 40.6 Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Total 76.8 57.8 Wages and salaries in STATEMENT OF INCOME accordance with the Statement of Income 4. Sales Remuneration to Board 0.4 0.4 In the parent company the sales to subsidiaries totaled EUR Other wages and salaries 16.5 13.6 83.6 million (EUR 56.0 million in 2010) corresponding to a Total 16.9 14.0 share of 100% (100% in 2010) of net sales. 5. Depreciation and impairments The average number of personnel 251 190 2011 2010 Auditors fees Intangible rights 1.6 1.3 Audit 0.1 0.1 Machinery and equipment 0.5 0.6 Other services 0.2 0.3 Total 2.1 1.9 Total 0.4 0.4 116 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 7. Financial income and expenses BALANCE SHEET 2011 2010 10. Intangible rights Financial income from long-term investments: 2011 2010 Dividend income from group Acquisition costs as of January 1 12.6 11.4 companies 13.1 24.3 Increase 3.4 1.7 Dividend income total 13.1 24.3 Decrease 0.0 -0.5 Interest income from Acquisition costs as of December 31 16.0 12.6 long-term receivables: Accumulated depreciation 1 January -9.0 -8.2 From group companies 2.0 1.6 Accumulated depreciation Other interest income 0.0 0.0 relating to disposals 0.0 0.5 Interest income from long-term Accumulated depreciation -1.6 -1.3 receivables total 2.0 1.6 Total as of December 31 5.5 3.7 Financial income from long-term investments total 15.1 25.9 11. Machinery and equipment Interest and other financial income 0.0 0.2 2011 2010 Interest and other financial Acquisition costs as of January 1 4.8 4.8 income total 0.0 0.2 Increase 1.4 0.2 Interest expenses and other Decrease 0.0 -0.1 financial expenses: Acquisition costs as of December 31 6.2 4.8 Other financial expenses 0.4 0.1 Accumulated depreciation 1 January -4.0 -3.6 Interest expenses and other Accumulated depreciation financial expenses total 0.4 0.1 relating to disposals 0.0 0.1 Financial income and expenses total 14.8 26.0 Accumulated depreciation -0.5 -0.6 Total as of December 31 1.7 0.8 8. Extraordinary items 12. Investments 2011 2010 Group contributions received 2011 2010 from subsidiaries 27.5 44.1 Acquisition costs as of January 1 51.2 51.0 Total 27.5 44.1 Increase 0.0 0.3 Decrease 0.1 0.0 9. Income taxes Total as of December 31 51.2 51.2 2011 2010 Taxes on extraordinary items 11.5 11.5 2011 2010 Taxes on ordinary operations -2.7 -0.4 Investments in Book Book Taxes from previous years -0.5 -1.0 Group companies Domicile value value Total 8.3 10.1 Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.4 Konecranes Finland Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 KCR Management Oy Hyvinkää 0.0 0.1 Total 50.6 50.7 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 2011 2010 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 0.3 0.3 Pärjä Oy 0.0 0.0 East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 Fimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 Total 0.5 0.5 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement KONECRANES 2011 117 13. Treasury shares 2011 2010 The amount of shares to be issued based on this authorization shall not exceed 9,000,000 shares, which correNumber of shares as of January 1 2,524,760 2,542,600 sponds to approximately 14.5 percent of all of the shares in Increase 3,517,696 0 the Company. Decrease 0 -17,840 The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of the Number of shares issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares. as of December 31 6,042,456 2,524,760 The issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares may be carried out in deviation from the shareholdProposal by the Board of Directors to authorize ers’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). However, the authorithe Board of Directors to decide on the zation cannot be used for incentive arrangements. repurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge The authorization is effective until the end of the next of the Company’s own shares: Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 30 The AGM on March 31, 2011 authorized the Board of DirecSeptember 2012. tors to decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance as pledge of the Company’s own shares as follows: Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or the Board of Directors to decide on the transfer accepted as pledge shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares in of the company’s own shares: total, which corresponds to approximately 9.6% of all of the The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the shares in the Company. However, the Company together with transfer of the Company’s own shares as follows: its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or hold as The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 pledge more than 10 per cent of all the shares in the Comshares, which corresponds to approximately 9.6% of all of pany. Only the unrestricted equity of the Company can be the shares in the Company. used to repurchase own shares on the basis of the authoThe Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of rization. the transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in pubcarried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive lic trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a rights (directed issue). The Board of Directors can also use price formed on the market. this authorization to grant special rights concerning the ComThe Board of Directors decides how own shares will be pany’s own shares, referred to in Chapter 10 of the Comrepurchased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can be panies Act. However, the authorization cannot be used for repurchased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares can be incentive arrangements. repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the shareholdThis authorization shall be effective until the next Annual ings of the shareholders (directed repurchase). General Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than Own shares can be repurchased to limit the dilutive until 30 September 2012. effects of share issues carried out in connection with possible acquisitions, to develop the Company’s capital structure, to be transferred in connection with possible acquisitions, to 14. Deferred assets pay remuneration to Board members or to be cancelled, provided that the repurchase is in the interest of the Company 2011 2010 and its shareholders. Group contributions 27.5 44.1 The authorization is effective until the end of the next Payments which will be realized Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 30 during the next financial year 6.9 3.5 September 2012. Pension costs 0.0 0.1 Interest 0.2 0.4 Authorizing the Board of Directors to decide Total 34.6 48.1 on the issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of special rights entitling to shares The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the issuance of shares as well as the issuance of special rights entitling to shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the Finnish Companies Act as follows. 118 KONECRANES 2011 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 15. Equity 16. Accruals 2011 2010 2011 2010 Share capital as of January 1 30.1 30.1 Income taxes 0.0 3.9 New issue 0.0 0.0 Wages, salaries and personnel Share capital as of December 31 30.1 30.1 expenses 6.1 5.0 Interest 0.0 0.0 Share premium account 1 January 39.3 39.3 Other items 5.0 4.2 New issue 0.0 0.0 Total 11.1 13.1 Share premium account as of December 31 39.3 39.3 17. Contingent liabilities and pledged assets Share issue 1 January 0.1 0.0 2011 2010 Increase 24.5 1.2 Contingent liabilities Decrease -24.6 -1.1 For obligations of subsidiaries Share issue 31 December 0.0 0.1 Group guarantees 363.1 81.4 Other contingent and Paid in capital 1 January 10.5 9.0 financial liabilities Increase 24.6 1.4 Leasing liabilities Decrease 0.0 0.0 Next year 1.3 1.3 Paid in capital as of December 31 35.1 10.5 Later on 1.7 1.0 Retained earnings as of January 1 180.2 177.4 Leasing contracts are valid in principle three years and they have no terms of redemption. Dividend paid -60.6 -53.5 Decrease -59.7 0.0 Other liabilities 0.0 0.1 Retained earnings as of December 31 60.0 123.9 Total by category Net income for the period 40.1 56.4 Guarantees 363.1 81.4 Shareholders’ equity Other liabilities 3.0 2.4 as of December 31 204.6 260.2 Total 366.1 83.7 Distributable equity Paid in capital as of December 31 35.1 10.5 Retained earnings as of December 31 60.0 123.9 Net income for the period 40.1 56.4 Total 135.2 190.7 18. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2011 2011 2010 2010 Fair value Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Foreign exchange forward contracts -0.2 28.2 0.0 14.2 Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. Notes to the parent company’s financial statement KONECRANES 2011 119 Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR ing the amount of the dividend the Board of Directors has 135,183,409.18 of which the net income for the year is assessed the liquidity of the parent company and the eco40,050,228.07. nomic circumstances subsequent to the financial year-end. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 366,767,000. Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proAccording to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable poses to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR funds of the company are calculated based on the parent 1.00 will be paid on each share and that the remaining noncompany’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determinrestricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Helsinki, February 2, 2012 Stig Gustavson Svante Adde Kim Gran Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Tapani Järvinen Matti Kavetvuo Nina Kopola Board member Board member Board member Malin Persson Mikael Silvennoinen Pekka Lundmark Board member Board member President and CEO 120 KONECRANES 2011 Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting Auditor’s report To the Annual General Meeting entity’s preparation of financial statements and report of the of Konecranes Plc Board of Directors that give a true and fair view in order to We have audited the accounting records, the financial statedesign audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumments, the report of the Board of Directors, and the adminstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on istration of Konecranes Plc for the financial period 1.1.– the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit 31.12.2011. The financial statements comprise the conalso includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting solidated statement of financial position, income statement, policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estistatement of comprehensive income, statement of changes mates made by management, as well as evaluating the overin equity and statement of cash flows, and notes to the conall presentation of the financial statements and the report of solidated financial statements, as well as the parent compathe Board of Directors. ny’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is and notes to the financial statements. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Opinion on the consolidated The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responfinancial statements sible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a that give a true and fair view in accordance with International true and fair view of the financial position, financial perforFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, mance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with Interas well as for the preparation of financial statements and national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair the EU. view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of Opinion on the company’s financial the Board of Directors in Finland. The Board of Directors is statements and the report of the responsible for the appropriate arrangement of the control Board of Directors of the company’s accounts and finances, and the Managing In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of the Director shall see to it that the accounts of the company are Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the conin compliance with the law and that its financial affairs have solidated and the parent company’s financial performance been arranged in a reliable manner. and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements Auditor’s Responsibility and the report of the Board of Directors in Finland. The inforOur responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial mation in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent statements, on the consolidated financial statements and on with the information in the financial statements. the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requirements of Opinions based on assignment professional ethics. We conducted our audit in accordance of the Audit Committee with good auditing practice in Finland. Good auditing practice We support that the financial statements should be adopted. requires that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reaThe proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of sonable assurance about whether the financial statements the distributable equity shown in the balance sheet for the and the report of the Board of Directors are free from mateparent company is in compliance with the Limited Liability rial misstatement, and whether the members of the Board of Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board Directors of the parent company or the Managing Director are of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent comguilty of an act or negligence which may result in liability in pany should be discharged from liability for the financial damages towards the company or have violated the Limited period audited by us. Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. Helsinki, February 2, 2012 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial Ernst & Young Oy statements and the report of the Board of Directors. The proAuthorized Public Accountant Firm cedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessRoger Rejström ments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Authorized Public Accountant Auditor’s report KONECRANES 2011 121 Shares & shareholders Shares and share capital The traded volume of Konecranes’ shares totaled some As of December 31, 2011, Konecranes Plc’s fully paid125.6 million on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki, which represents up share capital entered in the Trade Register was EUR 220 percent of the Company’s total outstanding shares at 30,072,660, divided into 63,241,427 shares. Konecranes the end of 2011. In monetary terms, this was valued at EUR has one class of shares and each share entitles its holder 2,868 million. The daily average trading volume was 496,544 to one vote at the Annual General Meeting and an equal divishares, representing a daily average turnover of EUR 11.3 dend. Konecranes’ shares are registered in the Finnish bookmillion. In addition, approximately 95 million Konecranes’ entry system. shares were traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral On December 31, 2011, Konecranes Plc was in the postrading facilities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2011 according session of 6,042,456 own shares (3,042,456 in 2010), to Fidessa. which corresponds to 9.6 percent of the total number of Konecranes’ shares closed the year at EUR 14.54 (EUR shares having a market value of EUR 87.9 million on that 30.89 at year-end 2010) on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. The date. volume-weighted average trading price for the year was EUR Konecranes Plc repurchased 3,000,000 of its own shares 22.83. The highest quotation for the Konecranes share was in public trading on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki in the third quarEUR 34.17 in February and the lowest was EUR 13.18 in ter, which corresponds to 4.7 percent of the total number of November. shares. The consideration paid for the shares amounted to EUR 51.3 million, which reduced equity by the same amount. Board authorizations A total of 281,007 new shares subscribed in the The Annual General Meeting held on March 31, 2011 autho­Konecranes Plc’s share issue directed to the shareholders rized the Board of Directors to decide on the issuance of of KCR Management Oy, following the share swap announced shares and special rights entitling holders to shares. The on December 14, 2010, were entered into the Trade Register amount of shares to be issued based on this authorization on January 13, 2011. shall not exceed 9,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approximately 14.5 percent of all Company shares. The Market capitalization and share trading authorization is effective until the end of the next AGM, howAs of the end of 2011, the total market capitalization of ever no longer than until September 30, 2012. The Board of Konecranes Plc on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR 831.7 Directors did not use this authorization in 2011. million, excluding treasury shares (EUR 1,821 million at yearThe AGM also authorized the Board of Directors to decide end 2010). on the repurchase and/or the acceptance as a pledge of the Monthly PRICE AND volume on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 2007–2011 EUR Number of shares, million 35 25 30 20 25 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 Konecranes OMX Helsinki Industrials Index OMX Helsinki Cap Index Monthly trading volume 122 KONECRANES 2011 Shares & shareholders Changes in the share capital Change in number Total number Change in Share capital and the number of shares of shares of shares share capital EUR 1999 March 11, Conversion of share capital into EUR 15,000,000 30,000,000 2002 December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company and reduction of share capital -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 2005 New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A stock options 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A and pre-split 2003A stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 2006 March 17, 2006 Share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, post-split 2003A and 2003B series stock options 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 2007 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 2007 March–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 2008 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 2009 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B and 2003C stock options 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 2010 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 2011 January, share issue directed to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy 281,007 62,283,127 0 30,072,660 2011 February–May, new shares subscribed for with 2007A and 2007B stock options 958,300 63,241,427 0 30,072,660 Company’s shares. The amount of Company shares to be These authorizations are explained in more detail in the repurchased and/or accepted as a pledge shall not exceed release covering the resolutions of the 2011 AGM, which can 6,000,000 shares in total, which corresponds to approxibe consulted at the Company’s Web site at www.konecranes. mately 9.6 percent of all Company shares. However, the Comcom > Investors > Corporate governance > General meeting pany, together with its subsidiaries, may not own and/or hold > Materials and information on general meetings > 2011. as a pledge more than 10 percent of the Company’s shares at any one time. This authorization is effective until the end Flagging notifications and other of the next AGM, however no longer than until September 30, announcements by shareholders 2012. The Board of Directors decided to repurchase a maxiOn January 5, 2011, BlackRock, Inc. informed Konecranes mum amount of 3,000,000 of the Company’s own shares that its holding had exceeded 10 percent. BlackRock Inc. no earlier than August 16, 2011 and no later than March 1, held 6,441,109 shares in Konecranes Plc on January 4, cor2012. responding to 10.39 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and The AGM also authorized the Board of Directors to decide votes. on the transfer of Company shares. This authorization is limOn January 13, 2011, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed Koneited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which corresponds cranes that its holding had decreased below 10 percent. HTT to approximately 9.6 percent of all Company shares. This 2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,215,568 shares in Konecranes Plc authorization shall be effective until the next AGM, however on January 13, 2011, which is 9.98 percent of Konecranes no longer than until September 30, 2012. The Board of DirecPlc’s shares and votes. K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklövertors did not use this authorization in 2011. Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG, which will in practice Shares & shareholders KONECRANES 2011 123 cooperate with HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters concerning Plc has decreased below 5 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held their ownership in Konecranes Plc, held 6,347,968 shares 3,110,058 Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 11, 2011, on January 13, 2011, which is 10.19 percent of the shares which is 4.92 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. and votes in Konecranes Plc. On December 28, 2011, Konecranes received informaOn January 14, 2011, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed tion according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board Konecranes that its holding had exceeded 10 percent. HTT of Directors Stig Gustavson has donated all his shares in 2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,230,568 shares in Konecranes Plc ­Konecranes Plc to his near relatives, retaining himself the on January 14, 2011, which is 10.00 percent of Konecranes voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated Plc’s shares and votes. K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklövershares. The donation encompasses in total 2,069,778 Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG, which will in practice shares, which corresponds to approximately 3.27 percent of cooperate with HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters concerning the all company’s shares and voting rights. their ownership in Konecranes Plc, held 6,362,968 shares on January 14, 2011, which is 10.22 percent of the shares Stock option plans and votes in Konecranes Plc. Konecranes has two ongoing stock option plans (2007 and On March 4, 2011, Konecranes received a disclosure to 2009) for its key employees, including top and middle manthe effect that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes agement, and employees in certain expert positions. Under Plc had decreased below 10 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held these plans, 958,300 new shares were subscribed for and 6,121,545 Konecranes Plc’s shares on March 3, 2011, registered in the Finnish Trade Register during 2011. which is 9.83 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. As of the end of 2011, the stock options issued under On March 8, 2011, Konecranes received a disclosure to Konecranes Plc’s ongoing stock option plans entitle option the effect that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes holders to subscribe for a total of 3,144,200 shares, which Plc had exceeded 10 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held 6,362,798 would increase the total number of Konecranes Plc’s shares, Konecranes Plc’s shares on March 7, 2011, which is 10.21 including treasury shares, to 66,385,627. The option propercent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. grams include approximately 220 key personnel. On March 9, 2011, Konecranes received a disclosure to For a more detailed description of the option plans, see the effect that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes Note 29 on Page 96 of the Financial Statements. The terms Plc had decreased below 10 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held and conditions of the stock option plans can also be con6,093,644 Konecranes Plc’s shares on March 8, 2011, sulted at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share informawhich is 9.78 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. tion > Stock option plans. On August 18, 2011, Konecranes disclosed that its total holding of Konecranes Plc had exceeded 5 percent as a result Shareholders of the repurchase of the company’s own shares. ­Konecranes Konecranes had 18,767 shareholders on December 31, Plc was in the possession of 2,683,000 of its own shares 2011, compared to 12,264 at the end of 2010. 29.2 percent directly and 517,696 own shares indirectly through KCR of the Company’s shares were nominee-registered compared Management Oy on August 17, 2011, which is 5.06 percent to 44.8 percent at the end of 2010. of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. More information on the breakdown of share ownership On August 23, 2011, Konecranes disclosed that its and Board and Management interests can be found in the direct holding of Konecranes Plc had exceeded 5 percent Shares and Shareholders section on Page 125 of the Finanas a result of the repurchase of the company’s own shares. cial Statements. ­Konecranes Plc was directly in the possession of 3,196,813 of its own shares on August 22, 2011, which is 5.05 perShare trading information cent of ­Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. In addition, Date of listing on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki: March 27, 1996 Konecranes Plc was in the possession of 517,696 of its own Segment: Large Cap shares indirectly through KCR Management Oy on August 22, ICB classification: Industrials, Industrial Goods & Services, 2011, which is 0.82 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and Industrial Engineering, Commercial Vehicles & Trucks 2753 votes. ISIN code: FI0009005870 On September 29, 2011, Konecranes received a disTrading code: KCR1V closure to the effect that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Reuters ticker: KCR1V.HE ­Konecranes Plc has decreased below 5 percent. BlackRock, Bloomberg ticker: KCR1V FH Inc. held 3,135,985 Konecranes Plc’s shares on September 28, 2011, which is 4.96 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. On October 5, 2011, Konecranes received a disclosure to the effect that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes Plc has exceeded 5 percent. BlackRock, Inc. held 3,172,115 Konecranes Plc’s shares on October 4, 2011, which is 5.02 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. On October 12, 2011, Konecranes received a disclosure to the effect that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in ­Konecranes 124 KONECRANES 2011 Shares & shareholders Shares and shareholders According to the register of Konecranes Plc’s shareholders kept by Euroclear Finland Oy, there were 18,767 (2010: 12,264) shareholders at the end of the 2011. Largest shareholders according to the share register on December 31, 2011 Number of shares % of shares and votes 1 HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab 6,870,568 10.9% 2 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,940,275 4.6% 3 Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board of Konecranes, and family* 2,069,778 3.3% 4 Nordea Investment Management 2,050,150 3.2% 5 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,366,590 2.2% 6 The State Pension Fund 917,000 1.4% 7 Mandatum Life Insurance Company Ltd. 792,522 1.3% 8 Nordstjernan AB 709,356 1.1% 9 Fondita Funds 700,000 1.1% 10 Sigrid Juselius Foundation 638,500 1.0% Ten largest registered owners' total holding 19,054,739 30.1% Nominee registered shares 18,458,757 29.2% Other shareholders 19,685,475 31.1% Shares held by Konecranes Plc 6,042,456 9.6% Total 63,241,427 100.0% Shares and options owned by the members of the Board and Change in Option of Directors and of the Extended Change in Number option ownership Management Team on December shareholding of shares % of shares holdings in December % of shares 31, 2011 in 2011 owned and votes 2011** 31, 2011** and votes Board of Directors* -2,044,439 25,335 0.0% 0 0 0.0% Extended Management Team -15,849 687,442 1.1% -199,500 951,500 1.5% Total -2,060,288 712,777 1.1% -199,500 951,500 1.5% * Konecranes Plc has on December 28, 2011 received information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors Stig Gustavson has donated all of his shares in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompasses in total 2,069,778 shares which corresponds to approximately 3.27 percent of all of the company’s shares and voting rights. ** Option holdings are reported as the number of shares that they entitle to subscribe for. Breakdown of share ownership Breakdown of share ownership by the number of shares by shareholder category on owned on December 31, 2011 December 31, 2011 Number of % of Total number of % of shares % of shares and votes Shares shareholders shareholders shares and votes and votes Finnish companies 24.9% 1–100 6,720 35.8% 408,898 0.9% Finnish financial institutions 9.7% 101–1,000 9,992 53.3% 3,759,070 8.4% Finnish public institutions 9.4% 1,001–10,000 1,792 9.6% 4,908,487 11.0% Finnish non-profit institutions 6.4% 10,001–100,000 204 1.1% 5,941,894 13.3% Finnish private investors 17.7% 100,001–1,000,000 39 0.2% 10,992,350 24.5% Nominee registered shares 29.2% Over 1,000,001 6 0.0% 18,771,971 41.9% Non-Finnish holders 2.7% Registered Total 100.0% shareholders total 18,753 100.0% 44,782,670 100.0% Nominee registered 14 18,458,757 Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 30, Number of shares 2011. issued 18,767 63,241,427 Shares & shareholders KONECRANES 2011 125 Investor information Investor Relations IR principles Equity research The main objective of Konecranes’ Investor Relations DepartThe following banks, investment banks, and equity research ment is to assist in the correct valuation of the Company’s providers cover Konecranes: share by providing capital markets with information regarding Konecranes’ operations and financial position. Konecranes ABG Sundal Collier pursues an open, reliable, and up-to-date disclosure policy, CA Cheuvreux aimed at giving all market participants access to correct and Carnegie Investment Bank consistent information regularly and equitably. Danske Markets Konecranes’ Investor Relations Department is responDeutsche Bank sible for investor communications and daily contacts. The DnBNOR President and CEO, together with the Chief Financial OffiEvli Bank cer, participate in IR activities and are regularly available for E. Öhman J:or Securities meetings with capital market representatives. FIM Goldman Sachs Silent period Handelsbanken Capital Markets Konecranes observes a silent period prior to the publication Inderes of its financial statements and interim reports starting at the Nordea Bank end of the quarter in question. During this time, Company Pohjola Bank representatives do not comment on Konecranes’ financial SEB Enskilda position. Swedbank Markets UBS Investor relations in 2011 Konecranes participated in nine investor seminars and held Konecranes takes no responsibility for the opinions 20 roadshow days. All in all, we took part in approximately expressed by analysts. More information on Konecranes as 230 investor meetings in 2011 in Amsterdam, Boston, Brusan investment can be found at www.konecranes.com > Invessels, Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Florida, Frankfurt, Geneva, tors. Helsinki, London, Milan, Munich, New York, Oslo, Paris, San Francisco, Stockholm, Toronto, Vienna, and Zurich. Investor contacts Miikka Kinnunen, Director, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2050 E-mail: miikka.kinnunen@konecranes.com Anna-Mari Kautto, Assistant, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2960 E-mail: anna-mari.kautto@konecranes.com 126 KONECRANES 2011 Investor information Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting Financial reports in 2012 Konecranes’ next Annual General Meeting will be held Financial Statements for 2011: February 2, 2012 on Thursday, March 22, 2012 at 10 a.m. at Hyvinkääsali, Interim report, January–March:April 25, 2012 Jussinkuja 1, 05800 Hyvinkää, Finland. Interim report, January–June: July 25, 2012 Shareholders registered no later than March 12, 2012 in Interim report, January–September:October 24, 2012 the Company’s list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. are entitled to attend the AGM. Konecranes’ annual and interim reports are published in EngHolders of nominee-registered shares intending to particilish, Finnish, and Swedish. The Annual Report is available pate in the AGM shall notify their custodian well in advance in pdf format on the Company Web site and in print form. of their intention and comply with the instructions provided Copies are mailed to shareholders on request; orders can be by the custodian. placed through the Company Web site. A shareholder wishing to participate in the AGM must All press and stock exchange releases can be consulted notify the Company (Ms. Laura Kiiski) of his/her participation at the Company’s Web site (www.konecranes.com) and can no later than March 19, 2012: be received by e-mail by subscribing at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Releases > Order releases. The Annual Report Internet: www.konecranes.com/agm2012 can also be ordered from: E-mail: agm2012@konecranes.com Fax: +358 20 427 2105 (from abroad) Konecranes Plc or 020 427 2105 (Finland) Investor Relations Phone: +358 20 427 2017 (from abroad) or P.O. Box 661 020 427 2017 (Finland) FI-05801 Hyvinkää Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, P.O. Box 661, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Phone: +358 20 427 2960 Fax: +358 20 427 2089 Shareholders are requested to inform the Company of any Web: www.konecranes.com > Investors > Reports and result proxies for the AGM in connection with their registration. A presentations > Order annual report sample proxy can be found at the Company’s Web site. Shareholder register Payment of dividend Konecranes shares are covered by the Finnish Book Entry The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Securities System. Shareholders should notify the relevant Meeting of Shareholders that a dividend of EUR 1.00 should holder of their book entry account about changes in address be paid for 2011. The dividend will be paid to shareholders or account numbers for the payment of dividends and other who are registered on the record date as shareholders in the matters related to their holdings. Company’s shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. Record date:March 27, 2012 Date of dividend payment:April 4, 2012 Important dates Record date of the AGM:March 12, 2012 Registration for the AGM closes:March 19, 2012 The AGM:March 22, 2012 Dividend ex-date:March 23, 2012 Dividend record date:March 27, 2012 Dividend payment date:April 4, 2012 Investor information KONECRANES 2011 127 Contact details Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment and machine tools of all makes. In 2011, Group sales totaled EUR 1,896 million. The Group has 11,700 employees at 609 locations in 47 countries. Konecranes is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (symbol: KCR1V). Corporate HQ Main production sites Sales and service locations 128 KONECRANES 2011 Contact details Corporate Headquarters Konecranes Plc P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 2099 Global Business Area Headquarters Service Equipment Konecranes Service Corporation Konecranes Finland Corporation P.O. Box 135 (Koneenkatu 8) P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +358 20 427 11 Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 4099 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Regional Headquarters Americas Nordic, Eastern Europe and India Konecranes, Inc. Konecranes Region NEI 4401 Gateway Blvd. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Springfield, OH 45502, USA FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Tel +1 937 525 5533 Tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +1 937 322 2832 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Western Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Konecranes Region WEMEA Konecranes (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Building 4, No. 100, Lane 2891, South Qilianshan Road FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Shanghai, 200331, China Tel +358 20 427 11 Tel: +86 21 2606 1000 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Fax:+86 21 2606 1066 Corporate responsibility For corporate responsibility matters please contact corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com This publication is for general informational purposes only. Konecranes reserves the right at any time, without notice, to alter or discontinue the products and/or specifications referenced herein. This publication creates no warranty on the part of Konecranes, express or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranty or merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. © 2012 Konecranes. All rights reserved. www.konecranes.com
