GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company Name Pfizer Corporation Austria Address Floridsdorfer Hauptstrasse 1, 1210 Vienna Country Austria Membership date 2009/04/14 Number of employees 225 Contact name Robin Rumler Contact Position CEO Sector Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Date 2012/08/08 Brief description of nature of business Pfizer Corporation Austria is the Austrian branch of Pfizer Inc., the world’s leading supplier of innovative medicines in the field of human and animal medicine. The Pfizer branch in Vienna was opened in 1956. Pfizer Austria has been able to steadily expand its market position in recent years and, since 2003, has occupied a leading position in the prescription pharmacy market. More than 100 Pfizer products are available on the Austrian market. In January 2009 Robin Rumler took over the management of Pfizer Austria. He is also Director of the Business Unit Primary Care. There are currently some 225 employees working for Pfizer Austria. Since the beginning of 2005, Pfizer Austria has been domiciled at Floridotower, in the 21st district of Vienna. Communication on Progress 2010/11 Pfizer Corporation Austria Statement of support Ladies and Gentlemen, I’m very pleased that you have received our second sustainability report and I’m very proud of the fact that you show such an interest in our sustainability efforts and progress activities. This report is strictly governed by the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and will for the first time allow for a comparison between the business years 2009 and 2010/2011. In this way, changes and ongoing developments at Pfizer Austria will become more transparent for you and you will be given a more conspicuous overview. In addition, this report also includes the so-called Communication on Progress of the UN Global Compact the principles of which Pfizer Austria is committed to follow. In our first sustainability report we already presented our ambitious objectives and goals for the future. We are very proud that many of these goals could already be achieved and first success has become apparent. It is especially in the field of our environment that our “Pfizer goes Green” initiative helped us to implement many minor, but also some major measures and to reduce our “ecological footprint”. Our longstanding corporate employee program, the so-called Corporate Volunteering Days with Pfizer employees volunteering for work in a social institution continues to be a full and major success for all those involved. Moreover, our company has also been honored with the full certificate “beruf und familie” (“job and family”) by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Families and Young People for its particular awareness of family issues in professional life. The complete pharmaceutical industry, and consequently also Pfizer, has been subject to continual and challenging changes and developments. With the integration of the Wyeth in the year 2009 – having been completed in Austria in 2010 – Pfizer has become one of the leading competitors in the field of biologicals and vaccines. This merger has also expanded our product portfolio with OTC products and food supplements such a vitamin preparations. Since fall 2011 Pfizer Austria has also started offering generic products. Thus, Pfizer has taken a more diversified market position than ever before and can offer optimized solutions for patients during all ages of life. However, one thing that has not changed is our commitment and engagement in following our corporate mission “Working together for a healthier world”. This tradition as “good corporate citizen” also implies that we are committed to our local health programs and social initiatives to provide help and support where such support and help is needed. We are convinced that such social commitment of enterprises will create a win-win situation with all those involved deriving a benefit – including our partners and society as a whole, but ultimately also the company itself. For Pfizer Austria, the relationship with important stakeholders is the foundation for committed economic action and for continued development of activities serving sustainability. This sustainability report is to communicate our values and activities but also give a clear picture of things achieved and challenges and open items for the future in truthful honesty and openness. Achieving mutual trust and transparency is our ultimate goal – serving as a basis for the dialog with our stakeholders. As a subsidiary of an enterprise with worldwide operation we will also be dependent on international decision-makers and processes. All the more so, it is our intention to take active responsibility in our immediate environment and field of activities – with the active support of our employees. And we have done so already. Thus, I’m very proud being able to present to you examples of our commitment and would like to thank all those who helped and supported in preparing this report. Yours Dr. Robin Rumler Executive Director Pfizer Austria Vienna, 2012 Communication on Progress 2010/11 Pfizer Corporation Austria What we achieved in 2010/2011 and targets set for 2012/2013 Pfizer Austria has set itself quite some targets – and has already achieved many of these – to increase our sustainability in various fields. Because a lot of action has been taken since our last sustainability report which had also been our first one. implemented partly implemented not done planned Anticorruption & Transparency Targets to date Measure Status > Transparency > Publication of any support and donations > partly implemented >>Since 2010 and 2011 any payments & donations to self-help groups have been regularly published on the Pfizer website www.pfizer.at Targets for 2012/13 Measure Status > Pfizer Blue Book > The Pfizer Blue Book –– the internal code of business > planned for 2012 conduct for Pfizer employees – will be updated and published globally > Compliance > The role of a separate Corporate Governance Officer > planned for 2012 for Austria shall be created Employees Targets to date Measure Status > Work-Life-Balance on > Evaluation and further development of part-time and > implemented since workplace & diversity parental leave models implemented in the context of 2010 management the Working Group “Fair Play” and by certification as family-friendly employer (Full Certificate for “beruf und familie” [job and family]) > Extension and promotion of paternal leave > partly implemented >Programs for exchanging experience regarding > planned parental leave and part-time work for interested employees > Increase of job > Regular employee surveys (last survey 2010 – > implemented 2010 satisfaction of employees implementation of a new system in 2012) > Evaluation of survey results and institution of a > implemented 2010 working group (successfully implemented in 2010 with external oversight) > A slight reduction of employee fluctuation could be > partly implemented achieved (minus 3 percent versus 2009) – but Pfizer continues to develop appropriate additional measures > Fruit basket for promoting employees’ health > Implementation of HR Source – a globally accessible > implemented 2010 Human Resources service portal – for all employees in > implemented 2011 Austria with a variety of self-service functions for managers and employees Communication on Progress 2010/11 Pfizer Corporation Austria Targets for 2012/13 Measure Status > Work-Life-Balance on > Implementation of a Female Mentoring Program > planned for 2012/13 workplace & diversity > Extension of executive staff in part-time employment > planned for 2012/13 management >”Family-conscious management” > planned for 2012/13 >Recruiting of executive staff in the context of familyconscious personnel policy > planned for 2012/13 > Initiative for creating a > Worldwide internal Pfizer initiative targeted to create > planned for 2012/13 new company culture at a culture of responsibility. The campaign is to focus on Pfizer – OWN IT the principle of individual responsibility with emphasis on the following aspects: education, understanding, adaptation, behavior, innovation, initiative, common culture, identity > Improvement of Intranet > Intranet for employees will be redesigned, updated > planned for 2012 and extended regarding usability and functionality as well as interactivity > Improvements in talent > Creation of a globally interconnected Human > planned for 2012 management Resource communication network intended to staff interesting international positions by a new internal job posting process for offering employees chances for further development Society and social responsibility Targets to date Measure Status > Creation of a Value > Establishment of a detailed value added calculation > in planning Added Calculation (financial contribution of Pfizer Austria to the private and public income including donations, dividend payouts, etc.) > Stakeholder engagement > Detailed stakeholder analysis > implemented 2010 >Stakeholder dialog (e.g. through focus groups, > implemented 2010 surveys, etc.) > Extension of the > The scope of partners/institutions participating in the > implemented 2011 Corporate Volunteering Corporate Volunteering Program has been extended Initiative > Promotion of ecological & > Internal CSR Newsletter for employees being > implemented 2011 social consciousness published at regular intervals Communication on Progress 2010/11 Pfizer Corporation Austria Targets for 2012/13 Measure Status > Engagement for non> An extension of the cooperation with the Austrian > planned for 2012 smoker protection Sports Aid in the field of juvenile health and nonsmoker protection has been foreseen. > Development of a specific non-smoker application > planned for 2012/13 (App) for smartphones. > Maintenance of > Maintenance of long-term partnerships regardless of > planned for 2012 prolonged partnerships the reduction of overall budget (additional contributions from other budgets, if this is feasible in the context of projects) > Increased involvement of > Attempts to increase involvement of own employees > planned for 2012/13 employees in the social engagement of the company to ensure that they can identify with social projects and act as ambassadors and messengers for such projects Products and Drug Safety Targets to date Measure Status > Extension of information > Test and potentially improve usability of website > partly implemented materials for new dialog > Create information materials and booklets in > in planning groups additional languages such as Turkish, Serbo-Croatian and English > Product and drug safety > Additional studies and surveys for detailed collection > implemented August of information on the problems of the Austrian 2010 population with and their attitude towards counterfeited drugs > Facilitate the provision of > Information of patients and public on the topic > implemented 2010 package leaflets for “Counterfeited drugs and drug safety” in 2010 in medications cooperation with Pharmig, Chamber of Pharmacists and ‘Federal Ministry of Health >Online provision of all package leaflets for > implemented May medications at www.pfizer.at 2011 >As the first Austrian pharmaceutical enterprise Pfizer > implemented August Austria has posted online instructions for the use for 2011 the package leaflet: i.e. posting of a so-called “virtual package leaflet” on the Pfizer website with explanations for the use and administration of medications but also including easy and simple explanations of technical terms Targets for 2012/13 Measure Status > Mobile version of Pfizer > A mobile version of the Pfizer website is to be > planned for 2012 website created for smartphones to account for the newest technical facilities and the changing behaviors of consumers > Product and drug safety > In 2011 a new EU Directive against Counterfeit Drugs > planned for 2012 has come into force and has to be implemented in each EU member country. Pfizer Austria wants to take a leading role in the national implementation together with its partners >Focus of online information on the topic of > planned for 2012/13 counterfeited drugs at www.pfizer.at Communication on Progress 2010/11 Pfizer Corporation Austria THE 10 PRINCIPLES – OUR PROGRESS The UN Global Compact is based on 10 ethical principles comprising topics such as human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The members of UN Global Compact established in the year 2000 have committed themselves to socially responsible action within their sphere of influence and to the publication of an annual Communication on Progress. More detailed information on UN Global Compact will be provided under >www.unglobalcompact.org. Pfizer Austria has signed the UN Global Compact in April 2009. The tabulated Communication on Progress below provides a survey of the systems and measures utilized by Pfizer Austria for implementing the 10 ethical principles in its business activities and which results could be obtained during the reporting period. Principles Commitment Systems Measures and Achievements 20102011 Human Rights Principle 1 Pfizer Austria commits itself to the full • UN Global Compact (p. 13) • Audit “Job and Family” (p. 20) Support and respect and complete respect of human rights • Open Door Policy (p. 22) • Working Group FAIR PLAY (p. human rights and expects the same of its business • Code of Business Conduct 20) Principle 2 partners. Pfizer integrates human (Pfizer Blue Book, p. 28) Exclude any violations of rights and ethical values into all its • Corporate Mission (p. 7) human rights business activities (see p. 21) Labor Standards Principle 3 Pfizer ensures fair working conditions • UN Global Compact (p. 13) • Audit “Job and Family” (p. 20) Uphold freedom of and commits itself to treat all • Open Door Policy (p. 22) • Working Group FAIR PLAY (p. association and recognize employees, business partners and • Code of Business Conduct 20) the right of collective applicants with appropriate honesty (Pfizer Blue Book, p. 28) bargaining and respect. Pfizer commits itself to Principle 4 equal rights and offers its employees Engage in abolition of any and applicants equal employment kind of forced labor chances regardless of ethnicity, Principle 5 confession, gender, etc. (p. 20 ff). Engage in abolition of child labor Principle 6 Engage in the elimination • Audit “Job and Family” (p. 20) of any kind of • Working Group FAIR PLAY (p. discrimination in 20) employment and • Diversity Management (p. 21 occupation ff) Environment Principle 7 It is an essential goal of Pfizer to run a • UN Global Compact (p. 13) • Green Office (p. 53) Engage in and support more ecology-focused business. • Pfizer Goes Green Initiative • Green Travel (p. 55) environment protection Currently measures are being planned (p. 53 ff) • Green Behavior (p. 55) Principle 8 or are already ongoing to reduce • Internal CSR Newsletter (p. 55) Initiatives to promote utilization and consumption of • Internal contests for new environmental resources and emissions. A central ideas (p. 56) responsibility focus is also the sensitization and the Principle 9 ecological commitment of employees Develop, spread and (p. 50 ff) promote environmentfriendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Transparent business practices and • Code of Business Conduct • Employee trainings Measures against measures against corruption have (Pfizer Blue Book, p. 28) • Electronic review and approval corruption, extortion and been a longstanding component of • Pharmig Code of Conduct procedures bribery Pfizer’s business policy. Apart from (p. 28) • Regular internal controls and the observation of an internal code of audits conduct Pfizer also complies with the • Transparent listing of any strict code of conduct of the Pharmig donations and payments (p.26 ff) • Publication of all Pfizer study results (p. 14 ff) Communication on Progress 2010/11 Pfizer Corporation Austria
