Sustainability Report 2011 Brewing a Better Future Welcome to our Sustainability Report 2011 Company profile Contents Foreword 01 Karlovačka pivovara’s long tradition of producing beer dates back to About Brewing a Better Future 02 1854. Today, it is a strong number two brewery on the Croatian beer What we said and what we’ve done 04 market. Despite the difficult economic environment, in 2011 Karlovačka Green Brewer 06 pivovara managed to increase its market share to 27.5% (which is over Green Commerce 08 1% increase in comparison to 2010 results, according to the data of the Engaging Employees 10 Karlovačka pivovara Cares 12 Croatian Association of Beer, Hop and Malt Producers). Responsible Consumption 14 Partnership for Progress 16 Since 2003 Karlovačka pivovara has been part of the HEINEKEN Company, the world’s most international brewer. Being part of the HEINEKEN Company, Karlovačka pivovara has access to various products and corporate tools in order to meet the consumers’ needs. The brewery produces around 1 million hectolitres of beer annually. Karlovačka pivovara has the following brands in its portfolio: Karlovačko, Karlovačko Radler lemon, Karlovačko Radler grapefruit, Karlovačko Rally (nonalcoholic), Heineken, Desperados, Edelweiss Snowfresh, Gösser Dark and Kaiser. Karlovačka pivovara exports its products to Australia, Austria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Canada, Germany, United States of America, Sweden, Switzerland, Hungary and Japan. Foreword I am proud to present you the third place an emphasis on their development, as they are “We are constantly Sustainability Report of Karlovačka pivovara. ambassadors of our company and brands. Besides investing in our brands, This report gives an overview of our that, we consider it very important to encourage the brewery and our accomplishments related to the Brewing a responsible alcohol consumption. people.” Better Future programme in 2011. I am proud to say that we are constantly moving forward in every aspect of our Brewing a Better For Karlovačka pivovara 2011 was a very successful Future programme. In the area of the Green Brewer, year. Despite the difficult economic environment in the trend of constant decrease of our energy and Croatia, we managed to increase our market share water consumption continues in this year as well. In to 27.5% (an increase of over 1% in comparison with 2011, the total energy consumption for Karlovačka 2010). We are committed to always being close to pivovara had decreased by more than 8%, thermal our consumers in order to readily respond to their energy by 10%, electricity consumption decreased by needs. An excellent example of this is the launch of 5% and water consumption decreased by 6%. These Karlovačko Radler lemon at the beginning of 2011. results are accomplished through concrete actions This opened up a new category of beer mixtures to a like investments in technology and brewery, wider consumer segment in Croatia and education of employees and upgrading of our revolutionised the Croatian beer market, as the internal processes and procedures. We have the segment reached 9% of the total beer market. Our OHSAS 18001 certificate for protection of health mother company HEINEKEN also gave recognition and safety, ISO 9001 for quality management and to this innovation, awarding it as the best innovation ISO 14001 for environmental management system. of the year at the HEINEKEN Brand Building Awards In January 2011 we have renewed our certificate ISO 2011. Talking about innovation, I would like to point 22000 for food safety management. This certificate out that in 2011 we have launched Desperados. It issued by an independent certification company was also a novelty on the Croatian beer market demonstrates that Karlovačka pivovara is especially because of the new, exotic taste and proactively dealing with high standards of food completely different way of communication. safety. Karlovačka pivovara’ s mission is to produce the When I look ahead, a turnaround of recession is not highest quality beer, provide superior consumer and in sight. Croatia’s economy is expected to show -1% customer satisfaction, ensure satisfaction of all GDP development in 2012. High level of employees whilst adding value for the local unemployment and further deterioration of community and shareholders. To accomplish that, purchasing power are expected to continue and will we are constantly investing in our brands, the impact the beer market. But we will do our best and brewery and our people and I see that as a key will focus our energy to make excellent performance enabler of the positive development of Karlovačka on the market and internally in our company. While pivovara. doing so we will always take care of sustainability of our business so we can continue to brew a better We are committed to doing business in a sustainable future. way, continuing to work on our programme called Brewing a Better Future, covering important aspects Alexander Gerschbacher such as environmental protection, engaging with our Managing Director of Karlovačka pivovara communities, responsible consumption etc. Our employees are central to our programme, and we Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 1 About Brewing a Better Future Brewing a Better Future was introduced We focus on three strategic imperatives: in April 2010 and born out of close 1. Continuously IMPROVE the environmental discussion with our stakeholders. It has impact of our brands and business provided HEINEKEN Company with a 2.EMPOWER our people and the communities in road map and reflects our integrated which we operate and long-term ambition to become an 3. Positively IMPACT the role of beer in society. even greener business. Brewing a Better Future To be the World’s Greenest Brewer Improve Empower Impact Continuously improve Empower our Positively impact the environmental people and the the role of beer impact of our brands communities in in society and business which we operate Green Green Engaging HEINEKEN Responsible Partnerships Brewer Commerce Employees Cares Consumption for Progress Governance, Senior management incentives, Reporting and transparency, Supplier Code, Communication and engagement We have created 23 programme areas that by 2020 will bring our words ‘Brewing a Better Future’ to life with our people and our stakeholders and which cover our material impacts as well as our value-based approach to people and society.” 2 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 Governance Enabling our business priorities Brewing a Better Future is governed by an Executive-level Steering Committee that meets In 2011, our business leaders undertook a significant strategic review in order to reframe every each quarter. On a day-to-day basis, our business priorities based on our unique assets and core competencies. The result of Brewing a Better Future is governed by a team of this process are five business priorities that reflect our efforts. representatives from the Supply Chain, • Grow the Heineken brand Commerce, Human Resources, Control & • Consumer-inspired, customer-oriented and brand-led Accounting and Corporate Relations functions. • Capture the opportunity in emerging markets • Leverage the benefits of HEINEKEN’s global scale Each of HEINEKEN’s market has its own • Drive personal leadership sustainability committee, and a three-year Our approach to sustainability is integral to enabling these business objectives. sustainability plan integrated within the strategy of the business unit. In Karlovačka pivovara there is a Sustainability Team that consists of representatives from Supply Chain, Human Resources, Marketing, Corporate Communications and General Manager Office. From barley to bar we target improvements throughout the value chain Agriculture Malting Brewing Packaging Distribution Customer Consumer materials of beer cooling, cooling, production production brewing production local and recycling of recycling of of malt of glass bottles, export beer packaging packaging of beer from barley cans and kegs Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 3 What we said and what we’ve done What we said we will do What we have done in 2011 Green Brewer Continue to decrease total energy consumption. Total thermal energy consumption has continued to decrease; we achieved 173.1 MJ/hl. An improvement of roughly 8% was achieved and performance is on target. Specific water consumption to be 4.7 hl/hl. We achieved 4.7 hl/hl and are on target. Green Commerce All new purchased fridges to be based on green technology, if 100% fridges we purchased in 2011 are green fridges. legally and technologically possible. Engaging Employees Increase engagement in various projects (to equip Increased rate of employees engaged in TPM (Total employees with competencies to accept and handle Production Management) extra 4% of the total workforce has changes smoothly). been engaged in TPM. Include employees in volunteering. Sustainability team members took part in a volunteering activity in September 2011 in cooperation with the Eko Pan eco-organization and national Volunteer Centre. 4 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 What we said we will do What we have done in 2011 Karlovačka pivovara Cares Continue to support local community via Donation Tender in Donation tender was executed for the third time in a row and order to make it a more enjoyable place to live in. supported 10 different projects. Responsible Consumption Refresh Code of Responsible Commercial Communication. Workshops were organized for sales employees to educate on the rules of responsible communication. Partnership for Progress Start a partnership with a relevant partner to address alcohol Karlovačka pivovara has found a relevant partner: association abuse. of Croatian driving schools. Partnership continues in 2012. The subject of this partnership was “Don’t drink and drive”. Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 5 IMPROVE Green Brewer Karlovačka pivovara is committed to sustainability and creating a positive impact on the environment. We strive for continuous improvements and investments in upgrading our environmental protection system. Our main goals are: reducing our consumption of energy, electricity and water, reducing our CO2 emission, and sustainable waste management. In 2011 we made good progress total energy consumption for Karlovačka pivovara decreased by more than 8%. 6 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 Energy consumption We continued to reduce our total energy consumption needed to produce 1 hectolitre (hl) of beer by more than 8% : from 189 MJ/hl in 2010 to 173 MJ/hl in 2011. The improvement is due to technical measures related to the reconstruction of the brewhouse but also > Reconstruction of internal Karlovačka pivovara is fully operational measures achieved through TPM sewage system dedicated to sustainability and (Total Productive Management) activities like creating a positive impact on the In 2011 Karlovačka pivovara started team activities, failure mode analysis, environment. Positive trends in reconstruction of the internal sewage deployment, tagging of losses, best practice total energy consumption confirm system. The old system was a mixed type applying, operators awareness increasing etc. that.’’ sewage system: all waste water went Generally, TPM entails continuous and consistent through a single system. The reconstruction effort, the goal of which is to reduce and Zvonimir Nemet resulted in three separate drainage systems: re-capture lost energy and materials. Supply Chain Director one for waste water from production units, one for rain water and one for sanitary Thermal energy consumption has decreased by water. 10%, from 112 MJ/hl in 2010 to 100.7 MJ/hl while Drainage systems for rain water and electricity consumption has decreased by 5%, sanitary water are connected to the local from 8.5 kWh/hl in 2010 to 8.1 kWh/hl in 2011. sewage system. Waste water from production units will be treated in the waste Water is one of the main ingredients for making water treatment plant of Karlovačka beer. For Karlovačka pivovara it takes 4.7 hl of pivovara. The reconstruction of the internal water to produce 1 hl of beer. We have put a lot sewage system will reduce the impact on the of effort into reducing water consumption environment. This project, worth a total of through TPM activities in AM (Autonomous EUR 1.6 million, will be finalized in 2012. Maintenance), PM (Planned Maintenance) and FI (Focus Improvements) pillars. Figures show that water consumption has decreased by 6% , from 5 hl/hl in 2010 to 4.7 hl/hl in 2011. Key figures Total direct and indirect CO2 emissions for Karlovačka pivovara has its own waste water Karlovačka pivovara have decreased from 11 kg treatment plan which is currently in the test 6% decrease in total water consumption CO2/hl in 2010 to 9.4 kg CO2/hl in 2011 and the target was achieved. The improvement in direct CO2 emissions is due to the reduction in fuel phase (mechanical cleaning and neutralization). In 2012 the anaerobic cleaning will start producing biogas. consumption. The improvement in indirect CO2 Non-recycled industrial waste for Karlovačka 8% reduction in total energy consumption emissions is due to a decrease in electricity consumption. CO2 emissions have continued to decrease over pivovara has increased from 0.48 kg/hl in 2010 to 0.50 kg/hl. With 0.50 kg/hl the non-recycled industrial waste performance of Karlovačka the last 3 years and are a result of an pivovara is better than the total HEINEKEN optimization of utilities consumption (thermal company performance of 0.73 kg/hl. energy, electricity). Our carbon reduction Karlovačka pivovara is dedicated to constant strategy for the future is based on switching improvements and invests a lot of effort into fuel sources from oil to natural gas and usage environmental protection. In that sense, we of biogas from the waste water treatment have the ISO 14001 certificate for plant. environmental protection. Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 7 IMPROVE Green Commerce Karlovačka pivovara is committed to sustainability improvements related to packaging, cooling equipment and distribution. Investing in eco-friendly packaging and green fridges is another way to show that we care about the environment. 8 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 To reduce the environmental impact of our packaging, we are focused on reducing the material used, increasing the recycled content and recycling of our materials at the end of life. The waste collection system for glass material, plastic (PET) and aluminium material is present on the Croatian market. > Heineken Discotheque Riva We have adopted HEINEKEN’s standards for purchasing environmentally-friendly cooling In August 2011 Karlovačka pivovara equipment. The company’s policy regarding sponsored the Heineken Discotheque Riva cooling equipment entails buying only new event featuring internationally known models for which the energy consumption and musicians. There were 20.000 visitors at the environmental load are as low as possible. As a concert in the centre of Split, the second participant in the Green Cooling programme, biggest Croatian city situated on the Adriatic Karlovačka pivovara purchases green fridges . Sea. Karlovačka pivovara signed a contract Main characteristics of the green fridge are: the with the company in charge for cleaning the use of hydrocarbon refrigerant and LED city streets in order to separate waste and illumination including visible communication on clean the event premises immediately after the fridge informing about its benefits. In 2011 the end of the event, so that no waste was 100% of newly purchased fridges were ‘’green’’. left behind. Additionally, only draught Heineken beer was served at the event. Karlovačka pivovara improves the efficiency of its distribution. To reduce the carbon footprint of distribution, we are improving vehicle loading utilization and we only transport full truckloads. This way we want to make transport operations more efficient. Karlovačka pivovara puts a lot of effort into making its events greener. By using the Heineken Sustainable Event Toolkit we make our events more sustainable. When supporting brand events, Karlovačka pivovara promotes consumption of draught beer in preference over bottles, cans and PET as this packaging is completely recyclable or reused. Beer is taped in plastic cups at 100% of events. We also strongly support separate waste collection on our brand events. We think that rational behaviour in our everyday work can contribute to the sustainability of overall business. In 2011 we initiated some actions to make our buildings more sustainable: tracking printer use, introduction of lighting sensors and Key figure recycling. 100% of newly purchased fridges are “green” Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 9 EMPOWER Engaging Employees Karlovačka pivovara is a responsible employer who is dedicated to constant improvements of its safety at work agenda. 10 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 Karlovačka pivovara is a responsible employer who is dedicated to constant improvements of its safety at work agenda. Concerning that, we have improved the accident registration and reporting system. In 2011, more accidents occurred to the > Karlovačka pivovara’s employees We invest a lot of effort to ensure company personnel than in 2010, while the gave their free time for the local that our employees work in a safe number of lost days has decreased. As in previous community and healthy environment.” years, no contractor accidents occurred at the production unit in Karlovac. Overall, this resulted in In 2011 for the first time Karlovačka Mirjana Vidaković an increased accident frequency and decreased pivovara’ s employees actively participated Human Resources Director accident severity for Karlovačka pivovara. Accident in a volunteering activity. In order to serve as frequency increased from 2.4 cases/100 FTE in a good example to other employees and 2010 to 4.1 cases/100 FTE in 2011. The higher make the first step to encourage the culture number of accidents occurred in the packaging of volunteering, the sustainability team department of Karlovačka pivovara due to cuts (6 members participated in an activity out of 7 accidents). Countermeasures have been conducted by the local eco organization Eko implemented after the 5 why analysis (5W – a Pan. The project was carried out by tool which helps in searching and defining the volunteers from the international cause of problems) was conducted. As a result of volunteering camp. They were setting the that, appropriate gloves were given to the grounds and started to build a sustainable operators. house in a village near Karlovac city. This house is planned to be used for educating Also the observation system was adapted in order local people on environmental preservation to focus more on wearing gloves in the packaging and sustainability. Our employees joined department. Accident severity decreased slightly volunteers into removal of bushes and weeds from 66 lost days/100 FTE in 2010 to 64 lost in order to make building site more days/100 FTE in 2011. Most of the accidents accessible. They also helped in setting the were related to cuts. However, the severity of the grounds for the sustainable house. cuts has decreased slightly. Karlovačka pivovara is Karlovačka pivovara’ s sustainability team continuosly focused on ensuring that the working members will continue to participate in environment is as safe as possible, always looking volunteering activities and will encourage for ways to improve the internal procedures. Also, other employees to become actively involved Karlovačka pivovara has the OHSAS 18001 in volunteering work. certificate for safe and occupational safety. In 2011 Karlovačka pivovara employed 363 people. Karlovačka pivovara has a collective agreement, and employees are free to join a Karlovačka pivovara sees its employees as trade union of their choice. ambassadors of the company and its brands. Key figures Therefore, it is important to invest in their Before 2011 we performed a risk assessment for education and professional development. In exposure of Karlovačka pivovara to ethically 457 2011, in total 311 employees participated in undesirable behaviours. In 2011 a total of 294 various types of training (85% of our employees employees were educated on ethical business training hours were related to were covered by 5580 training hours). The behaviour. The most important document environmental protection and employees spent 457 hours in training related to occupational safety covering that area is the Code of Business environmental protection and occupational Conduct of Karlovačka pivovara, which is 294 safety. distributed to all new employees. The Code contains rules which the workers have to respect Every year Karlovačka pivovara organizes the employees were educated on ethical when acting as representatives of Karlovačka business behaviour Family Day for its employees and their families. In pivovara. The Code includes the following 2011 the Family Day was organized in an open elements: legal regulations, prevention of fraud, 85% space near a forest. There were sports games and conflict of interest, business gifts, corruption, a special programme for children. It was an aspects of the supply chain, advising, reporting excellent opportunity for the employees to spend employees participated in various the breaking of rules. The Code was implemented types of training some free time in an informal setting with their in 2006, updated in 2010 and it will be renewed colleagues and families. in 2012. Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 11 EMPOWER Karlovačka pivovara Cares Karlovačka pivovara is a strong economic subject in Croatia and in Karlovac county. The company is proud to support local sourcing. 12 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 When producing our Karlovačko beer we use high quality barley and corn grits from Croatian fields. Our local sourcing plays a significant role in economically and socially empowering communities and local farmers (for example, more than 80% of all malt and corn is purchased in Croatia). > Open doors day for Stakeholders Karlovačka pivovara is situated in the Dubovac Karlovačka pivovara is proud of its long city block. Since 2007 brewery representatives brewing tradition. We think that beer is a have been holding meetings with neighbours in fascinating product and we want to share order to maintain good relations and have a our fascination with other people. Every year platform for discussions and exchange of at the end of summer we organize the Open opinions. These meetings are a good opportunity Doors Day, introducing visitors to the to present the activities and projects of Karlovačka brewery with a tour of the brewhouse, pivovara to the people who live nearby. Members fermentation department, filling house and of our local community have an opportunity to ending with the tasting of beers from our ask questions and get answers directly. This is a portfolio. In 2011, apart from the consumers part of our stakeholder dialogue. who visited the brewery on this occasion, we also organized a special tour for our Supply In 2011 one environmental or safety complaint Chain business partners. They enjoyed a was filed against Karlovačka pivovara. The guided tour through the factory with the complaint was related to the scent nuisance from chance to see the production process. the waste water treatment plant. The smell occurred in the neutralisation basin of the waste water treatment plant during the pilot phase. Inspection showed the emission was below legal limits. Also, Karlovačka pivovara aims to be a part of the Donation tender important local events. Karlovačka pivovara has For the third year in a row, Karlovačka pivovara traditionally been the main sponsor of Karlovački executed its Donation tender. In 2011 the tagline Dani piva beer festival. The company also of the tender was ‘’Together for Karlovac and supports Ivanjski krijes (John’s Bonfire), a Karlovac County’’. The objective was to support traditional celebration of the beginning of projects and activities that will make Karlovac and summer, the International Folklore Festival in Karlovac County a more enjoyable place to live in. Karlovac and the Contest for the most beautiful There were 176 applications, out of which 10 river beach in Karlovac. In 2011 we supported the local projects in total were selected for support: summer movie festival: ‘’Riječno kino uz sanitation of part of the river Korana coast Karlovačko’’ (River cinema with Karlovačko). This renewal of a mountain path event was held for the first time and it attracted covering a tennis courts with a removable roof 2,100 people who enjoyed watching movies on introducing internet to rural parts of the region the coast of the river Korana in the centre of purchasing equipment for cleaning rivers Karlovac. educating young unemployed people from the rural areas international music and art festival Key figure reconstruction of an athletics path 80% purchasing equipment for the blind open air festival for young bands The total amount invested in these projects of all malt and corn is purchased in Croatia through the Donation tender is approximately 67.000 euro (500.000 kuna ). Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 13 IMPACT Responsible Consumption Beer is a natural product enjoyed by many adult beer lovers. If consumed moderately, it can be a part of a healthy lifestyle. As a beer producer, Karlovačka pivovara is aware of its responsibility in promoting moderate beer consumption amongst our employees but also amongst beer lovers. 14 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 As part of the HEINEKEN company, the most international brewer, Karlovačka pivovara uses every opportunity to talk to consumers about enjoying our brands responsibly. The “Enjoy Heineken Responsibly’’ logo is used on packaging, on all Heineken communication and on locations of local sponsorships. We also use our main local > Responsible transport We use our brands to talk to the consumers about enjoying our brand Karlovačko to communicate the Karlovačka pivovara uses major event brands responsibly.” responsibility message. Logo “Uživaj u sponsorships to encourage moderate Karlovačkom odgovorno’’ (Enjoy Karlovačko consumption and responsible behaviour. We Roko Kero responsibly) is used on packaging and in brand organized free bus transport for visitors of Marketing Director communication. This message is an integral part our two big events. In September 2011 we of the communication on our Facebook fan page organized transport for visitors of the beer and we also have a special web page dedicated festival in Karlovac, Karlovački Dani piva to this (www.uzivajukarlovackomodgovorno.com). (Karlovac Beer Days). There were few city This web page contains practical information, lines, county lines and buses between advice and guidelines about drinking. Also, to be Karlovac and Croatian capital, Zagreb. informed on responsible commercial Branding of the buses emphasized the communications, all employees from commercial responsibility message. In December, we discipline were educated on this subject through organized free transport for visitors of e-learning and via special workshops. Karlovačko Live, our traditional and very popular music platform. The message Internally, Karlovačka pivovara has implemented ‘’Uživaj u Karlovačkom odgovorno’’ (Enjoy Cool@Work global workplace alcohol Karlovačko responsibly) was displayed on information, prevention and support monitors inside buses. programme. We think that our employees should be ambassadors of responsible consumption and therefore it is very important to inform them on that subject. Karlovačka pivovara pursues a zero tolerance policy regarding the consumption of alcohol in the workplace. In our quarterly internal magazine Moja Karlovačka in 2011 we published columns on responsible communication and consumption covering various themes like minors, drinking and driving, marketing communication, sponsorships. Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 15 IMPACT Partnerships for Progress Karlovačka pivovara aims to be active in promoting responsible consumption and behaviour. Non-governmental organizations can be a valuable partners in spreading our message and encouraging socially accepted behaviour. Better results can be achieved when working together. 16 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 In 2011 we started with our Partnership for Progress programme. Our goal was to have a partner in spreading our message on responsible behaviour. Finding a relevant and dedicated partner was not an easy job, but we found it in the Association of Croatian Driving Schools. Together we have defined that future drivers will be our target group while the main messages will be: do not drink and drive; drinking and driving is unacceptable; think about the consequences. Tagline of this project is “Tko pije, taj ne vozi’’ (Don’t drink and drive) and will be conducted in 107 Croatian driving schools. All participating schools will be provided with special goggles to simulate driving under influence, to show how perception changes if you misuse alcohol. The idea is to educate and inform future drivers on alcohol abuse, consequences of drinking and driving and to encourage young drivers to make the right choice. Implementation of the programme “Tko pije, taj ne vozi’’ (Don’t drink and drive) started in March 2012. Industry partnerships We continue to cooperate with relevant organizations on developing and implementing programmes to reduce alcohol abuse. Karlovačka pivovara is a member of the Croatian Special goggles Association of Beer, Hop and Malt producers and we operate according to their Responsible Marketing Communications Code. According to the Code, it is necessary to adhere to the principles of legality, honesty, and good business practice in all marketing communications, and to be especially careful not to address minors or to encourage irresponsible drinking through its commercial communication. Key figure 107 Croatian driving schools will be included in our programme “Tko pije, taj ne vozi” Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 17 Enablers Brewing a Better Future is a comprehensive, integrated strategy for creating a more sustainable company and future. Considering the fact that HEINEKEN has more than 250 brands and 140 breweries in 71 countries, this is a challenging task. That is why we are making sure that our culture and organisation can support our ambitions. Worldwide implementation Measurement and transparency: the Green of our Supplier Code Gauge Scorecard Karlovačka pivovara, as part of HEINEKEN To better track and communicate our company, has adopted the HEINEKEN Supplier performance, HEINEKEN introduced in 2011 the Code. The Supplier Code sets out the Green Gauge, a scorecard that allows head office expectation we have towards our suppliers in the and all Operating Companies covered by the areas of integrity, human rights and the Brewing a Better Future programme to monitor environment. Thus, in signing the new document, quarterly progress against 16 key areas. The the suppliers agree, for example, to minimise Green Gauge uses a simple traffic light, showing their own impact on the environment and to managers at a glance whether they are not develop environmentally friendly technologies. In target, near target or not on target. 2011 the majority of Karlovačka pivovara’s suppliers signed the Supplier Code. Building Sustainability into performance plans For the last two years, sustainability criteria have been built into our senior managers’ performance criteria. In 2011, 100% of our senior managers had Corporate Social Responsibility targets included in their short-term bonus-related performance objectives. 18 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 The UN Global Compact In 2009, Karlovačka pivovara has co-signed the The UN Global Compact United Nations Global Compact initiative. The The ten principles UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative Human rights for businesses that are committed to aligning Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote their operations and respect the protection of internationally greater environmental responsibility; and proclaimed human rights; and strategies with ten universally accepted Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit Principle 9: encourage the development and principles in the areas of diffusion of environmentally friendly in human rights abuses. technologies. human rights, labour, environment and antiLabour Anti-coruption corruption. By signing the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Global Compact initiative, freedom of association and the effective Principle 10: Businesses should work against Karlovačka pivovara recognition of the right to collective bargaining; corruption in all its forms, including extortion and confirmed the brewery’s bribery. support of the ten Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced principles and is and compulsory labour; In January 2011 the HEINEKEN Company committed to continue to became a founding member of the UN Global Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; support and improve on and Compact LEAD. The primary objective of Global those principles in its daily Compact LEAD is to support leading UN Global operations. Compact participants in their efforts to achieve Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in higher levels of corporate sustainability respect of employment and occupation. performance. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 19 Let us know your thoughts! Which aspects of Brewing a Better Future are working well? Where do you think we could do better? Your feedback will allow us to learn and improve. Ljudmila Bratko Gašpić Corporate Communications Manager Email: pr@karlovacko.hr Post: Karlovačka pivovara, Corporate Communications Department, Dubovac 22, 47 000 Karlovac, Croatia 20 Karlovačka pivovara Sustainability Report 2011 Please visit HEINEKEN’s global 2011 Sustainability Report at www.sustainabilityreport.HEINEKEN.com www.karlovacka.com www.uzivajukarlovackomodgovorno.com heineken.com Twitter: @HEINEKENCorp Karlovačka pivovara Dubovac 22 47 000 Karlovac Croatia telephone: +385 47 607 340 fax: +385 47 451 301 Production Karlovačka pivovara Corporate Communications Department Text Karlovačka pivovara Corporate Communications Department Global Sustainability Report Photography John Wildgoose, UK The packshot company Ltd, London HEINEKEN Niels Hanssens, EUCORD Graphic design and electronic publishing Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd, London AB studio dizajn Barjaković
