Green Development & All-Win in Harmony 2010 Sustainable Development Report Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. Yulin China Group Logo—YC The Group Logo YC is designed based on the acronym of the English name of the company. “YC” represents initials of Yuchai and Yulin China, demonstrating that Yuchai is firmly determining to build an internationally recognized Chinese brand. The letter C is like the earth movement trajectory in the space, symbolizing Yuchai Group's global development trend and that it is on the road of becoming a multinational conglomerate. The dynamic letter Y conveys the Group's strategic objective and pursuit of excellence. The shape of the Logo is mature in shape, sober mixed with dynamic, plain but passionate. It incarnates that Yuchai is a group full of passion and is pursuing “Green Development” and “All-Win in Harmony” as C h i n a ' s l a r g e s t i n t e r n a l c o m b u s t i o n engine manufacturer, and the largest producer and exporter of small and medium sized construction machines. The logo highlights Yuchai Group's global brand image of Excellence Quality & Yuchai Globalization . General Note Green Development & All Win in Harmony Sustainable Development Report Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. Yulin China Green Development & All Win in Harmony 2010 Sustainable Development Report Note on the Statistics in the Report The Report reflects sustainable activities of Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. Yulin China Yuchai Group. Data comes from official documents and statistical reports released by the Group and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Financial figures come from Annual Financial Report 2010 of  the Group. Availability of the Report In order to facilitate presentation and reading, Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., This report is published both in Chinese Ltd. in this report is also referred to as “Yuchai and English: To obtain a hardcopy, please Machinery Group” Yuchai Group , the Group write to Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group corporation , Yuchai , the Group , the Company Co., Ltd. You can also find the PDF version and we or us . of this document on the group’s website. Report Coverage Company Name: Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. Address: 1# Yuchai Road, Yulin City, Guangxi The report mainly covers Yuchai Group’ Website：http://www.yuchai.com s sustainable development activities from Post Code：537005 Telephone：0775-3228884 January 1st to December 31st, 2010; it also Fax：0775-3288168 covers relevant information on subsidiaries and Customer Service Telephone：95098 branches. If necessary, the activities before that period may also be included. Reliability Commitment of the Report Group Board of Directors and all directors promise that the Report does The Release of the Report not contain any false records, misleading statements or material omissions; they will The Sustainability Report was firstly released shoulder individual and joint liability for in June 2008Sustainable Development Report truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of 2007 , and has since been running for three the Report. consecutive years. The Report 2010 is the forth of its kind. Contents 3 Chairman's Message 4 2010 Business Highlights 6 Philosophy 7 Sustainable Development Roadmap during the 11th Five-Year Plan Period 8 Stakeholders of Yuchai Group 9 Sustainable Development Performance 2010 10 Operation 11 Continuously Enhancing Capabilities in Company Operation 18 Stably Developing in Management Level 22 Maintaining Technology Innovation Advantages 26 Strengthening Strategic Partnership 28 Serving All Types of Customers 32 Environment 33 Continuously Upgrading Eco-Friendly Products 38 Constantly Strengthening Eco-Friendly Manufacturing 41 Vigorously Promoting Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Yuchai has been focusing on energy saving and environmental protection. With advanced technology as support, it has been actively  developing clean power. In December 2007, Yuchai launched the first Euro V engine in China, 5 years earlier than the schedule in the national plan. NOx emission is 60% lower than that of Euro III, and particulate emission 80% less. Yuchai is able to mass-produce Euro V engines as compared to the domestic counterparts. In 2010, Yuchai completed the development of three models of Euro V engine, namely YC6L-50、 YC6L-51 and YC6J-50, put them into mass production and launched in the market. It has contributed to a wide range of environmental protection in Beijing, while laid a solid foundation for the promotion of more extensive use of Euro V engines. 44 Employees 45 Protecting Employee’s Rights and Interests 46 Developing Human Resources 52 Building Harmonious Labor Relations 55 Caring for Employees 58 Community 59 Devoting to Community Development 61 Engaging in Social Services 64 Prospects 65 Strategic Plan during the 12th Five Year Plan Period 65 2011 Objectives Chairman's Message was also ranked as Top 100 in 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility List, winning 2009 China Corporate Social Responsibility Special Award , the Chinese Corporate Social Responsibility Supplier Special Award, World Low-carbon Environment, China Driving Force Top 100 Enterprises , Guangxi Project Hope 20th Anniversary Contribution Award . Today, Yuchai is taking a lead in the CSR practice of Chinese companies. The year of 2011 coincides with the centenary of the Revolution of 1911, the 90th anniversary of the Chinese Communist Party, the starting year of 12th Five Year Plan , and also Yuchai Group sixtieth anniversary. At this critical juncture, the Group sounded the clarion In 2010, Yuchai Group, with the guidance of call to make the sales breakthrough of RMB 100 billion concept of scientific development, actively implemented by end of 12th Five Year Plan period and achieve RMB the strategy of Strength Yuchai to Eenrich YuLin , seized 40 billion sales for the first year-2011. A guidance is the opportunities of global economic recovery and strictly formed to achieve the objectives succeed in the implemented the operating principle of strengthen beginning year; implement projects in a timely and capabilities, secure objectives and build stamina ; all effective way; enhance core strengths . Succeed in the business segments strengthened product development beginning year requires full implementation of the 12th and innovation, made timely adjustment of marketing Five Year strategies to ensure that the first year sales strategy and upgraded management capabilities, which could surpass RMB 40 billion threshold; implement has contributed to continuous improvement of sales. projects in a timely and effective way is to have a The year-end total sales reached RMB 37 billion, up by number of projects started or put into production, adding 36.21% from that of last year, exceeding objectives set momentum to enterprise development; enhance core  in early 2010 and surpassing the threshold of RMB 30 strengths is to make existent advantages even bigger, billion, which open a new chapter in the development of so as to comprehensively improve enterprise's core Yuchai. competitiveness. To ensure the a successful start, we will follow two product chains and multiple industrial 2010 marks the end of the 11th Five-Year Plan . clusters strategic guide, and develop strategies of In retrospect of the 11th Five-Year Plan period, the the Group, segments, subsidiaries and functions; Group withstood the global financial crisis and other make thoughtful plans, systemize organization, solidify adverse economic challenges, conducted corporate foundation, create conditions and seize the opportunity to restructuring, steadily improved operational efficiency scale new heights. To accomplish these goals and tasks, and developed business portfolio from relying on a Yuchai will set up a social responsibility management single business segment of engine manufacturing to institution, further improve CSR management system and an extended portfolio involving six segments of engine, mechanism, set appropriate indicators and evaluation construction machinery, energy & chemical products, system, and integrate them into the daily management, automotive parts, logistics & automobile trade and so as to continuously improve the Group ability to fulfill its special vehicles. Sales jumped from RMB 12.1 billion social responsibilities. in 2005 to RMB 37 billion in 2010. In the first 10 years of the new century, Yuchai achieved sustained high Captivating time has come, inspiring piece of music growth and leapfrog development. These achievements has been played, and builders of Yuchai are embarking are inextricably attributed to Yuchai’s core philosophy on a new journey towards the first RMB 100 billion with of Green Development & All-win in Harmony , and bold and confident steps. its commitment to corporate social responsibility and resource-saving and environment-friendly-oriented Bureau of Directors, sustainable development. In the past five years, Yuchai Machinery Yuchai did not only deliver on its own corporate social Group Co., Ltd. responsibility, but also actively include upstream and downstream partners in its industry chain by signing social responsibility agreements which thereby helping Chairman of the Board and motivating them to fulfill their social responsibilities. Many encouraging results had been achieved. Yuchai 2010 Business Highlights Sales income hit RMB 37 billion Yuan, 750,000 engines were Yuchai saw its ranking move up to No. produced and sold. 38 among Top 500 Chinese Enterprises in 2010. Group sales revenue in 2010 reached RMB 37.046 billion Yuan, an increase of 36.21% YOY, achieving the full-year objective of RMB 30 billion In 2010, Yuchai Group ranked 227 sales two months ahead of schedule. Engine business segment had an among the Top 500 Chinese Enterprises, outstanding performance. 750,000 units of engines were sold in 2010, rising up by 38 places compared with 2009. 11.13% YOY, hitting a new record hight of selling more than 700,000 units of It listed as one of the fastest growing engines over the year, of which the Yuchai Machinery Company Limited sold 100 companies in the top 500 Chinese over 550, 000 units. enterprises. Meanwhile, Yuchai ranked 113 in Top 500 Domestic Manufacturing Enterprises in 2010, up by 28 places compared with 2009. Pioneered the mass production of Euro V engines. Yuchai brand value rose to RMB 8 billion On October 26, 2010, the first batch of 50 buses using Yuchai Euro V engines were put into service in Beijing Bafangda Bus  Co. Ltd.--Tongzhou branch. It indicates an formal launch of the self-developed Euro V engines in the market. The first domestic company that is capable of producing 10,000 excavators annually as a single factory enterprise. Yuchai , with a brand value of On October 23, 2010, RMB 8.009 billion, won the World Brand Yuchai Heavy Industry’s Laboratory's 2010 China Top 500 Most 50000th hydraulic excavator Valuable Brands , with a ranking of rolled off the production line 109. It listed as the top Guangxi brand. in Yulin production base, Yuchai’s brand value nearly doubled making a breakthrough ,up by 10 places over the past five years, the limitation of production with a brand value of RMB 4.682 billion capacity bottleneck and Yuan(Rank 119) in 2006 rising to RMB becoming also the first local 8.009 billion and (Rank 109) in 2010. brand with market share Yuchai Machinery was also named reaching 50,000 units. as China's Excellent National Brand together with other 20 brands in Show of Yuchai Heavy Industry’s 50000th hydraulic the Chinese National Brands organized excavator successfully came off by the Xinhua News Agency. 2010 Business Highlights Yuchai 863 High-tech Project Commercial Vehicle Hybrid Powertrain passed the Science and Technology Department Verification. Yuchai’s 863 High-tech Project Commercial saving an average of 20% energy, witnessing good market Vehicle Hybrid Powertrain passed the Guangxi Science performance and energy efficiency. This system has been and Technology Department Verification. The system is used by seven domestic automobile factories; nearly 300 China's first independently developed commercial vehicle hybrid city buses are running with Yuchai technology. hybrid powertrain with single-axle parallel system in mass Guangzhou Asian Games used 113 Yuchai gas-electric production, representing a leading domestic technology. hybrid buses, highlighting Yuchai breakthrough in new The development of Yuchai hybrid powertrain began in energy products. early 2004, which lasted for 5 years; it filled a domestic market gap. It was launched to market in April 2009, Further improve strategic layout. In 2010, Yuchai set up offices in Ningxia and Tibet, completing a strategic layout covering all the Chinese provinces except for Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. It has created the most complete coverage of sales and service networks  in the industry. Engine companies were put into operation in Xiamen City, Fujian Province; Wuhu City ,Anhui RMB 1 million granted to highly-quality personnel province；Ziyang City，Sichuan Province and other cities; engine production bases construction On March 29, 2010, Yuchai Highly Skilled was accelerated in Tiantai County，Zhejiang Personnel Award Ceremony was held, offering Province； Jining City，Shandong Province； letters of appointment to 11 skill or expertise masters, Suzhou City，Jiangsu Province；Zhuhai City, recognizing six top-notch technicians of 2009, 23 Guangdong Province and other places. technical achievements, vocational skills contest winning Yuchai Heavy Industry completed the first individuals and teams of 2009; the total incentive phase of the strategic layout, entering Changzhou payments were over RMB 1 million. This is the largest City, Jiangsu Province in the east, Luzhou City, scale and most influential event to reward skilled talents Sichuan Province in the west and Wuqing District, since Yuchai was established 60 years ago. Tianjin Municipality in the north. Sustainable Development Roadmap during the 11th Five-Year Plan Period Stakeholders of Yuchai Group Sustainable Development Performance 2010  Philosophy e Cor ophy h i los Sustainable Development Roadmap during the 11th Five Year Plan Period P Green Development & 2006 Set up strategic philosophy Green Development & All-Win in Harmony All-Win in Harmony. Achieved RMB 14.1 billion of sales revenue, with 360,000 units Engines sold Successfully developed China's first Euro IV Engine Yuchai Technology Center Laboratory was recognized as National Accredited Laboratory on Achieved RMB 18.4 billion of sales revenue, with 500,000 units Engines sold 2007 issi Successfully developed China's first Euro V engine M Achieved mass production of Euro IV engines Strengthened incentive system of compensation and benefits and Taking the Lead & provide assistance to employees with financial difficulties meeting the power Actively promoted training on social responsibilities need of the general public. Achieved RMB 21 billion of sales revenue, with 550,000 units Engines 2008 sold, which means building another Yuchai within 3 years Successfully developed China's first Euro V electronically controlled diesel engine  Became the first batch of qualified pilot enterprises remanufacturing io n Vis automobile parts and components Entered into a new round of collective contracts, safeguarding interests of employees Joined the United Nations Global Compact Making Yuchai a famous brand in the Published the first sustainability report of China's machinery industry world, Building Yuchai a large transnational corporation. 2009 Achieved RMB 27.2 billion of sales revenue, with 670,000 units Engines sold Developed the world's first renewable air-hybrid engine Staff career development channels were fully open up nt Signed a special collective contract for protection of female m e workers anage sophy Built harmonious supply chain through YC alliance M philo Signed CSR commitment letters with partners Excellent Quality & 2010 Achieved RMB 37 billion of sales revenue, with 750,000 units Engines Yuchai Globalization sold, restructuring two Yuchai within 5 years Achieved the mass production of Euro V engines domestically Rewarded highly skilled personnel Built institutional mechanisms to strengthen anti-corruption Strengthened CSR training Government Accept government supervision Implement the CPC and state policies, comply with laws and regulations Comply with laws and regulations, pay taxes Save energy, red according to law Shar Expand emplo uce emission, and Take the initiatives protect the environ to report work progre yment opportu ment ss ehold Em ers nities, maintain harmonious ind Submit workKeep inno ustrial relation related inform va plo Keep s ation and sta yee cred tions in man agement an rep orts in a timely tis tic al Bu Sup s ibility and d technolo gy and accurate way integ St re ye pli Implement the rs ers rity, o Prese ngthen re green manu pera rve an search an facturing str (C te bu d incre d developm ategy sines ate th en ，t en rv rtn us s in com e ass et valu hance tech nology in Pa ice to plian e novation m ce w Strive to Se stry s er Pr Ha ve ith re gula create m or u ation s) ov Ca Sa Retu ti o ns e jobs De Ind aniz id ree fegua rP rd vel op rn to inve C o rg s lan the edu stors n sciou ial O er s leg c itim Imp ation, Maint Hold sly ac cept Achiev ers ate rov trai ain gene the su e busin Soc the rig e o n ing s tab ral co pervis io ess ob Bu hts c cup and le n feren n of the jective s nity and ild and atio emp C c e of s c ompa Commu sm voc loym e onsc ienti hare n y's in oo inte nal s a atio n t h v Stakeholders Public th res nal ously older s on estors co ts o fety a skil carr mm f th nd ls Reg ular y ou t nati a reg ular b un ee hea ly pu o n asis ica lth al in ith tion mp loy blish rele dustr rw t me ial p o the men ch ees vant bus li cies e n an ines M tog iro Sta ism s inf Eq orm rk env er Ti m ble u a t io n wo pr al n d derly oth el y oc pa Rea a r ch de ure rtn lize Play e ea Te ers h Pro v C ope t h e p te nd o a m liv c me ip om n an role om hy fro stry er y hn nt ide ply Imp dd rn du ica po em with rov e mo of tr ade , c alt lea r in Af of lS lic y plo lab e th ew cra unio i c ies a he n d o we te qu up ye ork tic m n l sa p ral p es or c e ana po ate ge nal sa ity or t w ith ont r act rs’ gem atio le an s con nd cre an s d de S a n g r e ent n s a to x ch t h en in ve tre dc ss s tio try ee f ai se fu lop m ng olle nt rv the yste nt o ctiv m ula ndus hanc me ai n ic e ll q u em e n t ne du ec reg i En lop p o o v e st gu an loy pp cat ion ntra w ti h ame s de rt o ab i ar tit y P ro ees ort cts Pr an and ply the the ppo lity te vid to g u n i t tra y su t vid e ro w i e s inin it to of es c m u Es wit a n d h g m et t om rs in tuall lopmen pe ly e ns, ve e r a en y com atio n de se cia bli sh the S t r ict artn p n t l a n iz m o ch n vic lp com a b l e Joi om e ro YC p l org ve c ica p tec str any tio at socia nd achie ls ol ic Ho Co c t with a u y nf or ld mm egic a onta o Re hig u llia se c pp du ne w nic nc rt ce pr hate e p clo Sh co od lev tim Kee ar e st uc el ely unity co via ts me comm st of eti nious joi su ng s harmo on nt pp Build a ss Re so de lie l progre pa cia lr ve lop r s nd socia yin es m ve lo pment a g d e vis po en t onomic ns local ec tion process its Pr ib Support tion in produc fo ov S ilit y ions and pollu rp id e tra Reduce emiss ro Pr hi te gi du ov gh c Support community philanthropy activities ct ivi de qu co qu a op Sta al t ec l ity er ity hn pr at ion ke an ic od d Stakeholders’ Expectations al * se se uc ts rv rv ho ic ic e es Keep qu lde al Bu i ity ta ld rs Es B u ild a bl YC ish se Bu tra rv M ild i Pa a ini ce ta stability rtic se ng en ain tit n it y Sk ipa rv ne ie community ely in d t ice tw s Activ ill c ei or commu Activ aily ne ks c te nd tw on ni or model ely o part m st us k om an try li ffer a un c and promot icipa dc Keep d te ica fe m on Participate in co tio om an n ren ng and aison vice lev na un Support education and poverty allevia ces Support philanthropy e cleaning rg y sa vi in re dl ica d su ant tio fo r e n e chann iais n re duction on mmunity buildi o n Pay d gges mee els op activities ng activities ting tion activities emissi en ues tions s Responses and Measures Philosophy Sustainable Development Performance 2010 Sustainable Operation Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2009 ●：improving； ○：maintain； Main businesses revenue raised remarkably ● ：worsening Business operation Income taxes increased continuously ● capacity Total assets increased. constantly ● Strengthen anti-corruption ● Strengthen closed-loop management ○ Management capability Comprehensive budget management ○ Improve internal auditing management ○ Develop new products on continuous basis ● Innovation ability Patent number has been increasing ● Strategic partnership has been strengthened ● Information communication with upstream and Partner's responsibility ● downstream partners has been enhanced Push partners to implement CSR ● Customer satisfaction has been improved ● Customer service Service capabilities have been improved ● Environmentally Friendly Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2009 R&D breakthrough in eco-friendly products ● Eco-friendly products Reduce noise of products ○ Reduce energy consumption ● Eco-friendly More renewable materials are used in R&D and production ● manufacturing Reproduction capabilities are upgraded greatly ● Reduce discharge of wastes(oil, water and materials) ○ Environmental Reduce use of dangerous chemicals; ○ governance categorized management  Enhance reuse of wastes (oil, water and materials) ● Care for staff Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2009 Increase communication and consultation ● Democratic management channels between staff and management Improve system of Workers Congress ● Improve staff productivity ● Increase ratio of highly skilled personnel ● Capacity management Provide multi-layer and multi-channel training opportunities ● Improve career development platform ● 100% labor contract signing ○ Wages and benefits grow at the same pace with ● financial performance Rights and interests 100% social insurance coverage ○ protection Prohibit discrimination & promote employment equality ○ Further improve staff welfare ● Organize colorful staff activities ○ Low work safety incidence ○ Occupational safety and Zero major safety accident ○ health Continuous reduction of occupational disease incidence ○ Social harmony Sustainable Development Specific Performance Compared with 2009 Help with community employment ● Improve community Localized sourcing ○ development Promote local economic development ● Make donations ○ Public welfare School donations ○ Volunteer activities ● Continuously Enhancing Capabilities in Company Operation Stably Developing in Management Level Maintaining Technology Innovation Advantages Strengthening Strategic Partnership Serving All Types of Customers 10 Operation Continuously Enhancing Capabilities in Company Operation Continued healthy development and optimized product portfolio passed the threshold of RMB 30 billion, reaching Yuchai Group achieved sales of 37 a record high, doubling the sales of 2005. In 2010, Yuchai sold 750,000 units of engines, an increase of 11.13% year on year; sales reached RMB 20.52 RMB billion, billion, an increase of 27.83% year on year. Heavy creating two Yuchai in 5 years. industry sales exceeded 120 000 units, an increase of 62.8% year on year; product market structure was further improved. Yuchai's achievements during 11th In 2010, total annual sales of Yuchai Group Five Year Plan (2005-2010) laid a solid foundation to reached RMB 37.046 billion, a year-on-year increase reach RMB 100billion of sales by the end of 12th Five of 36.21%. It is the first time that Yuchai Group Year Plan-2015. Economic Targets Accomplished in 2010 Unit: RMB 100 million 400 350 300 250 200 11 150 100 50 0 Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Targets Sales Revenue(before tax) 141.74 183.59 209.88 271.97 370.46 Total Assets 96.77 119.13 129.66 175.03 251.13 In 2010, all business segments strengthened products and parts. Energy and chemical products product development, innovation and marketing reached sales of RMB 6.5 billion, nearly doubled that of strategies, seeing fast growth of engine, construction 2009. Sales of construction machinery and logistics & machinery, auto trade logistics, energy and chemical automobile trade increased by half compared with 2009. Sales Revenue of Six Segments of Yuchai's Business Business Segment Engine Construction Logistics & Energy & Automotive Special Vehicles Machinery Automobile Chemical Parts Trade Products Sales Revenue in 2010 205.20 29.05 34.72 65.18 34.44 1.87 (RMB 100 million ) Growth compared with 27.83 58.44 43.75 99.74 1.44 -21.16 last year （%） Operation In 2010, Yuchai achieved a In 2010, Yuchai sold of excavators with 750,000 remarkable sales performance domestic brands in the overseas market, with over the years. brand image built strongly and In 2010, Yuchai a large and growing client base. units Heavy Industry Yuchai exported over 26,000 exported 402 units of engines and exported 26,000 units of engines in 2010, with of excavators, of total sales exceeding RMB 800 which a batch of 48 million. Based on current largeunits were exported volume export to Vietnam, units to Brazil; the export Cuba, Japan, Russia, Saudi sales reached RMB Arabia, Egypt, Algeria, Peru, 57.53 million. Starting Turkey, the Philippines, India and other countries, its business presence in Europe and North Yuchai is entering North America, Western Europe, America with establishment of two subsidiaries, Korea, Singapore and other developed markets in Yuchai Heavy Industry has begun to build an a gradual and orderly way. Yuchai is competing overseas marketing network, planning to establish with international brands in the global market. new subsidiaries or offices in seven hot spot Yuchai Heavy Industry is the largest exporter regions. Yuchai G-drive engines providing emergency back-up power supplies for three major telecom companies in Philippines 12 In recent years, Yuchai products continue to engines. Since POWERCITY Gen-sets launched enter markets of the ASEAN countries. In Philippines the market, they have been identified by three major market, the scope of application of Yuchai products Philippines telecommunications companies SMART, have been enlarged from vehicle engine to Gen-sets, GLOBE and SUN as bidding-exempt products. marine engine and off-highway engine. Philippine POWERCITY has purchased more than 1,500 units of POWERCITY has been fully equipped with Yuchai Yuchai engine for its generating plants. Operation Creating the best golden supply chain of engines and construction machinery Two product lines and multiple industrial (the longest product chain, the broadest range clusters is Yuchai strategic positioning during 12th of products, the best suitability and the biggest five year plan period (2011-2015). “Two product production and sales), based on which, Yuchai lines” means engines and construction machinery; will strive to build the engine product chain into “multiple industrial clusters” indicate companies the world's most competitive and most valuable under Yuchai Group grouped by industry, which product chain. have expanded or developed in new areas on the In the construction machinery segment, basis of existing industrial structure. the current range of products of Yuchai Heavy Regarding engine segment, at present, Industry have already developed from stand-alone Yuchai engine products cover automotive, marine, excavator into earth-moving machinery and pileconstruction machinery, agricultural machinery, driving machinery, of which hydraulic excavators power generation and diesel power6 major have over 200 varieties covering 40 series ranging categories, 22 series and over 2,000 species of from 0.8 to 220 tons. The products are known for micro-light, light, medium and heavy-duty multicompact structure, reliable and energy efficient cylinder diesel engines; its products’ power performance; and its performance indicators have range between 6 ~ 25,000KW; it has the most reached international advanced level. Yuchai extensive and most complete spectrum of diesel Heavy Industry has the most complete spectrum engines among domestic companies. With features of small and medium-type hydraulic excavators; like high-power, high torque, high reliability, it is the first domestic excavator manufacturer with low fuel consumption, low emission, low noise, annual capacity of 1 million units. strong compatibility, combined with convenient In the future, Yuchai Machinery Group will services, it has become the preferred engine for continue to implement the product chain vertical automobile, construction machinery, agricultural extension, horizontal development strategy, 13 machinery and power generation. In the future, forming a diversified operation pattern with Yuchai engine product chain will continue to build excavators as the core products and pile driving on medium-sized diesel engines and to extend machinery, mining machinery, lifting equipments, on two dimensions from the micro, light, medium non-excavation machinery, construction to heavy-duty engines; it will enhance its leading machinery spare parts and other products as the position in diesel engine supply chain domestically supplements. Power （L） YC6C/40L/500-925PS YC6T/16.35L/320-500-600PS YC6K/12-13L/380-480-520PS YC6MK/10.3L/300-420PS YC6M/9.8L/280-390PS YC6L/8.4L/260-330PS YC6G/7.8L/200-300PS YC6A平台/7L/220-280PS YC6J/6.5L/190-230PS YC4G/5L/170-220PS YC4E平台/4L/120-180PS YC4D/4.21L/120-140PS YC4F平台/2.5-3.0L/90-130PS YC4W平台/1.2-1.8L/75-110PS Emissions (PS) Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. Engine production bases across the country Yuchai Heavy Industry across the country Y CSR Yuchai Sichuan Engine Co., Ltd. 14 Sichuan Bonny Heavy Machinery Co., Ltd Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Group Co., Ltd. Yuchai Heavy Industry Tianjin Co.,Ltd. Jining Yuchai Engine Co., Ltd. & C Engine Co., Ltd. Yuchai Heavy Industry（Changzhou) Co.，Ltd. Yuchai Pile-Driving（Changzhou) Co.，Ltd. 15 Hubei Yuchai Engine Co., Ltd. Yuchai Remanufacturing Services(Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Zhejiang Yuchai Sanli Engine Co., Ltd. Xiamen Yuchai Engine Co., Ltd. ZhuhaiYuchai Marine Power Co., Ltd. Operation Advance to top position in the industry Yuchai Group's record in the industry One of the largest production bases of the internal combustion engines; One of the first companies listed overseas; The most complete spectrum internal combustion engine manufacturing base domestically; The most complete spectrum of small and medium-type hydraulic excavator manufacturer domestically; No.1 state-level company technical center and laboratory in the industry; The earliest company in terms of R&D and mass production of Euro IV and V low-emission products; Largest number of and the most extensive coverage of the customer service network and the minimum service radius. 16 Operation Awards and Honorary Titles 2010 Awards and Honorary Titles won by the Yuchai Group in 2010 Award Award (Certificate) Title Issued by category China Top 500 Enterprises 2010 China Enterprise Confederation and China Entrepreneurs Association China Top 500 Manufacturing Enterprises 2010 China Enterprise Confederation and China Entrepreneurs Association General China Top 500 Machinery Enterprises 2010 China Machinery Enterprise Management Association Award China Top 100 Enterprises in the foundry industry China Foundry Association; Foundry Technology magazine National Leading Enterprise in the foundry industry China Foundry Association 2010 Top Ten Enterprises in Guangxi Guangxi Federation of Enterprises and Entrepreneurs Science and Technology Progress Award Government of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Tianjin Technological Invention Award Tianjin Municipal Government Agricultural machinery certificate of authenticity Ministry of Agriculture, PRC Technology Quality license of export products Entry and Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureau of Guangxi Province Award China Classification Society Certificate of Type Approval China Classification Society Certificate of Type Approval for marine products Ship Inspection Bureau of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 2010 Product of the Year , China Construction Construction Machinery & Maintenance Magazine Machinery TOP 50 China's 500 most valuable brands World Brand Lab Yuchai won 60 Years China Brand Image Award Chinese Brand Development Commission, China Brand Forum 17 Organizing Committee Brand Selected as Chinese National Brand Xinhua Daily Telegraph, China Top Brands Magazine Award National customer satisfaction brand of agricultural Chinese Society for Agricultural Machinery Popularity Working machinery Committee, the Agricultural Machinery Magazine Top Ten Diesel Engine Brand in 2010 China Automotive Daily Top 100 China driving forces behind world lowThird World Environmental Protection Conference Organizing carbon environment Committee, International Association of Energy Saving Application of new energy and energy saving coach Low-carbon Transport and New Energy Passenger Vehicles components and parts Application Promotion Organizing Committee 2010 Green LNG engine assembly YC6J210N-30 won the Low-carbon Public Transport and New Energy Passenger outstanding coach components and parts award for Vehicles Application Promotion Organizing Committee 2010 Award new energy, energy saving and emission reduction & Guangdong Urban Public Transport Association 2010 Green Internal Combustion Engine award China's Automobile Newspaper, China Internal Combustion certificates (YC6M won 2010 Green Power Award ) Engine Industry Association Construction Machinery fittings industry's most China Construction Machinery Association, Construction influential brand of engine components Machinery Fittings Branch 2010 Top 100 Chinese advanced enterprises in education Organizing Committee of China Top 100 Enterprises in Education Excellence in National Machinery Industry Training School China Machinery Industry Education Association, Education Education Enterprise Co-operation and Talent Nurturing Development Center of Machinery Industry Award Advanced Company in Staff Education in Guangxi Guangxi Vocational Education Association of Machinery Industry Machinery Industry 2010 National implementation of the Advanced Enterprise China Quality Association Management Performance Excellence Model Special Award and Service YC series engines after-sales service of customer China Quality Association, the National User Committee Award satisfaction The Seventh National Top 100 Outstanding China Automotive Daily, the Chinese Automotive Parts Automotive Parts Supplier Enterprises Information Alliance 18 Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. Dept of Financing and Guangxi Yuchai Power Machinery Co., Ltd. Investment Engine Hubei Yuchai Engine Co. Ltd. Dept of Zhuhai Yuchai Marine Power Co., Ltd. Planning Construction Guangxi Yuchai Heavy Industry Co., Ltd. Operation Machinery Dept of Beihai Yuchai High-grade Lubricant Company Finance Guangxi Nanning Yuchai Lubricant Co., Ltd. Dept of Energy & GuangxiYuchai Industry Chemical Co.,Ltd. Auditing Chemical Products Guangxi Yuchai Petroleum and Chemical Co., Ltd. Maoming Changsheng Grease Industry Co., Ltd. HR Dept 2010 Yuchai Group Organization Chart Guangxi Yuchai Oil Product Co., Ltd. MD BOD Corporate Governance Structure Special Dept of Cadre Vehicles Guangxi Yuchai Special Purpose Vehicle Co., Ltd. Management Guangxi Yuchai Logistics Group Co., Ltd. Logistics & Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Electromechanical Co., Ltd. Corporate Automobile Trade Office Stably Developing in Management Level Yuchai Marketing Co., Ltd. Safety Zhejiang Haihong Hydraulic Science and Technology Co., Ltd. Monitoring Office Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Distribution Co., Ltd. Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Parts Manufacturing Co., Ltd. BOS IT Dept Yuchai Huayuan Machinery (Yulin) Co., Ltd. Automotive Guangxi Jinchuang Automotive Parts Manufacturing Co, Ltd. Parts Legal Hainan Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. Counseling Dept Guangxi Yuchai Bright Electric Appliances Co., Ltd. Training Discipline Yulin Chengxin Machinery Co., Ltd. Center Guangxi Yuchai Crankshaft Co., Ltd. Committee CPC Committee Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Property Management Ltd. office Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Packing Material Co., Ltd. PR Office Goldman Industrial Co., Ltd. CPC Service Industry and Guangxi Yulin Yuchai Vehicle Maintenance Co., Ltd. Others Committee Trade Union Yulin Xingyu Hotel Investment Development Co., Ltd. Guangxi Yulin Yuchai International Travel Co., Ltd. Youth League Guangxi Yuchai Haotian Education Investment Co., Ltd. Committee Operation Deepening social responsibility-oriented corporate culture system corporate social responsibility-oriented culture. Yuchai built the philosophy of Green Development & All-Win in Harmony in April 2006; afterwards Yuchai set up its mission of Taking the Lead & meeting the power need of the general public and developed the vision of Making Yuchai a famous brand in the world, Building Yuchai a large transnational corporation . It also built business concept of Excellent Quality & Yuchai Globalization , a team spirit of high state wind mind good education great accomplicement , a cooperation philosophy of honesty, trust, fairness and justice and service culture of do my best to provide good service to users ; such ideas are serving as guiding principles for the company's daily production, operation and management. In addition, the Group has also made full use of newspapers, magazines, television, Internet, OA office systems and other channels, communicating Yuchai culture to In 2010, Yuchai Group has built and the community; and through forums, cultural shows, systematically reviewed a CSR-oriented corporate skill competitions, sports competitions, exhibition culture philosophy, and developed a mediumof corporate culture papers, rewards to highlyterm corporate culture development strategy and skilled personnel, Yuchai corporate culture has been measures to establish corporate culture evaluation vigorously promoted and starts to take root, spread, 19 and examination system, trying to promote a flourish and produce fruits. Fighting corruption and promoting fairness in business operations In line with actual situations in recent years, Yuchai Group has seriously promoted the anticorruption work and proposed a clean company concept featuring law-abiding, honesty, selfdiscipline . In a framework with clean operating system as the basis, clean management system as the support, supervision measures as assurance and integrity activities as carrier, Yuchai gives equal attention to advocating, educating, regulating and overseeing in anticorruption activities and builds an anti-corruption system where management before, during and after corruption acts is conducted, and supervision is imposed at all levels across the company and outside the company. In 2010, Yuchai continued to promote anti-corruption work and won the honors of advanced company in anti-corruption education of Yulin City and Guangxi zhuang Autonomous Region outstanding research information in discipline inspection . Operation Strengthening anti-corruption education Yuchai Group held a series activities to cultural communication and business integrity, promote anti-corruption concept, including honesty and fairness, guidance to workers in positive publicity, training, e-education, law building clean awareness, education of relevant lectures, editing and publication of Clean laws and regulations to improve prevention Yuchai brochures and Clean Yuchai video, antiof corruption and creation of a fair business corruption policies and regulations to promote operation environment. Strengthening Anti-corruption Regulations Yuchai Group has developed and Management, Business Ethics Code of Conduct implemented a series of rules and regulations to and Gifts Management System and other sixteen prevent and combat corruption in recent years, policy documents in total. In the continuous including the Clean and Honest Administration improvements of these rules and regulations, for Yuchai Leading Cadres, Yuchai Provisions Yuchai also strengthened the supervision and for Leading Cadres, Clean Accountability inspection of implementation, which has built a Assessment Methods, Provisions on Employee strong anti-corruption embankment to ensure Self-discipline, Clean Management of Mutual that Yuchai, the diesel engine aircraft carrier of Insurance Agreement, Clean and Honest the manufacturing industry of China, can operate Monitoring System, Disciplinary System safely and fairly. 20 Strengthening inspection and supervision over anti-corruption Yuchai Group has taken major and sensitive in implementing self-supervision, family issues as key inspection and supervision content; supervision, organizational supervision, supervision staff on key positions and working abroad as of the relevant parties and public scrutiny key supervision targets; eight areas including -comprehensive and seamless inspection and compensation, personnel, procurement, supervision measures. As such, Yuchai has built infrastructure, technological transformation, a corporate punishing and preventing system finance, quality control, material handling as against corruption to promote the fair operation of the major scope of inspection and supervision the enterprise and ensure clean employees. Enhancing inspection over project tendering process Yuchai has four entities responsible system; through establishment and optimization for project tendering managementcapital of inspection platform, Yuchai has strengthened procurement, expense spending, non-parts tracking, supervision and management of the procurement and production equipment bidding projects; Yuchai has also increased parts repair, maintenance spending. In 2010, intensity of supervision and evaluation to ensure Yuchai improved the company's inspection inspection results, thus reflecting Yuchai core management and project tendering management corporate culture and values of fair operation. Operation Signing self-discipline agreements and building anti-corruption& fair business network To implement a series of self-discipline rules and strengthen the company's integrity management and anti-corruption work, Yuchai signed with subsidiaries Agreement on Clean Operation Responsibilities , signed with factories (supplier) Clean Mutual Assurance Agreement , instructed senior managers to sign a Commitment to Business Ethics , and signed with line managers, especially procurement and foreign business staff the Honesty and Self-discipline Agreement . These responsibilities and commitments clearly defined responsibilities, evaluation criteria and incentive methods. For abuse of power, bribery, dereliction of duty, private economic Commission for Discipline Inspection represented in the evaluation process activity, extortion and other violations, Yuchai imposes financial penalties, public exposure, job transfer, termination of employment Yuchai's determination to comply with law and contracts and even transfer to judiciaries. fulfill the social responsibility to ensure fair These severe disciplinary measures reflect and clean operation. 21 Adopting Lean Six Sigma to promote effective operation of quality system In 2010, the company successfully introduced into and other big customers, as well as CCS certification, Lean Six Sigma management and organized advocator ship inspection and fishery inspection. training, Lean Six Sigma operating system and financial Through strict assessment mechanism, Yuchai effect audit training, yellow belt training, green belt tried to promote closed-loop quality management. 18 training and lean management training. company-level projects have completed 324 corrective Excellent Team building and quality management measures, with 94.5% completion rate; 16 measures activities were carried out in 2010; a total of 42 teams have been consolidated. 225 external quality feedback obtained Guangxi honorary title of Outstanding Quality information received throughout the year including Management Team; 4 teams won the national honor 548 feedback from major customers, with 100% timely of Outstanding Quality Management Team; Yuchai processing rate, measures promptly closed-loop rate of successfully passed audits by Dongfeng, FAW, JMC 97.7% and the due question closed-loop rate of 87%. Improving internal audit and effectively preventing operational risk In 2010, the company further improved the main business management system and major management system of internal audit, which was investment and financing projects, evaluating divided into the routine audit, special audit and whether company system implementation was follow-up audit, and accordingly revised and sound and effective, whether major investment released internal audit management system, and financing projects proceeded in a so that audit work could be done in a more manageable way, the business risks get reduced standardized and effective way. By auditing and operational efficiency was improved. Operation Maintaining Technology Innovation Advantages Technology Leader and core breakthroughs Over the years, Yuchai has been at the forefront power train (ISG Technologies), achieving the first of the industry in independent innovation and test run of low carbon & energy efficient engines in achieved fruitful results. China and contributing to the development of lowIn tail gas emission control technology, Yuchai carbon economy. is the first to achieve mass production of Euro III Yuchai also independently developed the diesel engines and the first to do R&D and produce first mini-cars diesel engine, which are installed Euro IV&V diesel in China. These filled a gap of diesel on domestic cars and launched into market. It engines and meet stringent emission standards, also successfully developed China's first CNG gas breaking the monopoly of foreign technology; it is engine that meet the Euro IV emission standards, the first time domestic R&D can keep pace with leading trends of a new generation of engine international standards in engine R&D. technology. In hybrid engine R&D, Yuchai successfully Yuchai has defined innovation as the core developed the first city bus hybrid power, renewable competitiveness, serving as a basis for sustainable air hybrid power and commercial vehicle hybrid development of Yuchai. 22 Paying high attention to research and development Yuchai R&D base is in a leading position Administration of Taxation. Yuchai Technology in the industry. Following the upgrade of its Center ranked No. 27 among 575 National Enterprise Technology Center into the Engineering Technology Centers and No.1 in the engine Research Academy in 2007, Yuchai built industry. Construction Engineering Research Academy In June 2010, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous in Nanning in October 2009, laying a solid Region’s RMB 100 billion industrial R&D center foundation for Yuchai in future development into and major Sci-tech Breakthrough Project was an international conglomerate. officially launched in Nanning, Yuchai was In December 2009, Yuchai Technology awarded the Guangxi RMB 100 billion Internal Center won State Enterprise Technology Center Combustion Engine R&D Center. In September, Achievement Award jointly issued by the Yuchai technology center's innovation capacityNational Development and Reform Commission, building project passed the national inspection Ministry of Science, Ministry of Finance, and acceptance, highlighting Yuchai’s leading General Administration of Customs and State position in innovative R&D capability domestically. Operation Yuchai technology center's innovation capacity-building project passed the national inspection and acceptance. On September 3, 2010, Yuchai technology center’s innovation capacity-building project passed the national inspection and acceptance. T h e p r o j e c t i n c l u d e s a d i e s e l eng ine product design platform; a diesel engine trial production and testing platform; a trained R&D team with innovative capabilities. It could support the work of 22 major engine series R&D teams; it made a series of breakthroughs in key technologies, including whole vehicle thermal balance testing platform, mobile containertype plateau engine testing rack, organizational knowledge and analysis-driven integrated Billion dollar industry R&D center in Guangxi and major scientific and technological projects launched diesel engines R&D systems, which are never seen in China before. 23 Yuchai pays high attention to nurturing R&D talents. Yuchai established a research and development center jointly with UK Brunel University in October 2010; it joined hands with Huazhong University of Science and Technology to establish another research center later. Currently, Yuchai Engineering Institute has 433 scientists, including 23 Ph.D., 71 Masters and 22 senior engineers; there are 4 employees enjoying special allowance issued by State Council, 2 experts of outstanding contributions to the State and 1 outstanding Yuchai joined hands with Huazhong University of Science and expert in the autonomous region. Technology to establish research center Operation Yuchai construction machinery talent pool has played a significant role Guangxi diesel engine talent pool was built RMB 7.8 million. in 2004. Yuchai construction machinery talent The talent pool became strong driving force pool was then created in 2006. Through the for innovation. Yuchai Heavy Industry has received implementation of incentive measures, such as more than 60 patents authorized by the State, career planning for professional and technical more than 40 R&D technology category awards personnel, fund options management standards by the State, autonomous regions, municipalities, for top-notch technology backbone personnel in more than 20 process improvement awards and key positions, new product revenue commission more than 10 quality awards. Among them, the programs, project points reward, establishment proprietary Yuchai YC60-8 hydraulic excavator of reward fund for board chairman and general won Guangxi Science and Technology Progress managers, Yuchai has attracted top talents Award and China Machinery Industry Science from home and abroad, including 2 doctors, 13 and Technology Third Prize ; this model of engine masters and 233 undergraduates. Over the past is the best seller in the domestic industry in 4 years, Yuchai has rewarded key personnel of 2010. Yuchai Heavy Industry also has won Top science and technology at a total of more than Ten Brands in Chinese Construction Machinery RMB 46 million, including an end year award of Industry for many years. 24 Researchers from Yuchai Heavy Industry Company are making technology research Operation Yuchai was granted 230 of 2009 patents in 2010, 15.6% higher than that To ensure R&D capabilities, Yuchai's annual R&D investment is as high as RMB 200 million. The number of patents granted has increased year by year. In 2010, Yuchai applied for 286 patents and was awarded 230 patents, 10.8% and 15.6% higher than 2009 respectively. R&D Investment, 2004-2010 Unit: RMB 100 million 3.9 4.01 3.3 3.8 2.7 2.9 2.8 2.5 25 2.1 2.3 2.18 1.5 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number of Patents Applied and Awarded of Yuchai Group 350 300 250 Applied 200 150 Awarded 100 50 0 2004 2010 Operation Strengthening Strategic Partnership Coordinating to meet the needs of major clients Guided by the mission of meeting customer marketing, Yuchai has established strategic needs for power with excellent and advanced partnerships. In 2010, Yuchai was awarded the products and services, Yuchai has been trying to Seventh National Top 100 Outstanding Automotive create excellent engine . In 2010, from product Parts Supplier, and recognized by many partners planning and development to production and as a good supplier or strategic supplier. Awards of Excellent Supplier Granted to Yuchai in 2010 Title Partner Title Partner Excellent Supplier 2009 Xingdi Group Co., Ltd. Excellent Supplier 2010 Beijing North Huade Neoplan Bus Co., Hangzhou Ltd. Excellent Supplier Beijing North Huade Excellent Supplier XCMG Engineering Science 2009 -2010 Neoplan Bus Co., Ltd. 2009 -2010 and Technology Branch Ankai Excellent Supplier2009 Anhui Ankai Automobile Co., Excellent Supplier AA Dongfeng Automobile Co., Ltd Ltd. Excellent Supplier for Dongfeng (Liuzhou) Excellent Supplier 2010 Dongfeng （Nanchong） Supporting Products 2010 Automobile Co., Ltd Automobile Co., Ltd Excellent Supplier 2010 Nanjun (Sichuan) Excellent Supplier 2009 Xiamen King Long United Automobile Co., Ltd. Automotive Industry Co., Ltd. Excellent Supplier 2010 Fukuda Euro V New Energy Excellent Supplier 2010 King Long United Automotive 26 Bus Co., Ltd. Industry (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Dongfeng Commercial Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Strategic Supplier Vehicle Co., Ltd. Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co., Ltd. was named 2010 Excellent Supplier of Hybrid Powertrain Yuchai was named Excellent Supplier of Hybrid Powertrain on December 29, 2010 at 2010 China Electric Car Industry Chain Award Ceremony and Chinese Electric Car Industry Forum held in Beijing. The Ceremony and Forum was co-organized by China Automotive Daily, China Automobile Journalists Association and Automotive Network. The theme was Green & Low-carbon China ; and evaluation criteria include influence, forward-looking, industry chain and value proposition under just, fair and neutral principles. Internet users vote and experts rating were combined, fully reflecting the profile of Chinese electric car industry, both upstream and downstream. Operation One of the First Strategic Suppliers of Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd. In the end of 2010 held Dongfeng Commercial 2010 and at the same time became one of the Vehicle Strategic Supplier Ceremony & Annual first strategic suppliers. Yuchai has been supplying Supplier Assembly, Yuchai was named as engines for three brands of Dongfeng Commercial Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Supplier of the Year Vehicle Hercules, Dragon and Tianjin. Li Tiansheng, general manager of Yuchai Machinery Company (right) received the Strategy Supply Award from Huang Gang, general manager of Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Company (left) 27 Jointly creating the industry's best supply chain Yuchai Supplier Strategic Alliance Initiative The concept of simultaneous development Strategic Alliance members have of Yuchai and suppliers has been widely following characteristics: recognized by companies in the supply chain. Yuchai cooperated with suppliers very closely, and the core competitiveness of the supply chain Compatibility improved greatly with the help of the Yuchai. Yuchai and suppliers worked together to create Compatibility with Yuchai in strategy, production, the best industry supply chain . To that end, marketing, finance, corporate culture, etc; Yuchai called for win-win results, information sharing, joint development, mutual assistance in Complementary management, risk sharing, capital operation and Complementary with Yuchai in terms of mid to forward-looking services and culture building” long-term development capabilities, product in establishing supplier strategic alliances and reliability, cost control and competitiveness; promoting common development, building close working relationship among suppliers. Synchronization Ensure supply priority to Yuchai under mutualadvantage principles due to the alignment in the strategic objectives defined by the alliance. Operation Strengthening strategic cooperation with heavy-duty engine part suppliers In July 2010, Yuchai invited some representatives of the domestic parts suppliers to a heavy-duty engine part supplier meeting for discussion about strategic cooperation and simultaneously improvement of product & service quality, launching the battle of Yuchai and parts suppliers in consolidating Yuchai's market share in the heavy-duty engine market with joint efforts. At the meeting, Yuchai proposed to further strengthen strategic cooperation with heavy-duty engine parts suppliers, increase the order of parts from quality suppliers to ensure stable and reliable performance of heavy-duty engine. The parts suppliers said they would closely cooperate with Yuchai to create quality products for the heavy -duty engine market. Serving All Types of Customers Improving service network and delivering on commitments 900 new service stations were built Yuchai constantly enhanced service system planning and in 2010 with the total number of improved service network. It built 900 new service stations in 2010, a stations exceeding YOY increase of 56%, which brings the total number of service stations 2,500 to over 2,500; it thus created a pre-sales, during-sales and after28 sales national services network with the largest scale, widest service radius, the longest warranty of mileage, and the fastest response in the industry. Yuchai also has a unique 24-hour dedicated service line95,098, and has established a strong and efficient maintenance team. Sixteen commitments to consumers by Yuchai: 1. Share information with consumers in a transparent manner; 2. Advertising and marketing expressly to consumers; 3. Disclosure of price information of all product and services; 4. Provide facts and information requested by consumers and validate statements made by the company; 5. Systematic risk identification for product designs; 6. Provide consumers with proper product instructions and potential or foreseeable risk warning; 7. Take measures to prevent consumers from risks caused by improper handling or storage; 8. Provide consumers with effective usage recommendations; 9. Use product design and packaging that are easy for recycling, maintenance or recovery, and provide services or advice for recycling and disposal; 10. To provide consumers with the production, distribution and products related environmental and social information; 11. Provide information to consumers about products and services; 12. Clearly inform consumers about the product after-sales service and support, dispute settlement and compensation mechanism; 13. Provide adequate and effective system of business support and advice; 14. Provide affordable and easy access to maintenance services, and inform the need to purchase accessories in advance; 15. Provide alternative, low-cost dispute resolution and compensation procedures; 16. Collect, use and store consumer data in a responsible way. Operation Promoting leapfrog improvement in service quality Achieving breakthroughs in service system Quality service network is a core market is very fierce; the industry trend of service competitiveness of Yuchai. Yuchai, Yuchai service system homogenization is more obvious. Facing consortium, and Yuchai consortium built a new such circumstances, Yuchai built specialized model of cooperation, coordinated with each services for market segment, especially the other, conducted comprehensive communication agricultural market and the heavy machinery and had close cooperation in quality assurance, market. At the same time, it upgraded the existing personnel and service, with the aim to achieve service system, implemented relevant systems, win-win situation. established a scientific system of accessories Yuchai places service in a very important supply, and rationally allocated resources, in strategic position. The current competition of order to protect the interests of customers. Improving services for end-users Yuchai engine customers have about 2.6 with new market conditions and customer service million units of Yuchai engines, with wide coverage requirements. At the same time, service networks and big social impact. Rapid response and effective were integrated with the OEM network to strengthen 29 solution of customer various difficult problems is mutual communication and cooperation; carry Yuchai 's way to undertake its social responsibilities. out OEM authorized service qualification training, In August 2010, Yuchai established technical building electrical control, new energy, and marine support service center, aiming to establish a rapid electricity training bases for capacity building, so as response mechanism for major quality issues in line to serve end-users better. Leading R&D in intelligent service product-Yuchai E-steward” Yuchai places great importance on service, vehicle modules and information center; provides innovation, safety, energy conservation and fuelreal-time alerts, remote intelligent fault diagnosis, efficiency, providing customers with personalized expert online diagnosis and treatment services service and solutions; Yuchai developed an including failure, speeding, maintenance and gearindustrial leading intelligent service productshift; through shifting reminder, multi-function Yuchai e-steward.” control switch and driving behavior monitoring, it Yuchai e-steward system is composed of provides fuel consumption optimization program; three parts-onboard module, information center by integration of GPS and vehicle recorder and communication network. Based on modern function, it provides navigation, positioning and electronic engine control technology, modern vehicle monitoring and management services; it communications and network technology, Yuchai also provides maintenance, driver identification, e-steward system builds a platform for real-time fatigue driving, driving behavior management and interactive communications among human(driver), other value-added services; all in all, E-steward machine (engines and vehicles) and managers provides a green, environment friendly and (Platform Management System)through e-steward humane-oriented intelligence services. Operation Good reputation for dedicated services Yuchai service is sincere and service month, summer harvest, autumn proactive . In the Shanghai World Expo harvest, 50 special machine service and Guangzhou Asian Games, Yuchai and ship engine services. Yuchai’s has been providing quality maintenance sincere and quality service won users’ services for vehicles, sending out teams commendations; customer satisfaction who responded in quite timely and continued to rise. China Quality considerate way. Yuchai service was Association held “national customer spoken highly. Once again it proved satisfaction promotion meeting” in 2010 reliability of Yuchai machinery and and Yuchai was awarded customer service. service satisfaction medal and certificate. In addition, Yuchai also organized In 2010, Yuchai customer satisfaction was 74.45, specialized service initiatives, such as machinery continuing to stay at a high level. Yuchai Customer Satisfaction Index over the Years Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Customer Satisfaction 78.00 78.40 78.50 77.60 74.45 Index Note: the customer satisfaction index was made by China Quality Association; customer satisfaction index was calculated by customer 30 Yuchai marine power service satisfaction degree for products, company, service and brand. Yuchai won Model Service Provider for the support service for Guangzhou Asian Games Asian Games buses equipped with Yuchai engines To ensure transportation needs of the ceremony, Guangzhou government officials spoke Asian Games, Yuchai customer service center highly of Yuchai service, which effectively met the sent special support teams respectively to the transport needs of Asian Games. Yuchai teams Guangzhou Olympic Sports Center and Bus were responsive and effective, achieving the result stations, providing comprehensive, fast and of zero complaint and zero break-down, thus dedicated service for Asian Games. Yuchai won making an outstanding contribution to the Asian the title of Model Service Provider . In the awarding Games. Operation Yuchai services were commended by the World Expo During the World Expo in Shanghai, daily bus delivery of the Expo visitors was over more than 5000 sorties, most of which were equipped with Yuchai engines. To ensure the safety of the transport during the World Expo, Yuchai Shanghai Pudong service station, Zhongke service station and Yinglei maintenance station specifically held mobilization meetings for the Expo before the commencement, preparing all departments for the Expo. These maintenance personnel put customer needs first, worked hard despite the hot weather with the fastest speed and best quality, winning recognition from customers. 31 Overseas sales services reaching a new high Yuchai successfully built a service and sales network. By adopting the strategy of branding and supporting export to overseas market, Yuchai achieved an annual export of 26,386 engines, up by 38% over last year. The overseas market now has more than 12 million Yuchai engines. Overseas service efficiency and quality has been improved significantly by strengthening capacity building, service parts delivery, regular visits and training, opening overseas service information system YCSS, providing special tools and other measures. To improve the professional skills of overseas service agent level, Yuchai held special overseas training workshops Service agent in Thailand organize skill training program on gas machine for three consecutive years. Special maintenance training programs were held in 2010 in headquartered for overseas service In 2010, Yuchai engine had 16 new overseas agents and key customer s from Indonesia, Vietnam, service agents, making the total number of service Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and Hong Kong. agents reaching 58. Coupled with 22 sales agents, This is the third of its kind. Continuously Upgrading Eco-friendly Products Constantly Strengthening Eco-Friendly Manufacturing Vigorously Promoting Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction 32 Environment Continuously Upgrading Eco-friendly Products The Lowest CO 2 Emission per Unit of Yuchai Engines Yuchai Engine's Lowest CO2 Emission per Unit has been reduced by 20% compared with that of 1990. Yuchai has taken a new step in Sales and Particulate Emission of Yuchai eco-friendly product development Multi-cylinder Engines and manufacturing in 2010. All engine product ranges meeting Euro IV emission standards; Euro V engines went into mass production; hybrid engines were widely installed. All of these products Sales of Engines are new members to the green family particulate of Yuchai. Over the 20 years, the CO2 emission emission of Yuchai engines continued to 33 decline and the sales of engines were 8.5 times more than that in 1994, but the product particulate emission remained the same in general. Mass production of Euro V engines Yuchai has been focusing on energy saving and environmental protection. With advanced technology as support, it has been actively developing clean power. In December 2007, Yuchai launched the first domestic Euro V engine, 5 years earlier than the schedule in the national plan. An Euro V diesel engine's NOx emission is 60% lower than that of Euro III, particulate emission 80% less. Among all domestic companies, only Yuchai Diesel can provide Euro V diesel engine in bulk. In 2010, Yuchai completed the development of three models of Euro V diesel engine, namely 6L-50, 6L-51 and 6J-50, put them into mass production and launched them in the market. It has contributed to the air quality improvement and environmental protection in Beijing, and laid a solid foundation for the promotion of Yuchai Euro V engines put into service at Beijing public transport more extensive use of Euro V engines. Environment All product ranges meeting Euro IV standards YC4F YC4G（Hybrid Engine） As a company with a strong sense of social responsibility, Yuchai has been working hard to ensure all its product ranges meeting Euro IV standards, following the launch of China’s first diesel engine which meets the Euro IV emission standards-YC6L 4 in 2006. As Yuchai’s product line was very wide, the 34 task of ensuring all its product ranges to meet Euro IV standards was very arduous. To achieve the goal, it invested heavily in developing its own control systems and integration technologies, improving and upgrading laboratory equipments to meet the ever-increasing emission technology research requirements and product development needs. There were 71 models of Euro IV engines with YC6L 134 configurations developed in 2010; among which those put on the market were YC4F, YC4E, YC4G, YC6J, YC6A, YC6G, YC6L, YC6K series. Other series of products in conformity with the standards were also put on the market for wider use. YC6C YC6K Environment Yuchai hybrid powertrain taking the lead at home Yuchai hybrid engines were placed on the as the first group cities to launch Yuchai hybrid market in large quantities in 2010. So far more than systems. The 114 vehicles equipped with hybrid 35 300 hybrid engines had been sold, including LPG systems put in use in August 2010 served as gas-electric hybrid system, CNG gas-electric transportation means for Guangzhou Asian Games hybrid system and diesel-electric hybrid system; with 100% attendance during the service time and Guangzhou, Suzhou, Chongqing, Tianjin, Xiamen, better energy efficiency, which was well received Kunming, Haikou and other cities were chosen by users. Environment Smart Generator Sets The 300kW smart generator set used Yuchai and emission levels (up to T2, with T3 capacity), self-developed, cutting-edge diesel engine and the function of recycling the thermal power of 6MK and advanced control technology to from emission. The smart generator set, through achieve remote control (telephone or Internet the intelligent control technology and the control), automatic booting, compounding and technology of recycling the thermal power from other functions. It had high degree of intelligence, emission, can successfully save boot time, and electric properties and low energy consumption reduce energy consumption and emission. Launching new 6K products The YC6K series were engines for heavycylinder was used in a creative way, greatly duty machines officially launched by Yuchai in lengthening the engine life. It can meet the 2010, positioned as energy-saving, highlyemission standards of Euro VI and is of the same reliable, China-made world-class engine , which technology level of the latest European engines was developed by Yuchai based on similar, newunder mass production in 2012. generation engine platform of world-renowned YC6K was far ahead of similar engines brands and integrated the latest technological made in China in terms of its actual technical achievements in the world today with more than performance. The key indicators like fuel 30 technology patents. This was the first time consumption and specific weight were the highest that reliability growth technology was used in in the world: the minimum fuel consumption, 36 domestic engine industry, breaking the weakness fuel consumption rating point were lower than in reliability of China-made products. The precise the world advanced level of 5% -8%; the main burning and electronic control technology, the structure parts were made of high strength reversed cross-flow cooling technology, high vermicular graphite cast iron, engine weight strength materials and highly efficient engine was15% less than conventional ones. YC6K Environment 6M diesel engines of waste heat energy recovery The 6M diesel engines of waste heat energy recovery developed by Yuchai is a major breakthrough in energy saving and emission reduction. The waste heat energy recovery system, with water as medium, recovers waste heat energy through evaporator and superheater and then produces high-temperature and highpressure steam to drive piston steam engine for power output. The dead steam from the steam engine then condenses into water by condenser for recycling use. The output power from steam engine can be used to generate electricity or coupled to crankshaft. The system was designed to improve the thermal efficiency of diesel engines by 10%. And the highest thermal efficiency of recover heat in engine cooling system, the diesel engines and waste heat energy recovery thermal efficiency can increased by 15%, and the system, when working together, can reach as highest thermal efficiency of joint operation can high as 48%. By using this technology to further reach up to 55%. Successful R&D of YCK360 wide-body mining dump truck 37 YCK360 is the first wide-body mining dump truck in Guangxi developed by Yuchai specifically for domestic mines in line with their distinctive features. The mine trucks are equipped with 6M green engine specialized designed for mines, featured by low fuel consumption, powerful engine, high efficiency and flexible operation. The body is made of high-strength wear-resisting steel plates, which effectively increases net dead weight and reduced fuel consumption and maintenance. It is unique in shape, safe, reliable and comfortable to drive. YCK360 can be widely used in mining engineering works with poor road conditions and complex environment. Yuchai hydraulic excavators passed the review of international noise certification organization. On April 16, 2010, Mr. Alan, Manager of the Industry Department of British AVT--a worldrenowned noise certification organization— conducted sample noise testing of Yuchai hydraulic excavators. Results showed that YC35-8 hydraulic excavator's noise levels at all testing points were within the limits of 2000/14/EC, meeting the requirements of 2000/14/EC noise directive. British AVT conducted sample noise testing of Yuchai hydraulic excavators Environment Constantly Strengthening Eco-Friendly Manufacturing Yuchai extended environmental protection to the whole production chain, from raw material selection, emission control during the production process to the integrated waste recycling, with full consideration of environmental protection requirements. It constantly strengthened the concept of eco-friendly manufacturing through sustained efforts to achieve continuous improvement of the environment. The casting workshop was the workshop of heaviest pollution and facing the greatest difficulty to make improvement in eco-friendly manufacturing, but it is also the workshop which has made the biggest progress. The light spot of Yuchai in eco-friendly manufacturing in 2010 was the transformation of casting system. 38 The first to rely on robot to do the core setting in the world, thus improving New look——Core setting by robots quality and saving materials. Core setting by robots needs high precision. There has never been a manufacturer in the casting sector around the world that had any success in using robots to do core setting. Yuchai’ s technique in this area had rewritten the history. Core setting by robots improved casting accuracy, significantly lowered labor intensity of workers, and reduced the use of tools like core setting fixtures and core assembly tires. As a result, the use of casting materials was reduced by 6% at most, energy consumption during the production process by 8%, and the casting rejection rate to less than 1%. The reduced consumption of molten iron alone Traditional scenes of core setting by workers contributed to a cost cut of RMB 10.58 million a year and the reduced casting weight helped save RM B7.94 million each year. All together, there was a cost saving of RMB 18.52 million per year thanks to the improvement in these two areas. Environment Scientific and reasonable layout of processing route significantly improving the work environment 1 The new casting center was featured by one-stop processing line, high degree of automation, low labor intensity, complete separation of clean and polluted areas and thorough treatment of the polluting sites, thus contributing to a significant improvement in the work environment. Extensive use of advanced machines like robots or robot arms is adopted. The whole process, from core making, core assembly, dip coating, moving to core setting, is performed by robots. A one-stop processing line was established for all the activities in the workshop from core making, molding, melting, casting to clean-up. The logistics were smooth and labor intensity significantly reduced. 1 A corner of the core making center 2 Sand core automatic 2 transmission system 3 3 Clean lines, a change of the dirty and dark scenes in the past 39 Using new methods to control particulate and reduce emission for less environmental pollution Scavenging towers were built for flue gas treatment. The efficiency of the FRP exhaust gas scavenging tower was ≥ 99.5%. 2-6% sodium hydroxide solution or detergent was used as absorption/ neutralization liquid which can be recycled for continuous use. This did not only reduce environmental pollution, but also effectively eliminated toxic dust emission in the mold cooling corridors, reducing the risk of coal tar combustion and solving the lingering problem of the casting industry for the first time. Scavenging towers in the casting center Environment Adopting single-furnace electro-smelting to reduce dust particle emission Single-furnace electro-smelting was dust emission, 15,000 tons of slag and 92 tons of used to reduce the harmful substance like coke sulfur dioxide emission in a year and significantly generated during the cupola smelting process lowered the cost of casting materials and energy and human factors in smelting operation, which consumption. helped reduce slag and pores of casting, improve casting quality and effectively lower the cost of furnace burden. At the same time, it also helped reduce production processes and personnel, eliminate the inside and outside emission of dust particles produced in cupola smelting. The Casting Center reduced 1190 tons of Advanced technology of single-furnace electro-smelting 40 Automatic casting machine, the workers no longer have contact with high temperature ladle Using eco-friendly materials and promoting Classified treatment of waste to avoid cleaner production secondary pollution Throughout the production process, Yuchai The waste produced during the production focused on the use of environmentally friendly process was classified into recyclable and nonproducts, and actively used non-toxic, harmless recyclable categories for better management. or low toxic, less harmful materials to replace toxic Separate hoppers were assigned to each category to and harmful materials. Gradually it promoted the treat the waste in a timely way, so as to prevent longuse of environmentally friendly water-based paint term stay of polluting source in the plant compound to replace ordinary paint which is more harmful to and environmental pollution. The rate of waste employees and the environment. categorized collection and disposal reached 100%. Environment Vigorously Promoting Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Achieving energy saving with new processes New technologies and production processes manufacturing and the implementation of various were adopted for energy conservation, which energy saving technologies, the energy, water was an important part of environmental protection and electricity consumption per engine produced for Yuchai. In 2010, Yuchai has achieved a was constantly lowered. In 2010, the energy breakthrough in environmental protection consumption per engine produced was down by thorough new technologies and processes. 23%, water consumption 54 % and coal 56% over With increasing efforts in eco-friendly 2005. Energy Consumption per Unit Product over Past 5 Years Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Energy Consumption per Engine Produced 187.60 151.08 136.30 150.41 119.80 144.61 (kilo standard coal/engine) Water, Electricity and Coal Consumption over Past 5 Years Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water(cubic 6.348 4.785 3.212 3.555 2.229 2.895 meters/engine) Electricity 41 452.722 423.456 390.822 436.713 349.080 519.295 (KWH/engine) Coal(kilo/engine) 58.80 47.71 36.68 51.49 28.38 25.79 Treat harmonic Energy consumption per engine over the year. wave from intermediate produced in 2010 was down by By using intermediate 23% frequency furnace due frequency smelting to its unique nature of furnace to produce molten non-linear load was iron directly, Yuchai treated. After treatment, over 2005 achieved remarkable the higher harmonics energy-saving results. filtering rate reached Compared with the original over 80%, stabilizing process (cupola smelting system voltage, compensating the reactive + temperature maintaining by main frequency power and increasing power factor. The maintaining furnace), the new technique treatment did not only reduce harmonics can lead to an annual reduction of energy pollution, but also saved energy, resulting in consumption equivalent to 4,000 tons of more than 200,000 KWH of electricity saved standard coal. Energy Consumption per Ton of Molten Iron over Past Five Years Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Energy Consumption per Ton of Molten Iron 373.4 308.0 311.2 315.5 294.2 265.2 (kilo standard coal/ton） Environment Flue gas treatment using intermediate frequency smelting furnace Promoting resource recycling Yuchai promoted water recycling the solid waste discharge was cut by 13,260 technology vigorously. Some business units had tons thanks to the recycling of waste sand. 42 already completed the transformation of water Yuchai also replaced hydraulic recycling systems, conserving more than 400 dynamometer with electric measurement and tons of water per day. It carried out advanced control system to measure diesel engines. In treatment (gravel filtration and chlorine dioxide the process of engine testing, the system used disinfection) of effluent after sewage treatment, the diesel engine power output, and at the used recycled water discharged in conformity same time converted it into main frequency with the standards for furnace and cupola slag alternating current and fed it back to the grid, flushing, plant area water sprinkling to reduce so as to achieve the purpose of recycled use of dust in the air, rag cleaning and diesel engine energy. With the use of the new system, more test cooling. The water consumption per unit than 3 million kilowatt hours of electricity were of product was gradually lowered. In 2010, the recovered over the year. industrial water recycling rate reached 79.8%, Yuchai also cleaned oil stained rags for reducing water consumption and sewage reuse, which helped reduce pollution. The oil discharge. stained rags from equipment maintenance and Recycling of waste sand of casting was hand wiping used to be only used once, which adopted to reduce solid waste discharge. The was a huge waste of resources and source of waste sand from three casting workshops went pollution. In this regard, the company bought through the process of crushing + screening + cleaning and drying equipment to clean and dry dust elimination+ roasting for recycling. In 2010, the oily rags for recycling and reuse. Waste Oil, Slag, Waste Water Recycling in 2010 Waste Unit Value per Unit Recycling Amount in 2010 Recycled Value (RMB) Waste Oil ton RMB 2,683/ton 312.88 tons 839,500.00 Slag ton RMB12/ton 1,116.25 tons 13,395.00 Waste Water cubic meter RMB1.22/cubic meter 38,991 cubic meters 47,569.02 Environment The distributed combined heating and power system and the energy recovery system of Y & C Engine Co., Ltd. were recognized as a model of energy recovery. Y & C Engine Co., Ltd. implemented the overall energy plan effectively in the plant. For the first time, it used distributed combined heating and power technology and energy recovery technology in the manufacturing sector, laying foundation for the company to reduce energy consumption and achieve sustainable development. It is the first to use the distributed combined heating and power technology in China. Its spray coating process used highly efficient combined heating and power generation set to send power back to the factory’s intra power grid while providing heat for the drying process, the overall energy efficiency of such technology is as high as 90%, 15% higher compared with conventional separated heating or power supply. As for the and shifting technology. Thus, it achieved energy electrical and heat energy recovery technology, it recycling under traditional mode of production. can transfer mechanical energy from the ex-factory When the factory was working at full capacity, the testing of engine into electrical energy and feed it into heat and electrical energy recovery reached to the plant’s intra power grid. It can also collect the 1300KW/h and 1600KW/h respectively, accounting heat of the exhaust gas & cooling water from the exfor 1/3 of the total energy demand. factory testing of engine to heat the cleaning solution of the cleaning machines through the heat storage 43 Ex-factory testing process: Recycled 1600KW/h electricity for manufacturing Recycled 1300KW/h heat for air conditioners and heating cleaning machines Protecting Employee's Rights and Interests Developing Human Resources Building Harmonious Labor Relations Caring for Employees 44 Employees Protecting Employee's Rights and Interests Respecting the basic rights of employees in workplace Yuchai has always strictly implemented the Labor recruitment, salary, promotion, employment severance Law, Labor Contract Law, Employment Promotion and retirement issues. It prohibited employment or use Law, Trade Union Law and other national labor laws of child labor; prohibited forced labor. If there was a and regulations, protecting the rights of employees necessity to extend working hours, including overtime, to form and join in trade unions, to conduct collective cancellation or shortening of vacation, it would carry consultation and sign collective agreements. It adopted out full consultation with the trade union and employees the principle of equality in employment and occupation, and make public announcement in advance and fully and prohibited any form of discrimination on staff respect the basic rights of employees in the workplace. Yuchai Group's Total Number of Employees and Its Composition Women Minority Nationalities Number of Employees Number Percentage Number Percentage 19,509 3,825 19.61% 1,537 7.88% Special protection of the legitimate rights and interests of women employees 45 Yuchai conscientiously abided by laws and regulations on protection of the legitimate rights and interests of women employees, established work committees of women employees at all levels of trade unions, and offered fair treatment to women in recruitment, promotion and professional skill evaluation. Yuchai gave female employees special protection on occupational safety and health, marriage, pregnancy, maternity leave and breastfeeding in line with the state laws and regulations, established files on pregnancy, maternal leave and breastfeeding of women employees, and set up special lounge for women employees, lounge for pregnant women, room for breastfeeding, nurseries and kindergartens to provide convenient working and living facilities for female workers. Employees Yuchai was awarded the title of Leading Organization in Protecting the Rights of Women and Children in Guangxi Before the Women's Day in 2010, Yuchai was awarded by Guangxi Women's Federation Leading Organization in Protecting the Rights of Women and Children in Guangxi . Yuchai Group has been conscientiously complying laws on the protection of women and children as it developed and implemented the Collective Contract on Protecting the Rights of Women Employees of Yuchai , and set up a working mechanism of eight issues must be addressed to solve the concerns of women employees. It also organized a Spring Bud Program to provide donation to impoverished girls and help them complete their schooling. Developing Human Resources 46 Yuchai human resources development and employment needs of plants, engineering research management in 2010 had following characteristics: institutes and marketing companies, in-depth survey Firstly, promoting employment flexibility and providing was conducted to figure out actual needs before reasonable supports. Take initiative to understand running Yuchai technical schools to give targeted employment needs and employment patterns of recruitment training; Yuchai also signed with the various departments, increase internal job rotation Huazhong University of Science and Technology and transfer to build a flexible human resources team the long-term strategic cooperation agreement to to meet the employment needs of production tasks. hire talents and develop talent reserves. Thirdly, Secondly, making forward-looking and properincreasing incentives to give recognition and reward planning in human resources employment. For to various types of talents. Employees Education Level of Yuchai Employees Year MA and Above BA College 2010 1.60% 15.96% 22.64% 2006 1.02% 13.01% 17.35% Skill Structure of Yuchai Workers Year Senior Technician Technician Senior Worker Medium-level Worker Junior Worker 2010 1% 6.1% 17.56% 22.15% 13.19% 2006 0.48% 4.20% 12.03% 26.70% 19.74% YOY Increase 228.57% 128.25% 129.14% 30.3% 4.9% Placing emphasis on employee training to nurture talents Yuchai has always attached great importance links were effectively combined, forming a good to training, rewarding all kinds of talents; it formed a atmosphere of respecting skills; multiple forms of training concept to train staff competence, improve training had been explored, including mentorship, employees skills, bring out their potential, build six-step multi-position skill upgrade, monthly 47 intelligence pool and promote mutual development forum, English learning online, remote education, and progress; the program consisted of basic staff learning platform; batches of all types of hightraining, skills training, competence training and calibre personnel had been trained to meet needs academic degree training-the four pillars of the of the Group. In addition, experts in different fields training network at company level, department at home and abroad were regularly invited to give level and team level; training needs, innovative lectures to Yuchai staff, teach management and training model, training project implementation cultural courses to broaden horizons and improve and training effectiveness evaluation-the four the overall quality of staff. The Group's Employee Training 2006-2010 Year Training Cohorts Number of Trainees(Times) Total Training Hours 2006年 1,365 71,630 497,080 2007年 1,455 120,279 527,594 2008年 1,577 143,639 728,623 2009年 1,668 154,211 755,055 2010年 1,899 218,055 760,523 The Group organized seminar on international CSR standardISO26000 In order to better promote corporate social introduce International Standardization Organization responsibility and understand the essence of ISO26000 in terms of background, nature and the ISO26000, on December 16, the group invited main content. Group leaders and more than 100 well-known experts in the domestic CSR field to related personnel listened to the lecture. Employees Lecture scene 48 Rewarding highly skilled personnel Yuchai Group Board revised “Group skilled personnel awarding ceremony was held, Standard on Honorary Titles, Procedures, Award where letters of appointment were awarded to level and Benefit in 2010 to further increase reward 11 skill masters, and recognitions were given to to honorable model workers at all levels and winners six top-notch technicians of 2009, 23 technical in national or regional employee vocational skills achievements, the winning teams and individuals competition, especially giving big prize to first place of vocational skill competitions of 2009; the value of winners of national or regional employee vocational award exceeded RMB 1 million. skills competitions. On March 29, 2010, the highly On December 31, the company announced the certificates and awards for teams and individuals who made significant technological innovation. According to the Rules on Yuchai Award Management for Major Scientific and Technological Progress Winners, Yuchai will hand out big prizes every two years to recognize those scientific and technical personnel who have made great contributions to technological innovation in those 2 years. RMB 1 million reward to highly skilled personnel Employees Encouraging employees to carry out a variety of innovative activities Reasonable suggestions and minor reforms Encouraging employees to participate areas, a total of 4,428 reasonable suggestions in technical innovation and raise reasonable were made along with 495 refinements, achieving suggestions has been a consistent policy of Yuchai. a return of nearly RMB 20 million in production In 2010, frontline staff continued to put forward practices. On December 6, Guangxi Ceremony for a number of reasonable proposals and conduct Staff Economic and Technical Innovations & 4th technical refinements, which achieved good Session of Guangxi Technical Workers Association results. In the manufacturing process, product awarded Yuchai the title of Guangxi Demonstration measurement, material management and control Unit in workers Innovation . 4F cylinder block OP50 automatic assembly line incorporated with tool break alarm detector Solenoid-operated air valve 49 Detector sensor Detector probe Actuating cylinder FRL combination Before the rebuild After the rebuild Demonstration Positions of Innovation and Performance Improvement of Communist Party Members In 2010, Yuchai carried out the campaign or performance improvement were reported, 18 of Demonstration Positions of Innovation and positions were recognized as Demonstration Positions Performance Improvement of Communist Party of Innovation and Performance Improvement of Members among all Communist Party members Communist Party Members and 18 Party members working in front lines of production or directly serving were awarded the title of “Outstanding Individuals in the work in front lines of production. The campaign the Campaign of Demonstration Positions of Innovation covered 7 areas including equipment improvement, and Performance Improvement of Communist Party process optimization, product quality improvement, Members”. The campaign not only generated energy saving, cost control, production efficiency remarkable economic returns, but also established increase and management optimization. Party the role modes among Party members and promoted members from 31 grass-root level business unit healthy and rapid development of the company’s participated in the campaign, 92 projects of innovation production and operation. Employees Technical transformation and innovation activities by technicians. Yuchai established the Association of and successfully. The technicians were also Technicians which organized various activities required to take on apprentices, teach them in the for technicians. The technicians employed workplace, train and identify talents and pass on experience and wisdom to solve problems arising production experience, professional knowledge in production in a timely and efficient manner and and unique skills to skilled workers selflessly, thus tackled difficulties in the work. The experienced training and fostering a group of skilled talents or top-notch technicians took the lead to with innovation. demonstrate their super techniques on the spot In 2010, the technicians from various for others to learn. Every technician is assigned business units applied for 33 projects in three with important projects to be completed in quickly categories—project of innovation, project for production efficiency improvement and project for quality improvement, of which, 23 projects won the Prize of Technical Achievements of Highskilled Talents of Yuchai. During the process, a group of skilled workers stood out and won 50 titles such as King of Efficiency , Pathbreaker for Tackling Difficulties, Innovation Pioneer , National-level Competitor . They did an excellent job in their work, had the willingness to make sacrifices, had Show on reporting new results by Yuchai technicians the courage to make innovations, worked hard to break through bottlenecks, and equipped themselves with new skills to operate sophisticated equipment of the modern assembly line, thus making a significant amount of new accomplishments and boosting the development of the company. Technology demonstration activity on Yuchai Speed Employees Winning the Title of Top 100 Chinese Enterprises in Promoting Employee Education five times At the annual grand gathering of Top 100 Chinese Enterprises in Promoting Employee Education , an corporate training evaluation and release event jointly initiated by the Economic & Trade/Economic Committees of 22 provinces, municipalities and autonomous regions and co-organized by Modern Enterprise Education, the Center of Corporate Business School Development of Tsinghua University and Human Resources Newspaper, Yuchai Group won the title of Top 100 Chinese Enterprises in Promoting Employee Education for the fifth time. Yuchai technicians frequently winning titles of science and technology talents 51 Feng Jing Lin Zhiqiang On September 19, Feng Jing, vice president of Yuchai Engineering Research Academy was awarded the title of Outstanding Expert in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region”, making herself the fourth Yuchai expert who received this honor and enjoyed the special privileges of outstanding expert. On December 21, Dr. Lin Zhiqiang, president of Yuchai Engineering Research Academy won the award of “Outstanding Young Talent of Science and Technology in the Automobile Industry”, which represents the highest Lin Tiejian honor in the automobile industry to encourage young scientists and technicians to study science and technology and promote the development of the automobile industry. In addition, five Yuchai employees, namely Lin Zhiqiang, Feng Jing, Lin Tiejian, Pan Guoyuan and Liang Xiaodong , won the title of Outstanding Talent of Professional Pan Guoyuan Expertise in Yulin City awarded by the Yulin Municipal Party Committee and Government. This was recognition of their individual outstanding contribution and Yuchai’s efforts in respecting knowledge and talent, creating a favorable climate for talent development and utilization as well. Liang Xiaodong Employees Building Harmonious Labor Relations Implementing the mechanism of democratic participation of employees in the management On February 26, 2010, Yuchai convened participating in the administration and deliberation the Second Session of the Sixteenth Employee of the company affairs, the Group held quarterly Congress. The meeting discussed the Group's employee representative workshops in 2010, annual business goals, budget and final account listening to the views of employee representatives as well as income distribution the major issues regarding production, operation, product quality, involving the interests of business development vocational training, employee compensation and employees’ rights and interests. It reviewed distribution, vacation, recreation and sports. The the implementation of 66 valid proposals problems reflected were quickly replied or solved from the last employee congress regarding after the workshops. production, operation, safe production, employee compensation and environmental protection, and urged the implementation of the untreated proposals. It also reviewed 37 proposals submitted to this year’s congress Case: and passed on to relevant In April 2010, an employee of simulation process departments and leaders for from the engine testing workshop section, Engine Plant handling and implementation. I, Yuchai Group suggested to adjust the compensation When the Congress concluded, program. According to him, as the work time was changed the three supervisory boards from two shifts to three shifts, due to increase in employee would follow up and review the number and decrease in working hours for each shift, the 52 implementation of the proposals compensation of simulation process workers would not and the key issues. The review reach the average of the workshop section if it was still results would then be submitted to based on the previous working hours. The Democratic the employee congress for further Management Group received the proposal, immediately review. The system of employee conducted investigation and calculation in reference congress ensured that the to the compensation program of similar positions of employees’ rights to democratic other organizations and made the decision to adjust the management, democratic compensation program through voting. participation, democratic choice, and democratic decision-making and democratic supervision were protected. In order to fully play the role of employee representatives in 1 1 Yuchai employee representatives are communicating with company leaders Employees 2 2 The Second Session of the Sixteenth Employee Congress, Yuchai 3 53 3 Discussion site of Engine Plant 2 employee representative group Improving labor dispute settlement system The Group signed labor contract with all dispute settlement mechanism to resolve the disputes employees, established a staff complaint and at the grass-root level. Over the past 5 years, the company mediation mechanism, set up a labor dispute company only had 5 cases of labor disputes, mainly mediation committee to ensure that staff complaints related to compensation for termination of contract, of could be filed. It also made efforts to improve the labor which 3 cases were solved by consultation. Employee satisfaction improved significantly year on year The Group conducted annual employee used qualitative and quantitative analysis in order to get satisfaction surveys through an outside consulting to the core needs of employees and measure employee firm. Based on the measurement method of American satisfaction. According to evaluation, management Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI), the firm designed satisfaction increased by 8.6% in 2010 over 2009, and built an employee satisfaction evaluation model and ordinary employees’ satisfaction increased by 6.5% management satisfaction evaluation model. The model over 2009. Employees Strengthening Employment Health and Safety The company has been attaching great health. Continuous improvements were made in importance to employment safety and health, with quality, environment, occupational health and safety strict implementation of the three simultaneous review management system in 2010; Yuchai passed through system for construction projects, i.e., simultaneous certifications in environment, occupational health and design, simultaneous construction and simultaneous safety management systems and zero incidence was production. It actively used new processes and achieved in workplace death, serious injury, major fire, equipment, improved working conditions to control general fire, major equipment accidents, motor vehicles the occupational disease hazards from the source. It (in-plant) accidents and occupational diseases also established records of employment safety and through environment, employment health and safety health management for all employees. It reached management system certification. a credit rating of the employment health as individual records were particularly set up for those who were exposed to occupational disease hazards to monitor the employment Yuchai Employment Health and Safety 2010 Major Equipment 0 0 Accidents Workplace Death, Serious 0 0 54 Injury, Major Fire Occupational Diseases 100% 100% Prevention Rate Workers were receiving safety education Improving physical examination for employees Yuchai adhered to the employee-oriented principle, arranged for employee free medical examination every year. In addition to regular health check for all employees once a year, there were other physical examinations offered including gynecological examination for women employees and examinations for special positions. In 2010, the company added the examination of four renal functions to the current examination items and widened the coverage of the testing of four blood fat indicators from employees over 50 to all employees. The physical examination pack was 20 Yuan more expensive than the current one. To avoid long waiting time for examination if it is scheduled for only a couple of days, the trade union of the Group negotiated with related Physical Examination Hospital and offered employees physical examination card. The employees can schedule the Employees were receiving physical examination organized examination with the hospital anytime they want within by company the one-year valid time of the card. Employees Caring for Employees Caring about the employees with financial difficulties Yuchai's trade union, under the philosophy of serious illness or natural disasters, the trade union drew loving and good health and out of great humanity, money from the Staff Help Fund to help them alleviate paid enormous attention to the various problems their difficulties. The Group also organized women and difficulties facing the employees in work and workers to participate in women workers mutual help life. Through proactive and reactive services, Yuchai program of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, earnestly helped employees with their difficulties bought special group mutual-help medical insurance through various ways, such as housekeeping services, for female workers to better protect women workers’ home electronic appliance repair, greetings to family rights and interests. members of employees, help with the hospitalization of employees' family members, greetings to the pregnant employees and the new moms, congratulations on happy occasions, assistance and aid. It cared about the livelihood of the employees and took real actions to help them out of difficulties. For the 56 employees with financial difficulties due to 55 Company party leadership visit staff families with difficulty Improving recreation and sport facilities for employees In 2010, 13 physical exercise and recreation equipment for the residential quarters; change projects were completed for employees of beddings for the ex-pats in overseas external including plastic track for football playground in relations residence offices, and purchase of Donghua community, volleyball court in Kanghua microwave ovens for the night-shift employees. community, basketball court for the lubricant company, soccer fields for Nanning SpecialPurpose Motor Vehicle Company, volleyball court for the logistics company, indoor ball-game court in Nanhua community; entertainment facilities in the Yuchai Life Plaza, additional fitness and gym Brand-new plastic track in Yuchai Stadium Employees Rich recreation and sport activities In recent years, the Group's trade union organized various events, resulting in rich recreation and sport activities for the whole year. The program of I exercise, I'm healthy and happy become an important part of the life of Yuchai employees. Other events included the traditional Spring Festival gala, Chinese New Year Lion Dance performance, acrobatics show, series of activities of the Women's Day, balloon volleyball games, table tennis games, Children’s Day party, July 1st singing show, My beautiful home Yuchai 2010 Yuchai Group's New Recruitment Welcome Party , family cultural festival, and line dance contest participated by all employees. 56 Tug of War game in the National Day Yuchai Youth Debate Employees Selecting front-line backbone employees to enjoy vacation in Nanning In 2010, Yuchai selected ten backbone front-line workers to enjoy vacation in Nanning Worker's Sanatorium Home as a reward. They were from the first line of production, outstanding representatives of Yuchai workforce, including autonomous regions' model workers, Yuchai Master Chief, job master, and gold medal winner workers and top-notch technicians. Sending them for rehabilitation reflected Yuchai respect and care for the frontline staff. Organizing study and sightseeing tours for model workers and other outstanding employees The Group’s trade union organized an 8-day tour to Shanghai, Suzhou, Wuxi, Hangzhou and other places for 40 outstanding employees including model workers at various levels, woman pacesetter, model communists, Outstanding Young Workers, chief 57 technicians, leading technicians of each profession and top-notch technicians, visiting the World Expo, historical sites and some famous large Chinese enterprises in those cities. Yuchai model workers in the Humble Administrator's Garden Devoting to Community Development Engaging in Social Services 58 Community Devoting to Community Development Promoting economic development of the community Yuchai always took it as its responsibility to only improve the function of Yuchai's own industrial promote the social and economic development of chain, but also provided a new platform for the the local community and responded positively to development of the machinery industry of Yulin City local government's call of Strength Yuchai to Eenrich and created a lot of employment opportunities. It YuLin . It constantly deepened its own institutional established a Vocational and Technical College, reform, continuously improved its capability of which did not only help satisfy the demand for independent innovation to create a world leading skilled personnel of Yuchai, but also provided a brand. It actively played a clustering and radiating good training base of skilled workers for accelerated role to build stronger machinery industry clusters, development of the industry in Yulin. Yuchai's efforts help local enterprises improve technology and in promoting local economic and social development management level, and promote the development of won the recognition from local government in 2010, 59 industry in Yulin by leaps and bounds. It set up the and it was awarded the title of Leading Industrial Yuchai Industrial Park to house a large number of Enterprise in Guangxi 2010 and Leading Industrial manufacturers of parts and particles, which did not Enterprise in Yulin City 2009 . Yulin government held forum of Strength Yuchai to Eenrich YuLin in Yuchai Community Creating more job opportunities Yuchai, through its own rapid development, opportunities. From 2005 to 2010, Yuchai created 3556 new continuously created a large number of quality local job jobs, up by 11.35% y-o-y or 711 jobs a year in average. New Job Creation by Yuchai over the Past Five Years Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Num. of People 15,963 16,459 17,331 17,029 18,287 19,509 Num. of Jobs 1,076 496 872 none 1,258 1,222 Carrying out the Campaign of Low-carbon Household & Fashionable Lifestyle The Group carried out a Campaign of LowLifestyle ; encouraging the employees and their carbon Household & Fashionable Lifestyle families to save energy and reduce emission by to vigorously promote and popularize low using LED lights, turning off lights or pull the plug carbon knowledge, calling for less energy, less when needed, using more natural ventilation than consumption, less spending and low-carbon air conditioners, using water-saving sanitary lifestyle. The activities included “My lowappliances, recycling water for reuse, carrying 60 carbon life” Writing Competition, selection of the one’s own drinking cup than using disposable “Demonstration Family of Energy Conservation paper cups, bringing one’s own chopsticks when and Emission Reduction”, blackboard newspaper dining out, shopping without plastic bags and contest of Low-carbon Household & Fashionable taking more buses than driving cars. Signing ceremony of Low-carbon Household & Fashionable Lifestyle activity Community Engaging in Social Services Providing disaster relief In 2010, a series of natural disasters happened in made donations to the disaster hit areas, and organized China, including drought in southwestern China, Yushu rescue teams to repair affected damaged vehicles in earthquake and Zhouqu landslide. Yuchai employees the disaster hit areas. 61 Yuchai actively participated in the Zhouqu rescue activity Community Donating to education undertakings 62 Poor children received Yuchai' donation Yuchai had been making donations to education undertakings for many years. In 2010, Yuchai, for the fifth consecutive years, donated to the Spring Bud Program , making the total amount of donation reaching RMB1.25 million over the five years and extending help to 2,500 girls covered by the program. Yuchai also provided RMB600,000 of education funds in total to the children of Yuchai employees over the past five years to help financially stressed students complete their schooling. Scholarship was also provided by Yuchai at Tianjin University and 32 students received the scholarship in total. Community Engaging in volunteer activities Yuchai encouraged employees to participate in various forms of volunteer activities. The young employees of Yuchai actively responded to this call and organized their own teams for volunteer work. They visited the elderly in nursing homes and the orphans in the orphanage in their spare time, and offered help to the poor families in the community in oneon-one form, free tutoring for the children of Yuchai employees, or free medical consultation or haircut services for the elderly. There are 54 volunteers now, who had carried out a total of 63 volunteer activities in 410 person times with service time of 1,282.5 hours in 2010. 63 Yuchai Volunteer Team members visit the elderly living alone and try to solve problems for them Strategic Plan of the 12th Five Year Plan Period 2011 Objectives 64 Prospects Strategic Plan of the 12th Five Year Plan Period Development Strategy Yuchai will carry out domestic and priorities on the development of industries and international joint venture cooperation and speed products including diesel engines, construction up the introduction and application of high and machinery, special vehicles, automotive parts, new technologies. It will expand its industrial engery chemicals and logistics. It will integrate chain centering on its main businesses and put technology advantages, build the Yuchai flagship, and further enhance its international competitiveness so that Yuchai will become a Strategic Positioning world-renowned brand and a large multinational group. Two product chains: Product chain of engines and of construction machinery. Multiple industry clusters: Strategic Objectives Companies within Yuchai Group are divided into company clusters by industry. The clusters will be Yuchai will make efforts to ensure that the formed with expansion into new territories based two product chains and multiple industry clusters on the existing industrial architecture, including achieve sustained, rapid, healthy and coordinated logistics & automobile trade, energy & chemical development, and strive to rematerialize the sales products, special vehicles, automotive parts and 65 revenue of over RMB 100 billion by 2015 as well incremental services. as simultaneous growth of total profit and sales. 2011 Objectives Operation and Management 1 Operation Guideline: Ensuring a good start, focusing on projects and strengthening core competencies . Business Objective:Realizing a sales revenue of RMB 40 billion and simultaneous growth of total profit and sales. Environmental Guideline 4 Assuming responsibilities, and regulating Safe Production 2 Zero workplace death, serious injury and governance; Strictly process control, and harmonious fire accident. development. Minor injury accident≤3‰. Employee Development Guideline Employment Health and Safety Guideline 5 3 People-oriented & safety first; Securing employees' right and interests, and realizing decent work; Preventive measures & continuous Implementing democratic consultation, improvement. and striving harmonious all-win.
