HUMAN RIGHTS Principle1: Businesss should sup pport and resspect the pro otection of intternationally proclaimed human h rights; an nd Principle2: Make su ure that they are not comp plicit in humaan rights abuuse. As a rein nsurance co ompany, due to the main n features off its activity and a its empl oyees’ profilles, SCOR iss not expo osed to huma an rights conncerns with re egards to its own workforce. Margin oof manoeuvrre to promote e the prottection of human h rights s are sough ht in the supply chain managemeent, mainly through the e procurem ment policy but b also throu ugh the desig gn of produc cts and servic ces. Impleme enting a pro ocurement policy p with a devoted cllause to corrporate resp ponsibility In orderr to promote e and raise standards o on this issue, SCOR ha as initiated a policy of selecting itss intellectu ual service providers p by drawing up a charter th hat complies with the 100 principles of o the United d Nations Global Com mpact. As a first step, S SCOR has tested this in nitiative in 22009 on a limited scope e: intellectu ual services providers in n the field o of information technologies that worrk for the Group G and itss subsidiaries in Francce. The 15 services provviders require ed to comply y with these pprinciples ha ave all signedd the chartter as part off their contra actual duties. Designing products s and develo oping the ex xpertise nee eded to push back the ffrontiers of insurability Amongst the aspectss that Human rights enco ompass, the e Declaration proclaims thhe right to so ocial securityy and to th he economicc, social and cultural rightt indispensable to human n dignity andd the free development of o each ind dividual's perrsonality. Re einsurance co ompanies, such s as SCOOR have a sttrong social value added d function through their investment and the de evelopment of o risk assessment that ppush back th he insurabilityy frontier o of risk on a global g basis. Bringing insurance to o people livin ng in povertyy or to people s e who have suffered seveere health coonditions andd who nee ed insurance cover in ord der to be graanted a loan is an efficien nt way to seccure the basic needs tha at are indisspensable to the free dev velopment off each individ dual’s person nality. Bringing g insurance e to low incoome populattion: SCOR’’s involveme ent in the m microinsuran nce industry y SCOR is involved at a different stage in the e microinsurrance industtry (i.e. finanncing, capac city providerr, scheme designer):  F Financing: SCOR S nvested in Le has in eapfrog, a pioneer Priva ate Equity funnd in the Microinsurance e ffield. In addittion to the innvestment re eturn, this partnership ena ables SCOR R to benefit frrom Leapfrog g MMicroinsuran nce business s network i n Africa and Asia (more informatioon on this initiative are e aavailable in ouro previous “Communica ation on prog gress”.  C Capacity prrovider: as for tradition nal insuranc ce, SCOR provides caapacities to o specialized d mmicroinsurerrs and generral insurers. SCOR is cu urrently involv ved in variouus schemes, be it on the e PP&C side (m mainly agricultural risk) o r on the life side (health, critical illneess) in emerging marketss ssuch as India a, China, Braazil.  S Scheme dessigner: in som me circumsta ances, SCOR partners with w internatioonal or locall institution in n oorder to set up innovative schemes, in particular in the agricu w ransfer field where ultural risk tra SCOR R hhas demonsttrated its exp pertise in alte ernative transfer scheme. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros Develop ping tailored d solutions forf people w who suffered d severe health conditio ons For man ny years SCO OR, through its subsidiarry SCOR Glo obal Life, hass been develloping strong g expertise in n the field of risk assesssment throu ugh a longsta anding involvvement in ressearch and ddevelopmentt and through h partnerships with th he world of medical ressearch (card dio-vascular risks, Alzheeimer’s dise ease…). Thiss consistent approach h, applied over o the yeears led to a new parrtnership eaarly in 2011 on Human n Immunod deficiency Virus V (HIV) wiith the team at the Unive ersité Pierre et e Marie Currie at the Pitié-Salpêtrière e hospital. This reg gular dialogu ue with med dical expertss enables SC COR to anticipate the cconsequence es of factorss affecting g the assessment of risks s, and to mo onitor social, epidemiologgical, medicaal and therap peutic issuess. For insta ance, in som me countries granting of lo oans may be e subject to the t availabiliity of a death h or disabilityy insurancce cover thatt would be triggered t in ccase of. Peoople who have suffered severe health conditionss may not be in the po osition to find d a cover thaat meets thes se requireme ents. As the results of the researchess SCOR h has undertakken are trans slated into un d nderwriting decisions andd shared throough various s means with h its clientts, SCOR is able to dev velop tailored d solutions that t further expand e insuurability and in turn alloww people to o fulfil their projects. p SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros LABOUR R Principle 3: Businesss should uph hold the freeedom of asso ociation and thet effective recognition of the right to collecctive bargainiing Principle 4: the elim mination of alll forms of forrced and com mpulsory labo our. Principle 5: the effecctive abolition of child lab bour; and Principle 6: the elim mination of dis scrimination in respect off employmen nt and occuppation SCOR’s Code of Conduct stipula ates that the company “is s committed to t providing a workplace environmen nt that is frree from phyysical hazard ds, all forms oof discrimina h ation and/or harassment based on ge ender, sexua al orientatio on, race, relligion, disability, or workkers’ or unio on representative mandaates, and fro om any othe er abusive physical, verrbal or visual conduct”. This secction of our “Communica“ ation on prog gress” illustraates how this s statement is embedde ed in SCOR’ss daily ope eration and human h resouurces manag ement, in pa articular with regards to:  F Freedom of association a and a right to ccollective barrgaining.  D Diversity and d equal oppo ortunity.  T Training and d developmen nt managem ment. Freedom m of associa ation and rig ght to collec ctive bargaining As a S Societas Eurropaea, SCO OR has sett up a Euro opean comm mittee coverring all of its European n subsidiaries including the one lo ocated in Sw witzerland. Th he European n committee is made up of employee e represen ntatives from m all of SCO OR’s Europea an subsidiarries, who me eet in order to exchange e information n concerniing the Group, and to ma aintain an on -going dialog gue between n employees and the man nagement. 4 Europe ean Committtee meetings were held in 2011 (3 meetings in Paris and oone meeting in Cologne)). Complem mentary to th hese meeting g held at the European le evel, social dialogue d takees place at lo ocal level too o. In 2011, more than 70 meetings s were held w with staff representatives in Europe (17 meeting gs in Paris, 4 meetingss in Italy, 2 meetings m in Russia, 4 in Switzerland d, 43 meeting gs in Germaany, 1 meetin ng in Austriaa) and 7 co ollective agreements we ere signed w within the Gro oup (5 in France and 2 in Germany y). The list of o these co ollective agrreements is available in n SCOR’s 2011 2 registrration docum ments (see section 3 of o appendixx E). In additio on, 14 meetings were he eld with emp ployee repres sentatives inn the Group to discuss th he conditionss of local h health and sa afety (including 9 meetin ngs in Paris, 1 meeting in Italy, and 4 in Switzerland).meetingss are regu ularly held witth employee representat ives on Heallth and Safetty conditionss. Last but not least,, aside from m its legal obligations and in ord der to secuure adequatte employee e represen ntation, SCO OR’s employ yees are invvited, on a worldwide basis, to eelect an adm ministrator too represen nt their viewss before the Group’s G boarrd of directorrs. The mand date of the G Group’s employee-elected d Board director expirring on May 2012, an e election has been organized. After tthe second ballot of thiss worldwid de election, a new emplo oyee-elected d working in the United-S States has bbeen appointted to SCOR R SE’s Boa ard of Directors. In order to ensure th hat its emplooyees are ke ept properly informed, SC COR has creeated a dedicated labou ur relationss page on th he company’’s intranet. O On this page e employees s can find innformation reelating to thee Works C Council and Health H and Safety S Comm mittee meetin ngs, collectiv ve bargainingg and agreem ments. There e is also a dedicated section for European la abour relatioons and reprresentatives.. A specific page on the e intranet is also devotted to the Eu uropean com mmittee. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros Diversity and equall opportunitty SCOR sstrives to promote diversity and equall opportunity y across its organisation, o in line with the t principless enshrine ed in its Code e of Conduc o achieve this, SCOR has undertakenn a number of actions, in ct. In order to n particula ar with regard ds to gender equality:  TThe Group has h steadily increased th he rate of fem male board members m froom 0% in 2009 to 16% at a tthe date of th he production n of this repo ort (2 women n over 12 votting members rs).  Monthly “Equ ual opportunnity lunches” in the Europ pean hubs are organised since 2010-2 2011.  AAgreements signed in 2009 in Fra ance concerning non-discriminationn and equal treatmentss, rrecruitment and a job reten ntion.  Reduction off differences between me en and wome en remunera ation and decclension of thhe principles oof profession o the agreem nal equality of ment within SCOR S in France.  Particular atttention was given to the e number off women in the Partnersship. Betwee en 2008 and d 22011, an ad dditional 19 women werre granted the t status of o Partners ((for a descrription of the e partnership program, p seee SCOR’s 20 011 registratiion documen nt, section 3 oof the appenndix E).  TTraining on diversity iss sues with th he assistance e of a third party were provided to o the Human n Resources Department D in France. These specific gender initiatives s complemen c nt SCOR’s current remunneration poliicy which is solely based d on merit and perform mance. This policy p is avaiilable to all SCOR’s S emplloyees. Talent a and development manag gement SCOR a actively prom motes a cultuure of leadersship, entreprreneurship and a learning under which h current and d future en nvironmental, economic and social issues relev vant to reinsurance are analysed an nd taken into o account by all posssible means. In line witth this learning culture, SCOR doess not insist on devoting g temporal and monettary resources to the co ompany's ow wn needs, but also exteends such su upport to the e needs off its staff. In this cultural enviro onment, SCO OR has form malised its tra aining and development policy at the e level of thee Group w with the follow wing overarch hing principlees:  TTo have one S e consistent SCOR-wide Training and d Developme ent approachh to ensure uniformity and d ffairness.  TTo give some manageria al competencce in determining SCOR’s s contributionn.  TTo apply a stringent s proccess of valid ation, contro ol and monito oring.  TTo make training and de evelopment a an individual business-ca ase-driven innvestment an nd retainmen nt iinstrument.  TTo allow some limited consideration c n to local particularities required byy local laborr law, e.g. in n FFrance and Germany. G In the no ormal course e of business s, SCOR is vvoluntarily committed to in nvesting 1.255% of its totaal wage bill in n individua al further ed ducation, traaining and developmen nt initiatives. SCOR alsso grants its s employeess financial support and d time credits so that th hey can und dertake trainiing (either innternally or externally) in n technica al, profession nal and managerial area as as well as s social skillss; such trainning also ena ables staff too develop personally. In I 2011, morre than 34,00 00 hours of trraining were provided to SCOR’s employees:  220,752 training hours (EU UR 544,906)) were offered in the hub of Paris,  33,873 training hours (CHF 667 777) w were offered in the hub of o Zurich,  77,025 training hours (EUR 265,484) w were offered in the hub of o Cologne, SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros  11,338 trainin ng hours (U USD 61 940 ) were offerred in the hub h of Neww York (exclu uding forme er TTransamericca Re, whose e employeess attended 37 71 training hours betweeen August an nd Decembe er 22011),  8 o 855 training hours were offered in the e hub of Singgapore (SGD D 54,000).  IIn addition, thet training cost c in the huub of London was GBP 68 627 (num mber of trainiing hours no ot aavailable for this hub). Yearly a appraisal and development intervviews (ADIs) provide the framewoork where training and d developm ment needs and measurres are captu ured. The AD h DI is at the heart of perfoormance maanagement at a SCOR. In addition to the ann nual evaluattion of perfformance an nd potential,, interviews involve the e compilattion of perso onal developm ment plans tthat define developmenta d al objectivess and measuures (such ass training ccourses). In line w with a strong culturec of tra ansparency, tthis training and development policy has been ma ade availablee to all SC COR’s employyees on SCO OR’s intranett website. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros ENVIRON NMENT Principle 7: Businesss should sup pport a precaautionary app proach to en nvironmentall challenges; Principle 8: underta ake initiativess to promote greater enviironmental po olicy; Principle 9: encoura age the deve elopment and d diffusion off environmen ntally friendlyy technologies SCOR’s environmen ntal policy is s guided byy the interna ational initiattive to whichh it has sub bscribed (i.e e. United-N Nations Glob bal Compact on one side e and the Ky yoto Stateme ent of the Geeneva Assoc ciation on thee other sid de). These tw wo initiatives s form the fra w amework in which SCOR R and its maiin subsidiarie es implemen nt the Grou up’s environm mental policy y. Although h reinsurancce is not an n industrial activity, SCOR strives to conduct its global operation in n accordan nce with the e environmen ntal principle es which are e set out by the United--Nations Global Compacct with rega ards to preve ention, prote ection and prrecaution. Th herefore, the environmenntal policy aim ms to reduce e the envirronmental im mpacts directtly linked to S SCOR’s activ vity and whoose main souurce is derive ed from officee management (energ gy consumptiion, water co onsumption… …), business s travel (in pparticular air travel due too the interrnational natture of its activity) a and to a lesserr extent offic ce equipme nt (furniture, Information n Technolo ogy equipme ent, paper…)). Additiona al measuress are also pro ogressively uundertaken in the field off indirect imppact (i.e. bus siness related d impact) through non n-residential real estate e d exclusively destined for investment aas well as an a increasing g interactio on with the in ndustry. Scor’s e environmenttal policy with regards to its directt environmental impact The Gro oup’s environ nmental polic cy is decentrralised at “hu ub” level (in Europe, Col ogne, Londo on, Paris and d Zurich, in Asia Paciffic, Singaporre and in the e Americas, Americas Hub) and monnitored at Grroup level byy the GRE EENSCOR manager m whoo, besides itss responsibiliity with regarrds to complliance with environmenta e al information disclosu ure requirem ments, enco ourages, co oordinates anda mandattes locally implemented d environm mental initiatiives. The GR REENSCOR manager, appointed in 2009, relies s on and rep ports to the Group Corp porate Socia al Responssibility Comm mittee (CSR Committee) where he allso acts as the secretaryy. The CSR Committee C iss chaired by the Group Chief Operating Office er and gathers the Hubs’ Chief Execuutive Officer’’s, as well ass represen ntatives from m several cen ntral functionss (complianc R ce, Human Resources, C Communicatio on, Risk) and d operational functionss (SCOR Glo obal P&C, SC COR Global Life, SCOR Global G Invesstments). Being m mindful of con d ntrolling its direct “enviro onmental foo otprint”, the Group suppoorts any initiatives which h tend to minimize th he environm mental impaccts in the fo ollowing areas: (1) propperty offices s, (2) energyy efficienccy with regard ds to its inforrmation techn nology syste em, (3) travel: 1. F For several years now SCOR hass been impllementing projects in thhe property offices area a ((acquisition and site ma anagement) in order to reduce its im mpacts derivved from offfices that are e ooccupied by SCOR’s employees:  With h respects to o offices acqu uisition, the site in Londo on which is oowned by th he Group hass been n certified BRREEAM (”BR RE Environm mental Assess sment Methood”). In Cologne, the new w site which hosts s SCOR’s lo ocal teams, has been awarded an European environmenta e al label. In Paris, th he headquarrters is certiffied “Haute Qualité Q Envirironnementalle” (HQE) fo or the design d and thhe construct ion phase.  With h regards to o facility maanagement, beside the Zurich officee whose op perations are e certified ISO 140 001, Cologne e and Paris will strive to implement rrespectively the following g standards: EMA AS (“Eco-Ma nagement and a Audit Sccheme”) andd HQE operration. These e certifications are likely to be ssought in the e course of 2012. 2 SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros 2. W With a view to t reduce en nergy intensitty of the information technology systeem (“GREEN N IT”), actionss hhave been ta aken in the field of Data m management and IT furniture:  The initiatives an nd projects cconducted su uch as the virrtualisation oof the servers s and the on-going consolidation of the Da ata Centres on o one single e data centerr with a back k-up facility (the “Global Data a Centre”) pa d articipate to diminishing the energy inntensity derivved from data a man nagement. Th he energy eff fficiency targeet of the Global Data Cenntre is to rea ach a “Powerr Usag ge Effectivenness” (PUE) of 1.5.  Two approache es have be een developed with regards r to computers and laptop p man nagement in order to red e duce their energy intenssity: the Grooup’s fleet rationalisation n (e.g.. lifespan of the IT equip pment, centrralisation of thet copiers) and acquisition of highlyy enerrgy-efficient equipment (EPEAT Go old for laptop and compputers on a Group-wide e basis).  In ad ddition to the ese initiative s taken overr the past few years andd regularly monitored, m thee Grou up IT Deparrtment contriibuted in 20 011 to the elaboration oof “Sectorial guide to the e asse essment of greenhouse gas emissiions for org ganisations iin the digita al technologyy secttor”, a joint publication between ADEME A (the e French E nvironment and Energyy Man nagement Ag gency) and C CIGREF (a French association of “useer side” large e companiess) to which SCOR adheres. a 3. S Streamlining g of travel, which w main contribu is the m utor to the Group’s G Greeen House Ga as emissionss, iis sought thrrough the ro oll-out of highhly sophisticated and effficient videoppresence roo oms, and the e iimplementation of a tra avel policy ssetting out principles p an nd rules forr a proportio onate use of o ttransportatio on means. Complem mentary to th hese Group initiatives, lo ocal affiliates run various project invo lving SCOR’’s employeess to variou us extent and d on a volunttary basis. This rep port does no ot include ou ur environme ental data co onsolidated at the level of the Grou up which are e available e in SCOR’ss 2011 regis stration doc ument (see appendix C). C With the goal to strreamline and d enhance e its environmental reporting system m, SCOR has decided to o voluntarily submit for the first time e some off its environ nmental datta disclosed d in its 2011 registratio on documennt for verific cation by an n independ dent third party.p Mazarrs, one of S SCOR’s SE statutory auditors, a connducted its review on 3 importan nt locations in Europe (C Cologne, Lon ndon and Zurich). The au uditor’s repoort will be maade available e on SCOR R’s website. Scor’s e environmenttal policy with regards to its indire ect environm mental impacct 1. W With regard d to non-res sidential reaal estate ex xclusively destined for investment, the Group p ssurpassed th he objectives s it set the ye ear before:  Firsttly, energy audits continu ued in Franc ce: further to the 6,000 m m2 audited in n 2010, these e audits covered an a additional 10,000 m2 in 2011. 13% % of the real estate held in France fo or investment purp poses now b benefits from m an energy audit. Thesse audits allo ow SCOR to o identify scenarios for improviing energy co onsumption and reducingg greenhouse gases.  Seco ondly, SCOR R acquired th he “Green Offfice” building g in Meudonn (France), one of the firsst posittive energy tertiary secttor buildings s of this sizee in France.. This building combiness enerrgy saving so olutions with the production of renew wable energyy, in order to meet its own n need ds. The building is partticularly intellligent, with solar panelss as well as a biomasss coge eneration sys stem, and pe erforms imprressively, ge enerating eneergy savings s of 65% with h rega ard to the th hermal regul ations of 20 005 and CO O2 emissionss 400 tons lower l than a tradiitional building. The pho otovoltaic syystem, comp posed of 2,8800 solar pa anels spread d acro oss all of the building’s avvailable surfaaces, can pro oduce 450,0000 kWh/yearr. The excesss enerrgy produced d is sold to EDF at the rate applied d for architeccturally integ grated panelss SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros like those of the “Green Offiice”. This acq quisition is an a illustrationn of SCOR’s commitmen nt to prromote renew wable and de ecentralised source of en nergy producction. 2. Environmenttal issues arre increasing gly monitored d and discus ssed by SCO OR’s departm ment through h ccorporate an nd community y initiatives a and partnerships:  As a major reinsurance play yer involvedd in the cove erage of nattural events,, SCOR veryy activvely monitors s the possiblle impacts of climate cha ange. As weell as monitoring the riskss and opportunitie es linked to climate cha ange as parrt of the steeering of em merging riskss (ECH HO – Emerging or Chang ging Hazards s’ Observato ory), SCOR hhas become involved with h a nu umber of corrporate and community initiatives, i no otably the innitiative cond ducted by the e Geneva Association:  In 2009 SCOR sign ned the Kyo oto Statemen nt, launchedd under the aegis of the e Geneva Association , of which th he Group is a member. Through this Statementt, SCOR undertakes u to o continue too reduce its carbon c footprrint and to play a decisive e role in thhe fight agai nst the risks s linked to climate changge, notably by b developing g research h into climate e risk, by puttting its expeertise in the ffield at the disposal d of itss clients, by b securing iinvestments in low CO2 technology aand by workiing alongside e the public authoritiess. SCOR is also a an active e member off the CR+I working w group p of the Geneva G Assoociation, whicch has follow wed on from the CC+I wo orking group p. The objective of thiis working group g is to reflect on thhe contributiion made byy insuranc ce to sustain nable develop pment, by increasing thee resilience of o companiess to climatte risks and e extreme events.  Alongsid de this speccific insuran nce industry initiative, S SCOR has renewed itss memberrship of the C Club Tendan nces Carbone e, which wass founded in 2007 on the e joint initiative of CDC C Climat Rec cherche, Blue eNext and M Météo-France e.  Usin ng the informmation gatherred from this s involvemen nt, SCOR dev evotes intellectual, human n and financial res sources to sh haring its ex xpertise with its clients thhrough training seminarss, and more widely through iits publicatio ons such as Focus, SC COR Paperrs, Technica al New wsletters and d so on. Th his interaction with the e insurance industry, begun on an n environmental fo ooting with th he topic of climate change e, is increasiing:  In 2010, the central ttheme in this s regard was s water manaagement. Th he associated d SCOR training t sem minar and its s principal conclusions c were transc cribed in the e Focus co ollection (“WWater: a key industrial res source at thee crossroads s of risks and d opportun nities”).  In 2011, the focus w was on renew wable energy y, with a Cam mpus semina ar devoted to o the topic c and the pu blication at thet beginning g of 2012 off a special issue of Focuss (“The rissks and challlenges of ren newable enerrgy in a fast changing en nvironment”).  More eover, as pa art of the wo ork conducte ed by the SC COR Global Risk Cente er, the Group p backked the publication of a summary off a study conducted by one of its employees on n carb bon credits (“EU regula ation of gre eenhouse gas g emissionns: what solutions can n insurance compa anies offer in ndustry?”). SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros ANTI-CO ORRUPTION Principle 10: Busine ess should work w against ccorruption in all its forms,, including exxtortion and bribery With a n network of offices,o subssidiaries and branches throughout th he world, SC COR has a strong locall presence e that make es it particula arly sensitive e to the problems of compliance, paarticularly in n the field off corruptio on, bribery an nd money lau undering. In light o of this SCOR R has significantly reinfo orced its com mpliance framework oveer the past fe ew years, in n particula ar in the field ery and anti--money laund d of anti-bribe dering, starting in 2009 bby the releas se of a more e practicall Code of Co onduct as well as the im mplementatio on of a “repo orting concerrns” systems s and furtherr develope ed through the t release of more dettailed guidelines with the e aim to en courage an Anti-Briberyy Mindset throughout the t Organisa ation. The Hea ad of Comp pliance at the level of tthe Group, reporting r to the Group Corporate Secretary, S iss responsiible for the oversight o res spectively co oordination ofo the anti-co orruption andd anti-money y laundering g policy. T The Complian nce Framewo ork for the prrevention of these t misconduct is orgaanized as follow. Norms a and reference e are set out at the leve l of the Grou up and local standards aare set if and d when more e strict rule es are requirred by applic cable local law w:  TThe Code of e o Conduct enforced nce 2009 cle sin early lays down the “zeero indulgen nce principle e” ttoward mone ey laundering g and corrup ption, consistent with SCO OR’s zero rissk appetite foor operationa al rrisk and SC COR’s comm mitment to th e principles of United Nations N Globbal Compactt. In order to o eensure a prroper aware eness of thiss principle alongside a th he other, eaach employe ee has been n rrequired durring their annual appraissal to ackno owledge thatt they had rread and understood the e ccontent of the Group Cod de of Conducct and the Group Guidelines for Repoorting Conce erns.  TThe Complia F ance Policy Framework hhas been strrengthened with w the releaase of a Gro oup Policy on n AAnti-bribery approved in 2011 year e G end by the Group Executive Committttee and pres sented to the e BBoard Audit Committee. The Policy outlines in more m detail prohibited coonduct (i.e. prohibition ofo ggiving or recceiving a brib be to and fro om anybody y) and gives guidance onn requiremen nts regarding g ggifts, enterta ainment and hospitality a and on requ uirements in dealing withh business partners and d wwhich necesssary arrang gements with h business partners are e required. The Policy also definess rresponsibilityy of employe ees to comba at bribery and d when employees must contact the Hub Genera al CCounsel / Compliance C O Officer and outlines cerrtain requirements to bee complied in i respect to o ccharitable co ontribution, sponsorship a and political contributions s.  RRegarding the t overall responsibiliity regarding prevention of briberry/corruption n, roles and d rresponsibilities of the various contro l functions within w SCOR (i.e. Group Compliance e, Group Riskk MManagemen nt, Group Inte ernal Audit aand Hub Leg gal & Compliance) and tthe responsibilities of the e HHub CEOs are a defined in n the Policy i n question.  TThe Group Anti-Bribery Policy is ssupplemented by various other Grooup Policies (e.g. Group p GGuidelines on o Anti-Fraud d & Fraud Inccident Management Proc cess, Group Policy and Guidelines G on n EExternal Outtsourcing, Grroup Fees A Approval Policy, Group Signing Authoority Policy, Group G Trave el PPolicy and otthers).  TThe Head of Compliance implementted Group Guidelines G onn Combatingg Money Lau undering and d TTerrorism Financing F (P&C and Liffe) and Gro oup Guidelin nes on Sannctions and Embargoess. UUnderwriterss, claims an nd (technicall) accounting staff are updated reggularly via the t “Legal & CCompliance Newsletter” on latest d developmentts (e.g. case es and lesssons learnt) and receive e ffrequently up pdated Sanc ctions Synop psis reflectingg latest channges on the sanctions re egimes of the e EEuropean Un nion and oth her sanctionss regimes. SCOR also started to orgaanize for ced dents training g ssessions on money-laund dering focus ing on trend ds, risks and internationaal initiatives (e e.g. FATF) to o ccombat money launderin ng. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros  Each Hub has h a legal and a compliaance function n which can be contacte ted by the employees e or o managers in n case of susspected bribbery activities s or in case of doubt onn the interpre etation of the e GGroup Policyy on Anti-Brib bery or any aadvice is required in conn nection with tthe topic in question. q  A number of channels are a used to raise awareness on SCOR’s comm itment to pre event moneyy llaundering and a to comp ply with appplicable sancctions and embargoes reegulations (e e.g. Code ofo CConduct con nfirmation prrocess, “Leg gal & Compliance News sletter” articlees, Legal & Compliance e CCurriculum for f underwritters, claims and technic cal accountinng staff). Wee also used e-learning to o ttrain Life und derwriters on n the topic in question. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris C Cedex 16 Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0)) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.comm RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 0 033 357 00046 Société Europ péenne au capital de 1 512 224 741,93 Euros
