kt Sustainability Report 2012 kt Sustainability Report 2012 We have a dream About This Report This 2012 Sustainability Report is the seventh report that covers kt’s commitment and perforContents mance related to building a sustainable society. This Report includes kt’s key business information, long-term strategy, economic performance, social responsibility, and environmental contributions and discloses its sustainability activities to com02 BOD Chairman Message municate with its stakeholders. kt will continue to 03 CEO Message work with the stakeholders to create more value 04 Stakeholder Engagement and reinforce sustainability activities. 05 Materiality Assessment Report Framework This report covers kt’s economic, social, and envi2012 kt Highlight-Special Issue ronmental performance by stakeholder group. The 06 olleh Management 2.0 company’s stakeholders are classified into share09 2012 kt Report Content holders, customers, environment, employees, 10 Business Innovation and Smart Working suppliers, and society. The Report also includes through BIT kt’s value-creation strategy that takes account of 11 Green Business details on olleh Management 2.0. The company’s 12 Win-Win Partnerships through Start-up Support CSR Team was responsible for preparing this 13 Extending kt’s CSR: Creating social value through IT report in collaboration with other officers from related departments. Sustainability at kt 14 At a Glance Reporting Standard and Assurance 15 kt’s Value System This report was prepared in accordance with the 16 Corporate Governance GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines, 17 Sustainability and discloses information with reference to the contents of ISO 26000, which were announced 18 Innovation through Sustainability in November 2010. This Report was externally 19 Business Ethics assured by an independent agency based on 20 Risk Management the principles of inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness. Dream with Shareholders Reporting Period and Scope 23 Creating Growth Engines This Report covers the activities and performance 25 Global Businesses of the company’s business units operating in South 26 Brand Value Korea from January 1 through December 31, 2011. 29 Innovative Management It also includes certain activities conducted in 31 Economic Performance 2012 where necessary. Each year, kt will continue 33 Shareholder Communication to publish a Sustainability Report. Dream with Customers Dream with Suppliers 35 Customer Satisfaction (CS) System 69 Win-Win Partnership Policy 36 Service Innovation 71 Supplier Infrastructure and Financial Support 41 Providing Reliable Telecommunications Services 72 Extending Win-Win Partnerships 42 Stronger IT Security and Privacy Protection 74 Creating a Green Ecosystem 43 Resolving Negative Effects of Information 75 Innovative Procurement Plan Society 76 Fair Trade 77 Supplier Communication Dream with Employees 45 Great Workplace Dream with Society 47 Fairness of Human Resources 79 Social Responsibility Strategy Programs 81 IT Sharing 48 Human Resources Development 83 Love Sharing 51 Safety and Health 86 Culture Sharing 52 Welfare Benefits 88 Universal Service and Bridging 53 Respecting Human Rights Digital Divide 54 Employee Communication 89 CSR of kt Group Companies 55 New Creative Labor Relations Dream with Environment Appendix 57 Environmental Management System 96 External Assurance Statement 58 Climate Change Response 98 GRI Index 60 Efficient Energy Use 99 ISO 26000 Contents 62 kt’s Energy-Saving Practices 100 Memberships Status, Key Performance Indicators 63 Recycling Resources 101 2011 Awards and Recognition 64 Green Products and Services Innovation 65 Policy Engagement and Certificates 67 Green Business Products 02 BOD Chairman Message We will do our best to continue to make innovative changes and fulfill our dream of becoming a global media distribution corporation. Originally founded as the Korea Telecommunication Associamanagers, infusing new energy into executive suites in a gention in 1981, kt’s evolution mirrors Korea’s rapid development der friendly manner. By doing so, kt has created a more innoin the telecommunication technology. kt initially provided vative and customer friendly service environment. telephone services, which paved the way to its new businesses, including high-speed internet service and IPTV. Since The innovative changes kt made over the past three years has a 2009 merger with KTF, kt provides the world a convergence now become its core. We look forward to kt playing the leadof fixed and mobile services. Now, building on its foundation ing role as a global media distribution corporation in the near of the “smart device revolution,” kt announces the second future. kt promises to be socially responsible, reaching out to phase of “olleh Management”. those who are neglected and left behind by the digital divide. During the first phase of olleh Management over last three 2012 will be a year in which kt’s competitive advantage will years, kt significantly improved worker-management relationcontribute to the economy and the society. We ask for your ships, implemented the Smart Working system for a more continued interest and encouragement. Our board of direcefficient working environment, and developed cutting edge tors, executives, and staff promise to lead the company with technologies, such as Cloud computing, search technology, honesty and integrity. and the use of “smart” devices. kt also successfully promoted its partnership with small and Chairman of the Board of Directors, medium enterprises, sharing the benefits of joint efforts in a Eung Han Kim fair and equitable way. We believe mutually beneficial partnerships with small and medium companies are the key to evolving into a true global media distribution corporation. kt employs bright, talented people. A new generation of young and powerful leaders are working with our CEO to advance kt into the global market place. We are proud to say that kt has been successful in recruiting numerous high ranking female 03 CEO Message kt believes that the world can be a better place than the world we see today. Countless academic articles in the field of management have tection must be at the core of a corporation’s social responcommented that the goal of any corporation should be to find sibility. sources of sustained competitive advantage. It is with sustained competitive advantage that companies are able to preIn the end, companies that survive and prevail the longest are vail over their competitors. I believe that companies with a the most distinguished. Only a company that is recognized history stretching over a hundred years can be considered as for its continuous development, innovation, and active contruly prestigious. tribution to society can continue to compete for long periods of time. The kt family wants to see kt become a great corpoThroughout history, corporations have not only provided jobs ration with a history that stretches far beyond one hundred and social welfare, but also have delivered innumerable years. We have already taken on that challenge: we are tackbenefits to the communities in which they operate. There ling social inequality by providing a more stable and creative are numerous stories of how inventions designed to generworking environment for our employees. ate company profit have actually contributed to the welfare of society. I recall reading an article that described how the As we pave the way into the “Smart-convergence” era, we dishwasher was the best invention of all time, and in many will contribute to every aspect of society. kt will be directly ways, this is no exaggeration. It demonstrates that a corporainvolved in the fields of energy and environmental protection, tion’s history is not only defined by profits and margins, but health, education, and even the artistic and cultural fields. It by how they have contributed to society. I believe companies is kt’s dream that the world will become a better place than today must endeavor to support society and re-engage with the one we are living in now and I believe that this is the the communities that surround them. responsibility of a 21st century company and the essence of corporate social responsibility. On the other hand, as globalization has progressed, a darker side to corporations has become apparent. Though often uninThis report embodies kt’s vision and goals. We will continue tended, some companies have negatively impacted the envion with our journey, exercising these beliefs that are benefironment and deepened social inequalities. As social polarizacial both to kt and society. tion intensifies and environmental damage begins to threaten nature’s balance, corporate responsibility will become more important than ever before. This means that the success of Seok-Chae Lee, CEO a company will go beyond mere creativity and innovation. A precedent of full compliance with the law, ethical management, contribution to the community and environmental pro04 Stakeholder Communication kt classifies key stakeholder groups into customers and shareholders, who are in business relationStakeholder ships with the company, employees and suppliers, who are co-leaders in innovation and growth, and communities in which the company conducts business. The company gathers and takes into Engagement consideration the stakeholders’ opinions through regular committee meetings or surveys. Specifically, the company holds regular meetings to talk with the stakeholders, including the CEO-Supplier, Labor-Management Council and Community meetings, and each responsible team collects and reflects the opinions discussed in business activities. The company also conducts a survey in the material assessment process, and launched a Sustainability Committee consisting of related officers to incorporate the survey results into business activities. The Committee is responsible for overseeing sustainability activities, operating a Steering Committee, and supporting subcommittee activities. Stakeholder Communication Channels Shareholders Shareholders’ meeting (annual) CEO’s Business Briefing (annual) Announcement of business results (quarterly, conference call) IR news (once or twice a month) Com National/international NDRs (frequently) mu Running a website dedicated to IR nit rs ies me sto Customer pool (200 people, Cu Community meetings (frequently) regular surveys 3 times a year, Love Sharing (in collaboration 4-5 random surveys) with local child care centers) Regular online surveys (twice a IT Sharing (telephones, website) year, targeting 10,000 people) Culture Sharing (surveys, social College Student Focus Group media, and website) (60 students, 6 months) Household Panel Supplier-CEO meeting (annual) Labor-Management Council (quarterly) Supplier satisfaction surveys, supplier Local labor-management council, unit presentations (half-yearly) labor-management council SCM Council (monthly) Labor Policy Council (permanent Product meetings (frequently) organization, frequent meetings) Technology exchange meetings (monthly) Business Briefing (varying depending on the target) Online and Offline Win-Win Partnership kt 119 Ombudsman Center rs Center (regular) plie (online and offline) Running a website to gather Voice Sup of the Supplier (regular) Newsletter/company news Em IT CEO Forum (5 times a year) /online forums plo Korea Broadcasting Commission yee s Commission's president and CEO meeting(3-4 times a year) Frequent discussions with regulatory bodies, including Korea Broadcasting Commission, Fair Trade Commission, and Ministry of Knowledge Economy (frequently all year round) Member of CEO Group meetings (3 times a year) Policy Environment Sustainability Report (published yearly since 2006) www.kt.com/ www.digieco.co.kr 05 Stakeholder Communication Through ‘Materiality Assessment’, kt identifies and constantly monitors key issues, taking into Materiality consideration the interests of stakeholders and their business impact. The materiality assessment includes media analysis, national/international industry benchmarking, international regulations Assessment and standards, and employee and external expert surveys to reflect stakeholders’ interests, and their business impact was taken into account by examining data on olleh 2.0 and KPIs. This Report was prepared based on the assessment results. 1 Media analysis_ kt analyzed news articles published by the press in 2011 to identify stakeholders’ interests and social expectations. A comparison weight was assigned to negative issues. 2 Industry benchmarking_ The company analyzed the CSR activities of global wired (cable) and mobile telecommunication carriers, who are competing with kt, as well as pressing issues in the industry. 3 International standards_ kt incorporated ISO 26000, GRI G3.1, UNGC principles, and DJSI survey into its vision toward global leadership. 4 External expert survey_ kt asked about 100 CSR experts in Korea about kt’s level of sustainability and the issues that the company should be interested in, and reflected the results in the materiality assessment. The issues raised were governance, human-centric management, and win-win partnerships, in order of priority. 5 Employee awareness survey_ 62% of employees responded that they were aware of CSR, while 54% said they were aware of the specific details of CSR activities. Materiality Assessment Results | The key issues identified include ‘Win-Win Partnerships’, ‘Social Responsibility’, and ‘Stakeholder Engagement’, and the level of materiality in the area of growth engines increased relative to the previous year’s, following the announcement of olleh Management 2.0. High Issue Medium Issue High 1 Social Responsibility 11 Community Impact 1 2 Stakeholder Engagement 12 Pollution Prevention 11 2 3 Win-Win Partnership 13 Fair Competition 6 4 4 New Growth Engines 14 Marketing 12 3 5 13 17 7 5 Environmental Management 15 Respecting Human Rights 18 8 (Carbon Management) 16 Overall Business 15 9 6 Sustainable Resource Use 17 Consumer Health and Safety 14 16 19 10 7 Consumer Communication 18 Consumer Privacy 8 Employee Health and Safety 19 Business Results 9 Training and Education 20 Diversity and Equal 10 Climate Change Response Opportunities 28 21 Business Ethics 20 29 21 22 Risk Management Low Issue 22 23 Improving Working 30 24 25 23 28 Product Responsibility Conditions 31 29 Business Environment 24 Reputation 26 30 Abolishing Human 25 Governance 32 27 Rights Abuses 26 Technology Development 31 Responsible Political 27 Labor Relations Engagement 32 Ecosystem Conservation Low High 06 2012 kt Highlight Special Issue olleh Management 2.0 e 1980s 1990s 2000s Cable Era Wireless Era Networking Era Korea Electrical Communication Corporation, the Pagers and city phones gave way to PCSs. In In 2002, when the Korea-Japan World Cup was predecessor of kt, was established in 1981, and 1997, kt Freetel Co., Ltd. was founded, and held, ultra high-speed internet called NESPOT the wide distribution of telephones to housemobile telephone subscribers surpassed 10 was launched, and in 2006, WiBro was comholds opened an era of information exchange. million. The company also started providmercialized. Now, customers are connected The creation of area codes enabled long-dising high-speed ADSL Internet service. As we to kt’s network through WiBro, WiFi, and tance, international calls. entered the new millennium, personal mobile WCDMA. With the launch of iPhone in 2009, phones became commonplace. kt took the lead in adopting and distributing smartphones, as well as smart pads. Developing professionals in emergLeading an innovative telecommunicaolleh ing areas olleh tions market Management 1.0 Management 2.0 Upgrading the corporate culture to Focusing on the development of IT media Securing growth the global level Becoming a global business potential through Transforming the business portfolio media distribution Expanding an emerging convergence area change and group Transforming into a global leader innovation World No.1 in the telecommuniLeading the Virtual Goods distribution cations area of 2011 DJSI* ecosystem *DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Index 07 contents media energy global olleh Management 2.0 + The Era of Value LTE Creation education In 2012, the Era of Value Creation began with olleh Management 2.0. kt will work with its stakeholders and realize their dreams. “Evolve into a global ICT* convergence leader by becoming not just a carrier but a global media distribution group” Recently, the increasing use of smartphones featuring the N-screen and the development of telecommunications services have allowed customers to engage in multimedia communication anyEvolve into a global time, anywhere, and consume/produce large amounts of content in real time. On the other hand, ICT convergence leader telecommunications service providers (TSPs) now face difficulties such as the need to invest a lot of money in creating/operating a large-scale network as network technologies (e.g. LTE) evolve, and unprecedentedly intense competition due to the entry of new companies into the telecomLeading “Always Connected 2.0-based munications market. Subsequently, carriers are increasingly uncertain about the traditional revSmart Life” enue model, and there is also a growing interest among carriers around the world, including kt, in Contributing to the creation of social value change and innovation toward sustainability, and in finding new growth engines. through IT *ICT: Information, Communication, Transaction 08 olleh Management 1.0_ Assessment of olleh 1.0 | During the period of olleh 1.0, kt devoted itself to improving corporate behavior and securing growth potential through an infrastructure overhaul. The company focused on Securing growth potential developing human resources in non-telecommunications and other emerging areas, such as recruitthrough change and innovation ing external executive directors, and transformed its corporate culture by adopting the BIT*-based process and extending ‘Smart Working’ and innovative management. In addition, the company laid the foundation for future growth through wired and wireless integration, ‘smart’ innovation, investment in convergence technologies, and an extension of cooperation in global businesses. * BIT : Business & Information system Transformation olleh Management 2.0_ olleh 2.0 Implementation Strategy | Based on the change and innovation made so far, the company plans on becoming a ‘global media distribution group’, reaching beyond the telecomBecoming a global media munications market, which is now getting more competitive and slowing down. Using its strong distribution group wired/wireless network and cloud technology, the company will build a new world for ‘Virtual Goods’, where contents, apps, and solutions will be freely distributed in the global market. kt will focus on developing the IT media business, expanding into the emerging convergence area, and propelling mid-term growth. In particular, using synergy within the Group, the company will concentrate on businesses like media/contents, finance, security, and rentals, and consolidate its foundation for sustainability by diversifying its growth portfolio in the emerging advertising, education, medical, and energy industries. Further, the company will evolve into a global leader by building strong partnerships with other global leaders and launching successful Korean models in international markets, such as CCC*, Managed IT, and Smart Space. Aside from that, the company will work harder to provide the underprivileged more opportunities, nurture partnerships with small and medium enterprises (SMEs), and create jobs to revitalize the IT industry, extending its social responsibility and role. kt’s ‘Global ICT Convergence Leader’ strategy will be remembered as an example of innovation, which helps international carriers struggling with slow growth overcome the crisis. * CCC : Cloud Communication Center Global Partners Lead the launch of WAC Northeast Asian Smart Belt Cooperate in global Vodafone service “Oasis” of the Northeast Asian App Market Commercial Wholesale Cooperate in N/W infrastructure CDC Cooperate in USTREAM Kibot business Cooperate in “Smart City” business Extend network consulting Transfer of capabilities Expand into Managed business Virtual Goods / Smart Space / Kibot / BIT / CDC / Managed IT / CCC, WARP 09 2012 kt Highlight Special Issue kt’s 2012 Sustainability Report covers not only the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 2012 kt Report Framework aspect of the company but also its commitment to CSV (Creating Shared Value) with all stakeholders. Celebrating the second period of olleh Management (olleh 2.0), kt will fulfill the given responsibilities, and help resolve environmental and social problems through its services and green businesses and build a sustainable society. 01 02 03 Shareholders & Employees & Environment Society & Suppliers Customers Shareholders & Customers Employees & Environment Society & Suppliers kt always works hard to make a profit, which kt’s commitment to providing a better workkt declared the ‘Three Do’s’ to promote winis a company’s primary function, and increase place not only increases employee satisfaction win partnerships, and operates the olleh Vencustomer satisfaction. During olleh 2.0, the but offers a new IT business model. kt generture Awards and Econovation Fair to create company will take the lead in global media ates and distributes solar power, and provides an environment where start-ups can grow distribution and deliver more value to sharegreen building management and real-time and develop. Using its resources and capaholders and customers. energy management services, helping to cope bilities, kt continues to carry out CSR activities with global climate change. to bridge the digital divide and improve each community’s quality of life. Publishing Reports | Since 2006, kt has published Sustainability Reports to open up a channel of communication with stakeholders. This comprehensive Report contains an organized summary of kt’s economic, social, and environmental activities and performance and is disclosed to all stakeholders. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 10 2012 kt Highlight Special Issue Since 2010, kt has been promoting a business area called “BIT (Business & Information system Transformation).” The company’s BIT-ERP model, based Business Innovation upon which a global business model will be completed during olleh 2.0, is and Smart Working an IT technology introduced to help employees work in a “Simple & Speedy” way. This is a global business model that combines the company’s business through BIT knowledge and technology and has developed into an IT consulting business. By enhancing the “Smart Working” process through a company-wide business/IT infrastructure overhaul, the company has increased employee satisfaction and maintained its capabilities at the world’s best levels, including plans, processes, and corporate culture. Smart Working Practice Innovation Plans Processes Global Best Practices Innovation Smart Working through BIT Simple & Speedy Process Corporate IT System Customer-centric service Culture Global business model Since April 2011, kt has implemented ‘Smart Working’ for all employees. Using its IT system, the company allows pregnant/parenting women and R&D/business unit staff to choose a desired workplace and work there. Further, the company runs the ‘Select Working Hour’ program, in which employees are free to adjust their work schedules, which has improved the working environment and changed kt’s corporate culture. Smart Working Participants Survey Results Satisfied Somewhat Dissatisfied 6.9% 7.0% 2.7% 15.8% 15.2% 22.7% 1 st 2nd 3rd (11.03) (11.11) (12.03) 70.4% 77.8% 81.5% Locations of kt Smart Working Centers Less tired during commute More time to relax More focused at Less stress 77.9% 59.6% work 42.9% 19.3% Goyang (Multiple responses) Gwanghwamun Gwangjin Smart Working Centers allow employees who commute long distances to Gangdong choose a workplace closer to home, or serve as a remote office for employees Bucheon Mok-dong traveling on business nearby. There are 15 locations (16 centers), including Dongjak Gangnam Bundang, Seocho, and Gwanghwamun. The company plans on identifying Seocho Gwanak employees’ addresses and needs, expanding centers and systems, providing world-class working conditions, and helping employees work in a “simple and Pyongchon Bundang speedy” way. Daejeon Suji Yeongtong 11 2012 kt Highlight Special Issue While preparing for olleh 2.0, kt regarded climate change as a future growth engine and an opportunity, rather than a threat to sustainability. With such Green Business attitude, the company proactively sought a business model, commercialized it, and produced economic and environmental results. One of such results is a Total Operation Center (TOC), which opened in May 2012. Located at the Mapo RC Center, TOC manages an integrated platform called K-MEG* (Korean Micro Energy Grid). Designed to provide total energy operation/management and efficient energy use for each connected area, TOC is a cutting-edge industrial technology solution that offers a variety of remote services, including point-of-use group management, energy market connection, AMI (Advanced Metering Infrastructure), BEMS (Building Energy Management System), electricity/heat/gas grid systems connection and integration, and demand response, and that allows optimum energy production and consumption. * K-MEG is one of the five future technology development projects awarded by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s R&D Strategic Task Force, and next-generation energy technology that combines ICT (information & communication technology) with integrated production/supply/consumption of energy sources (electricity, gas, heat, etc.). on-line BEMS(Building Energy Management System) Online BEMS (Building Energy Management System), a remote centralized energy management solution installed at E-MART in the Guro Digital Complex, was the first product adopted in a commercial site in Korea, and saved installation costs about 10 to 30%, relative to the BEMS in existing buildings. Through remote energy management, the system saves building owners a considerable amount of maintenance cost, so it is suitable for mid-rise buildings where installing an efficient energy solution can be extremely expensive, as well as for local government buildings, large-scale buildings/industrial facilities. The company plans on providing the service to Sejong Multifunctional Administrative City, COEX, Banwol-Sihwa Complex, and Seoul National University, as well as complexes/multifunctional facilities in North American and Southeast Asia. 12 2012 kt Highlight Special Issue Though the Korean IT industry has consolidated its position as one of the leaders in the global market, the industry could end up falling behind in global Win-Win Partnerships competition unless it responds proactively to the rapidly changing trends, just through Start-up as Facebook burst onto the scene, competing Apple. It should be noted that, in such circumstances, business start-ups can help elevate the status of the Support Korean IT industry by keeping up with the shifting trends and commercializing innovative ideas. Venture Auditions: “olleh Venture Awards” and “Econovation Fair” Created to support business start-ups, “olleh Venture Awards” provides assistance for BMs (business models) that have passed the primary screening in commercialization and overseas expansion, including meetings with CEO for past winners, meetings with the executive officers of related businesses, and the Incubation Camp, which brings perfection to those businesses. “Econovation Fair” (mobile app contest) has been held three times, discovered 468 topperforming apps and businesses, and supported their global porting and commercialization in China and Japan. The winners are entitled to participate in joint projects with kt or launch their own projects. kt invested directly in J.D.F Co., Ltd.'s “Avatar Fairytale,” the 2009 winner, which is scheduled to air on Kibot2 and BabyFirstTV, an American cable TV network dedicated to child education. Supporting Start-ups through “Smart School” and “Architect” Through a developer training program called “Smart School,” kt has trained and produced 15,000 app developers, and through a developer support program called “Architect,” ran 8 courses including tax patent, free start-up consulting, and developed 89 teams so far. Of them, 40 teams started their businesses and 7 teams received Venture Certificates. Furthermore, through “olleh Media Studio,” kt supports content production for small/medium or one-person businesses and provides online/offline app development environments through Econovation Center. 13 2012 kt Highlight Special Issue With the launch of olleh Management 2.0, kt now takes the lead in narrowing the digital divide and providing opportunities for the underprivileged through Extending kt CSR: IT. In 2011, the company already provided underprivileged people with opporCreating Social Value tunities and information through a variety of IT devices and contents, setting a good example for creating social values. through IT First, the company provided the olleh TV service (IPTV) to 1,726 social services centers nationwide, including local child care centers, leading stronger accessibility and educational support for the underprivileged. IPTV comes with a variety of VOD and CUG* services and is thus useful for underprivileged people. The VOD service, in particular, offers various educational contents for children who hardly have any learning opportunities and increases the quality of learning, and the CUG service forms a channel to communicate among social services centers and is expected to help strengthen the centers' network and raise national awareness about education. *CUT: Closed User Group Second, the company implements the Smart Pad Adoption project. With the popularity of Smart Pads growing nationwide, the company identified the Smart Pad’s potential value that the pad can be used not just for entertainment but for child education purposes, and distributed 386 Smart Pads to 122 local child care centers. Aside from the distribution of Smart Pads, kt's IT supporters and the Love Volunteer Corps visit the said centers on a regular basis and conduct training on how to use Smart Pads for teachers and children, enhancing the pads' utility. The training includes zodiac sign and fairytale sessions that increase children's interests and learning effects. Third, in this global era, kt uses Jeong Cheol English TV, one of the IPTV VOD services, to support English education for neglected children. kt's Love Volunteer Corps, IT supporters, and College Student Volunteer Corps complete teaching qualification training and provide training for children at 41 local child care centers across the country, teaching English to about 7,200 children in the past year. Fourth, the company offers Kibots to promote child education. kt provides local child care centers with the Kibot, the world's first robot for child education. To motivate children to learn and improve the quality of education, the company gave away 600 Kibots to local child care centers and kt olleh Dream Center nationwide. The Kibot is easy for children to use without any extra instructions, can easily motivate children to learn, and has gained immense popularity among children. 14 Sustainability at kt Company Overview | Founded in 1981 as Korea Electrical Communication Corporation, kt At a Glance played a pivotal role in elevating Korea to the status of an IT leader. In 2009, as the company merged with its subsidiary KTF and introduced a smartphone for the first time in Korea, kt wideopened the ‘Smart’ era based on cable and wireless convergence. kt leads the ‘Smart Life’ that ensures communication and connection between people, and between people and objects, by providing a variety of convergence services combining telecommunications, IT, media, and contents, and takes the steps to become a ‘Global ICT Convergence Leader’. During olleh 2.0, in particular, kt tries to transform itself into a ‘Global Media Distribution Group’ that can freely produce-distributeconsume virtual goods anytime, anywhere, based on the smart network and cloud infrastructure. In addition, kt pledges to become a sustainable company that fulfills its economic, social, and environmental responsibilities, such as revitalizing the Korean IT industry, creating jobs, win-win partnerships, sharing resources with underprivileged people, and green growth. * ICT: Information, Communication, Transaction Company Profile *kt’s own total assets and revenue Total assets Revenue 26,453,607million won 20,166,817million won Company name kt Listed on Korea Exchange (KRX), New York Founding date December 10, 1981 Stock Exchange (NYSE), and London Stock Exchange (LSE) President & CEO Lee, Seok-chae Head office 206, Jeongja-dong,Bundang-gu, Credit rating Fitch A(2011.07.14) Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do S&P A (2011.11.26) Moody's A3(2010.02.09) No. of employees 31,061 (as of late 2011) About kt’s Affiliates IT Service kt networks Co., Ltd. _ Electrical communications, special-category and additional communications Communication kt ds Co., Ltd. _ IT services installation and maintenance kt powertel Co., Ltd. _ kt smart service Co., Ltd. _ Electrical communications services System integration and management business kt submarine Co., Ltd. _ kt innotz Co., Ltd. _ Software development and distribution Construction services by specialty kt cs Co., Ltd. _ Call center operations Convergence kt is Co., Ltd. _ Call center operations kt rental Co., Ltd. _ Total rental services Media/Contents kt m&s Co., Ltd. _ kt capital Co., Ltd. _ Banking services Sale and rental of telecommunications devices kt skylife Co., Ltd. _ kt telecop Co., Ltd. _ Satellite broadcasting, media industry kt linkus Co., Ltd. _ Phone booth Facility and machinery safeguarding services management, logistics, and distribution kt hitel Co., Ltd. _ Electrical communication, nasmedia Co., Ltd. _ Online advertising agency information service (Internet) kt WiBro Infra Co., Ltd. _ Sale and rental of ultra high-speed wireless kt estate Co., Ltd. _ Real estate services kt music Co., Ltd. _ Online music service, digital telecommunications devices and equipment BC card Co., Ltd. _ Banking services content development, production, and distribution 2011 subscribers 2011 market share Market shares of key services | unit : % | Markets for key | unit : 1,000 people | (based on subscribers) telecommunications services Local phones 18,631 84.3% Category 2009 2010 2011 Category 2009 2010 2011 Local phones 86.3 85.7 84.3 Local phone subscribers 20,090 19,273 18,631 Mobile phones 17,860 31.5% Mobile phones 31.3 31.6 31.5 Mobile phone subscribers 15,475 17,224 17,860 Ultra high-speed Internet 52,507 43.8% Ultra high-speed Internet 42.5 43.1 43.8 Ultra high-speed Internet 45,607 50,767 52,507 subscribers Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 15 Sustainability at kt kt Value System kt Value System | kt declared “olleh Management” to direct the synergy generated from mergers towards enhancing customer value through a paradigm shift. Designed to promote win-win partnerships with customers and stakeholders, 'olleh Management' represents kt's determination to become a global ICT convergence leader through a future-oriented, innovative way of thinking. The company plans on becoming a “Global Media Distribution Group” as well. kt Value System Pyramid Management Philosophy Always Connected 1) Management Approach 1) Always Connected : Another olleh management interpretation of the existing corporate principles, 'the convergence of information, communiVision Global ICT Convergence Leader cation, and human beings'. 2) A.C.T.I.O.N. : An abbreviation Core Value of 'All for Customer, CollaboraA.C.T.I.O.N.2) = New kt Way tion, Trust, Innovation, Ownership, and Now' Management Philosophy and Approach | 'olleh Management' is kt's new management Management Approach approach to delivering customers happiness by pursuing ongoing innovation and creating new Shareholders | Outstanding Performance value through the paradigm shift and continuous communication. It also represents the company's Maximizing corporate values resolution to make customers shout “olleh!” by thinking outside the box and providing future oriCountry | Leading IT ented services. kt will become a company that thinks outside the box (Radical Thinking), a company Leading the IT industry that makes customers' dreams come true (Future Oriented), a company that can read customers' Employees | Liberal Culture minds (Communication), and a company that customers root for (Customer Satisfaction). Liberal communication culture Community | Esteemed Company Socially respected company Management Radical Future CommuniCustomer Targets Thinking Oriented cation Satisfaction Customers | Happy Customer Company that makes customers happy kt is a company that kt is a company kt is a company kt is a company that thinks outside the box that makes customers’ that can read customers root for dreams come true customers' minds Core Value: A.C.T.I.O.N = New kt Way | With an action-based transformation as a top priority, kt carries out all its business activities based on the code of 6 actions, “A.C.T.I.O.N = New kt Way,” which refers to All for Customer, Collaboration, Trust, Innovation, Ownership, and Now. All for Customer Collaboration Trust Innovation Ownership Now Process Organization Support Take quick action and Create a goal-oriented Retain thorough professionalism make change accountability system and high productivity 16 Sustainability at kt Since its privatization in 2002, kt has observed most of the principles of corporate governance in Corporate accordance with the global standards, with its management consisting of management specialists and an independent Board of Directors. By splitting the roles of the CEO and the chair of the Board Governance of Directors, the company established an objective, independent governance system, and has worked hard to enhance the governance by enacting/declaring the “kt Governance Charter” and creating the Corporate Governance Committee. As a result, the company received the Best Award in the 2011 Corporate Governance Review conducted by the Korean Corporate Governance and Sustainability Center. In the same year (2011), the company received the highest rating (A+) in the EGS (Environmental Social Governance) evaluation, which was extended to the environmental and social areas, as well as corporate governance. The Board of Directors | kt’s Board of Directors consists of three non-independent directors and eight outside ones, totaling 11 directors (as of March 2012). The outside directors are selected Board of Directors Activities by the Outside director Nominating Committee based on their expertise and business leadership, Category 2009 2010 2011 and hold office for less than three years. The Board’s chair is appointed among outside directors No. of Board meetings held 14 10 12 for one-year term. Under the Board, there are five sub-committees, i.e. the Corporate Governance Average attendance 93% 93% 98% Committee, Audit Committee, Evaluation and Compensation Committee, Executive Committee, Evaluation results 4.41 4.38 4.65 and Related-Party Transactions Committee, and two temporary sub-committees, i.e. the CEO and (out of 5 points) Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committees. To ensure the efficient operation of the Board *In 2011, the Board reviewed and made decisions and directors’ responsibility, directors’ self-evaluations are conducted each year, aside from an on a total of 64 items, including “2011 Sustainability assessment of the Board’s activities. Except as otherwise provided in the Commercial Code or the Action Plan (draft)” and “2012 kt and Group Business Plans (draft)”. Articles of Incorporation, decisions shall be made by a majority vote of those present at a meeting where a quorum is present. Directors’ (Outside directors Included) | unit : billion won | Committees Under the Board Compensation (as of late December 2011) (as of March 16, 2012) Amount approved Average amount Category Total amount paid by shareholders paid per person Category Membership Purpose & Responsibility Governance 4 outside directors, Non-independent 4.11 0.65 1.37 Committee 1 non-independent Responsible for enhancing governance directors (3) director Outside directors who Included in the Audit Responsible for overseeing the accounting and 4 outside directors are members of Audit 0.31 amount approved 0.08 Committee financial reporting processes Committee (4) for internal Evaluation and Responsible for supervising management Outside directors who directors Compensation 4 outside directors contracts and evaluations Committee are NOT members of 0.28 0.07 Audit Committee (4) Executive Com3 non-independent Responsible for overseeing general business mittee directors matters delegated from the Board *The outside directors include director Heo, Jung-su, who resigned on August 23, 2011. Responsible for transactions between Insider Trading stakeholders as approved by the Board under / **Of the total amount paid to non-independent directors, the projections of long-term 4 outside directors Committee the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act incentives were included. / ***For further information on the Board, please visit the and the Commercial Code company’s website (www.kt.com) (Investor Relations Board of Directors) All outside directors, Responsible for the investigation, review, CEO Nominating 1 non-independent and nomination of a CEO candidate at a Committee director shareholders’ meeting Outside director All outside directors, Responsible for the investigation, review, and Nominating 1 non-independent nomination of an outside director candidate Committee director at a shareholders’ meeting Management Specialists’ Accountability and Compensation System | To establish an accountability system for management specialists, the Board of Directors enters into a management contract with the CEO, and CEO compensation (pay) is determined based on the company’s business performance, which combines the results of quantitative and qualitative reviews conducted by the Evaluation and Compensation Committee. Bonuses for non-independent directors and executive officers, excluding the CEO, are calculated based on the results of an assessment of the company’s performance and of the responsible team’s internal assessment, and further details on a director’s pay are determined by the Board of Directors and the Evaluation and Compensation Committee. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 17 Sustainability at kt Approach to Sustainability | For its sustainability efforts, kt was awarded the Global SuperSustainability sector Leader in the telecommunications area in 2011, only a year after the company was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). With the launch of olleh Management 2.0, kt’s sustainability has now entered a new phase. kt will become an IT company responsible for the spread of the ‘Korean Wave’ to find new growth engines and implement social responsibility (SR) activities using its network and IT technologies. The company will focus on ensuring that children in lowincome families, people with disabilities, and multicultural families do not feel alienated and on alleviating social tensions. Further, kt will act as a global CSR leader by planning activities to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and by complying with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Sustainability Committee | One of the world’s leading companies, kt aims to achieve ‘sustainable growth’ by communicating effectively with customers and stakeholders. To incorporate key issues into its business activities, the company set the top five priority goals (i.e. Business Ethics, Customer Satisfaction, Environmental Management, Win-Win Partnerships, and Social Responsibility) and created the Sustainability Committee to accomplish the goals efficiently, of which the head of Public Relations Office was appointed as the chair and the responsible officers are members. In 2011, the provision that requires Sustainability results and plans to be reported regularly to the Board of Directors was formally incorporated in the company’s applicable rules/regulations. At the Board of Directors meeting held in May 2011, the 2011 Sustainability Plan (draft) was put to a vote. The Corporate Governance Committee under the Board is responsible for receiving a report on the progress of sustainability and ensuring that senior management supervises the company’s sustainability in connection with the Sustainability Committee’s operational process. Decision-Making Process Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee CEO olleh Management Conference Office (Public Relations Office) Sustainability Committee Steering Committee on Sustainability Approach + Operational Process 5 Key Issues Business Ethics Customer Satisfaction Environmental Management Win-Win Partnerships Social Responsibility Key ResponsiBusiness Ethics activities, Service development, Product Environmental Policy and Fair Human Resources ManageSocial Responsibility (CSR) bilities Enhancing corporate responsibility, Privacy activities, Management System, ment (HR development, talent activities, Public services governance, Customer relationship manageClimate Change Strategy, management), Hiring and labor (narrowing the digital divide), Risk management ment, Innovative management Environmental Innovation relations (Labor Practices indicaCommunity involvement (products, community innovation), and Efficiency, tors, safety and health at work), (community investment and Brand management Saving Energy Fair trade cooperation) Responsible Legal & Ethics Office, Mobile Business Group, Home Smart Green Development Human Resources Office, Public Relations Office organizations Value Management Office Busienss Group, Synergy ManageGroup, Network Group, General Affairs Office, (under the ment Office, Economics & ManReal Assets Management GMC Strategy Office, Sustainability agement Research Laboratory, Office (Next Generation) Procurement Strategy Office Committee) Technology Strategy Office Stakeholders Shareholders Environment (Next Generation) Employees/Suppliers Communities (Governments) Dow Jones Sustainability Index Global Supersector Leader Award | In 2009, kt joined DJSI Asia-Pacific and DJSI Korea and, in September 2010, was listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) along with 318 other companies. In 2011, the company succeeded in remaining a constituent of the DJSI World Index in the wired telecommunications area for two consecutive years, and was awarded a Global Supersector Leader, taking first place among the world’s leading wired/wireless telecommunications carriers. Created jointly by Dow Jones, the world’s largest financial information provider, and SAM, a Swiss sustainability assessment agency, the DJSI is a measure of sustainability applicable to about 2,500 companies around the world and used to select top-performing companies. The stocks of the companies listed in the DJSI are recommended for preferred investment in Socially Responsible Investment Fund, helping secure long-term, reliable investors. 18 Sustainability at kt Environmental Innovation | The changing global environment has led telecommunications carInnovation through riers to realize the importance of environmental management, and also increased the necessity of saving energy through global carbon dioxide emissions regulations. kt’s Environmental Management Sustainability can be classified into three parts: First, Green Management to save energy; second, solutions development to save electricity relative to a customer’s IT environment and workspace; and third, alternative electricity production using renewable energy, such as solar power or geothermal energy. A leading example of energy-saving Green Management is a low-power LTE service. kt’s LTE service consumes less power than any other company’s LTE service since it utilizes a virtualization technology. Recently, competition for LTE services has intensified in Korea, leading to an increase in demand for electricity. Therefore, low-power technologies can provide a significant competitive advantage. Electricity-saving solutions in terms of a customer’s IT environment and space include Smart Energy Solution, No Idling Solution, Smart Working Service, and Agricultural Environment Monitoring System. Smart Energy Solution monitors and displays energy use by the space of a customer, by energy source, and individually, allowing the Energy Officer (person responsible for energy) to manage energy use efficiently. The payback time, over which this solution’s energy savings equal the amount of money invested, is expected to be less than three years. A service applicable to vehicles, No Idling Solution is designed to reduce fuel consumption and carbon emissions by stopping the engine automatically under certain conditions and sending the vehicle’s data to a control center nearby. Smart Working Service is expected to reduce carbon dioxide emissions arising from commuting by allowing employees to work at the nearest Smart Working Center, without having to travel long distances to their workplace. Last, the Agricultural Environment Monitoring System is an energy-saving service that provides the remote monitoring and control of farming facilities sensitive to temperature and humidity, such as greenhouses and cattle sheds. kt also continues to implement the project of installing a solar power plant at an unused site. In 2008, after the installation of 50kW PV systems in Sinnae Plant and Hwaseong Station, the company smart working, olleh social live completed a 423kW PV system in Gangneung Station in Decmeber 2010. Community Innovation | kt is greatly concerned about a variety of issues facing today’s society and committed to solving social problems by launching solutions, as well as carrying out community involvement, campaigns, and events. kt focuses particularly on the serious problems related to child safety, personal information leakage, the shrinking jobs market, and aging society. To ensure child safety, the company provides “olleh Guard” and “Safe Children” services. Each service employs a wireless technology to inform parents, schools, the police, and other security authorities of children’s locations, which helps cope effectively with serious crimes like kidnapping. kt’s Privacy Solution is a service designed to help companies protect their customers’ personal information. Cybercrimes like hacking, which are now commonplace on the Internet, cause the leakage of personal information. Small and medium businesses, therefore, need to install a system for protecting customers’ privacy. kt offers this privacy solution to enable such system at a reasonable price. The shrinking job market is a serious problem in Korea, especially among the youths and senior citizens. Believing that creating jobs can solve this problem, kt provides an IT service-equipped office rental service so that job-seeking youths and seniors can easily create their own workspace. Korea is fast becoming an aging society with a low birth rate and increasing life expectancy. Remote areas lacking medical supplies, in particular, are populated mostly by seniors, calling for the installation of smart health care facilities. By combining the Severance Hospital’s medical service with IT services, kt launched “Smart Health Care” that allows remote care. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 19 Sustainability at kt kt has worked hard to establish an ethical corporate culture by expanding its Business Ethics infraBusiness Ethics structure. Further, the company implements a project to enforce Personal Professional Ethics so that employees perform their duties based on Business Ethics in a real work environment. Personal Professional Ethics (or Ethical Business Practices) are applied to all types of work performed at kt, as guidelines for best work practices. While also working with suppliers to establish Business Ethics, the company selected and awarded those employees who represented the best examples of business ethics. Through an Ethics UCC Contest, kt provides opportunities for employees to participate and familiarize themselves with business ethics. The company presented one team a Gold Award, two teams Silver Awards, five teams Bronze Awards, and 13 teams Participation Awards. Many participating employees created UCCs and improved their understanding of business ethics. Actions Taken Against Ethics Violations Clean kt Dismissals Disciplines Opening and operating a hotline for the Ethics training for employees conducted by the 7 chair of the Audit Committee Center’s director (e.g., Executive Officers) 2010 121 Implementing “Clean kt” campaign during holidays Reinforcing the communication channel Increase ethical awareness by conducting (Cyber Whistleblower Hotline) 2011 1 self-tests and enforcing the ethics pledge Assessment of ethical business practices 184 Regular and special ethics monitoring activities Launching the Ethics Help-Line Clean 365 Center that encourages spontaneous participation Business Ethics Targets | kt complies faithfully with the basic principles of ethics (honesty, transparency, integrity, and fairness), works with suppliers to consolidate their partnerships, selects employees who set a good example of business ethics, and presents the Best Ethics Practice Award. The company specifically selects those who represent good examples of ethical conduct among the employees of kt and its suppliers, such as observing fair trade and treating suppliers’ employees as true business partners. Then, the company promotes those examples through the official website or the LCDs mounted on elevators in office buildings, ensuring that an ethical corporate culture can be properly established. (A total of 24 examples received; 1 Gold; 4 Silver; Topics of Monthly Ethics Training in 2011 and 6 Bronze Awards) Topic Month Security January Briefing on Personal Professional Ethics Enactment | To look back at the past performance Ethics Infrastructure February of ethical conduct, to share ethical issues across the company, and renew executive officers’ deterRespect for customers March mination to practice ethics, kt held the Personal Professional Ethics Enactment Presentation. At the Best practices at other companies April presentation held at kt’s R&D Center in Umyeon-dong, about 330 executive officers were present Improve concentration at work May and shared an understanding of Personal Professional Ethics through three-hour presentations and Security June Q&As. Ethics slogan (Honesty) July Ethics slogan (Fairness) August Ethics UCC Contest: “Ethics Is Not Difficult” | The company’s Ethics Office held an Ethics UCC Ethics slogan (Integrity) September Contest in which employees produce UCCs about business ethics, share them with other employEthics slogan (Transparency) October ees, and help raise the ethics awareness of “Ethics Easy to Follow and Practice.” Under the theme, 2011 Director Ethics Training November “Familiar Stories about Ethics at Work,” 57 UCCs were submitted during the one-month contest. Wrap-up December Through the UCC contest, employees improved their understanding of business ethics. 20 Sustainability at kt Growing uncertainty in the business environment, including market saturation, intensifying comRisk Management petition, and business diversification, has increased business risks. To increase customer and corporate values, kt created a company-wide risk management system (process) for all types of risks, strategic, operational, and regulatory risks, as well as financial ones. Through this process, kt not only prevents risks but maintains friendly relationships with stakeholders and lays the groundwork for sustainability. Risk Management System Scope of Risks and Management Principles Compliance Risk Risk Rapid & Resolute Take rapid and resolute action Strategic Operational Integrity & Initiative Risk Risk Respond to and miniDisclose risks honestly and respond mize uncertainty which proactively may adversely affect Specific & Supportive corporate values Set a clearly defined approach and provide support Financial Event Knowledge Accumulative Risk Risk Prevent risks using its experience and knowledge Creating an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Process | Since 2004, kt has implemented integrated risk management activities, instead of unit-by-unit risk management activities, and has operated an ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) Team. In 2010, the company installed the RM Center as a sole ERM organization in the Ethics Office, which not only acts as a control tower but is also responsible for creating risk management plans, managing key risks, assessing servicerelated risks, and operating the Risk Committee. The company also created a process for both precautionary and strategic, practical risk management in accordance with the “Enterprise Risk Management Manual.” Risk Management Organization Risk Committee Organization Company-wide Supervision | Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Chairperson (Head of Legal & Corporate Ethics Office) Corporate Ethics Department 1 (RM Center) Corporate Ethics Department 1 (RM Center) CIC Risk Management Team Public Corporate Relations Security Relations (Regulatory CoopLegal affairs RO Team RO Team Leader RO Team Leader RO Team Leader RO Team Leader (Data & Infor(Public eration/Corporate mation Security (Legal Affairs Leader (Department) (Department) (Department) (Department) Relations 2 Center) (Officer) Relations Support Department) Department) Field Clean Supporters Department) Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 21 Sustainability at kt Risk Management Process Key Risk Management | kt reinforces preventive actions by identifying risks in the key businesses closely related to the company’s business direction and annual goals, and by creating a management strategy. The company selects key risk candidates (risk-pooling), evaluates them, and finally selects the key risks. The selected risks are used to identify Key Risk Indicators (KRI) through a cause-effect analysis, and actions such as monitoring and improvement are taken to reduce them. Follow-up Risk Management | Once a risk has materialized, the RM Center organizes a company-wide risk management process. Aside from business risks, the Center effectively reduces any risks that have a negative impact on the company’s goal-achievement and on its reputation by evaluating them, and by creating and implementing a risk management strategy. The CIC Risk Management Team and Field Clean Supporters work together to share risks and supervise the risk management process. Once risks are under control, kt makes fundamental changes by conducting a root cause analysis to prevent the recurrence of same risks. Service Risk Assessment | Since August 2010, kt has operated the “Service Risk Assessment” process. Through this process, the company conducts an in-depth review of risks in the four areas 417 Risks in Total (2010) of Customers/Privacy/Legal/Fair competition to provide customers with flawless services and disRisk review 602 Risks in Total (2011) tinctive value. kt reviewed 417 risks in 2010 and 602 risks in 2011, and has helped employees risk awareness by continuously operating the process. Raising Risk Awareness | By operating the self-assessment framework, kt has the Risk Owner 227 Risks in Total (2010) responsible for identifying and assessing the potential causes of risks, allowing prioritized risk Identifying 235 Risks in Total (2011) management and prevention. Through the self-assessment framework, the organization identified 227 risks in 2010 and 235 risks in 2011, developed a management strategy after prioritizing the Risks risks, and has implemented risk prevention activities. In addition, specialized training is provided to improve employees’ risk management capabilities. The company also conducts specialized risk Risk prevention actions training for the head office and departments, and online training for Field Clean Supporters, in Risk management training order to improve employees’ awareness of risk management. Risk Management Process Key Risk Prevention/Management Process Risk Management Risk development Creating a As-Is Analysis /KRI Setting /Process Analysis Management Strategy Risk pooling Selecting core values to KRI-based cause-effect Forming a Candidate assessment preserve analysis management team Setting Key Risk Root cause analysis Executing Indicators (KRI) improvement tasks Follow-up Process Identifying Risks Risk Assessment Risk Management Risk Feedback Submissions within/ C ompany-wide risk management Reporting manageoutside the company assessment and deterapproach ment results Identification by the mining management Determining R&R for Analysis and feedback RM Center topics (based on their related teams to prevent recurrence impact and likelihood to spread) Dream with Shareholders Main Teams Revenue Value Management Office, GMC Strategy Office, CC, BTO, Group Consulting Support Office, 20,166,817 million won Global Business Development unit, Global Sales Business unit Awards “Best LTE Network Business” Award for its “LTE WARP” technology at “LTE World Summit 2012” held on May 24, 2012 Won the President’s Award at 2011 Korea Brand Awards organized by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy Won 5 awards at 2011 Korea Advertising Awards Won “Red-Dot Award” for two consecutive years (2010, 2011) for olleh BI Design and olleh Signal Won “iF Design Award” (2011) for olleh square: Corporate Architecture Interactive iF Winner for kt olleh Font/ Typography “Advertisement of the Year”; Global ICT Gold Award in Campaign category Convergence Seoul Economic Daily’s Advertisement of the Year; Grand Prize in electronic information technology Vision & Strategy Performance kt aims to become a “Global Media Distribution Group” outside the declining Economic Revenue 20,166,817 million won telecommunications market. Focusing on developing the IT media business, the performance Return on Sales 10% company will expand its business into the emerging area of convergence, aimAdditional Affiliate BC Card ing at mid-term growth. Using synergy within the Group, the company will conBusinesses Smart Home Services Kibot2, Smart Home Pad centrate on businesses like media/contents, finance, security, and rental, and diversify its portfolio into the advertising, education, health care, and energy Patent Applications increased by 138% Innovation Facility Investment increased by 9% industries, consolidating its foundation for sustainability. with 3,318.5 billion won Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 23 Dream with Shareholders Increasing Affiliates | As of November 1, 2011, kt welcomed BC Card, the largest Korean credit Creating Growth card company with 3,100 billion won in annual sales, 100 billion won in operating profit, and a 25% share of the Korean credit card market, as a member of the Group. With this new affiliate, kt paved the way to Engines provide distinguished services by securing the banking industry and BC Card affiliates/clients as new customers for a convergence market that combines telecommunications and finances. The company will provide card users with unique benefits, new experience, and value by combining kt’s and BC Card’s ICT and payment processing capabilities, help small/medium affiliates increase revenue by offering an open marketing platform, and also help reduce unnecessary investment in the card industry. In 2010, kt bought up Kumho Rent-a-Car, the largest rental car business in Korea, to diversify its portfolio and expand business into non-telecommunications areas, and launched the Convergence Service, which combines two different industries (telecommunications service and automobiles). In 2011, the company released a short-term rental car service with a WiFi-Egg mounted in a rental car, and provided a longterm rental car service using the FMS (Fleet Management System) so that customers can use rental cars more conveniently and efficiently. Further, kt included telecommunications devices and OA equipment in rental services, saving about 5.5 billion won each year. Using its distribution channels (17 locations) and garages (4 locations) together, the company creates synergy. Between the subsidiaries of the Group, synergy is created through system rentals and co-marketing (kt Rental + kt CS/BC Card), package deals (kt Rental + kt Skylife). Launching New Services Leading the Smartphone/Pad Market | After the introduction of the iPhone in November 2009, which triggered the global smartphone fever, kt introduced smartphones to about 7,650,000 customers by the end of 2011, who account for over 47% of all kt mobile telecommunication subscribers. kt’s percentage of distribution is highest among the three largest mobile telecommunications carriers in Korea; kt has led the “smartphone revolution in Korea.” On February 14, 2012, smartphone users surpassed 50% of kt’s entire mobile telecommunication user base. It took kt only two years and two months to see over 50% of the user base adopt smartphones after the introduction of the iPhone in November 2009, which was the shortest time that no other carrier had achieved. Upon the release of the first smartphone in Korea, kt implemented the Total Network strategy encompassing 3G, WiFi, 4G WiBro, and LTE WARP, in the event of skyrocketing wireless data usage. With the installation of the world’s first CCC (Cloud Communication Center), kt smartphone users are now able to enjoy convenient, fast wireless Internet service under a variety of network conditions, such as 3G twice as fast as the existing data transfer rate, 190,000 Ollleh WiFi services (AP), the world’s largest network serviced by a single carrier, ‘Mobile WiFi’ installed in subway trains and buses, and 4G WiBro Egg with nationwide coverage. Since the fourth quarter of 2011, the Korean mobile telecommunications market has rapidly evolved with the launch of LTE service. kt’s LTE service provides fast, reliable speeds since it is the world’s first LTE service to apply the innovative “virtualization” technology. No other carrier can build an LTE network as fast as kt since the company uses the “Plug-in” in which LTE WARP can be created by merely adding LTE Percentage of Smartphone Users Among equipment to the existing 3G CCC. kt’s LTE WARP is the most cutting-edge technology that provides the Total Subscribers on kt fastest data transfer rate by combining a cloud technology with mobile telecommunications to distribute Smartphone users (unit : ten thousand people) Percentage of smartphone users (%) overloaded traffic evenly. kt was internationally recognized when it won the Best LTE Network Business Award for its “LTE WARP” technology at the LTE WORLD SUMMIT 2012 held on May 24, 2012. The dis2009 28 1.9% tribution of tablet PCs, another type of smart device, is also led by kt. By the end of 2011, kt topped the 273 17.0% tablet PC competition with 300,000 subscribers. kt was the sole carrier to roll out Apple’s iPad in Korea, 2010 47.1% and also released the “Smart Home Pad” aimed at housewives, as well as the iPad 2, cementing its lead2011 765 ership position in the “Smart” era. 24 Dream with Shareholders Smart Home Service | kt’s dream ‘Smart Home’ is a new type of space where domestic robots and smart home pads connected to the wireless Internet provide personalized content and a variety of home services, allow the entire family to relax, learn and have fun, and work stress-free. As the wired telecommunications market becomes saturated (‘home phone Internet Internet phone TV’), kt had a hard time creating new customers. Then, with the launch of ‘Kibot’ and ‘Smart Home Pad’, the company transformed the wired market into a new growth engine. In 2012, the company will increase its subscriber base by launching a robot for senior care and a home tablet PC, and create a next-generation market with new Smart Home solutions Kibot 2 10,000 units of Kibot 1 were quickly sold out just four months after its release in April 2011. The product won the President’s Award at the Korea Robot Awards organized by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. In late December 2011, Kibot 2 was released for child educational purposes. With enhanced features, such as the beam projector and AR (Augmented Reality), Kibot 2 came loaded with about 10,000 types of content, such as Ppororo, Cocomon, and Thomas. The product gained immense popularity among a wide range of users, from ordinary to children with disabilities and multicultural families, whoever needs language education for children, leading the smart home robot market. Smart Home Pad In late October 2011, the company released home tablet PC called “Smart Home Pad” to provide distinguished SoIP service. With new rate plans, the company offers customized ser'Kibot', Edutainment Robot for Children vices in which customers choose from varying options, such as WiFi, WiBro, and Telecop. kt customers are also provided with the distinguished home services designed based on subscriber information, such as tailored lifestyle information service called “Life Jockey” (music, news, and videos are recommended) and home security service called “Home Security.” uCloud Service | Since the commercialization of a personalized uCloud service (2010), the company’s subscribers surpassed 1.5 million by the end of 2011. By offering personal storage services on the olleh Internet for mobile customers, kt has earned customer loyalty and increased customer satisfaction. The company launched server, storage, DB, CDN, VDI, and backup services by commercializing the uCloud biz for corporate use, so that subscribers can use and pay for a company’s IT resources via the Internet. As a result, kt secured about 1,400 business customers. In 2012, the company aims to generate 41.3 billion won in sales and 2.63 million subscribers by expanding the corporate market with the Virtual Private Premium Product and a stronger product line, and by creating a Cloud Ecosystem for suppliers and developers’ mutual prosperity with a variety of open APIs. H∞H Healthcare | One of kt’s visions is to become “Global Total Healthcare Company” that creates new value through the convergence of healthcare and ICT. To enhance the quality of life, kt participated in the formation of a joint venture called “H∞H Healthcare,” which combines healthcare and ICT (Information Communication Technology). By providing the total healthcare service, which combines new technologies like NFS, the company is expected to provide financial assistance for health insurance, under which affordable, quality healthcare is available to everyone. International Patent Applications | kt has been dedicated to discovering patentable inventions to reinforce its business capabilities and portfolio of international patents. In 2011, the company was actively Facility Investment Breakdown engaged in finding patentable technologies, which were applied to kt’s businesses, such as LTE femtocell, | unit : billion won | CCC virtualization, and smart grids, or which reflected the latest trends, and focused on filing patent appliType 2009 2010 2011 cations for strategically discovered inventions, ultimately increasing the number of international patent Internet 603.3 838.8 448.6 applications by 138% over the previous year. Wired phone 142.7 142.5 104.6 Mobile phone 729.5 816.4 1,551.9 Facility Investment | In 2011, kt invested 3,318.5 billion won in facilities, a 9% increase over the 2010 Data 418.5 405.1 340.1 levels, due to the increased investments in mobile phone business and support facilities. To dramatically Telecommunications increase the capacity of its WCDMA network, which uses an environmentally friendly CCC architecture, 675.2 501.2 435.8 infrastructure the company increased the investment in mobile phones by 90%, and the investment in support facilities Support facilities 389,5 353.2 437.5 by 24% to create a new IT system. In 2012, kt plans on increasing investment in mobile phones to provide Total 2,958,7 3,057.2 3,318.5 3W plus LTE network services by applying the virtualization technology for the first time in the world. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 25 Dream with Shareholders Pursuing Global Sustainability | In June 2010, to extend sustainability to its global business, Global Business kt created and distributed the Code of Ethics written in the language of a country where kt’s overseas affiliate or subsidiary is located, and the Sustainability Guidelines, which address business ethics, social responsibility, privacy policy, and compliance with the international labor standards. During the period of olleh 1.0, the company transformed its corporate behavior and brought it up to the ‘Global Best Practice’ level by enforcing ethics and improving work practices, and has led corporate social responsibility by forming partnerships with small/medium enterprises (SMEs) and creating jobs. kt also provides its overseas subsidiaries with continuous training on business performance, through which the company strengthens its global sustainability capabilities. Forming ‘Smart Belt’ among Korea, China, and Japan | kt has worked with China Mobile and NTT DoCoMo to create a “Smart Ecosystem” in Northeast Asia across the three countries, Korea, China, and Japan. The three countries are actively engaged in collaborative projects, including “OASIS,” a super app store available for 650 million Northeast Asian subscribers, GSM(1)/ Overseas Network WCDMA(2) networks, and free roaming services between Korea, China, and Japan, allowing customers to use WiFi networks across national boundaries, and joint research on 4G LTE (Long-Term Overseas Subsidiaries Evolution). Through this collaboration, customers will be able to enjoy more benefits and the teleChina kt China Corp. (Omnitel China) communications industry will lead next-generation mobile technologies and strengthen competiJapan kt Japan Co., Ltd. tive advantages in the global market. U.S. kt America Inc. Mongolia Mongolian Telecom Global Competitiveness | Using its successful experience and expertise in the business of Uzbekistan East Telecom, Super-iMax wired and wireless communications, kt is expanding its business abroad. Currently, the company’s Indonesia Freekoms strategy implementation approach to “Global Go-To Market” is to bring into the global market the packages tailored to target areas, countries, and companies, using its competitive advantage in Overseas Offices/Branches the global ICT market, such as the strong network, CCC, Smart Home, and Kibot, and the non-teleRussia Moscow Office, Vietnam Hanoi Office, communications capabilities of the Group’s subsidiaries. kt will strengthen its competitive position Columbia Bogota Office, Algeria Algiers Branch, in the global market, centering on Smart Space, IT service, Health Care, and CCC, by creating maxiBangladeshi Dhaka Branch, Rwanda Kigali Branch, mum synergy between the Group’s subsidiaries and suppliers, including kt olleh Management 2.0, China Hong Kong Office, Indonesia Jakarta Branch, Enswers, Ustream Korea (content distribution), kt E-Notes (cloud computing), which will help kt Uzbekistan Tashkent Branch become a Global Media Distribution Group, and using its global partnership (Vodafone CONEXUS). Global ICT Business | kt created and has successfully operated a variety of ICT infrastructure components, such as PSTN (3), an ultra high-speed Internet network, WiBro network (4), BCN (5), IPTV, WCDMA network, and LTE network (6). The company shares its successful experience in the Korean market with emerging markets where ICT infrastructure improvements need to be made, and also provides global ICT services to government bodies and international companies around 1) GSM: Global System for Mobile Communications the world, including telecommunications infrastructure, public infrastructure services, U-City, 2) WCDMA : Wideband Code Division Multiple Access 3) PSTN : Public Switch Telephone Network Managed Service, etc. To offer high-quality Internet and international calls at reasonable prices, 4) Wibro : Wireless Broadband Internet kt built a global network connecting developed countries around the world and has provided global 5) BCN : Broadband Convergence Network 6)LTE : Long Term Evolution services, including end-to-end data line and IP services and traffic wholesale. 657 Global IT 12.4 % Global ICT Business Results | unit : billion won | Global Type 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 706 Data 13.3 % Global IT 13.5 9.0 28.8 56.6 93.6 70.6 Traffic Global Data 43.1 45.5 59.9 67.7 64.4 65.7 Wholesale 32.1% Traffic Wholesale 175.2 167.7 207.8 219.6 205.5 223.4 2,234 1,702 International Calling 203.0 199.5 199.9 148.1 148.7 170.2 International Calling 42.2% Total 434.8 421.7 496.4 492.0 512.2 529.9 2011 Total 529.9 billion won *The revenue of Global Data includes the revenue generated from satellite VSATs between 2006 and 2009. 26 Dream with Shareholders A brand represents a company’s products and services and is an important intangible asset that adds Brand Value high value to products and services. Aware of the importance of branding, kt introduced and enforced a more systematic, strategic brand management process. By the end of 2010, the company achieved remarkable growth and produced brand value worth about 10 trillion won. (Source from the Corporate Brand Valuation’ published by Institute for Industrial Policy Studies in November 2010.) Following the convergence paradigm of the global telecommunications market, kt integrated wired/ wireless products/services and launched the ‘olleh’ brand on January 1, 2011. The launch of ‘olleh’, a leading service brand in Korea, not only revitalized the kt brand but also created synergy between products and services and increased efficiency in marketing communications, offering products and services through an integrated process. In 2011, kt made a variety of attempts to increase brand awareness and improve its corporate image. Consequently, it received the President’s Award at Korea Brand Awards and received recognition for its successful brand management by leading national and international brand valuation agencies. kt will carry out a wide range of activities to develop brand assets and increase brand value, as well as strengthen the brand management process for sustainability purposes. Brand Management for Sustainability | kt has been committed to creating a corporate image of sustainability. Since 2009, the company has continuously managed the indicators by including sustainability-related items, such as fair pricing policy, false advertisements or not, environmental efforts, social responsibility activities, and reputation, when having customers evaluate the corporate and product brand images. In 2010, kt extended the scope of assessment to internal and outside stakeholders, including government agencies, NGOs, and investors, as well as customers. The company shares the assessment results with CIC IMC (Integrated Marketing Communication) Team and other related teams and incorporates them into sustainability activities. Further, kt has continuously managed the reputation indicator and incorporated the results in branding activities. Through the Sustainability Committee, the company also strengthens the connection between sustainability and brand management. Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 2 Stage 1 January 2011 2012 to 2013 July 2010 July 2009 Convergence Product/ kt’s Core Product/ kt’s Core Product/ Role by stage Management Slogan Service brand Service Brand Service Brand Goal by stage Secure Convergence Leadership Secure Wired/Wireless Increase brand value by Create an Innovative Image Brand Leadership strengthening brand power “olleh,” kt’s management sloAs olleh became a product/ olleh became kt’s core service olleh will enhance the ‘olleh’ gan launched when kt and KTF service brand that replaced brand that encompasses all kt’s brand preference by reinforcmerged, revitalized the kt brand QOOK&SHOW, a wired/wirewired, wireless, wired/wireing the IMC based on customer and helped customers perceive less convergence brand, kt creless convergence products and satisfaction and ‘substance’, kt as an innovative company ated a brand image for wired/ services, and was renewed as and strengthen the group-wide wireless convergence products kt’s sole product/service brand, brand management system by and services. which symbolizes the compaincreasing synergy between ny’s vision and philosophy that the group companies, centercustomer satisfaction always ing on the kt brand. comes first. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 27 Dream with Shareholders Systematic Brand Management Process In 2011, kt declared ‘group management’, and has since strengthened the related process. Now, the company operates the Group Brand Executive Committee, an executive-level body responsible for reviewing and making decisions on key issues about branding and communication. Other bodies include the Steering Committee on Group Brand, a team leader-level body responsible for presenting agenda items to the GBM Committee and for overseeing meetings between kt Group and its subsidiaries regarding brand/public relations/internal communication, and the Steering Committee on CIC Brand, a team leader-level body responsible for supervising working-level meetings regarding CIC brand/public relations/internal communication. At the Group Brand Executive Committee, a variety of activities are planned, implemented, and evaluated. The activities range from branding policies/designs to advertising, and to branding strategy discussion, so that kt Group and it subsidiaries can carry out branding activities with their enhanced consistency and ability to execute. The Committee also deals with internal communication and social responsibility activities, which may have an impact on the Group brand image. Further, the Committee is responsible for taking action against brand infringements, for co-promotions/co-marketing, and for external communication. In 2011, the Committee changed the CI/BI of each subsidiary to enhance the Group’s entire corporate image, and implemented a variety of co-marketing activities between the subsidiaries. Strategic Brand Management Systematic Brand Performance Index Management | kt created an organized, scientific performance index model to manage brand performance indicators. Based on scientific data, the company identifies an efficient brand strategy and action plan to increase brand value. Brand Performance Index Used to evaluate the brand performance model consisting of brand awareness, attitude, and behavior and create a strategy for brand marketing by analyzing the relationship between marketing activities and brand indicators, reinforcing brand management activities and brand value. Advertisement Performance Index Used to evaluate the ‘message power’, ‘image power’, and ‘creative power’ of all advertisements made by kt and other carriers, and incorporate the results in creating a brand/advertising strategy Brand Concept Map Used to evaluate and analyze the image elements of the kt and olleh brands that customers perceive and apply them to strategic brand management. Innovative Brand Communication | Since 2011, kt Group and its subsidiaries have conducted innovation-driven brand communication activities, which focus on customer satisfaction. While advertising customer satisfaction delivered by the olleh brand, kt distributed a video clip containing the Gwanghwamun office, and carried out communication activities combining ATL and BTL, such as olleh TV Must-See Street Campaign, and Shout LTE WARP. Further, working with the subsidiaries, kt Group conducted extensive collaborative activities, including the TAKE ad by kt Tech, related events, and the Egg promotions in collaboration with kt’s Kumho Rent-a-Car. [ kt ] [ kt tech ] [ kt rental ] 28 Dream with Shareholders Integrated Brand Design | As one of the key strategies to enhance brand value, kt created a Total Identity Design, and has made radical changes in all expressive areas, from brand design to font, space, products, and App icons. Complete Total Identity Design Brand Identity Design Space Identity Design UI_Identity Design Visual Identity Design Product Identity Design Brand Identity Design Forms the basis of Total Identity Design and repVisual Identity kt developed the olleh signal, a symbol of telecommuniresents the “Wave of Innovation.” In short, all kt brands are aimed at becoming cation signaling, and the olleh font that represents kt’s unique identity, and global brands and “riding the Wave of Innovation.” applies them to a variety of brand products. The company also developed a number of visual elements, such as brand color, to create a unified visual identity. Space Identity kt expands the domain of brand design by creating the olleh square, olleh Avenue, and olleh stores. Product Identity Radical changes will be made to all kt’s devices. The new products will represent kt’s unique identity and be launched in the first half of 2013. olleh square olleh Avenue olleh store Performance of Brand Management Activities kt has effectively conducted brand management activities, including an integrated brand campaign, expanding the brand design to a variety of areas, systematic brand index management, and strict action against brand infringement. As a result, kt and olleh became leading brands in Korea. Won President’s Award at 2011 Korea Brand Won the Red-Dot Award for two consecutive Awards by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy years (2010, 2011) olleh BI design and the olleh signal Won awards in 5 categories at 2011 Korea Advertising Awards ; Won the iF Design Award (2011) 4 categories for ‘Paranmanjang’ Project and 1 olleh square: Interactive in corporate architecture category for “Hands-On” AR Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 29 Dream with Shareholders Innovative Management KPI Innovative To develop new businesses in non-telecommunications areas and expand business abroad using Management its soft power, in 2010, kt introduced ‘Innovative Management’, a management innovation plan designed to encourage employees to think outside the box, suggest and materialize innovative ideas. Innovative Management is aimed at ‘creating a corporate culture where employees find new problems and opportunities and creative problem-solving methods’. This year, the responsible organization was restructured into the Innovative Management Center responsible for running ‘Innovative Management School’ for all-employee training, for executing Innovative Management projects through which teams work together to solve problems, and for spreading innovative management. Employees are allowed to freely suggest their ideas, and the Idea Pipeline was created to help remarkable ideas develop into actual projects and encourage employees to transform ‘small ideas’ into ‘big ideas’. kt also tries to establish a culture of ‘challenge’ in which failures are turned into ‘assets’. In addition, kt is developing its own Tool Kit to make its two-year innovative management experience into an asset, and plans on helping other companies, both at home and abroad, adopt innovative management. Group PEG (Project Expert Group) The PEG, formed in 2010 as an internal consulting organization, laid the foundation for projectbased best practices and executed a total of 100 projects in 2011 (37 projects in 2010). The PEG created a market by finding ICT convergence business areas and developing technology-based products/solutions, and focused on the ‘Cost Transformation’ activities. The projects implemented by the PEG include: ‘Open Point Project in connection with BC Card’, ‘Business Incubation to Lead Korean NFC (1) Market’, and ‘Green Energy Convergence to Develop Renewable Energy Projects’. The PEG adopted the U.K. methodology of PRINCE2 (2) to execute the projects and implement the 1) NFC (Near Field Communication) : Convergence service that breaks barriers between finance and ‘Advancement of PEG Projects’, and also enhanced human resources (HR) competencies, as 41 telecommunications areas, including near field comemployees obtained PRINCE2 certificates in Foundation and 27 Practitioner certificates. In 2012, munication traffic/ticketing/payment under olleh 2.0, kt will improve business results at the company level by developing projects in 2) PRINCE2 (PRojects IN a Controlled Environment version 2): Project management methodology develnon-telecommunications areas, and continue to implement innovation projects to strengthen the oped by U.K. OGC (Office of Government Commerce) Group Management system. Implementing BIT-ERP Project The BIT Project, which began in 2011, is a program for streamlining work processes through an IT infrastructure overhaul, so that kt can become a global ICT leader. The project is now applied to all business areas, including the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. As for the ERP Project, designing, engineering, system development, and unit testing have been completed. Scheduled to open in July 2012, the project is now in the stage of deployment, where user training, the data checks of major user teams, the implementation of “Go Live,” infrastructure, and the planning of a Help desk are conducted. Under olleh 2.0, the BIT-ERP Project is aimed at providing business information innovation, efficient SCM, “Simple and Speedy,” and is currently being deployed after the key change targets have been set. 30 Dream with Shareholders Key Changes in ERP Business Category Key change Target Business information Increase the direct ratio 56.2% → 80% innovation Increase BM profitability analysis 67 → 210 Increase activities 189 → 7,003 Multidimensional profitability Channel, customers, by unit, service analysis excellence Efficient SCM Increase compliance with ERP 19% → 70% procurement process Reduce inventory turnover (mobile phones) 33 days → 28 days Reduce phone logistics locations 334 → 192 Simple, Speedy Reduce business processes (L4) 713 → 559 Reduce ERP systems 10 → 1 Reduce account subjects Under 1,600 Shorten settlement period D+13 days → D+3 days Reduce lines of slips 74,280,000 → 44,560,000 per year (40%↓) Reduce types of WBS management 14 → 5 Cost Structure Innovation Cost Reduction Results kt works hard to transform the cost structure by improving processes, under the principles of structural and system innovation, liberal innovation, and immediate compensation and ‘reward and 201.2 punishment’. In 2011, kt developed and implemented 107 cost-efficiency innovation projects and billion won 55 action-based optimization projects, saving about 201.2 billion won. The following is the company’s previous-year cost breakdown. Cost-Efficiency Innovation Projects | unit : billion won | Cost-Efficiency Innovation Projects Savings from increased sales through internal channels and integrated management of free gifts 29.4 Savings from direct repairs services in areas where the likelihood of repairs is low 16.8 107 projects Electricity savings from low-power facility operations and fresh air air-conditioning Improved balance by changing interconnection system and analyzing call errors 12.3 9.9 153.5 Lower cost mobile phone insurance by introducing competitive bidding 9.1 billion won Less reductions by managing maintenance and promotion costs together 8 Reduction in contract expenses through corporate SoIP and direct maintenance 6.8 IT contract service included in variable costs and maintenance system overhaul 3.3 (annual-contract Call Base) Reduced operating costs through railway construction process improvements (e.g., multiple 1.1 cable units) and reinforced facility management (e.g., reporting the disposal of unused manholes) Action-Based Optimization Projects Action-Based Optimization Projects | unit : billion won | 55 projects Phone cost reduction by attracting incentives for “hit” phone makers Reduction in loss on valuation by creating the process of eliminating underperforming 14.9 7.1 47.7 inventory in a timely manner (i.e. complete elimination in three months after a signal occurs) Concentrating on purchase agreements with brand “call taxis” and introducing annual 0.5 billion won unit-price contracts Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 31 Dream with Shareholders Economic Performance 2,380.1 Employee Compensation 567.6 Income tax, taxes, and public imposts Small/medium supplier costs, cash payments 1,802.3 Small/medium supplier financial support 223.3 Community sponsorships and support 21.14 Charity work and donations 827 21.69 Community investments | unit : billion won | Economic Performance Summary Revenue by Business | The following is a breakdown of the company’s operating incomes of the current and previous periods. Revenue by Business | unit : million won | Category 2010 Revenue 2010 Sales-mix ratio 2011 Revenue 2011 Sales-mix ratio Change Goods sold 3,918,796 19.7% 4,201,178 20.8% 7.2% Services provided 15,632,767 78.5% 15,122,455 75.0% -3.3% Other 366,815 1.8% 843,184 4.2% 129.9% Total 19,918,378 100% 20,166,817 100% 1.2% *The 2011 results and the comparative results of the previous period were recalculated under the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) as the K-IFRS began to apply in 2011. 32 Dream with Shareholders Balance Sheet Summary | unit : million won | 29th term 30th term Category (late December 2010) (late December 2011) Change Total assets 24,345,115 26,453,607 8.7% Current liabilities 6,842,087 6,035,682 -11.8% Noncurrent liabilities 6,411,891 8,683,992 35.4% Total liabilities 13,253,978 14,719,674 11.1% Equity 1,564,499 1,564,499 0.0% Paid-in capital in excess of par value 1,440,258 1,440,258 0.0% Earned surplus 9,399,171 10,008,964 6.5% Accumulated other comprehensive income -56,165 -28,684 -48.9% Other equity components -1,256,626 -1,251,104 -0.4% Total equity 11,091,137 11,733,933 5.8% Total liabilities and equity 24,345,115 26,453,607 8.7% *The financial statements of the 29th and 30th terms above were prepared under the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards. Income Statement Summary | unit : million won | Category 29th term 30th term Change Operating revenue 19,918,378 20,166,817 1.2% Operating expenses 17,914,807 18,140,891 1.3% Operating profit 2,003,571 2,025,926 1.1% Other gains/losses (363,457) (367,648) 1.2% Other revenues 225,795 243,789 8.0% Other expenses (589,252) (611,437) 3.8% Pretax income 1,640,114 1,658,278 1.1% Income tax expense 391,268 369,223 -5.6% Net profit 1,248,846 1,289,055 3.2% Key Financial Ratios | unit :% | Category Ratio 2010 2011 Liquidity Ratios Current ratio 84.8 105.6 Liabilities ratio 119.5 125.4 Operating profit margin 10.1 10.0 (Return on sales) Profitability Ratios Net profit margin 6.3 6.4 (net Return on sales) Return on total assets 5.1 4.9 Return on equity 11.3 11.0 Growth and Activity Sales growth 25.2 1.2 Ratios Operating leverage 227.6 1.1 Net income growth 141.8 3.2 Total asset growth 0.0 8.7 Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 33 Dream with Shareholders Value Distribution for Stakeholders Shareholder Total Shareholder Dividends Communication | unit : million won | Category 2009 2010 2011 Dividends 486,393 586,150 486,602 Employee Compensation | unit : million won | Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 Pay 18,101 18,412 18,405 18,695 Retirement allowance 3,222 10,717 2,076 1,984 Benefits 4,826 5,092 3,038 3,122 Total 26,149 34,221 23,519 23,801 Shareholders | unit : share, % | IR Activities Category Number of shares Percentage Category Description Remarks Treasury stock 17,810,562 6.82 IR Results and Frequently Foreigners 125,054,808 47.89 presentations business status Pension 22,373,434 8.57 Reports Quarterly reports Quarterly Employee stock 3,558,570 1.36 Publishing Quarterly reports Quarterly ownership reports Audit reports Quarterly National institutions 24,894,021 9.53 Annual reports Annual (except pension) Sustainability Annual Other corporations 6,508,522 2.49 reports Individuals 60,911,891 23.33 Total number of 261,111,808 100.00 outstanding shares Taxes | unit : billion won | Category 2010 2011 Income tax expense 391.3 369.2 Taxes and public imposts 208.4 Total 391.3 577.6 Shareholder Return kt adopted the cumulative voting and paper voting processes to protect the rights of minor shareholders, and makes it a rule to return over 50% of net profit for the period to the shareholders each year. As for the results of the fiscal period of 2011, the company paid 486.6 billion won in dividends as determined at the annual shareholders’ meeting held in March 2012. Dividend Breakdown Key category 2009 2010 2011 Par value per share (won) 5,000 5,000 5,000 Net profit (million won) 516,533 1,248,846 1,289,055 Total dividends (million won) 486,393 586,150 486,602 Dividend payout ratio (dividend/net profit, %) 94.2 46.9 37.7 Dividend yield (dividend per share/price, %) 4.9 5.0 5.3 *The dividend breakdowns of the 29th and 30th terms were prepared based on the two-year comparable dividends as the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) were adopted in 2011, and the breakdown of the 28th term was prepared under the K-GAAP. Dream with Customers No.1 Awards LTE World Summit 2012 Won the Best Carrier Award Highest National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) score in local/long-distance calling services for 14 consecutive years; highest score in ultra high-speed Internet for 8 consecutive years; highest score in Internet calling service for three consecutive years; and highest scores in international calling and IPTV services Highest Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) scores in 5 areas of local/longdistance, ultra high-speed Internet, Internet calling, long-distance calling, and IPTV WiFi available in 100,287 locations Highest Korea Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) in ultra high-speed Internet, IPTV, and international calling service Integrated wired Main Teams and wireless SI Group, Home Group service website (Home CS Business Unit) and Network Group www.olleh.com Vision & Strategy Performance With the launch of olleh 2.0, kt pursues distinctive customer satisfaction with Create Customer Clarify the system Create CS Vision, CS Image, and the vision of becoming the world's best CS provider that can “communicate Satisfaction (CS) Customer Satisfaction Charter with sincerity and build trust.” As one of the leading Korean companies in the System Improve CS practices Create CS Rules and Guidelines history of telecommunications in Korea, the company will create its own image Provide new services of CS, “kt is trusted and delivers best satisfaction,” and become a first-rate CS Create olleh Green Phone service, olleh Safe Plan Customer Value Increase customers communication channels provider and build customer trust through Customer Satisfaction and CommuHandled VOC using social media nicative Management. kt created the CS Rules for all employees, as well as Protect customer 91% of all employees completed privacy training guidelines for what and how customer satisfaction can be practiced. privacy Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 35 Dream with Customers With the launch of olleh 2.0, kt created its CS System by incorporating the CS Vision, Image, CharCustomer ter, Rules and Guidelines. The CS Vision represents kt's long-term goal and future direction in the CS area; the CS Image is linked with the value and meaning of service that kt wishes to provide Satisfaction (CS) customers; the CS Charter is the pledge of all employees to practice customer satisfaction and System comply with the company's core value of “All for Customer.” The CS Rules and Guidelines center on the rules and practices that all employees must comply with to realize the CS Image. CS Vision House CS Vision The world's best CS company that can “communicate with sincerity and build trust. Motive: The company's resolution to build customer trust through Customer CS Vision Satisfaction/Communicative Management, secure revenue sources by increasing CS Image social responsibility activities, and become a first-rate CS company The company's long-term goal and future direction in the area of customer satisfaction (CS) Rule & Customer Guideline Satisfaction Charter CS Image kt is trusted and delivers best satisfaction Responsibility center management by CIC The value and meaning of services provided by kt, which customers both at home and abroad should be aware of Customer SatisCentering on the core value, “All for Customer,” the pledge of all faction Charter employees to deliver and observe Customer Satisfaction Centering on the core value, “All for Customer,” we agree to act and behave from the perspective of each customer and, to deliver all customers satisfaction, pledge to: 1. Keep our promises with our customers by enforcing the Real Name Service System; 2. Identify customers' wants and needs and fulfill them perfectly; 3. Make products that customers want through customer engagement and evaluation; 4. Listen to the Voice of Customer 24/7 all year round through various channels; 5. Extend our service to neglected, remote areas. By agreeing to the pledge above, we will practice Customer Satisfaction until all customers are truly satisfied. Rules and CS Rules : Rules that all employees must comply with to realize the CS Image Guidelines CS Guidelines : Points of reference for what, how, and by whom the CS Rules should be implemented. The activities of increasing CS are implemented in stages, depending on the role of each organization, such as the customer interface, responsible team/group, and business units. The company introduced CS performance-based Rewards and Penalties to improve employees' CS mindset across the Group on the basis of the CS Vision. kt also applied CS KPIs to all teams and groups related to CS activities to create and operate an organic Performance Management system. The CEO Claims Center is operated to resolve customers' complaints as quickly as possible. The Center was restructured into an independent organization and reinforced the consultants’ HR capabilities. Further, the company implemented ‘Product Line Innovation’ to streamline the product lines and reduce the number of products that it offers, such as getting rid of any existing product that is similar in function to a new product/service. In 2011, the company cut the number of products by 90% over the previous year, and in 2012, aims to reduce the number of products by 50%. 36 Dream with Customers New Services Service Innovation olleh Green Phone Service | Korean mobile phone users replace their phones about three times as frequently as mobile phone users in other leading countries, such as Japan, do. These frequent replacements have resulted in approximately 22,800,000 used phones. In May this past year, the company enforced the Blacklist Policy, which will increase the number of used phone users as well as that of users who intend to turn used phones into “second” devices. With the Resources Recycling Act taking effect, wireless carriers are now assigned the mandatory number of phones to collect, which all mobile phone distributors are required to comply with. To encourage the recycling of used phones and resources, the company launched olleh Green Phone Service in March 2012. The olleh Green Phone Service collects used phones through all customer channels and promotes the recycling of resources, and is aimed at meeting the needs of customers who wish to use used phones and at placing higher value on sustainable consumption. The company created a 24/7 trading channel both online and offline, and provides convenient service that meets customers' needs by enforcing the Ratings scheme in each store. In June 2012, the olleh Green Phone Clinic service will start being distributed to all olleh stores across the country to examine the exterior features of mobile phones. At four locations of the olleh Green Phone Clinic Center, a Total Care Service is available, which ranges from phone cleaning to polishing, disinfection, and to functional checks. The olleh Green Phone Clinic service allows customers to get even newer used phones. Once a customer signs up for the olleh SIMple Service that services USIM only, they can save money on mobile phones and call rates. In the second quarter, the company plans on implementing the Employee Used Phone Collection campaign. The olleh Green Phone and olleh Green Phone Clinic services helped the company deliver customer satisfaction and build customer trust, provided customers benefits from recycling phones, and paved the way for win-win relationships between communities, consumers, and the company by recycling resources and protecting the environment. olleh Phone Safe Plan | Half the mobile phone users now use smartphones. Between January and March in 2012, the patterns of consumer purchase revealed that 2/3 of all customers choose smartphones over feature phones. To cover the damage done to or the loss of expensive smartphones worth about 800,000 to 900,000 won, kt operates the olleh Phone Safe Plan. The plan is part of the Customer Retention Program and supports lost phone replacement and repair costs. Using its experience as a leading carrier, kt introduces a variety of programs and plans, includRetention Program Lost /Damaged ing olleh A/S Center, to increase customer satisfaction when customers purchase and use smartEncourage additional Phone Care replacements in 24 Support replacement phones. The trends in mobile phone insurance subscription show that, by the end of 2011, the months by providing /repair costs for lost phone insurance subscribers surpassed 4.3 million, the largest user base among other carriers in replacement points /damaged phones (except for accidents) Korea. As the phone insurance becomes more important in securing marketing capabilities, kt will reinforce and upgrade its insurance service. olleh Green Phone Clinic olleh Green Phone Service olleh SIMple Service Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 37 Dream with Customers Distinctive Services kt always thinks about what areas of existing service can be differentiated before they are provided to customers. The company is committed to delivering customer satisfaction, including bundles like “olleh Together,” electronic bills, “Before Service,” and “Delight Service,” To provide network connection while using public transport, kt has extended the Public Egg service to public transport vehicles. These efforts represent kt's dedication to communicating more with customers and offering better services. kt will continue to provide customers with better services through ongoing innovation. Wired/Wireless Integration and Online Customer Extension of Service WiFi Zone: Wired/Wireless Increase electronic 'Public Egg' Integration and More bills: One Billing 'olleh Together' Benefits for Customers Bundle Service Extension of 'Before Delight Service: Refund Plan Quality Assurance Service' Extension of VIP Customer Improvement Program Service Care Service Low-cost Bundles for Customers | Taking advantage of a combined wired and wireless service a total wireless carrier whose service combines wired and wireless, kt provides bundles through which a variety of kt's telecommunications services are available at the lowest price possible. In May 2011, the company launched “olleh Together,” which provides the widest range of benefits ever among other bundles, offering about 3 million customers discounts over a period of mere 7 months. olleh Together is a groundbreaking integrated wired and wireless service, through which customers can get more discounts per mobile phone line if they use the Internet/home phones with their mobile phones. Unlike the existing bundles that offered total discounts or fixed-percentage discounts, olleh Together provides individual users with more discounts, the more family members they have. By saving money for those customers who were reluctant to buy smartphones because of prices, olleh Together dramatically increased opportunities for a variety of telecommunications services on smartphones. olleh Together has also made a huge contribution to household savings by offering entire families discounts if they use smartphones. Free Premium Internet and Lower Call Rates by Extending WiFi Zones | In 2011, kt focused on enhancing quality through replacements with or upgrades to the Premium AP, which provides two bandwidths of 2.4GHz and 5GHz, as well as on extending olleh WiFi Zones. Furthermore, kt’s “Public Egg” service is available on subway trains, buses, and Han River ferries, providing free WiFi while traveling. In 2010, the company extended the service to all subway lines in Seoul and the metropolitan area, Incheon and Busan subway lines, and airport rail links. In 2011, the company installed Mobility WiFi on about 500 bus routes across the city of Seoul, the metropolitan area, and then across the country, as well as airport limousines. In 2012, kt plans on extending Mobility WiFi to 600 bus routes across Gyeonggi-do, Ulsan, Changwon, Pohang, and Gwangju. In 100,000 WiFi Zones (as of late 2011), customers can access free Premium Internet on the beaches, Dokdo Island, and public transport. The company also provides olleh WiFi Roaming service abroad, so that customers traveling in 100 countries in North America, Asia, and Europe, can use WiFi at a more reasonable price than the existing roaming plans. 38 Dream with Customers More Wired/Wireless Integration Benefits | In January 2012, kt introduced the Wired/Wireless Integration Customer Rating system to extend the benefits for wireless (mobile, WiBro) customers to wired service subscribers (Internet, Internet calls, IPTV, and home phones). Whether online or offline, kt built approximately 15,000 affiliates nationwide to meet customers' needs in varying areas, and now provides special customer experiences and premium benefits by introducing the Prestige Zone, global, golf/leisure, culture/performance services. Creating Wired/Wireless Integration Service, Integrated Online Channels | In January 2011, kt opened a website dedicated to wired/wireless integration services at www.olleh.com to provide information on wired/wireless integration, kt service rate plans, and the Terms of Service, and support a wide range of customer service activities, including sign-ups, terminations, prices inquiry, and product changes. With the growing number of mobile service customers, including smartphone users, in August 2011, kt extended its mobile customer service through m.olleh.com and the Customer Service App, providing online CS equal in quality to the #100 Call Center. One Billing and Increasing Electronic Bills | To save resources and money in mailing, kt has increased the use of electronic bills. Through the One Billing service, multiple-service users are charged per sheet of paper. The company plans on extending the integrated billing (One Billing) service to customers, who use multiple services under one name and one address. The website olleh. com promotes e-mail/integrated billing services, which will replace print bills with Smart Bills. Current Phone Bills | unit : 10,000 bills, % | Wired Wireless Category 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Print (total) 1,944 1,744 1,674 805 1,033 1,066 89% 89% 87% 67% 68% 65% One Billing (integrated) 358 420 44 e-mail/MMS 252 222 245 396 496 577 11% 11% 13% 33% 32% 35% Subtotal 2,196 1,966 1,919 1,201 1,529 1,643 Customer Quality Assurance Program | kt runs the Customer Quality Assurance Program, in which new customers or customers who have used repair services answer Customer Satisfaction surveys after using the services. The Program is aimed at gathering customers' assessments and additional demands directly on-site, and at providing better services. Further, the IT Engineer issues Service Quality Guarantees to enhance customer confidence in kt's services. Extending “Before Service” | Aside from the basic repairs services, kt makes sure customers are “Always Connected” by extending the “Before Service,” which provides repairs and monitoring of failure-prone facilities. kt will continue to monitor the nationwide network proactively and provide secure services with minimum inconvenience. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 39 Dream with Customers Delight Service | During home repairs, service employees at kt wear protective socks to keep customers' places clean, use pads when working with tools/equipment, and collect whatever is left of repairs. To deliver customer satisfaction, the service employees also provide ‘Plus One Service’, which includes cleaning customers' computers/monitors and arranging entangled wires. kt has extended the VIP Customer Care Service (e.g., less-than-two-hour quick repairs performed by the ‘Best Service’ employees) to the underprivileged. In 2012, the company provided the visually impaired with Braille business cards. Refund Plan Improvement | kt makes sure that its services reach customers first, and works hard to keep the services up-to-date so that refunds are deposited to customers’ bank accounts before they become aware of the said refunds. To handle refunds, kt works with other carriers to inform customers of refunds that they are entitled to, and continues to make sure that refunds are paid as fast as humanly possible. Further, the company introduced a plan for donating unclaimed refunds and giving them back to society, so that the refunds can be used to build IT infrastructure to help underprivileged people who suffer from the widening digital divide. Improvement Efforts to Handle Refunds Working actively Creating a variety Giving back to Paying refunds as with other carriers of channels to get society through soon as possible to pay refunds refunds donations Create a Rate/Refund Korea TelecommunicaAutomatic refunds to a Building IT infrastructure Offset Program when custions Operators Assouser’s account if the user to narrow the digital tomers apply for phone ciation (ktOA) creates a signs up under the same divide for underprivileged number changes website for refund inquiry name people and applications Refund Notice messagAutomatic refunds Installing IPTVs in 1,726 ing service using the Refund inquiry and using wired and wiresocial services centers addresses of the Ministry applications on the olleh less customer account (stronger networks of Public Administrawebsite (www.olleh.com) information among the centers by tion and Security, under providing CUG services) supervision of Korea to narrow the digital Broadcasting Commission divide nationwide KAIT (Korea Association of Information and Telecommunications) SMS notification service to kt’s and other wireless carriers’ subscribers Other ktOA olleh.com carrier Customer KAIT SMS Social services center 40 Dream with Customers Customer Communication Innovation Real-time VOC Management Using Social Media | To secure a variety of communication channels, kt created the ‘olleh Social Live’ system to manage VOCs through social media channels. The olleh Social Live system consists of TOST (Text-based VOC Consulting), olleh Place (collective intelligence community), and Operation Statistics systems. Once a VOC occurs, the Social Consulting Team responds to it through TOST. If the Social Consulting Team fails to resolve it, the VOC will be handled through the collective intelligence of olleh Place. The management process details are all stored in the database of the Operation Statistics system. Instead of call centers, kt plans on adopting the social media-based VOC management system more extensively. olleh Social Live System Structure TOST Saving Customer twitter@olleh Text-based VOC consulting Consulting System history Answer Quest Archive Operation Local Statistics DB System Questions, Gathering olleh Place complaints, texts Collective Intelligence Mobile suggestions, Community System etc. Specialized Free olleh Place olleh Place olleh Social Live Creating Various Channels | In January 2011, kt opened olleh.com, a website that integrates wired and wireless sites and unifies online customer channels. In 2012, the company made phone plan search more convenient by unifying multiple IDs. To provide 24/7 customer care, the company began operating 24/7 stores in February 2010, for the first time in the telecommunications industry. The 24/7 stores are a service that responds to customers’ demands at any time, anywhere. As smartphones became commonplace, the company also opened “olleh Avenue,” where customers’ experiences and opinions on mobile services and phones are collected and incorporated into service improvements. The olleh Avenue has gained positive reception, and will be extended. Using smartphone applications, the company provides the olleh Kok Kok app designed to improve netolleh Social Live Launching Ceremony work quality by notifying customers of improvement points. Shorter Waiting Times | To answer customers’ questions more quickly, kt opened Customer Centers in Wonju and Jeju and hired 400 more consultants. The consultants are allowed to offer advice on work-from-home so that experienced employees can work in a desirable environment with more flexible schedules. By improving customers’ understanding of phone bills, kt has reduced the number of inbound calls and shortened waiting times. Reducing Inbound Calls from Customer Interface | In March 2011, kt switched from the autonomous CIC management by objectives (MBO) process to the company-wide MBO process to reduce inbound calls and improve consulting quality dramatically. The company also selects the “Top 10 Negative VOCs” to eliminate root causes and implement improvement activities. Process improvements, such as limited release and release after solving problems, are performed by the Product Test Group before each product is released. kt also plans on dispersing inbound calls by extending TOP Care, two-way e-mails/SMS, and updating phone bills. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 41 Dream with Customers Creating a Redundant Network Monitoring System | With the largest backbone network and Providing Reliable subscriber base, kt conducts a wide range of activities to provide secure telecommunications services and prevent communication failures. The company also installed/operates the Local OperaTelecommunications tion Centers in 6 locations, including Seoul and Busan, so that service quality can be monitored Services by area. The Network Control Center located in Gwacheon allows an overview of the nationwide status of telecommunications services and operates a wired/wireless integrated monitoring system. The company also enforces preventive activities all year round, targeting telecommunications devices, such as exchange, transmission, Internet, and power supply units, which are likely to experience communication failures. Network Monitoring and Control Systems Network Control Center Local Operation Center Network Service Center 1 Nationwide network monitoring and control 6 Local network monitoring and control 38 Network facility maintenance Location Location Location Urgent Backup Training | kt created a backup system/process, including a national facility backup system, and has worked hard to reduce internal/external security accidents and physical damage. In the event of service failures due to force majeure events and disasters, the company conducts in-house training and joint training between governments. kt’s preventive activities paid off when the company collaborated with government agencies, such as the Korea Broadcasting Commission, in accordance with its Risk Management System, to resolve local communication failures and supply emergency power, as communication failures occurred across the country due to heavy rains in the Seoul metropolitan area during the summer of 2011, Typhoon Muifa, and the September 15 blackout. On March 23, 2012, kt provided flawless telecommunications support serOn March 23, kt staff connected optical cables near vice at the 2012 Nuclear Security Summit, after conducting urgent backup training, which included COEX in Samseong-dong, Gangnam-gu, Seoul facility checkup and simulations. Earthquake-Proofing Plan for Telecommunications Equipment | To provide secure telecommunications services even in the event of an earthquake, kt performs seismic and performance tests using vibration tables in accordance with the government standards, before installing telecommunications devices. When installing them on an actual site, the company uses concrete anchors to provide the required seismic resistance, as well as its proprietary earthquake-proof access flooring system and device racks. Creating Mobile Wonderland | kt has made changes to the telecommunications environment through smartphone distribution, data explosion, the distribution of various applications, and the creation of an ecosystem. Using its top-notch wired/wireless network infrastructure, kt provides top-quality 3W Network (WCDMA, WiBro, and WiFi) services to create a “Mobile Wonderland.” Local WiFi Investments WiFi zones surpassed 50,000 in 2011, and 100,287 WiFi locations were added by the end of the same year. Starting on April 1, 2011, WiBro provides nationwide network service, guaranteeing the Seoul Metropolitan Area 57.0% best coverage relative to its population. Honam 11.5% The company also provides the olleh WiFi Roaming service overseas so that customers can access Gyeongnam 9.5% WiFi in 100 countries in North America, Asia, and Europe at a reasonable price, over 99% cheaper than ordinary data roaming rates. One of the leading WiFi providers, kt has been actively engaged Gyeongbuk 11.5% in technology development to improve WiFi quality. Premium WiFi, developed using a domestic Chungcheong 10.4% technology, provides a bandwidth of 5GHz, as well as 2.4GHz like any other existing WiFi AP As of March 30, 2012 (Access Point). It not only prevents frequency interference but also offers the capacity three times as large as the existing AP and the speed eight times as fast. 42 Dream with Customers To prevent personal information from getting hacked and protect customers during financial transStronger IT Security actions, kt developed the best privacy protection process, which includes expanding privacy protection infrastructure, strengthening the ability to protect personal information, and periodic safety and Privacy checks. Protection Expanding Privacy Protection Infrastructure | To prevent the illegal use/abuse of personal data through hacking, kt has enforced technical and administrative protection measures, such as adopting a monitoring system for early intrusion detection, updating the personal data encryption software, creating a weakness record-keeping system and an integrated access control system, and strengthening the authentication of VPNs (Virtual Private Networks). In addition, to prevent the leakage of personal data by employees or suppliers, kt introduced a DRM (Digital Right Management) solution in 2007 and a DLP (Data Loss Prevention) solution in 2011, which allow management of all data flows in PCs and prevention of personal data leakage/abuse. The company performs periodic checks and improvements of privacy weaknesses on its system containing a personal data retention system. Working with government and related agencies, the company also Minister of Public Adminprovides simulation training to prevent and respond to intrusions quickly. As a result, kt received istration and Security the Minister of Public Administration and Security Award for Cyber Safety in 2011. Award for Cyber Safety Enhancing Effectiveness of Privacy Protection | kt implements its Privacy Policy pursuant to the Act on Promoting the Use of Information Technology Networks and Information Protection and the Privacy Act, and operates a website dedicated to answering customers’ questions about privacy (http://privacy.kt.com). Since most cases of data leakage are associated with hacking and poor management, kt makes sure that every service complies with the company’s Security Review Procedure. To improve employee awareness of privacy, the company makes all employees’ Pledge of Privacy mandatory each year and conducts management activities, such as privacy checks in stores and suppliers. To spread awareness about customer privacy, kt sends its staff to branches and suppliers to conduct on-site training. In 2011, 91% of all employees completed customized and online privacy training. The company also uses e-mails and electronic bulletin boards within the offices to increase privacy awareness. Privacy Safety Check | kt performs a “Privacy Safety Check” each year under law, commissions an external agency to get its key IT facilities and services certified, and, in 2011, obtained an Information Security Management System (ISMS) certificate that is recognized by the government. Not only that, the company operates the Safe Customer Authentication Program designed to strengthen privacy protection, targeting the branches, call centers, suppliers, and websites. kt’s Obtaining ISMS subsidiaries also enforce privacy policies that guarantee levels of protection equal to kt’s Privacy (Information Security Management System) certificate Policy. Complying with Radiation Limits | kt measures the levels of radiation absorption in all cell phones and makes sure that phones are registered and sold only when they fall below the government’s Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) limit of 1.6W/kg. The company establishes base stations in an environmentally friendly way to prevent public complaints regarding the construction of base stations. Base stations with high signal strength are classified as those subject to mandatory SAP monitoring and forced to maintain output to the minimum level. Other privacy efforts include a study on the effects of radiation over the past five years. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 43 Dream with Customers e-Clean Activities | The Clean-I, TIME CODI, Personal Care, and Nol-e-Teo services provided Resolving Negative through the ‘olleh’ website are designed to protect minors on the Internet. Aside from blocking malicious websites containing violent and gambling content, the ‘Clean-I’ service, which blocks Effects of the pornographic/explicit content spread through P2P programs, and ‘TIME CODI’, which provides Information Society remote control/monitoring of children’s Internet usage from parents’ smartphone apps, were launched in 2002 and distributed to about 260,000 users up until April 2012. Released in 2010, ‘Personal Care’ is an integrated security service that optimizes a PC in advance through an expert’s remote check and restore the PC infected with viruses and malicious code spread over the Internet. In November 2010, ‘Nol-e-Teo’, an Internet service for children, was launched, which provides a clean Internet environment for children by blocking malicious websites completely and setting Internet and game usage. As of February 2012, collaborating with the Korea Communications Standards Commission 80,094 sites (KOCSC), the company blocked 80,094 malicious foreign websites on the Internet. kt also developed a system for blocking indirect access to malicious sites, and also continues to enforce an Malicious Foreign Websites Blocked online content rating system, monitoring, and an age verification system. e-Clean Services Type Service Description Clean-I Create a clean environment by blocking access to malicious websites and videos containing pornographic, violent, and gambling content Time Codi Prevent Internet addiction by monitoring Internet usage by time and day Personal Care Remote check and PC recovery to protect a PC from Internet viruses and malicious code Nol-e-Teo Service for child use that blocks malicious websites and limits Internet/gaming usage Keyboard Encryption Prevent hacking through keyboard encryption when data is entered 2011 Percentage of Malicious Content Cleaning Web Portals | kth, a subsidiary of kt, performs periodic monitoring of the content posted on the website www.paran.com and mobile services (I AM IN, PUDDING) and blocks mali0.7 % cious posts through the user self-regulation feature. As a result, in 2011, while the total number of posts on the services provided by kth was 68 million, a 2.5 times increase over the previous year, 3% the percentage of malicious posts was only 0.7%, over 3% down from the previous year. In addidown from 2010 tion, kth made it mandatory for the websites containing adult content to enforce age verification through an individual ID, and monitors interactive services like UCC through an artificial intelligence program and an IP address blocking system. By enforcing the policy on preventing malicious materials and stopping a service that violates the policy, the company has reinforced the activities to reduce malicious content and clean the Internet. Further, kt operates the Reporting Center and the Hotline to root out obscene material and illegally distributed content, and shares related information with other external agencies. Dream with Employees Awards Won the Best Place to Work and CEO awards at the Korea Great Training Workplace Awards organized by hours per employee GWP Korea Selected as the ‘Great Place to Work in Our Community’ (Seoul and Gyeonggi-do) by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy 88 93 79 Won the Best Practice Award in Decent Labor at the UNGC Awards Main Teams Human Resources Office, General Affairs Office, GMC (Group Media & Communications) Strategy Office 09 10 11 20 20 20 4,559 Employee Satisfaction Grievances Handled in 2011 143 Number of Female 77 % Executives Vision & Strategy Performance In 2012, celebrating olleh 2.0, kt will stay committed to its employees who will Training hours per employee lead change and innovation and work harder to become a well-established 93.8 hours (6 hours increased over the previous year) Employee global ICT convergence leader. The company will provide more training on attiperformance Employee satisfaction 77% (2% increase over the previous year tudes and best practices to reinforce the role of each office, develop a global Grievances handled 4,559 workforce to strengthen its global capabilities, foster IT professionals to creNew creative labor relations ate new businesses, increase group training to facilitate the development of Labor relations Implementation of U-CSR and UCC “Group Management,” and extend job competency training by forming organic Accident rate Health collaborative relationships among teams. Using its IT technology, kt will conand safety 0.16% (0.6% decline from the previous year) tinue to transform the workplace into a desirable working environment, increase Number of female executives Diversity employee satisfaction, and use it as a global business model. 143 (31.2% increase over the previous year) Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 45 Dream with Employees kt’s Employees | As of late December 2011, a total of 31,061 employees were employed at Great WorkPlace kt, and the average term of employment was 18.9 years. Employees with disabilities account for 2.45%, exceeding the legally required hiring ratio of people with disabilities of 2%, and female workers were 4,660, 15% of the entire workforce. kt classifies employees into full-time and parttime positions, depending on the job and competency requirements. As of late December 2011, part-time employees represent 1.43% of all employees and receive fair treatment under the Act on the Protection of Fixed-term and Part-time Employees. Employee Statistics | unit : people, Year | Sex Ratio Male Female Number of Employees Average years of 26,401 2011 4,660 Gender Full-time Contract Other Total service Male 26,401 454 170 27,025 19.3 Female 4,660 289 6 4,955 16.8 Women in the Workforce Total 31,061 743 176 31,980 18.9 Number of female employees at or higher than the executive level 143 Great WorkPlace | By creating a GWP (Great Workplace), kt works hard to encourage employees to become spontaneously engaged with ownership, creativity, and commitment, improve its competitiveness, and assist in employees’ personal development. Instead of centering on improving work processes, kt redirected its corporate culture innovation activities towards increasing customer satisfaction through fundamental solutions like achieving employee satisfaction, and towards developing a ‘virtuous cycle' in which customer satisfaction strengthens the company's competitive position in the market. kt GWP Model Communication Communication with an Open Mouth, Ears, and Mind Principle 6 Drivers Challenge Success Creativity Consideration Social Pride and Growth Opportunities /Focus /Trust Environment 3 Goals Workplace where Employees Develop Have fun at work and Come together GWP Slogan Great Work Place Comfortable Workplace where Employees Work and Dream Together In the first and second halves of 2011, kt conducted an all-employee survey to confirm the comEmployee Focus (Concentration) pany's image perceived by employees and set priorities for improvement so that it can create kt's 6% own GWP, where human resources develop, have fun at work, and come together. 1% 2nd half at kt 69% To see where kt stands through a comparison with other companies, both at home and abroad, the 1st half at kt 68% company commissioned an external service to conduct a Voice of Employee survey on GWP, which Best in Korea 75% revealed that the level of employee focus (concentration) was 69% in the second half of 2011. This Global Telco 55% was 6% lower than the highest level of focus retained by another leading Korean company, but Asia Telco 53% still higher than the average level of the global telecommunications industry (55%) and that of the *Compared with the Best Employers in Korea selected Asian telecommunications industry (53%). by Wall Street Journal and AON Hewitt Database 46 Dream with Employees The 1% increase in the second half over the first half resulted from the company's concerted effort to improve the 1st-half result, including CIC-level workshops, the formation of GWP Team, and the selection of a “Champion” Team for each task. Since the company is large enough to produce a variety of needs, kt works hard to create a GWP, which takes employee personalities and diversity into account, centering on “bottom-up” activities, rather than “top-down” ones. Key GWP Tasks Category Key Tasks 1. Fair compensation based on performance and ability Employees develop 2. More growth opportunities and reinforced training 3. Open-minded culture that encourages creative ideas and diversity Employees have fun 4. Desirable environment where employees can stay focused 5. Work-life balance 6. Price as a member of kt leading wired/wireless convergence Employees come together 7. Stronger leadership position in the jobs market 8. Create an image of People's Company Key GWP Activities | Cultivate pride and leadership as a member of kt ·You are the best: Create a culture where employees compliment each other using the Compliment Box and compliment cards “Be the Best” Campaign ·I am the best: 'olleh Master' contests in 16 areas, including competency development, sports, art, etc. ·We are the best: Share examples of collaboration, problem-solving, and identifying problems Time allowed to disclose the company's business results/progress, discuss, find problems, and conduct creativity activities. Creative Time ·All employees participate one hour per week: Employees choose the date and time they want. Stronger leadership role GWP Leaderway ·Create the GWP Leaderway: The 20 To-Do List for GWP Leaders ·Distribute the guide book ·In 2011, about 2,000 BP examples and 3,000 suggestions were submitted Gather and Spread ·48 best practices were shared; suggestions like 'Reinforce medical GWP Best Practices checkups for pregnant employees' are being incorporated into the company's policy GWP Leaderway “Be the Best” campaign Creative Time Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 47 Dream with Employees HR Program Approaches Fairness in Category Formal description Human Resources Fairness in selection, Hiring principle of open competition; open recruitment (no male/female option; no more bonus points for gender/academic background when hiring) Programs Delegated hiring per category placement, and transfer Selection and management of Talent Assessment Officers for fair hiring Adoption of the Talent Market Program according to the principle of market competition in 2009 Fairness and transparency guaranteed in placement Adoption of the Promotion by Selection and Bottom-Up TM programs targeting top-performing officers ’Senior Manager’ selection and job performance testing for promotion Fairness in promotion candidates at the Human Resources Committee Abolition of the Position-based Promotion process in 2010 as a result of Labor-Management agreement Adoption of the Employee Merit Program’ to motivate employees’ growth Disclosure of the appraisal criteria, process, and results Fairness in appraisal and The 360-Degree, Competency Test, Appeals Process, and Follow-up Audit programs compensation Abolition of the gender/education-based compensation system, and fair compensation based on performance Motivating Long-term Performance | kt abolished the short-term performance-based promotion process and launched the Employee Merit Program in 2010 to motivate employees’ long-term results. Each year, employees receive graded merit points based on their performance, and as they continue to save merit points and meet the required level, they will be given the opportunity to get a promotion to an officer. Merit points are given based primarily on individual performance, but also take account of innovation, creativity, collaboration, and leadership, contributing to the creation of a climate of fair, competency-based performance. Fairness in Promotion Policy | In 2011, kt enacted the 'Promotion by Selection’ and 'Bottom-Up Talent Market Program' to abolish the seniority-based promotion process, provide equal opportunity for all employees, and guarantee fair compensation. Those officers whose innovative performance is acknowledged by the Human Resources Committee are entitled to promotion by selection to the Vice President (VP) level, regardless of merit requirements. If there are vacancies in key positions, they are disclosed to the Talent Market, which is the company's human resources staffTalent Market Statistics (2011) ing system. Qualified candidates are selected through competition, and all employees are fairly | unit : person | provided promotional opportunities, regardless of sex and education. AppliSelected Category Postings cations Candidates Candidates Fair Performance-based Compensation | Under its pay grade structure, kt offers graded Frequent 2,324 4,705 4,091 1,883 salaries based on individual performance. Salaries are graded as A, B, C+, C, D, and F. The comT/M Regular pany keeps the ratio of C+ and C-level employees at/around 50%. To improve long-term results, 4,994 11,585 10,671 4,153 T/M kt applies performance appraisal grades for three years when calculating salary increases. All Total 7,318 16,290 14,762 6,036 employees set annual targets for performance management at interviews with the assessment officer at the beginning of each year, and receive feedback frequently and appraisals twice a year. The appraisal criteria and process are disclosed to all employees, and fairness in appraisal and Talent Market Process compensation is reinforced through mandatory training for appraisal officers, appraisal appeals process, and follow-up monitoring programs. Desired Individual HR Team Market Mechanism-based Staffing | To secure transparency in workforce demand/supply and Workforce place human resources in the right positions, kt created the TM (Talent Market) program in 2009. Demand Apply for a TM is an IT-based open human resources market, where employees apply to their desired teams, desired team and the teams select qualified employees among the candidates. Since internal hiring informaRecruitment Announcement No tion, such as hiring teams and application requirements, is disclosed to all employees using an IT system, employees are guaranteed fair, transparent appointments to their desired teams. In 2012, Decide whether kt will overhaul the TM process and introduce a Tailored TM, where employees are placed based to apply Appointment on their job competency after consulting, a Bottom-Up TM, where open recruitment is provided Selection from a Yes of selected for positions at the Vice President level, and a Group TM, which is designed to revitalize exchange candidate pool candidates between employees within the Group. 48 Dream with Employees Competency-based Talent Development Process Human Resources During the period of olleh 1.0, kt declared ‘Top Talent in Action’ as an ideal image of talent in Development accordance with the company's new vision and management approach. The company aims to develop talent into the best expert in their job with commitment and the ability to execute, who are capable of achieving challenging goals based on collaboration and trust, and on innovative, customer-centric thinking. The company thus created a company-wide Competency Framework consisting of leadership/job/common competencies to identify core competencies suitable for all titles and jobs, and succeeded in establishing its Competency-based Curriculum. Best expert in their job with commitment and the ability to execute, Top Talent in Action who are capable of achieving challenging goals based on collaboration and trust, and on innovative, customer-centric thinking kt’s Ideal Talent Expected leadership role and the ability to produce organizational performance Strategic thinking / effective decision-making / leading change / Leadership Leadership talent assessment and subordinate training / strengthening Development Training Competency organizational competencies Job competency to perform a job and produce business results Job Competency Job Competency 17 categories, 85 jobs, and 107 competencies Generalist | Specialist Improvement Training Job training classified into Generalist and Specialist tracks Common competencies that Basic competencies kt members must have Common Training kt members must have Core values (ACTION), creative management Leadership Competency Development | kt defined five leadership competencies and 10 behavioral patterns, and incorporated them into a system in connection with the core values. Under this Leadership Competency Framework, the company has identified the required competencies customized for individuals using assessment tools, such as situational judgment and AC tests, and continues to develop the competencies through leadership development programs specialized for different job responsibilities. Target Level Employee Core Talent Branch Manager/ Executive/ Team Leader Vice President Key Points · Developing creativity · Core Talent · L eadership to · Improving · Cultivating organizational · Strengthening produce results management mindset adaptability managerial · R einforcing · Developing overall · Increasing understanding competencies management policy/ insights of and loyalty to kt work ethics/basic attitudes · Reinforcing working-level business competencies Development New recruit training MBA programs in Training for branch managExecutive Academy Programs Korea and overseas ers and local team leaders Experienced employee training Group CFO program MOT*, IT-MS Training for team olleh Biz School Innovation Leadership leaders at kt’s HQ Part-time master’s programs support Female leadership HR Infrastructure Development and utilization of leadership assessment tools The 5 leadership competencies, situational judgment and AC tests * MOT: Management of Technology, IT-MS : IT & MEDIA STRATEGIES Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 49 Dream with Employees Developing Job Competencies | In accordance with the company’s new job structure, kt defined 17 job categories and 85 competencies needed for different jobs, and mapped them in organizational/individual units. All employees are required to take a job competency test to identify their level of job competency and check the competencies they need, and make a competency development plan after receiving training recommendations through a Personal Development Note. kt also rearranged the key businesses and jobs so that the CIC can develop the human resources needed to achieve business goals by cultivating the job competencies needed for each business area. Securing Future IT/Global Competencies_ In 2012, with the launch of olleh 2.0, kt will focus on developing IT and global business workforces, who will lead the global ICT industry. To secure future competencies in the IT sector, the company will suggest a roadmap for more systematic training on IT knowledge and basics and produce 480 trained employees through 32 programs in 6 areas, which are designed to cultivate the knowledge required at each level. Further, kt will define the required competencies for global businesses, provide working-level training centering on business skills for employees sent abroad, such as the South African Republic, as well as training on basic language skills, presentation skills, and negotiation skills, and develop a skilled Global ‘Managed Service’ workforce. Strengthening Job-based CDP_ 85 jobs were classified into the Generalist and Specialist Tracks through job characteristic and job experience analyses, so that employees are allowed to choose either track to become business leaders and experts, according to their personal goals and competencies/characteristics. Executive Executive Officer Executive Expert Officer/Branch Manager/Center Director Specialized Talent Specialized Marketing Technical R&D Team Leader Consultant Specialist Specialist Specialist Employee Vice President Frequently Hiring MultiConsulting functional R&D Managerial/Strategic/ Planning Talent WorkingTalent Talent Level Talent Professional Beginner Transfer Beginner New Recruit Specialized Planning/ Marketing/ Infrastructure New Businesses Support Sales/Consulting Technology To retain and improve human resources professionalism in areas where specialties are required, such as IT, wireless, technical assistance, and customer consulting, kt proposes career paths as job specialists to motivate employees, and will extend specialist human resources development by constantly discovering new specialty areas, according to the business strategy and changing business environment. 50 Dream with Employees Developing Common Competencies | kt works hard to improve employees’ mindset and reinforce creative management training by helping employees internalize the core values and disseminating the CEO’s business philosophy to encourage organizational and individual changes. · Organization that works fast and practically · Modernizing work practices Organizational Individual · Customer-oriented organizational Change Change · Establishing creative, /performance management challenging corporate culture · Efficient resource use and optimization Internalizing Core Values (ACTION) Creative Management Helping develop the 6 competencies (ACTION) · Spread the creative corporate culture in 12 categories · Field-oriented/performance-oriented training · Increase company-wide synergy by inducing · Reinforce the collaborative training process change and transforming work practices by running Creative Management School · Coach executive officers/coordinators/team leaders/ · Hold contests for ideas on business branch managers on how to get employees to work improvement · Transform all employees’ ’Personal Work Practices’ · Provide programs Human Resources Performance Indicators_ In 2011, kt spent 690,000 won providing 31,061 employees with 93.8 hours of training. In the past year, training was given 6 hours longer per employee than 2010 and required 7,000 won more. 2009 2010 2011 Category Programs Attendees Programs Attendees Programs Attendees Group training 456 24,072 502 35,286 502 35,286 e-Learning 223 116,758 161 86,010 161 86,010 Immediacy 99 179,550 196 344,306 196 344,306 Reading training 90 2,877 47 5,946 47 5,946 Language Academy 525 8,903 330 6,524 330 6,524 Training hours per employee (hr) 79 88 88 Core Talent Development_ kt provides opportunities to improve individual competencies and growth opportunities through MBA programs for masters and doctors at universities both in Korea and overseas to develop next-generation specialized human resources. By the end of 2011, a total of 720 masters and doctors were developed both in Korean and abroad. In 2011, the company sent Treasury : A knowledge-sharing bulletin board employees to more regions in Europe and Asia, as it was preparing to diversify its business overseas. encouraging participation like Wikipedia (annual number of views: 18,474/annual number of posts: 169) Knowledge Management | kt has increased efficiency and created a creative organizational SOS : A bulletin board where employees can exchange questions and answers about products or culture by developing organizational learning and laying the foundation for knowledge management, work like NAVER’s Jisig In (annual number of using its cutting-edge IT technologies. By operating HRD modules within the Human Resources Manquestions: 808/annual number of views: 406,260) agement (HRM) System, which is designed to manage information on human resources, the company Idea Wiki : Uploading work-related or business provides competency tests, personal development planning and training information and operates ideas that are actually applicable (annual number of ideas: 89,720) the HRD Center portal (www.ktedu.kt.com) for the integrated management of all official training processes. kt has now established a framework under which all employees can get wired or wireless kt Café : A place for sharing knowledge and work data through group activities in job or club units access to the training programs in and outside the company. Further, through kt PEDIA in the infor(annual number of visits: 1,485,320) mation portal called KATE, the company allows employees to form collective intelligence and learn, kt Blog : A place for sharing know-how (expertise) share and spread most of the knowledge and information needed to perform jobs. This has helped through individual blogs (year-end cumulative create a creative organizational culture, as well as increase efficiency. To promote external communinumber of blogs: 21,587/ annual number of visitors: 247,972) cation, kt runs a café and a blog available on an ordinary web portal. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 51 Dream with Employees To establish a safe corporate culture where employees are guaranteed safety and health, kt creSafety and Health ated Safety/Health action plans in each office, and carries out systematic accident prevention activities. To improve the quality of these activities, the company’s business units and offices share/support each other’s work. Offices with more than 100 employees are required to create and operate an Occupational Safety and Health Committee consisting of equal numbers of members from employees and management. Further, Zero Accident-certified offices are provided incentives as top safety/health offices. Establishing Safe Corporate Culture | To establish a safe corporate culture, kt conducts a wide range of activities. By reinforcing e-Safety/Heath training, the company encourages employOccupational Accidents at Injured ees to learn the Safety Rules, promote health, and cultivate basic skills. To predict/prevent accikt for the Past 3 Years Dead (person) dents in the field, the company works hard to improve employees’ safety awareness by sending 75 Safety messages (heavy rain, heavy snow, and frozen roads), enforcing daily safety activities in 2009 0 four stages of ‘Zero Accidents’, and holding Safety events (cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) 71 and medical check-ups) on Safety Check day (the fourth day of each month), and improve employ2010 1 ees’ morale by rewarding Zero Accident and Great Workplace awards at a kt Safety Leader Semi2011 49 nar held during the second quarter each year. 1 Labor-Management Collaborative Accident Prevention | As part of labor-management Comparison Chart of Accident | unit : % | collaborative accident prevention to ensure employee safety, kt’s labor and management jointly Rates for the Past 3 Years provides honorary supervisors, as well as field team leaders, with special safety training (including 0.70 0.69 amendments to laws/regulations and examples of serious accidents). The company also holds a Nationwide 0.65 Safety Leader Seminar for safety officers (300) during the second quarter of the year, where special 0.45 0.51 Industrylectures are taught, including the roles of a safety leader and health care solutions, and the Safety wide 0.29 Pledge is read out loud. At each office, kt’s labor and management work together to support conso0.19 0.22 kt lation events and medical bills for the families of occupational accident victims and provide 100% 0.16 compensation for the time taken off, helping the victims return to work as soon as possible. 2009 2010 2011 Promoting Employee Health and Well-being | Through the online Grievance System, which ensures confidentiality, kt takes care of employees’ stress and health, and also invites renowned figures to provide classes on health care at least once a quarter. Each year, the company offers medical check-ups at least once for all employees (including their spouses) to prevent and control diseases in their early stages, and suggests health care plans using the statistics/analysis of employees with diseases conducted based on the checkup results. kt also introduced a distinctive Well-being Leave Program to help maintain a work-life balance and optimize employees’ psychological states, and Consolation and care for occupational accident also operates a Benefits Management System (child care facility/HR development/medical bills/ victims and their families tuition fees/safety net) to promote employees’ work and family balance. In 2011, kt began working with an expert agency to check employees’ stress levels, and created a Customized Stress Management system based on the check results to promote employees’ mental health. Creating Occupational Safety Support Systems for Subsidiaries | Sharing/supCreating a Safe, Clean Working Environment | kt makes sure that a cultural space, a book porting occupational safety/health activities café, a meditation room, and a gym are created during the construction of a new office building or between subsidiaries helps kt Group create a the remodeling of the existing offices. To improve the working environment, the company works safe corporate culture, improve its corporate with a specialized agency to monitor hazardous elements (manholes in sealed space) in all offices image, and build a safe workplace. kt provides at least once a year. The company has also extended ‘Smart Working’ (work from home) and profull support for the subsidiaries’ safety/health vides support for pregnant employees, married couple employees, and low birth-rate and child care activities by 1) improving the job competenneeds. By adopting conference calls, kt also takes part in the government’s low-carbon emissions cies of officers at the subsidiaries using safety and fuel saving policies. The company is committed to keeping its workforce healthy by providtraining programs; 2) using kt’s safety activity ing cafeteria hygiene and budget support and healthy meals to employees, and to building a safe infrastructure to prevent/promote occupaworkplace by holding a Near Accident contest and producing/distributing an e-Book containing tional accidents; and 3) providing continuous, examples of near accidents. kt will work with health care agencies (hospitals, health associations) systematic accident prevention content. to prevent adult diseases and create a clean working environment, such as No Smoking Clinic. 52 Dream with Employees Welfare Benefits | In 2002, kt opened a website dedicated to employee benefits called iBene Welfare Benefits (kt.ibene.co.kr), and has since provided employees with welfare services. Each year, the company overhauls the programs and fixes any operational problems through annual labor-management negotiations, so that employees are guaranteed diverse, balanced benefits. The company operates an optional benefits program where employees choose from and use benefits like tuition fees for employees’ children, from infants to college students, housing loans, and resort services and leisure facilities. Certain benefits, including medical examinations, workers’ group insurance, medical indemnity insurance, and family event expenses, have been extended to family members and even the spouses’ direct ancestors, depending on the category. Family-Friendly Program | Recently, the declining birth rate and aging society have led more women to join economic activities, raising family-friendly management as a social issue. kt provides a variety of family-friendly programs, such as the Smart Working program, which allows employees to work at any time, anywhere, the optional Alternative Work Schedules program where employees can freely choose their working hours, monetary gifts for mother employees with many children to encourage high birth rates and child upbringing, pregnancy and maternity leaves, child care leave, infertility leave, spouse maternity leave, child-care facilities and breastfeeding rooms. Outplacement Program kt operates ‘kt Life Plan’ to help employees develop the ability to adapt to the rapidly changing environment. For the current employees, the company has ‘Change Management Program’ in place so that they can think about and prepare for their futures on their own. This program is aimed at providing enough time and opportunities for employees to develop their abilities, including goalsetting, change management and career development, and prepare for the future. For soon-to-be retired or retired employees, the company operates periodic programs to help change their career paths successfully using their experiences and capabilities, such as workshops, start-up/reemployment training, and consulting services, which were attended by about 300 people, and a variety of tailored programs, including the acquisition of certificates through the needs analysis of retirees, start-up experience, start-up road shows, job fairs, and job placements. In 2011, with the mass retirement of baby boomers, kt cooperated in the government’s job creation project, executed the senior start-up support project supervised by the Small and Medium Business Administration, and helped about 250 retired seniors find new jobs. As a result, the company was selected as a best practice during the performance assessment. Homepage of the Life Plan website kt also performs systematic updates to the in-house programs, such as the Life Plan Call Center and website improvements to help retired employees successfully change careers, and continues to work with suppliers and external career change assistance agencies, such as the Korea Labor Foundation, Korea International Trade Association, and Federation of Korean Industries. Refresh Leave Program | kt operates ‘Refresh Leave Program’ to provide long-term, topperforming employees opportunities to invest in personal development and refresh themselves. The program was created by labor-management agreement during the 2009 collective bargaining process, and began operations in 2010, upon establishing the basic operating principles. About 350 employees are selected for the program every February and August . Start-up Support Leave Program | kt’s Start-up Support Leave Program offers employees who Selected as 2011 Excellent Organization for Senior Start-up Support by Small and Medium Business are afraid of starting their own businesses the chance to develop their abilities and experience Administration career changes to find lifetime jobs. Created by labor-management agreement in 2009, candidates for the program are selected through a screening process twice each year, guaranteed a leave up to 3 ½ years. Up until 2011, 49 employees were selected to start their own businesses. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 53 Dream with Employees kt guarantees the right of employees to organize a trade union and other representative bodies and Respect for Human provides the Union Shop program through which employees immediately become union members upon joining the company under a collective bargaining agreement. As of February 2012, 76.90% Rights of all employees at kt are union members. kt prohibits discrimination by reason of nepotism, education, sex, religion, or disability. In 2010, the company helped skilled talent make their dreams come true by setting the education requirements for hiring customer service positions to or higher than high school. The company also complies with the principle of gender equality, actively promotes policies like work-family life balance and equal opportunity, and ensures institutional protection of minors and mothers. For instance, the company prohibits pregnant employees from working overtime, reduces their workload, provides 90 days of pregnancy/maternity leave and a day of menstruation leave for female workers, in accordance with the human rights regulations. In 2012, the company began attending the ‘Company and Human Rights Seminar’ co-hosted by the National Human Rights Committee, UN Global Compact Korea Network, and Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as part of its commitment to spreading respect for human rights. The company also prohibits child and compulsory labor and provides online and literacy training to prevent sexual harassment and institutional support, such as enacting the anti-sexual harassment guidelines. In hiring, compensation and promotional processes, kt ensures gender equality. The company set three approaches to creating a working environment where female employees freely showcase their abilities, such as work-family balance, equal hiring/promotion/compensation, and female leadership development programs. Accordingly, kt has provided monetary gifts for maternity and child-care grants, operated a nursery at work, helped parent employees complete e-Learning courses during child care leave and return to work after the leave, and run ‘Female Leadership Development Program’ to develop female leader. As of the end of year 2011, there were 143 female managers in office which is 2.4% of all female employees. Grievance Handling | kt operates a practical, organized Grievance Mechanism to create a happy workplace, and the mechanism is aimed at preventing causes of grievances and resolving grievances quickly, in terms of programs, work, working environment, personal relationships, personal matters, and benefits. Grievances that are submitted by phone, e-mail, or at the website, are handled in Grievance Offices in 354 kt branches and the Ombudsman Committee consisting of labor and management representatives. Anti-Sexual Harassment | unit : people | Training In January 2011, kt launched the kt119 Center where responsible employees handle grievances 2009 35,855 online (or using smartphones) in real time so that employees’ grievances can be received and 2010 handled faster in this ‘smart’ age. The center processed a total of 4,559 grievances. A system for 30,762 handling grievances on a website, kt119 is able to ensure accessibility and convenience, especially 2011 31,150 when giving feedback on processing results, helping employees freely use the service. kt119 Grievance Management Process Grievances Handled for the | unit : grievances | Past 3 Years Website, Telephone, e-mail, Fax Consulting Related Teams Satisfaction Survey 2009 12 2010 11 Grievance Grievance Grievance Feedback Occurs Submitted Resolved 2011 4,559 Request again if dissatisfied 54 Dream with Employees Business Briefing | Company-wide business briefings are divided into a quarterly Central BriefEmployee ing attended by labor and management members of the Labor-Management Council and a Local Briefing where major executives from the head office/departments visit local business sites twice Communication a year. There are also frequent meetings where the CEO gives a presentation and allows discussion on key business approaches through in-house broadcasting, and quarterly briefings where the presidents of CICs (company-in-company) brief field employees on issues at hand. Through the company’s decision-making process, labor and management discuss issues thoroughly, and quarterly Labor-Management Council meetings, business briefings, and CEO Forum meetings discuss general business issues and the results are reflected in the decision-making process. olleh Meeting | olleh meetings are held in each department on a monthly basis to share the CEO’s messages, business results, and company-wide issues. olleh meetings are an important means of offline communication where the company’s common issues and each department’s particular issues are addressed. To encourage active olleh meetings, top-performing departments are selected and rewarded each month. In 2012, the Group’s companies became able to create their own system for holding quarterly olleh meetings and sharing key issues. Two-way Communication with Management | kt is committed to providing and operating two-way communication channels, through which the management listens to voices of the employee and employees’ complaints and, if necessary, the CEO’s management philosophy and corporate vision are shared with employees. In particular, the ‘Open Forum’ created on the company’s Intranet ensures anonymity, gathers opinions on key policies, and resolves employees’ complaints. News articles about kt are shared with employees in real time through the internal broadcasting site (KBN&Talk), e-mails, and SMS, and employees are provided accurate information with regard to any negative press releases, reinforcing internal communication. Meetings are regularly held between the CEO, management, and groups of employees at varying levels, so that voices of the employee are heard and incorporated into decision-making processes. In early January 2012, the ‘Dialog with CEO’ was aired, where CEO gave a presentation on the year’s management approach and answered employees’ questions. In March, the group discussion was held, which employees of Group companies (subsidiaries) attended and watched online, among many other attempts to increase the CEO and employees’ mutual understanding and encourage active communication. Employee Satisfaction | Since the merger with KTF, kt has enforced its GWP (Great Workplace) policy to increase employee satisfaction and efficiency. For instance, the company now commissions an external agency to conduct an Employee Satisfaction survey, according to global standards. It is, therefore, difficult to compare the 2010 and 2011 survey results with the past satisfaction survey results. This new form of survey consists of about 50 items, including work conditions, employee health and safety, compensation and benefits, and corporate identity. The 2010 survey results were used to improve underperforming areas and, as a result, the 2011 second-half survey found that kt’s employee satisfaction increased overall, higher than the average levels in the Asian and global industries. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 55 New Creative Labor Relations To create sustainable value, maintain peace Results and Performance 2012 Action Plan between labor and management, build a happy company, and fulfill social responsibility, kt Labor-Management Youth (210 people per year) kt plans on extending the UCC, which was declared the Union’s HOST Movement and UCC Scholarship Project (10 people in 2012) formed to implement H 2 0, a win-win labor ‘New Creative Labor Relations’ (March 2010). To Youth IT Summer Camp relations project, fulfill social responsibility, practice them, the company developed a variety (220 participants, once a year) and spread creative labor relations. By workGreen Guard Movement ing together to fulfill social responsibility and of win-win labor relations programs such as (64,000 participants, twice a year) H20, launched the Union-Corporate Responsibilextend the new labor relations, labor and manFree e-Learning Support for the Underprivileged agement will lead a virtuous cycle of ‘Union ity (U-CSR), and created jobs, working hard to (890 recipients) extend win-win labor relations. To contribute to Members’ Trust’ ‘Stabilizing Long-term Labor Won the President’s Award in Labor Relations’ ‘Strengthening Company’s Competpromoting health and benefits across society, kt Relations in 2010 operates the Union Corporate Committee (UCC). Won the BP Award in Respect for Labor at the itive Advantage’ ‘Stable, Sustainable Employ2011 UNGC Awards ment in Global Society’. In 2012, the UCC was Gave a presentation on kt’s labor relations selected by the Ministry of Employment and at the Global CSR Conference 2011 Labor as a Labor-Management Social Responsibility Leader, and its current members are kt, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, and aT (Korea Agro-Fisheries Trade Corporation). Stronger Ability to Execute through Corporate Union Increasing CSR synergy Promoting member benefits and Sharing/spreading creative, through the union’s corporste strengthening a bond through memwin-win labor relations social responsibility (U-CSR) ber cooperation and exchange Social Responsibility Environmental Human Resources/ Spreading New Protection Communities Labor Relations Labor-Management Social Responsibility Social services for Green Guard activities Education support for In Korea Pledge Ceremony underprivileged people low-income families Creating jobs Energy-saving activities and social services Scholarships Improving discrimination centers (quarterly) Monitoring (per member) against part-time workers environmental standards ‘UCC Missing Child Youth IT Camp Win-win relationships Search’ and ‘UCC Child Domestic UNESCO Support’ campaigns natural heritage Community developbetween large and small preservation activities ment campaigns /medium companies UCC Forum/publishing Using/recycling reports scrap paper Global Supporting visits to the CSR = Corporate Social Responsibility homes of foreign mothers U-CSR = Union Corporate Social Responsibility in multicultural families H 2 0 (HOST to olleh): Win-win labor-management program combining Global sharing activities the HOST movement and olleh management Green Guard Movement kt’s labor and management carry out environmental activities in major rivers, streams, national parks, and other public places. The employees of kt’s subsidiaries also participate in preserving the environment in 450 places (21,000 participants) in 2010 and 370 places (65,000) in 2011. Dream with Environment Saved 69,000 tCO 2 Data Center virtualization using cloud technology Awards Won the Minister of Knowledge Economy Award for Best Power-Saving Management Topped the Green Rankings in the software/telecommunications industry sector Green IT Business Model: invested in Joint implementation of 12 projects renewable energy 5,112 in five areas of industries, build4,876 7.48 1,777 ings, transportation, renewable energy, and IT billion won Won the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Telecommunications Industry Leader award 09 10 11 20 20 20 Green purchasing |million won| Saved power for wired networks Main Team 12,000 tCO 2 Energy Executive Committee | Responsible for implementing green growth agendas, Establishing green IT projects and execution based on ownership, Creating a variety of communication channels among related teams, and Coping with environmental regulations Vision & Strategy Performance kt regards green IT as an imperative element in corporate social responsibility, and Revenue from green businesses (based on expects green management to provide new business opportunities, ultimately leading to Green total revenue of FY2010) : CS Vision, CS Image, Performance green growth. To create new growth opportunities based on green IT, kt established its 3.17% (up 1.14% from previous year) green vision Green kt and Green KOREA , and implements green management driven by Emission reduction target 20% reduction by 2020 (based on 2007) the following three sub-visions: Climate Reducing customer-induced emissions 1) Increasing energy effiency in working environments (Green of kt) Change olleh Navigation, Automated home address Response updating service 2) Advancement of the national economy through kt’s green services (Green by kt) Reducing network power consumption 3) Creating new paradigms in the business portfolio through green convergence External air intake air-conditioning, (Green Paradigm by kt) CCC (Cloud Communication Center) Under these sub-visions, kt expects to broaden its business scope and create new marEnvironmental Renewable energy investment Investment 360 million won 7,480 million won kets using green IT during olleh 2.0. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 57 Dream with Environment Environmental Green kt, Green KOREA Environmental Management Vision Making Korea a Green Leader by leading Green Convergence Management System Environmental issues are critical for mankind’s future, and kt considers environmental management using green IT an effective method for fulfilling corporate social responsibility and creating new business opportunities. To develop new growth engines in green technology-based businesses, kt established its environmental vision “Green kt and Green KOREA,” and has implemented green management under three sub-visions. 1) Increasing energy efficiency in working environments (Green of kt) 2) Advancement of the national economy through kt’s green services (Green by kt) 3) Creating new paradigms in the business portfolio through green convergence (Green Paradigm by kt) Green kt Create a green Green Revolution within the ecosystem national economy Saving costs by making the company’s eco Purchase green Making kt’s working environment system green, finding green new businesses, products green and positioning as a green company GREEN kt Strengthen suppliers’ Creating a green life environment for Saving costs through first-rate green leadership green capabilities GREEN KOREA consumers through green services and building up related experiences/technologies Green IT Supporters Revitalizing business by finding green growth activities engines Developing new growth engines Strengthening the Group’s competitiveness by Green IT convergence businesses leading to developing a corporate image of ‘No. 1 Green’ new growth engines Home, office buildings, infrastructure, energy Green Korea Leading national low-carbon green growth using kt’s IT capabilities Processes and Systems | kt founded the Energy Executive Committee to implement cuttingLeading national green growth using the edge green IT-based growth agendas, establish green IT projects, strengthen ownership-based Green kt capability initiatives, create a variety of communication channels between related teams, and take quick, Improving people’s quality of life through proactive action against changes in environmental regulations. The Committee discusses the Green Innovation implementation of energy-saving strategies and prepares mid-/long-term action plans to become Improving national competitiveness by polishing Korea’s image as a green country one of the World’s Best under short-term, mid-term, and long-term goals. Further, the Committee checks the progress of green IT projects carried out by kt and comes up with future-oriented strategies. Through the Committee, our management board introduces a Real Name policy in each area, and installs top-down energy-saving policies. Through these actions, kt is taking steps toward achieving the Green kt, Green KOREA vision. kt Energy Executive Committee Organizational Chart Electricity / Vehicle Fuel Electricity in Wireless Area Electricity in IDC Area IT Solutions Buildings/Heating, AC Fuels Head of Network Smart Green Development Head of Real O&M Business Unit Head of Mobile Network BU Head of Enterprise Product BU Center Director Assets Management Office Network Quality Officer Real Assets Planning Officer Mobile Network Officer IMO O&M Center Director Green Energy Officer Core Network Officer Real Assets Center Director · Reducing electricity/vehicle fuel · Reducing electricity · Reducing electricity in IDC · kt-BEMS development · Reducing heating/ AC fuels · Less electricity use in wired · Less  electricity use in wireless · Improving electrical efficiency · kt-BEMS application · High efficiency in buildings facilities facilities in IDC · E nergy IT solution · Reinforcing/  extending · Monitoring  of electricity usage in · M  onitoring of electricity usage ·M  onitoring of electricity usage development & R&D integrated energy control in wired services / devices in wireless services / devices in IDC services / devices buildings GSS Area : Implementation Support and Performance Management 58 Dream with Environment Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Plan Climate Change Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Reduction Target | In the first half of 2009, kt initially Response aimed to reduce GHG emissions by 20% by 2013 (relative to the 2007 levels), but the target did not reflect kt’s merger with ktf. kt, therefore, had to revise its reduction target by taking into account the GHG emissions of ktf, which became kt’s wireless division after the merger. As a result, in 2011, kt set a new reduction target of 20% by 2020, relative to the 2007 levels. kt will work hard to meet its revised target and achieve higher energy efficiency. Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions | kt became the first company in the local telecommunications industry to implement a full-scope greenhouse gas inventory for systematic data management. A GHG inventory is a system for gathering energy consumption data and automatically processing the data into carbon emissions. Using the inventory, kt has been able to monitor GHG emissions systematically since 2007, and commissioned a legally acknowledged third-party agency to verify emissions data each year. kt had its emissions from 2007 through 2010 verified by the British Standards Institute (BSI), and the 2011 emissions data verified by Korea Quality Assurance (KQA). Through periodic carbon auditing by an external agency, kt provides stakeholders with accurate emissions data. Annual kt Greenhouse Gas Emissions | unit : tCO2e, tonne of CO2 | Category * 2007 * 2008 * 2009 * 2010 ** 2011 Stationary combustion 41,063 40,828 40,221 49,073 44,332 Scope I Mobile combustion 13,343 12,097 18,210 17,657 19,346 (direct emissions) Subtotal 54,406 52,924 58,431 66,730 63,678 Purchased electricity 1,157,496 1,165,567 1,077,073 1,104,758 1,105,986 *Emissions from 2007 through 2010 verified by: Scope II Steam 4,576 3,621 4,391 4,659 3,594 BSI (British Standards Institute) (indirect emissions) Subtotal 1,162,072 1,169,188 1,081,465 1,109,417 1,109,579 **Emissions in 2011 verified by: Korea Quality Assurance Total GHG emissions 1, 216,478 1, 222,112 1,139,896 1,176,147 1,173,257 During the event of continuous data traffic explosion due to increased demands in 2011, kt aggressively implemented energy reduction technologies within its operational infrastructure. This included technologies such as network optimization technologies, virtualization, CCC (Cloud Computing Center). Such efforts resulted in successful reduction about 3,000 tons of emissions across the company. This is in contrast to most other carriers, which see energy consumption growing due to increasing bandwidth. kt will continue to save energy and lift the environmental burdens that affect the company. Spreading Green Management : Increasing Renewable Energy Use | kt continues investing in renewable energy equipment in varying areas from solar power to geothermal energy, and to fuel cells. In 2011, for the first time in the Korean telecommunications industry, the company launched a renewable energy project using solar panels. The solar panels were built on unused land at Gangneung Station and Taehwasan Repeater Station, and began operations in 2011, generating revenue from electricity distribution. The company also donates part of the revenue generated from the panels to the local communities, for instance, by operating the Dream Center. 2011 Monthly Generation from kt Gangneung Power Station | unit : kWh | 60,955 57,456 53,899 55,951 43,405 46,292 45,698 42,246 47,959 33,880 36,061 30,672 Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 59 Dream with Environment The geothermal heating/air-conditioning and hot water supply systems in three plants, including Banghak Plant, are also under trial run. The operation of solar panels and the use of geothermal energy have contributed to reducing carbon emissions, and kt plans on expanding its renewable energy business. Amount Invested in Renewable Energy Business | unit : billion won | Category 2010 2011 2012(planned) PV power generation 1.7 0.12 3.8 Tunnel groundwater use 0.24 0.84 Geothermal energy Geothermal energy adopted in plants 0.85 Gwanak urban house 1.99 Total 1.7 0.36 7.48 Taehwasan Solar Panels Geothermal Heating/AC Systems in Banghak Plant Reducing GHG Emissions through Videoconferencing | Videoconferencing not only shortens decision-making time but also saves travel expenses, increasing productivity and mitigating carbon emissions. The kt Economic Management Institute analyzed that, if 20% of the meetings held at domestic and overseas kt offices are replaced with Internet videoconferencing, it will Cost saved through reduce costs as much as 13.7 billion won by reducing carbon emissions, saving travel expenses, videoconferencing (2011) and increasing productivity. To resolve the drawbacks of the existing system, such as the high ini103 million won tial cost of adoption and the audio-video speed difference, kt introduced the PC-based videoconferencing system and built 90 videoconference rooms so that all employees can attend video conferences on their PCs. Even employees on business trips are now able to attend conferences via video calls. In 2011, kt saved over 130 million won through videoconferencing. Supporting Customer Carbon Emissions Reduction | By offering customers a variety of green services, kt has been committed to reducing carbon emissions across society. The green services, including kt’s videoconferencing service, which limits customer travels to the minimum, the olleh Nabi, which informs customers of shortest routes by factoring in traffic, and the Change of Address service, which reduces missing/misplaced mail, represent the importance of IT in building a green society. kt also continues to work hard to develop remote smart grid monitoring, metering, and control solutions, laying a cornerstone for future green IT businesses. In addition, the company provides green homes, green offices, green buildings, green energy and green services. 60 Dream with Environment Energy Efficiency Efforts Efficient Energy Real-time Energy Use Monitoring | kt took part in a government-funded new product developUse ment project to fine-tune energy efficiency in buildings, and developed a real-time energy use monitor, which allows management, monitoring, reporting, and verification of energy and carbon emissions targets. . The monitor is used in an energy management process to gather data on a BEMS (Building Energy Management System) for buildings that consume a lot of energy like the Mokdong Information Computer Center. Market demand for the monitor is expected to grow for verification purposes, once the government’s Energy Target Management System, Emissions Trading Scheme, and ISO50001 Certification Policy take effect. Greenhouse Gas/Energy Target Management System | In 2011, kt was designated as a company subject to the GHG/Energy Target Management System, and is legally obliged to report company-wide emissions to the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (supervisor) and fulfill a given reduction target. To fulfill its legal obligations, the company uses the greenhouse gas inventory to monitor emissions in real time and commissions a third-party agency to verify the emissions data. To reduce GHG emissions, the Energy Executive Committee holds meetings on a regular basis and reinforces detailed activities to reduce energy use. To contribute to policy development with regard to the Target Management System, kt participated in the Target Management System pilot project in the area of buildings under the supervision of the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs and worked hard to develop the most suitable policies for Hwehwa Branch and Bundang ICC. kt will commit itself to meeting the government carbon emissions roadmap through the Target Management System. Jeju Smart Grid Testbed | kt is a participant in the Jeju Testbed Project organized by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy to test smart grid technologies and develop a business model. Targeting 6,000 households living in Gujwa-eup, Jeju Island, this project, which began in May 2009 and will be completed in May 2013 (42 months), is aimed at testing a Korean smart grid by integrating a Building Energy Management System (BEMS) and a Home Energy Management System (HEMS), and applying renewable power sources, demand response, and green energy storage systems. To execute the project, kt formed the kt Consortium consisting of 14 participants, such as Samsung SDI, Hyosung Heavy Industries, and Samsung Electronics, and four agencies, and developed and began testing an electricity/telecommunications convergence business model. Jeju Testbed Information Demand information Renewable energy information Korean type (195 households) Generator (131 kW) Today 444 kWh Today 102,8 kWh Yesterday 441 kWh Yesterday 76.4 kWh Foreign type (395 households) Storage system (544 kWh) Today 1,441 kWh Today 47.4 kWh Yesterday 1,415 kWh Yesterday 44.7 kWh EV charger information Energy use reduction of the month Number of chargers 28 Base demand 15,276.5 kWh Testbed On 0 Actual demand 12,407.8 kWh Standby 4 % of energy saved 18.8 % (previous day/foreign type) Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 61 Dream with Environment Saving Electricity for Wired Network/IT Devices | kt integrated the existing wired network into an ALL-IP-based transmission structure to increase the network’s energy efficiency, and successfully simplifies the physical network. While such integration improved network performance, it downsized the entire network and contributed to more efficient energy use. Further, kt eliminates causes of energy waste by streamlining facilities with low energy efficiency with low-power designs. To operate air-conditioning systems in stations more efficiently, integrated fresh airconditioning systems were developed and test-run in 18 stations, enabling fresh air circulation within the buildings and reducing the operating ratios of the existing air-conditioners dramatically. Such efforts helped save energy (12,000tCO2) worth about 2.6 billion won in the wired network. For its commitment, in May 2012 kt received the Minister of Knowledge Economy Award for PowerSaving Management (kt Daegu Network O&M BU). Saving Electricity of Wireless Network Devices | To accommodate continuously growing traffic volumes due to mobile phone technology developments, such as smartphones and pads, kt began adopting a highly efficient CCC (Cloud Computing Center) network called WCDMA (3G). The Energy-saving cost by saving CCC network is a virtualization-based wireless telecommunications technology that downsizes the electricity in wired network and IT devices 2.6 existing physical network and centralizes traffic processing, saving energy dramatically. To provide 4G LTE service nationwide, kt applies a virtualization technology using the same principle and dis12,000 tCO2 tributes 4G traffic loads efficiently between devices to produce the same results with less devices in this advanced wireless network 2.6 billion won per year Developing and Introducing PC Power Supply Management Solution | kt developed its own PC power supply management solution to resolve electricity wasted on PCs within the company. After the trial run for a year, kt Smartpower 2.0 was adopted in 2011, a power saving solution that allows a PC to switch to power save mode when not used for a period of time. Before the PC shuts down, all documents are automatically saved, which reduces user inconveniences and standby power, saving electricity worth about 0.8 billion won. The solution will be extensively applied to Energy-saving cost by developing and introducing a PC power reduce the company’s carbon emissions of 4,000tCO2 each year. supply management solution First Carrier to Introduce Electric Vehicle (Full EV) | In connection with the Jeju Smart Grid 0.8 billion won per year Testbed, kt became the first carrier in Korea to introduce and operate 10 Ray electric vehicles bought from KIA Motors. Unlike existing vehicles, the Ray EVs adopted by the Jeju branch do not burn fuels, reducing a lot of carbon emissions. They do not make noise nor generate smoke causing almost no environmental costs. kt will apply electric vehicles extensively as corporate vehicles to continuously reduce carbon emissions, and achieve its vision of Green kt, Green KOREA. Ray Electric Vehicle that kt introduced as a corporate vehicle 62 kt’s Energy-Saving Employees | By making saving energy a habit, kt enforces saving energy all year round and tries to transform all workplaces into ‘highly efficient, energy-saving offices’. Practices Creating and distributing an energy-saving practice guide for employees 1 2 3 4 Temperature control No air-conditioning Heater temperature Hot water supply in offices (below and lights in undercontrol and limited control and saving 20oC), telecommuground parking lots elevator operations water in nications closets during holidays or washrooms (above 26oC) after work hours 5 6 7 8 Automatic lights-out Switch monitors to in offices and conferShare elevators Check if doors are power save mode ence rooms during open or closed and power off IT lunch time and devices during past 10 PM absence Campaigns | Aside from saving electricity, kt also participates actively in the ‘Minus (-) Energy, Plus (+) Love’ campaign organized by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy. This is a social responsibility campaign aimed at providing energy welfare to low-income families through energy-saving practices, supporting needy neighbors with heating costs in the name of participants as much as electricity savings in participating homes and buildings during July and August. In 2011, kt had 3,610 locations (100 locations increased over the previous year), including host and remote systems, participate and save 10,545,732kWh during the months Certificate of Briquette Support of Love of July and August (4,748 tons of carbon emissions) and 1.1 billion won in electricity bills (in connection with the company-wide electricity saving activities), ultimately reducing 11% of the campaign target. Base Stations | Base stations and IDCs featuring many telecommunications devices implement a variety of midand long-term energy saving plans and save energy by developing and applying alternative energy sources. Power off 2G base stations Developing energy-saving technologies and IT convergence solutions E.g. Building Energy Management System (kt-BEMS), an integrated facility management center, etc. Building solar panels and generating revenue using unused assets Building heating and air-conditioning systems using groundwater in cable tunnels Developing a power saving program for telecommunications facilities Developing CCC/WARP technology to increase station capacity and data transfer rates in border areas (saving energy by developing software control technologies, instead of increasing hardware) Introducing an Energy Efficiency Rating policy for key devices in an Internet Data Center (IDC), such as servers and storages Business partnerships to create new business models across the industry through response to the government’s Greenhouse Gas/Energy Target Management System and through IT-energy technology convergence (November 2011) Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 63 Dream with Environment Water Conservation | To reduce water use, kt adopted water-conserving faucets during conRecycling struction, expansion, and remodelling, and increased efficiency in water use by replacing airconditioner filters and cleaning water pipes. Further, the company recycled resources using the Resources water generated from underground cable tunnels through a water filter (in kt offices in Guro). To encourage water conservation, kt has enforced reducing carbon footprints, sharing mugs, and storing water on Environment Day. As a result, kt saved water by 2.51% relative to the previous year in 2011. Water Usage | unit : ton | 2008 2,721,622 2009 2,775,565 2010 3,014,704 2011 2,867,147 Recycling Mobile Devices | kt provides mobile phone subsidies when customers return their old phones before getting new ones, increasing the collection of used phones. The returned used phones are used as temporary phones for customers who have lost their phones. kt leases mobile phones to customers when they sign up for ultra high-speed Internet or IPTV service, collects them when they terminate the service, and recycles or disposes of the phones after quality performance testing. Waste Management (scrap cable, scrap devices, and storage batteries) | kt reorganized the waste management process that could not be integrated after the merger, creating a companywide waste management system. In 2011, the company’s waste generation target was set to 74,304 tons, a 10% reduction from the average generation for the past three years, from 2008 to 2010, and generated 63,213 tons, which exceeded the target by 4.9%, by reducing building waste and making waste management efficient, as well as selling property, reducing remodelling, and recycling materials. Since 2010, the company has managed the amount of waste handled and property sold in the area of wireless telecommunications, extended the scope of waste data management, and implemented systematic waste reduction activities. Waste Generation | unit : ton | 2008 90,678 2009 73,137 2010 53,867 2011 63,213 64 Dream with Environment Green PC Solution | Green PC Solution is a system that integrates 60 PCs into a single rack by Green Product and making multiple PCs blades. Unlike existing PCs, the solution allows efficient electricity management, saving energy about 30 to 40%. It also eliminates fine dust particles and other contaminants Service Innovation generated from PCs, providing a clean environment for users. Not only that, the solution enables easy maintenance and saving energy in air-conditioning/heating systems using the heat generated from the PC cluster. As a result, the offices can keep indoor temperatures one degree lower during the summer, reducing air-conditioning costs by 5% and 500 tons of carbon dioxide. In 2011, the Managed Service was launched, which allows device installations, leasing, and maintenance. As of late December 2011, the service generated revenue worth 1.51 billion won for 1,470 units, a 400% growth over the previous year. Automatic Standby Power Shutdown System | This energy-saving system prevents unnecessary energy use by automatically shutting down PCs when they are not used, and can be used by every PC user. It automatically shuts down desktop PCs, their monitors, speakers, and printers as well. Using the green button, standby power can be shut down immediately, and the zero switch can unplug PCs. Wireless Real-time Remote Energy Use Green Service Innovation Monitoring Service olleh biz Conference Call ‘MeetMe’ | kt provides the MeetMe service that allows low-cost conference calls in branches and offices in Korea and abroad (50 countries around the world) at any time, anywhere, using telephones or mobile phones. Using its own global network, the company ensures secure call quality without access to international calls and offers low-cost conference calls. Videoconferencing Service | In October 2010, kt’s Videoconferencing Service earned a GreenBiz Certificate, allowing long-distance communication and collaboration using a variety of devices, Lights | PC | Air-conditioner | saving costs and reducing environmental impacts. Temperature/humidity | CO2 Wireless Real-time Remote Energy Use Monitoring Service | This nationally certified green Data collector service allows wireless real-time monitoring of energy use and GHG emissions from lights, outlets, electrical devices, fans, and pumps in homes, offices, and buildings. Using smartphones, users can access and monitor energy use/carbon emissions status and analysis results, saving the cost of installing expensive meters. This service can be connected with energy-saving solutions for home/ enterprise customers if they participate in the GHG Target Management System and the Emissions server Trading Scheme, saving energy at least 3% up to 10%. uCloud biz | uCloud biz is an IT resource outsourcing service that allows the leasing and payper-usage service of enterprise IT resources (servers, storages, and networks), instead of purchasing and owning them. Through ucloud biz services (servers, storages, DB, CDN, VDI, Internet, olleh TV backup), companies can save initial investment and operating costs and deal with increasSmartphone, Display unit ing electricity usage arising out of computer rooms. kt created three low-power, highly efficient Cloud Data Centers (Cheonan, Mokdong, and Gimhae), increased energy efficiency in IT resources at least four times and reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 70%, using server virtualization and automation technologies. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 65 Dream with Environment Participating in Government Green Growth Projects Policy Engagement and Certificates kt’s participation in government projects Organized by Project description Building a smart green place with customer engagement Ministry of Knowledge Overseas testbeds of new business models by building EV charging infrastructure Economy and operation centers Smart carbon metering technology development Ministry of Land, TransDevelopment of land monitoring technology using vehicle and ground anchor senport, Maritime Affairs sors: Development of a real-time ground monitoring system Ministry of Knowledge Developing and creating a K-MEG integrated energy management system Economy Ministry of Land, TransDevelopment of U-City platform middleware port, Maritime Affairs Development of UFMS and integrated platform based on urban space information Creating Green Growth Fund | kt created Green Growth Fund worth 30 million won to support Gyoenggi-do and green-growth enterprises. ‘Gyeonggi-kt Green Growth Investment Fund’ is designed to support ventures that develop energy-saving technologies or provide new businesses with financial/technical assistance. Investments are made in small/medium ventures located in Gyeonggi-do. Contributing to Stable Electricity Supply Nationwide by Participating in Smart Load Management Project | kt will implement a load management project using its ICT capabilities and the electricity loads in its buildings. In the event of frequent outages and unforeseen events Benefits of Green IDC with regard to national power supply, kt reduces the loads specified by the Korea Power Exchange to eliminate the risk of economic losses, and contributes to ensuring stable power supply and mitigating economic losses, as well as reducing investment in building power stations and envi4.8 million units ronmental damage. Using the 28MW of loads registered with the demand resource market, the company starts reducing loads if the national reserve power drops under 5,000MW during the 1.6 million 70,000 tCO2 trees summer or winter, and works hard to develop and apply a system that allows real-time/two-way Decrease communication and monitoring for effective load management and load reduction. Before introducing cloud 90,000 tCO2 kt-Energy Management Corporation Agreement on Green IT Business | kt and Energy Management Corporation entered into an agreement to create a new business model based on IT 21,000 tCO2 After introducing cloud and energy technology convergence. In 2012, the two companies implemented 12 joint projects in kt applied cloud technology to the data centers five areas, including industry, construction, transportation, renewable energy, and IT. In the conand used green IDC technology to save annual struction area, the companies worked together on the K-MEG (Korea Micro Energy Grid) project in CO2 emissions over 70%. which micro smart grids are applied to buildings and offices and then integrated on a group basis. About 70,000 tons of annual CO2 emissions were reduced (based on 10,000KW). They are also collaborating to apply a smart grid-based building management solution to a new office building that Energy Management Corporation is scheduled to erect in the near future. In the renewable energy area, the companies plan on discussing an urban renewable power generation 19.2 project, collaborating on the pilot project of a building fuel cell (which uses hydrogen to produce million units electricity), developing a smart grid business model, and participating in the energy storage system (ESS) development project. energy 400 million kWh saved 6 million drums Participating in Green Technology Forum | From April 3 through 5 2012, kt attended the Green Technology Forum held at the Education and Culture Center in Yangjae-dong (organized by the MinMaking IDCs green can save 400 million kWh istry of Education and Science), exhibited panels and gave a presentation on xEMS and green IDC when saving energy about 20% (as of 2010). technology, promoting its corporate image as green technology-friendly. 66 Dream with Environment Green Procurement | kt participated in the Voluntary Agreement for Green Procurement for IP products. We reflect environmental aspects in our specification requirements for procuring telecommunication facilities. We help our suppliers minimize the environmental impacts of their products from the stage of product development, by providing them with guidelines on environmental friendliness of surface treatment, potential for recycling or reuse, and minimization of packaging materials. To this end, we put green labels on our consumable materials. We also update the green information on the labels twice a month, based on the data provided by the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute while conducting education to promote the purchase of ecofriendly products. Green Procurement Results | unit : piece per million won | 2009 2010 2011 No. of items Amount No. of items Amount No. of items Amount Eco Green Mark certified 408 1,400 645 4,308 439 5,094.9 products products GR Mark certified 42 11 1 2.2 products Other Green Energy Mark certified 18 43 106 568 1 0.1 Products products Products reducing hazard16 48 ous substances Products reducing waste 5 6 1 0.9 Products certified with foreign green marks Others 317 269 30 14..4 Total 806 1,777 751 4,876 472 5,112.5 Response to International Environmental Regulations | In 2007, kt became the first wireless carrier to earn ISO14001 certification (environmental management standard) in the construction and real estate areas, and has secured transparency and trust in its environmental performance by enforcing the environmental management system. Aiming to have all its business areas certified with ISO14001, the company works hard to standardize sustainable environmental solutions and systems and implement environmental management, including environmental training, internal auditing, and company-wide environmental campaigns. First Wireless Carrier to Earn Green Technology and Business Certificates | kt has continuously conducted research and development in the area of green telecommunications to develop and spread green IT. As a result, kt became the first wireless carrier to win seven Green Technology and Business certificates awarded by the government. Green Technology Certifications (3) Green Business Certificates (4) Home Network Technology Using Zigbee/PLC Videoconferencing connecting 3G, IPTV, and VoIP kt-Building Energy Management Solution Station Expansion to Build Green Telecommunications Infrastructure RF/CT based Energy Remote Measurement Technology Building Green IDCs Using DC Power Technology Green Change of Address project Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 67 Green Business Green Business Products Products Product Name Mobile Commerce (M-Commerce) Green Mobile Banking (M-Banking) Internet Computing Service (ICS) U-Cloud Home Vehicle Tracking Service (vehicle control service, brand taxi) Ubiquitous Green City (U-City) Traffic/transportation IT (traffic/transportation IT) MOS Service: Monitoring, Maintenance and Management Operating System (facility management solution) U-Health (remote health care service) Video Conferencing (Megameet and UCS included, videoconferencing) Facility and Environment Monitoring Solution (facility environmental monitoring solution I cam) Green IDC (metropolitan area-based IDC Colocation) Green PC Total IT outsourcing service that provides integrated control/maintenance of lines/IT infrastructure Power Care Service Video Communications on 3G wireless networks (3G video calls and additional services) kt Moving (Kuk change of address service) kt Smart Grid Enterprise FMC (Fixed Mobile Convergence) SSL-VPN (VPN products that can be used when working from home) Gangneung solar power distribution (Power Sales from Solar Generation) Green IDC Videoconferencing Smart Working Cloud service Dream with Suppliers Main Teams Corporate Relations Office, App Market Procurement Strategy Office Trade olleh Venture Awards Econovation Fair Supplier Satisfaction Econovation 84.79 points Fair Vision & Strategy Performance After announcing the Three Don’ts policy, kt declared the Three Do’s policy to Transfer of patented technology licenses revitalize the software industry. While the Three Don’ts focused on win-win 13 licenses to 13 companies relationships with small/medium enterprises (SMEs), the Three Do’s policy aims at Consulting and certification support 75 companies Partnership future value-based software pricing, instead of labor-based pricing, and creating a results worth 114 million won (8 times more companies) virtuous cycle in the software ecosystem. To strengthen the competitive positions Vendor coaching 15 vendors 2.5 times increased over the previous year (6 vendors) of software enterprises, the company created the Cloud Incubation Center to Supplier satisfaction 83.87 points (1st half), continue to help those enterprises develop software using cloud infrastructure. 84.79 points (2nd half), (77.4 points in previous year) Last, the company created open markets to trade software and is committed to Creating a Start-ups olleh Venture Awards, Econovation Fair creating a market to support overseas expansion. Through partnerships with IT venture ecosystem ventures in Korea, kt will become a technology leader in the global market and grow with suppliers. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 69 Dream with Suppliers Three Do’s Policy | After announcing the Three Don’ts policy to promote partnerships with small/ Win-Win medium enterprises (SMEs) in July 2010, kt declared the Three Do’s Policy to revitalize the software industry in September 2011. While the Three Don’ts focused on win-win relationships with SMEs, Partnership Policy the Three Do’s policy aims at the future-oriented valuation of software products by abolishing the labor cost or labor-centric software order practice, in order to create a software ecosystem kt’s Three Do’s Policy for Win-Win Partnership with Small/Medium Enterprises Continuous Support for kt’s Purchasing support for softsoftware compaThree Do’s ‘value’, ware companies’ nies’ expansion Policy not ‘labor’ competitiveinto global ness market Future Value-based Software Pricing, Not Labor-based | Software Value Purchase and creating a virtuous software ecosystem To enforce fair software pricing and build a virtuous software ecosystem, kt created a software value innovation team responsible for making fair software pricing and 50% advance payment processes more systematic, and the software value purchase process that incorporates the characteristics of software development. By developing a tool kit designed to determine whether a software developer can qualify for software value purchase, and distributing it to software developers, the company will allow the developers to conduct self-assessments. In the second half, kt will develop a software valuation program so that software developers to test the value of their products. Through software valuation, the prepaid purchase of one software package (Company A) was completed. The company also considers equity partnership, IPR-related and global support after the introduction of the software package, and is scheduled to make four additional software value purchases (e.g., Company B) to extensively apply the purchase policy. Nurturing the Development Environment to Strengthen Software Companies’ Competitiveness | Creating Cloud Incubation Center and supporting cloud-based software development Since March 2011, kt has been dedicated to consolidating partnerships by supporting the development environment for small software developers, placing advertisements and publishing articles about the companies. To create the software ecosystem, the company launched a Cloud Incubation Center to support small businesses’ entry into the software market by providing cloud IT resources with scalability and high availability. In 2011, the company provided virtual servers to 18 companies, and to 33 companies between January and April in 2012. Among them, 21 companies successfully commercialized, or are getting ready to commercialize their products. To promote actual Launching Open Markets in Japan and China assistance in the growth of small/medium software developers, kt provides marketing and prokt olleh markets were created as shop-in-shop motional support, including advertisements on the APP site, conferences, seminar presentations, between July and August last year, with China interviews with the press, and the publication of news articles. By making the ucloud personal and Mobile App Store called MM (Mobile Market) biz services publicly available through cloud API, kt helps 12 companies develop software, such and with DoCoMo Market, a Japanese NTT as pdf-notes and Hancom Office Viewer. Future support is expected to include cloud development DoCoMo App Store, and additional channels infrastructure and stronger connection between cloud API and company-wide platforms to help were launched, including China’s Tencent. develop high-quality software. China Japan Focusing on Creating Markets, such as Open Markets and Overseas Expansion | Small/ medium developers have a hard time marketing their own apps in international markets. To help 147 115 excellent Korean apps sell overseas, kt launched the OASIS (One Asia Super Inter-Store). Through the OASIS, the company helps successfully launch domestic apps overseas through localization (porting, translation, audit, etc.), marketing, and operational support. Further, the company provides About 12 million downloads exchange opportunities by holding the Korea-China-Japan Developer Conference (July 13, 2011, in (as of late March 2012) Guangzhou, China) and the App Development Contest (December 12, 2011, in Guangzhou, China). 70 Dream with Suppliers Created on January 18, 2011, the OASIS is a ‘Korea-China-Japan app market trade project’ launched by kt, NTT DoCoMo, and China Mobile by signing an SCFA (Strategic Cooperation Framework Agreement). The project receives strong policy support from the top carriers in Korea, China, and Japan, respectively, and the total number of subscribers is about 650 million. In 2012, the project will be extended to channels like China’s China Telecom and Sina, and Japan’s AU, DeNA, and Gree, centering on the Korean wave contents and killer games, and the three carriers also plan on expanding it to English-speaking countries. For developers around the world to distribute their apps, they are forced to go through multiple development processes, from stores to operating systems. To solve their problems and provide an integrated development environment for developers, kt and other carriers around the world launched WAC (Wholesale Applications Community). Since the launch of WAC, kt and three other Korean carriers established ‘K Apps’ and, on November 1, 2011, commercialized WAC2.0 for the first time in the world. With the successful commercialization of WAC in Korea, in February 2012, kt took the lead in sealing a global export agreement regarding K-Apps WAC Platform and Contents worth about 2.7 billion won. In 2012, through the extended distribution of WAC2.0 to global businesses, such as Japan’s NTT and DoCoMo, and SMART from the Philippines, Korean WAC developers will be provided global business opportunities starting in the second half of the year. Demand Forecasting Process | kt applies the demand forecasting process and continues to improve its development partnership programs to prevent any waste of resources resulting from the difficulties of SMEs with inventory control or with commercialization even after products have been completely developed. The demand forecasting process is a program that discloses purchase demand based on the market/technology trends and on the shortand mid-term business outlooks. kt forecasts quantities for the whole year in the beginning of the year. In 2010, kt predicted changes in demand for 50 items from 78 partners, and in 2011, predicted changes in the quantities sold for 277 items. In 2012, the company will improve the confidence level of demand forecasting by dividing the forecast details into amounts by item, instead of % changes, and the forecasting frequency on a quarterly basis, instead of a yearly basis, and notifying again the breakdown of changes in forecast amounts on a quarterly basis through continuous monitoring. These changes will reduce the uncertainty caused by suppliers and prevent resources from being wasted in the development processes through flexible production and inventory control. 2010 2011 2012 Focus on bad inventory that may Focus on suggesting future Improve confidence in demand cause a significant business business approaches, and forecasting and help suppliers impact on suppliers extend the scope of disclosure plan their production Forecast: 50 Items Forecast: 277 Items Forecasting items and target Items declined over 50% All items required in the techsuppliers will be determined relative to the previous year nology request after demand research (mid-January) Target suppliers: 78 Target suppliers: 208 Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 71 Dream with Suppliers Profit Sharing Plan | Since 2006, kt has produced results, such as cost reduction and quality Supplier improvement, by working with its suppliers to develop devices and services, and introduced the Profit Sharing Plan, under which kt and its suppliers share profits. kt provides the participating supInfrastructure and pliers with Six-Sigma training and consulting and free-of-charge environmental testing and moniFinancial Support toring equipment. In August 2009, kt updated the Profit Sharing Plan, added 50% of cost savings to purchase prices if the project of optimizing specifications to reduce the costs of equipment, increased the maximum percentage of quantities subject to profit-sharing from 20% to 30%, extended the period of profitsharing from one year to two years. Up until now, the company shared 11.67 billion won (9 projects in total) with its suppliers. Since the plan has been limited to materials/goods, following the suppliers’ suggestion, and since there are cost-saving obligations, kt plans on extending the plan to the areas of IT construction and building maintenance/remodelling, and extending the types of profit-sharing projects to new equipment development, process improvement, and localization. Telecommunications Infrastructure and Test Facility Support | To reduce suppliers’ R&D costs and nurture SMEs and ventures, kt created independent network infrastructure, such as = Total Model Center and Econovation Center, developed and provided free-of-charge wired/wireless telecommunications, Internet services, test environments to 206 SMEs in 2009, 400 SMEs in 2010, and 462 SMEs in 2011 (49 servers, 34,573 phones, and 53 monitors) Free Training for Suppliers’ Employees | kt provides the suppliers with human resources training programs to help SMEs having difficulty improving quality and developing human resources strengthen the capabilities of their employees. In the areas of equipment/service operations, customer service, material supply, and IT construction, 94 courses were created in 2009, 73 in 2010, and 97 in 2011, and 34,937 employees were trained (11,520 in 2009, 12,688 in 2010, and 10,729 in 2011). Group training courses are available the kt HRD Center and local field training centers, classrooms, teaching materials, lodgings, and meals are provided free of charge, gaining popularity among suppliers. Free Training for Suppliers’ Employees Amount (0.1 billion won) Courses Financial Support for Suppliers | To ensure the liquidity of small/medium enterprises struggling with the tough business conditions, such as rising exchange rates and material costs, and to help 2009 1,152.0 94 them raise operating capital and improve financial stability, kt offers a variety of financial support programs. kt capital created a credit loan fund worth about 300 billion won (310.3 billion won for 2010 1,268.8 73 528 companies in 2010, 223.3 billion won for 235 companies in 2011). In 2006, regardless of the 2011 1,072.9 97 amount, kt also began enforcing the 100% Cash Payment policy among small/medium enterprises (2,966.5 billion won in 54,263 transactions in 2010, 1802.3 billion won in 70,248 transactions in 2011), instead of note payments. Further, kt enters into agreements with financial institutions that Cash Payment Policy offer partner loans and operates a financing program through which suppliers can take out loans at Amount (billion won) Cash payment policy support (cases) lower interest rates based on their performance. 2009 2,966.5 54,263 Overseas Business Support for Top-performing Suppliers | kt offers top-performing suppli2010 1,802.3 70,248 ers the opportunity to expand their business abroad through joint projects. In 2009, the company implemented 15 joints projects worth 26.4 billion won with 12 suppliers, 13 projects worth 79 billion won with 23 suppliers in 2010, and four projects worth 1.37 billion won with four suppliers. kt Support for Common | unit : billion won | plans on increasing joint overseas expansion by developing and ordering joint projects. Projects in Foreign Markets 2009 26.4 Transfer of Patented Technology Licenses | To secure core technologies in future businesses, kt offers SMEs the free transfers of licenses of key patents and kt’s R&D products. In 2011, the com2010 79.0 pany transferred 13 core technologies to 13 companies, 26 technologies, including automatic fiber 2011 1.37 loop switches, to seven companies for free. kt will continue to transfer paten rights to SMEs. 72 Dream with Suppliers Effort of Extending Win-Win Partnerships Extending Win-Win Encouraging Cash Payments for Secondary Suppliers | Since 2011, kt has encouraged priPartnerships mary suppliers to pay cash payments to secondary suppliers. During each supplier rating, kt gives a 1.5 bonus points to suppliers that provide cash payments to secondary SMEs. The 1.5 bonus points can affect the rankings within the same SG (item). To verify the cash payments that have been made, kt collects the receipts of cash payment made to secondary suppliers with regard to the goods supplied to kt. Extending the Benefits of Unit Price Increases | Since October 2010, kt has made sure that the benefits of unit price increases have been extended to secondary suppliers. Any price adjustments must be attached to transaction documents with secondary suppliers. In the past, kt only collected breakdowns of contract price adjustments (e.g., evidence of reasons for a price increase), but now requires that price adjustments be specified in a notice of tender and a product (construction, service) agreement and the adjustment results be reported to secondary suppliers. Financial Support for Secondary Suppliers | Since October 2010, kt has provided a credit loan called kt Capital Network Loan worth 300 billion won as financial assistant for secondary suppliers. Up until now, two secondary suppliers were provided about 800 million won at the recommendations of primary suppliers. Applying Partnership Programs to Secondary Suppliers | Since October 2010, kt has extended the partnership programs previously offered solely to primary suppliers to secondary suppliers. With the amount of support is 50% of the cost required, and a 4-million won limit per company, kt supported quality, environmental consulting, and certification costs for 5 suppliers in 2010 and one secondary supplier in 2011. kt’s Human Resources Development Center and Mobile Network Business Unit provide free training and free testbed, monitoring equipment, Total Model Center, and Econovation Center services. kt extended the Vendor Coaching Program, which was created for secondary suppliers in 2008, to support 6 suppliers in 2010 and 15 suppliers in 2011. Since November 2010, based on the agreements made between kt and 454 primary suppliers on July 8 2010, kt has enforced partnership agreements between primary and secondary suppliers, which contain fair subcontracts, cash payments for secondary suppliers, and empowerment support. Performance of Partnership Programs Category 2009 2010 2011 Hire Purchase Product 430 million won for 4 projects 1.68 billion won for 6 projects 1.49 billion won for 9 projects Development Project Infrastructure Support Monitoring equipment rentals: 21 Monitoring equipment, test-bed: 41 times Monitoring equipment/shield rooms/test-bed: 53 times to 11 companies times, Model Center: 86 times, 1st Econovation: 4,128 times (individual)/ Total Model Center: 214 hours for 2,350 phones 1st Econovation: 7,907 times (individual)/ 3,906 2 companies phones 2nd Econovation: 6,223 times (359 compaMotive Center: 88,104 times nies), 63,340 phones, 55 servers 3nd Econovation: 1,261 times (individual)/ 46 phones Profit-Sharing Plan 87 1st and 2nd projects submitted 23 1st and 2nd projects submitted 6 1st and 2nd projects submitted 6 out of 10 projects successful; 2 out of 3 projects successful; 80 million 11.34 billion won paid in compenwon in compensation sation Quality/ Environmental consulting 25,900,000 won for 9 companies 75,000,00 won for 22 companies 114 million won for 175 companies and certification support Vendor coaching Coaching completed for 6 secondCoaching completed for 6 secondary Coaching completed for 15 secondary suppliers ary suppliers suppliers Transfer of license of patented 13 technology transfers to 16 16 technology transfers to 25 companies 13 technology transfers to 13 companies technology companies Free online/offline training support 11,520 people in 94 courses 12,688 people in 73 courses 10,729 people in 97 courses Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 73 Dream with Suppliers Econovation Fair | kt conducts ‘Econovation’ activities to promote mutual growth with smart application developers. The company provided ‘olleh SDK (Software Development Kit’, an application development solution designed to develop an application with multiple operating systems (OS) using a single executive code, and supports the development of high-quality applications with a variety of platforms through App Development Contests. The company also holds developer camps where technical assistance and consulting are provided to application developers, as well as monthly open conferences and seminars where app developers share information and discuss issues. Through its ‘Global Frontier Project’, in particular, kt offers actual support for mobile app developers to expand business into the global market, including app development training, translation service, commercialized test-beds, and marketing. Through its strategic alliance with Japan’s NTT DoCoMo and China Mobile, kt provides the OASIS (One Asia Super Inter-Store) for the developers to do business in the apps/contents market used by 650 million Asian customers. Extending Win-Win Partnerships and Future Plans kt will continue to offer financial assistance to small/medium enterprises (SMEs), and reinforce the three policies, including the Technology Escrow Program, through which the company covers the costs of depositing technologies into the government's escrow account to head off the illegal use/ theft of suppliers' technologies and business information. The company also plans on continuing the transfer of its patent ownership to 'kt Naratgul' and its proprietary technologies to SMEs, while continuously enforcing full-amount cash payments to SMEs. In addition, kt will provide monitoring equipment and testbeds for suppliers to develop IT devices, and offer wireless suppliers spaces for network/PC/phone testing. The company will also work with the Small and Medium Business Administration to finance 10 ‘hire purchase product development’ projects with 180 million won. In 2012, kt will start investing 300 million won in the Win-Win Productivity Partnership Support project supervised by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, form a consortium with 10 primary and secondary suppliers, and implement the Total Solution program designed to provide total support for three years, from improving suppliers’ manufacturing plants, manufacturing technology and management innovation. kt also plans on providing consulting on quality management for primary and secondary suppliers, as well as free training and consulting support, to enhance SMEs’ business capabilities. In November 2010, the company created a Partnership Community within the kt HRD Center and in 2011, began operating a council between suppliers and kt to extend the scope of online and offline training and provide educational support. Through a variety of procurement programs, kt will continue its support for suppliers. By enforcing the Demand Forecasting Process, the company plans on improving the Differential Pricing, Fixed Bid Price, and Bid Assessment programs. In 2012, kt will extend its policy to all areas, including IT construction and services, as well as materials/goods, reinforce collaborations with suppliers by diversifying the types of profit-sharing items to new equipment development, process improvement, and localization, creating an original, competitive partnership ecosystem. 2012 KPI and Targets | unit : points | Category KPI 2010 2011 1st half 2011 2nd half 2012 1st half 2012 2nd half Partnership with Supplier 77.4 83.87 84.79 86.3 87.1 suppliers satisfaction Reinforcing partnerCommitment to 6 16 16 20 20 ship capabilities of secondary supcompanies companies companies companies companies secondary suppliers plier support 74 Dream with Suppliers Encouraging Green Technology Development | kt has diversified its partnership activities by Creating a Green creating a variety of Green IT guidelines and plans to encourage the green technology development of suppliers and applying them to the procurement process. Ecosystem Key Guidelines for Encouraging Green Technology Development Supervised by Government project description Period Environmental Create technical standards for temperature/humidity, surge, impact of fall, August request for electrivibration (seismic resistance), radiation (tolerance, disability prevention, 2007 cal communicabody protection), hazardous substances, standby power, energy efficiency, tions equipment noise, and surface temperature, and apply them to kt’s procurement items Green IT action Reduce carbon emissions by 20% relative to the 2007 levels by making all kt plan businesses green Green procurement Give priority to low-carbon equipment when procuring new equipment, and April plan select four core green technologies and apply them to new/upgraded product 2009 procurement in stages by 2015 (green procurement targets: See table below) 80% Percentage of Green Procurement 60% 30% 20% 14% 2008 2009 2009 2010 2011 Helping Suppliers Earn ISO14001 | To make kt’s supply ecosystem green by strengthening suppliers’ sustainable management capabilities, kt provides support for primary and secondary suppliers to earn the environmental management system (ISO14001) consulting and certificates. The company provided 50% of the cost required for the assessment/consulting and ISO14001 certification of four companies in 2009, 16 companies in 2010, and 175 companies in 2011. kt has standardized suppliers’ quality control process, improved their environmental awareness, and increased productivity with a specialized workforce. The company applies a preference policy for suppliers certified with the environmental management system (ISO14001) when selecting suppliers and evaluating their quality management, and will continue to improve the level of companywide sustainability through diligent follow-up after providing the cost required. ISO14001 Certification Support for Suppliers Category Details All suppliers/non-certified suppliers 413 (132 material supply, 281 IT construction) 236 (54 material supply, 182 IT construction) Suppliers supported in 2011 175 (2 material supply, 173 IT construction) Ratio of applicants to non-certified suppliers 74.1% Supplier support program Environmental Management System (ISO 14001) certification support Support Results for the Past 3 Years | unit : 10,000 won | Supported 4 suppliers, 2009 1,197 including Korea Polymer Co., Ltd. Supported 16 suppliers, including FR Tech Co., Ltd. 2010 5,425 Supported 175 suppliers, including Kyungil Co., Ltd. 2011 11,400 Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 75 Dream with Suppliers kt transformed its procurement practices to improve partnerships, as it defined its relationships Procurement with suppliers as partnerships and identified problems to work on. kt created several programs applicable to a variety of suppliers, documented and implemented them, and has constantly Program Innovation improved them as well. Target Price Adjustments by Reflecting Fluctuations | In August 2009, kt incorporated price fluctuations into the program and loosened the conditions of price adjustments. Since then, the company has reflected the standard percentage of price increase, exchange rate, and material cost fluctuation. Further, if a price increase exceeds 3% during the contract term, kt’s program ensures that suppliers require price adjustments at any time. Adopting the Differential Pricing Policy | To prevent suppliers’ collective insolvency caused by imposing the unreasonable minimum bid price rule, and to create a fair, reasonable trade environment, kt introduced the differential pricing policy in August 2009. Under this policy, the lowest bidder is required to agree to the assigned contract quantity if there is a difference over 5% between the minimum bid price and the next lowest price, and the next lowest price is considered a new minimum price. Improving the Bid Assessment Program | In August 2009, kt improved and began operating the new Bid Assessment program. The program allows the company to evaluate bidders based on the quality and price of a candidate product and determine the winner to prevent the purchase of low-quality products through the price-based procurement process. The company complies with the Bid Assessment process when introducing BMT (Benchmarking Test) equipment or repeatedly purchasing equipment whose operating quality can be tested, while keeping the ratio of quality at or higher than 50/100 during the assessment. Quantity Allocation for All SGs (N:N Contract) | In August 2009, kt started allocating quantities for all SGs (items). Under this regulation, a few SG suppliers are selected based on operating quality, and then all SG suppliers are assigned minimum quantities. The regulation is applicable to items whose required quantity exceeds the appropriate number of suppliers or items whose declining demand requires a reduction in the number of suppliers. Adopting the Fixed-Price Competitive Bidding Program | In November 2009, kt introduced the fixed-price competitive bidding program. Under this program, any bidders who submit prices Procurement Program Innovation lower than the fixed price are excluded. The standard bid price is calculated based on the formula Results (as of 2011) 'Average price of bidders lower than target price x fixed ratio'. The fixed ratio is basically 80%, but Amount is subject to change depending on the bid characteristics. Category Cases (billion won) Differential Pricing 6 23.2 Minimizing the Difference between Contract/Delivery Ratios | In May 2010, kt adopted the Bid Assessment 13 28.5 real name-based Demand Forecasting process and the standard forms of preferred items, began Price Adjustment 16 33.4 promoting unit price contracts, and made quantity ratio management into a system. The company N:N Contract 78 4,25.0 also created a process to comply with the contract quantity ratio as agreed upon with suppliers. *Long-term Supplier 8 36.0 Fixed Bid Price 2 22.7 Interim Payment Policy | The policy was introduced in August 2011, as an addition to kt’s payInterim Payment 14 1.0 ment policies (advance, progress and complete payments) to finance suppliers when needed dur(redundant data included) ing the term. If a supplier has difficulty making a progress payment under an agreement worth over * Long-term supplier: Any supplier that is a party to 100 million won and effective for over 60 days, the policy allows the supplier to make up to 30% of a long-term agreement over a year, ensuring the supplier’s financial security (unit price subject to annual the deposit. Since the adoption of the policy, kt has paid 1 billion won to suppliers in 14 cases. adjustments) 76 Dream with Suppliers Fair Trade Compliance | kt operates the Compliance Program designed to prevent losses for Fair Trade society and the company by complying with laws/regulations and abolishing unfair practices. In 2009, kt earned an “AA rating” in the 2009 CP Assessment conducted by the Fair Trade Commission, was recognized for its commitment to fair competition, and received incentives, such as penalty mitigation for two years and independent investigation exemptions. In 2010, kt, its three affiliates, and 520 suppliers entered into partnership and fair trade agreements and pledged to comply with laws and principles to ensure transparency in contract transactions. Operating the Fair Trade Review Center | As part of its Compliance Program, kt hired fair trade-specialized lawyers to form the Review Center in 2005, and has assessment factors of unfairness in all business transactions and prevented any violations. Field units (Sales Headquarters, Corporate Business Branch, and Mobile Marketing Branch) appoint Fair Trade Officers responsible for preventing unfair practices in related organizations. Annual Reviews | unit : review | Internal 2009 418 All business trading between Supplier-explans, marketMarketing ternal network arrangements affiliates 2010 651 ing plans, and (funding, assets, agreements, promotional and subcontract materials agreements human resources, agreements etc) 2011 820 Review Items Annual Training cyber courses job training (people) 57 2009 1,260 41 2010 1,387 41 2011 362 Fair Competition Training and Environment | kt provides officers of different organizations with job training on fair trade three or four times each year, and all employees with regular online training courses. The company invites regulatory experts to share the latest regulatory and institutional trends, offers special lectures on key fair trade issues, and conducts on-site training for key departments (procurement, network). kt also runs an evaluation program to establish a corporate culture of fair trade and maintain the center director’s ongoing interest and commitment to fair trade. Corrections Made to Unfair Practices Common unfair General unfair Unfair internal behavior behavior trading Other* Total Type Corrections Fine Corrections Fine Corrections Fine Corrections Fine Corrections Fine 2009 1 0 1 0 2010 2011 1 0.8 1 0.8 * Violations of the General Clauses Regulation Act, Fair Labelling and Advertising Act, Door-to-Door Sale Act, and Electronic Commerce Consumer Protection Act Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 77 Dream with Suppliers Ideas/Suggestions & Rewards | kt has reorganized the website for ideas/suggestions (ktidea. Supplier olleh.com) and streamlined the process so that ideas can be reviewed and screened within two months. Videos containing excellent ideas are selected so that the ideas can be effectively comCommunication municated to business units. Further, the company created the Excellent Idea Reward Program through which small/medium businesses are fairly rewarded when they provide ideas about technologies or business models that can contribute to kt’s businesses. If any idea can be commercialized without going through the product development process, up to 50% of the purchase quantity is assigned to the supplier that suggested the idea. If product development is required, kt will guarantee to purchase the supplier’s product once it has been successfully developed. To support SMEs’ technology development, kt created a new fund worth 36 billion won in the area of key solution BM to commercialize ideas and technologies, and provides development costs first, and then distributes profits. ‘IT CEO Forum’ | The IT CEO Forum is an open forum for all companies, where small/medium IT enterprises, CEOs, large conglomerates, associations, societies, and R&D experts attend to discuss mutual growth and partnerships. Key leaders of IT SMEs are responsible for holding the Open Forum, facilitating partnerships, and connecting online and offline activities. During olleh 1.0, 13 breakfast seminars and 60 small meetings were held, and the biggest, open IT ecosystem in Korea was created by sharing a variety of partnership projects (MVNO, App Store, etc.). In 2011, kt created a ‘project collaboration meeting’ where small discussions are held between officers responsible for projects, which became a communication channel where kt’s senior executives and suppliers’ employees can talk directly with one another. Additionally, kt also runs a forum website (www.itceo.org) a Twitter account (@itceoforum), a Facebook page (www.facebook.com/itceoforum) to provide a wide range of information in real time, and is committed to promoting open communication with opinion leaders in different fields, at different levels. IT CEO Forum The Information Sharing Council | kt holds regular Information Sharing Council meetings with suppliers in different areas to discuss future partnership activities and plans, gather opinions, and implement improvement activities. Since October 2010, the Council has dealt with when urgent demand occurs or how much inventory suppliers have to support suppliers when urgent demand is created during promotions or due to market changes. Since 2011, kt has operated the SCM Council on phones and radio repeaters on a monthly/quarterly basis. kt plans on increasing partnership efforts by extending the Council’s activities to line materials and devices and by helping integrate the demand forecasting process and optimize suppliers’ inventory and production, and on encouraging communication through the channels, such as the integrated interface, suppliers’ suggesSupplier Satisfaction Survey | unit : point | tions, and listening to grievances. 2009 75.2 Supplier Satisfaction | Since 2005, kt has conducted a 360-degree survey to evaluate supplier satisfaction each year. kt’s supplier satisfaction in the first half of 2011 was 83.87 (points), and 2010 77.4 84.79 in the second half, increasing over 6 points. The company will continue to communicate 2011 84.7 closely with suppliers. Dream with Society 43,791 people Children at local child Awards care centers use the The Grand Prize (Enterprise Sharing) at the 18th Korea Volunteers olleh Dream Center 147,177 Festival (Korea Volunteers Hours of Love Association, Chungang Ilbo) Volunteer Corp The Prime Minister’s Award at the 3rd Korea Human Awards 324,038 people The Grand Prize at the 6th Sustainability Awards Trained by The Excellent Sustainability Report IT Supporters Award The Global Supersector Leader in Telecommunications in the DJSI Main Teams Sustainability Committee | Strategic Planning Office, Legal & Ethics Office, 1st Ranked 1st in global Financial Management Office, Corporate Relations Office, Mobile Business Group, telecommunications G&E Group, Home Business Group, Synergy Management Office, Advanced Institute area of DJSI of Technology, SI Group, Network Group, Real Assets Management Office, Human Resources Office, General Affairs Office, Procurement Strategy Office, Public Relations Office, Economics & Management Research Laboratory Social Responsibility | Public Relations Office Vision & Strategy Performance Corporate social responsibility is a company’s commitment to establishing a Improving DJSI Assessment Awarded the Global Supersector Leader proper relationship with society and to sharing its capabilities and achieving reputation Higher ranking among Most Respected Companies mutual growth and prosperity with society. With the launch of olleh 2.0, kt will 31st 20th fulfill its social responsibility taking into consideration its influence that grows Key social Love Volunteer Corps hours of activity 147,177 as the company develops its competencies. By making the best use of its intanresponsibility Number of IT Supporters training recipients 324,038 gible and tangible resources, kt will bridge the digital divide, improve the qualactivities Number of children at local child care centers who use ity of life in local communities, and become a company respected at home and the olleh Dream Center 43,791 abroad. With head of the Public Relations Office appointed as chair of the SusNumber of visitors to olleh square 1,120,790 tainability Committee, whose membership consists of offices in related departNumber of kt ‘Finding Sound’ Project recipients 35 ments, decisions are made and implemented in a timely manner. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 79 Dream with Society Social Responsibility Strategy Social Corporate social responsibility is a company’s commitment to establishing a proper relationship Responsibility with society and to sharing its capabilities and achieving mutual growth and prosperity with sociStrategy ety. Under the business policy of bridging the digital divide, improving the quality of life in local communities, and becoming a respected company, kt implements the social responsibility activities below. kt Social Responsibility Approaches 2011 2009 Group Social Respon2006 sibility (CSR 3.0) 2002 Strategic Social Social Responsibility Responsibility (CSR 2.0) Giving Back to of Scale (CSR 1.0) the Community 2012 2009 Commenced the Dream 2006 kt chamberhall opened Together project 2002 Supported a variety of (the Saessak Dream CSR Team was formed socially underprivileged 2010 Center opened) Love Volunteer Corps people The olleh Dream Center Created the Group’s CSR was launched opened Framework Began the kt Study Room project The olleh square opened Organized a global CSR 2003 Framework The Finding Sound 2007 2011 project began IT Supporters (ITS) was Dream Together was created formed olleh College Student Volunteer Corps and olleh Child Volunteer Corps were launched Love Sharing IT Sharing Share love with everyone Share IT with everyone Intensive support for underIntensive support to bridge privileged children the digital divide Sharing Love Volunteer Corps kt IT Supporters (23 teams, 200 people) (about 700 teams, 31,061 people) Intensive support to Intensive support for underprivileged bridge the digital divide children Smart Academy kt olleh Dream Centers (21 locations) IT training for underprivileged people olleh College Student Volunteer IPTV support for underprivileged people Corps (145 students), olleh Child Volunteer Corps (100 children) Child Love Network ; Dream Together Culture Sharing (e.g., Vision Center) Share culture with everyone kt Leaders’ Mecenat Project kt 'Finding Sound' Project (10th year) kt Labor ; Management Youth olleh square / kt chamberhall / kt Sports Club Scholarship Project ‘i-Dream’, comprehensive arts education for underprivileged children Social Responsibility Organization Love Volunteer Corps | In 2001, kt created the Love Volunteer Corps for employees to ensure the more organized operation of their volunteer activities. The Corps consists of about 700 teams and 31,061 employees, and has carried out activities ranging from local child care support, helping underprivileged children in local communities, disaster relief and recovery assistance, 1 Company Volunteer Activity Participation 1 Village assistance in farms and fishing villages, facility checks, including the Welfare Center, and Service (hours) Participants experiential training in kt facilities. 89,621 2009 15,723 Love Volunteer Corps Organizational Chart 114,657 2010 30,383 Leader (CEO) Office (Public Relations Office) 147,177 2011 Head office and other Mobile Business Home Business G&E Network 37,447 departments Group Group Group Group 80 Dream with Society IT Supporters | Launched in 2007, IT Supporters is kt’s employee volunteer corps that provides IT access for everyone by donating IT knowledge. IT Supporters’ talent-donating pro bono contribution activities are widely recognized as the best example of a paradigm shift in corporate social responsibility. 23 teams and 20 full-time employees at kt belong to IT Supporters and focus on bridging the digital divide and improving the quality of life using IT. If you need IT Supporters’ help, please contact us by phone (1577-0080) or online (www.itsupporters.com). IT Supporters Organizational Chart Metropolitan area: Chungcheong: Gangwon: 9 teams 3 teams 1 team 23 teams Yeongnam: 6 teams Honam: 3 teams Jeju: 1 team IT Supporters Center 6th kt IT Supporters Launch Ceremony Financing for Social Responsibility In 2003, kt created Love Sharing Fund to encourage employees and the company to work together and lead social responsibility activities, which consists of employees’ donations and the company’s matching grants. kt contributes the same amount of money as employees donate, which is used for a variety of social responsibility activities. In 2011, 72% of all employees voluntarily participate in raising 1.72 billion won, which has gone toward the activities of volunteer teams nationwide. The matching grants contributed by the company are used to support children with hearing impairments and local child care centers, which are part of kt’s mid-/long-term CSR activities. The Love Sharing Employee Fund Raising Fund Committee, which consists of labor and management members, enforces the operating rules Funds raised (billion won ) Participation(%) for the Love Sharing Fund and ensures transparency management by demanding that a breakdown of expenses and its evidence be uploaded on the website of Love Volunteer Corps. 2009 203 78% 2010 174 73% A Breakdown of Social Responsibility Expenses | unit : billion won | 2011 172 72% 2009 2010 2011 Charity & donations 6.10 9.90 21.14 Scholarships 0.80 0.80 1.11 *In 2011, kt adopted the global standard for estimatDonations & sponsorships 5.30 9.10 20.03 ing social responsibility expenses, made adjustments to a few items according to the business conditions in Community investment 27.54 20.63 21.69 Korea, and began disclosing the items as social responCommunity IT sharing 25.00 13.04 12.66 sibility expenses. Love Sharing Fund 2.03 1.74 1.72 *The 2009 and 2010 breakdowns were readjusted based on the standard classification applied to the Support for children and underprivileged people 0.20 0.65 2.14 2011 breakdown. Culture, arts & sports 0.31 5.20 5.17 *Donations and sponsorships in 2011 include the Community sponsorship & support 1.54 6.50 8.27 donations of refunds of which legal obligations are no longer valid. Total 35.18 37.03 51.10 Assessment and Compensation Framework kt requires the results of employees’ volunteer activities to be uploaded on the website of the Love Volunteer Corps (volunteer.kt.co.kr) to assess and provide compensation for the activities. In 2011, the quantitative and qualitative reviews of the activities of the Corps and local child care centers were conducted, and the CEO Awards and monetary rewards were presented to five top-performing volunteer teams. In 2012, kt plans on awarding the top-performing team the kt Grand Prize for Social Responsibility. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 81 Dream with Society Support for Multicultural Families | kt began reinforcing support for multicultural families in IT Sharing connection with the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s Multicultural Family Support Task Force and Multiculturalism Center, which includes the opening of kt multiculturalism classes where IT training and Korean culture experience are provided to immigrant women. The support includes training on Microsoft Office programs, such as Word and PowerPoint, Korean language and culture training, and teaching skills training, which help children in multicultural families settle down and get educated. Advanced IT Knowledge Sharing | To bridge the digital divide caused by the advent of advanced IT devices, kt created the Smart Academy and Smart Sharing, and has led in building a ‘Warm, Smart World’. Among its activities, four types of the underprivileged are provided with Sharing kt new IT device experience/practice training and the opportunity to access information, and external agencies and organizations offer customized courses to teach how to use smart devices. In the Seoul metropolitan area, Busan, Daejeon, Daeju, Gwangju, Ulsan, and Jeonju, free classes are available at the respective Smart Academy locations, and ‘Smart Sharing’ activities are carried out to bridge the digital divide (‘Smart Divide’) for children in local child care centers. IT Knowledge Training (Smart Academy) Category Total Free Classes Visiting Education Classes 918 288 630 2010 Attendees 15,781 1,682 14,099 Classes 7,019 407 6,612 2011 Attendees 104,565 1,535 103,030 Support for the Four Underprivileged Groups | kt provides a variety of certification courses for the four most underpriviledged groups, namely, the disabled, farmers/fishermen, adults/seniors, and low-income families, including computer and Internet basics training, practical IT training, and certification classes, to bridge the digital divide and improve their quality of life. IT Supporters Experiential Activities for Stakeholders | In 2010, IT Supporters consisting of interns (362 interns in the 1st half, 113 in the 2nd half, and 20 foreign interns) carried out experiential activities targeting stakeholders. Each year, kt selects college students for the College Student Volunteer Corps. In 2011, 200 college student IT Supporters provided a variety of social services for two weeks starting on July 11, including IT Rural Community Service. Support for Small/Medium Entrepreneurs and Independent Businesses | kt created a website and blogs for small entrepreneurs in traditional markets in Seoul like Pungmul, Gwangjang, and Bangsan markets, and local enterprenuers, including multicultural restaurants, Busan Hairstylists’ Association, and music schools in Daejeon, so that they can create real economic value. Global IT Sharing | The activities of IT Supporters have been recognized as a leading example of corporate social responsibility, such as being a target for benchmarking by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications of Japan. In October 2008 and November 2009, the supporters visited Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Education to provide training on how to use the Sri Lankan language on a virtual keyboard and how to create audio/video content, and also conducted the first overseas IT training at the Korean Cultural Center in Maritime Province, Russia. 82 Dream with Society Training on How to Prevent Negative Effects of Internet Usage | Working with kt Cultural Foundation, the company continues to provide citizens and children with training on how to prevent negative effects of Internet usage. The training deals chiefly with how to prevent Internet addiction, prevent cyber crimes, and protect personal information. To prevent such negative effects of Internet usage, the company trained 80 instructors in 2008, 330 in 2009, 131 in 2010, and 116 in 2011. Results of IT Supporters Activities | unit : people | Small enterprenuers/ Category Total Underprivileged Public Children Multicultural independent businesses 2009 515,286 202,371 185,747 80,688 25,991 20,489 2010 325,771 120,778 86,793 20,166 80,393 17,641 2011 324,038 122,635 79,913 34,221 82,493 4,776 Total 1,157,412 444,225 346,786 134,587 188,940 42,874 2011 Total Number of IT Supporters Training Sessions | unit : session | Small enterprenuers/ Category Underprivileged Public Children Multicultural independent businesses Total 2009 9,880 6,144 2,736 9,707 516 28,983 Recognition of IT Supporters SR Activities Nov. 21, 2007 Awarded the Korea Volunteer Service Grand Prize in 2007 (Korea Social Welfare Association) Dec. 17, 2007 Selected among the 100 Trailblazers in 2007 (Korea Green Foundation) Aug. 12, 2008 Selected as the most memorable college student social responsibility program (Yonhap News) Oct. 17, 2008 and Visited the Sri Lankan Ministry of Education and provided training on how to use the Sri Nov. 9, 2009 Lankan language on a virtual keyboard and create audio/video content. Jun. 3, 2009 Awarded the Prime Minister’s Award on the Information Culture Day Jul. 12, 2009 Joint action against DDoS attacks with the government: Zombie PC Cleaning activities Nov. 25, 2009 The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications of Japan visited kt to benchmark IT Supporters activities Nov. 4 to Nov. 13, Provided the first overseas IT training at the Korean Cultural Center in Maritime Province, 2009 Russia Jan. 5, 2010 Ranked 1st in Awareness among the 30 Groups’ CSR activities (Economist) Nov. 24, 2010 Awarded the Grand Prize at the 2nd Korea Human Awards (Ministry of Health & Welfare / KBS) Jul. 21, 2011 Awarded the Grand Prize Enterprise Sharing at the 18th National Volunteers Festival (Korea Volunteers Association, Chungang Ilbo) Nov. 22, 2011 Awarded the Prime Minister’s Award at the 3rd Korea Human Awards IT Supporters Programs | IT Supporters provide support so that anyone in Korea can easily use computers and Internet. Support for multiUse of advanced IT Preventing negative effects of IT Daily IT use Customized IT Support for small entreprenuers cultural families devices training and independent businesses Support multiculHow to use smartphones Self-test on internet addiction and Internet (banking, How to use computers Create marketing infrastructure tural instructors special classes on how to prevent shopping, and booking) and printers through a website or blog SNS using smartphones addiction Support immigration Issue electronic How to use Hangul, Increase productivity through O/A How to use tablet PCs Prevent cyber crimes, block malicious documents Excel, and PowerPoint and software training Help in convenient websites, and learn how to use PC daily life usage control software Issue certificates How to create a website or blog IT classes for parents and children Use e-mails and together messengers Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 83 Dream with Society Love Sharing for Children Love Sharing Support for Local Child Care Centers | kt provides a wide range of support for local child care centers so that underprivileged children can become leaders in the future. In 2011, the company conducted activities like planting trees, donating books, and improving the educational environment in 800 local child care centers, and in 2012, will extend the activities to 1,000 centers to support about 70,000 underprivileged children. kt olleh Dream Center | kt considers corporate social responsibility a top priority and is committed to bridging the digital divide and improving the quality of life for the underpriviledged. kt in particular focuses on supporting over 100,000 children who receive help at local child care centers. Using its resources and capabilities, kt opened the kt olleh Dream Center in 2010, in connection with local child care centers in major regions, leading the creation of safety nets for local child care centers. Created using unused spaces in kt’s branches, the Dream centers are equipped with IT devices like IPTVs, beam projectors, smart pads, and e-books, and provides a variety of programs to improve academic achievements, such as English, music and art classes. By early 2012, a total of 21 centers were created in major areas including Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do, where kt’s head office is located. In addition, kt provides kt Dream shuttle buses so that children can commute from local child care centers to the kt Dream centers. Chuncheon Namyangju Gangneung Bucheon Wonju Dream Centers Available Jungrang-gu Yangcheon-gu Seongnam 2010 2011 2012 Cheonan Jungrang-gu, Seongnam, Namyangju, Busan, Gwangju, Chuncheon, Jeonju, Ulsan Cheongju Daejeon, Wonju, Waegwan, Bucheon, Cheonan, Gangneung, Andong Daejeon Mokpo, Jeju Yangcheon-gu, Gunsan, Andong, Jeonju Cheongju, Daegu Gunsan Waegwan Daegu Ulsan Gwangju Busan Mokpo Child Love Network ‘Dream Together’ | After realizing the importance of the three-generation social responsibility activities through a corporate network for the public good, kt began taking Jeju part in Dream Together, a corporate network created to support underprivileged children using corporate capabilities. About 20 companies, including kt, KBS, Hana Tour, and Biryongso, are members of Dream Together, through which they work together with the Social Welfare Fund Raising Association. In May 2012, they opened the first campsite in Korea exclusively dedicated to local child care centers to support underprivileged children. Using this site, the members will donate talent and extend the current business so that children can experience more various programs and nurture their dreams. kt Dream Center, Dream Together 84 Dream with Society olleh College Volunteer Corps, olleh Child Volunteer Corps | kt began customer engagement CSR activities to provide ‘sharing’ opportunities and expand the platform for CSR activities. In May 2011, ‘olleh College Volunteer Corps’, which consists of 100 students, was launched, and in September, olleh Child Volunteer Corps consisting of 100 children in the metropolitan area was launched. olleh College Volunteer Corps provided regular services at local child care centers every week, such as sharing talent, and conducted CSR activities including experiential programs for children, such as history experience, ecosystem experience, and cultural performances. In January 2012, they conducted global CSR activities, such as talent sharing and cultural exchange, for underprivileged children in Hanoi, Vietnam. They provided 6,850 hours of service to a total of 4,115 children, and in 2012, the second olleh College Volunteer Corps of 145 students was launched. The olleh Child Volunteer Corps conduct thematic volunteer activities such as delivering lunch boxes to seniors living alone and presenting performances for seniors, totalling 472 hours of service in 2011. Finding Sound Project for Children with Hearing Impairments | Since 2003, using its mobile resources, kt has implemented the Finding Sound project for children with hearing impairments who have difficulty communicating with others. By the end of 2011, the company funded artificial cochlea implants and rehabilitation treatment for 130 children, while providing digital hearing aids to 191 children who cannot have operations. Starting in 2010, kt signed the Finding Sound for Children with Hearing Impairments MOU with Yonsei Medical Center and began funding brainstem transplant surgeries. kt and the center plan on building the kt-Severance Hearing Rehabilitation Center in Severance Ani Hospital to help the children grow into healthy members of society. Category 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Artificial 10 10 40 20 19 10 10 7 4 130 cochlea Hearing aids 10 40 10 41 20 40 11 19 191 Brainstem 3 1 4 transplants Other 11 1 Love Sharing for the Underprivileged kt IT-Master Scholarship Program | Since 1988, kt has provided scholarships to top-performing IT students at 141 colleges to support human resources development in the IT industry and reinforce national competitiveness. Cumulative Amounts (since 1988) 15.6 Category 2009 2010 2011 billion won for Students 256 263 286 5,948 students Scholarships (0.1 billion won) 8 8.2 8.2 Free e-Learning for the Underprivileged | kt provides underprivileged middle and high school students with free Internet lecture services. 347 students received free Internet classes in 2010 and 390 in 2011, and the Trade Union selects eligible students along with municipal and provincial education offices. Middle school | olleh Home Study High school | ktedui E-textbooks, specialized contents College entrance exams (KSAT), academic performance, exams at different colleges, and information on the KSAT Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 85 Dream with Society Labor-Management YOUTH Scholarship Program | kt’s labor and management make joint contributions to support underprivileged students. The review committees of both parties work with municipal and provincial education offices to select eligible high school students and awarded 210 students scholarships in 2010, 217 students in 2011. The selected students are guaranteed tuition fees until they graduate. Support for Youth IT Camp | kt’s labor and management hold IT camps for underprivileged youths during summer breaks. YOUTH scholarship recipients and child heads of household (110 in 2010; 110 in 2011) were invited to the kt HRD Center in Daejeon to visit kt’s IT facilities, make friends through experiential learning and recreation activities, and experience information technologies. At the summer camp, students are provided with participation fees as well as transport services. 2011 kt Employees’ Japan Disaster Relief and Recovery | In the event of an unexpected disaster, kt works hard to restore Earthquake Relief Fund telecommunications facilities to provide secure service and provide free phone services to the vic350 million won tims. In addition, kt sends the Love Volunteer Corps to the affected areas to deliver relief supplies and donations. In 2011, 350 million won was raised by employees to provide relief in the aftermath 92.9 % of the Japanese earthquake in April (92.9% participation), 500 million won was also donated to the National Disaster Relief Association (August 3, 2011) to support continuous relief. 2010 kt Labor-Management Youth Youth IT Camp Support Scholarship Award Ceremony Global Love Sharing In collaboration with KOICA, kt helped erect an elementary school in Kamonyi City, Rwanda. The company implemented the project in connection with the Wumuganda movement in Kamonyi, which is the Rwanda equivalent of Korea’s Saemaull Movement. kt discussed with the Ministry of Education in Rwanda starting early in the planning stage and selected the most needy area as a recipient. Children in this area have to commute 8 to 10km through the national road or mountainous trail, which is a serious safety threat. The school consists of six classrooms, faculty, playground, washrooms, water filters and tanks, and can accommodate about 250 students. When classes are provided in two parts, up to 500 students can go to school. The company participated in the OLPC (One Laptop per Child) project [the program designed to bridge the digital divide by providing laptops worth 100 dollars to children in developing countries] and created mobile network systems in four schools. Students in Rwanda are now able to access the Internet on their laptops, which has bridged the digital divide. Global Love Sharing kt created an Internet training center in Tashkent, capital of Uzbekistan and started providing free IT training in May 2010. In November 2011, the company helped create videoconferencing rooms and provided laptops to support the administrative environment of the Ministry of Information and Communications in Vietnam. In 2012, the company will propose a new engagement-type CSR model by making the existing CSR activities global (Dream Center, Finding Sound) with more systematic global CSR. 86 Dream with Society olleh square | olleh square is a cultural space covering 3,300m2 located on the first floor of the Culture Sharing Gwanghwanmun building. Opened in May 2010, the square provides free state-of-the-art IT devices and services, a cultural/resting space for citizens, including a café and olleh square Tok concert, becoming the best complex cultural space in Korea. olleh square is also used for international events, such as iPhone and iPad launches and popular as a tourist attraction providing experience in the advanced IT environment. It has also become a popular tour course for experiencing the hi-tech IT environment. Up until now, over 2 million tourists visited the square, generating 6.97 billion won. kt chamberhall | As part of the culture sharing project to communicate with customers, the kt chamberhall dedicated to classical performances was opened inside the Mokdong IDC in Seoul in May 2009. The chamber has 420 seats and about 600 parking spots, contributes to improving the quality of life for local residents through renowned performers’ concerts, and takes the lead in popularizing classical music through olleh TV Classical Music/Concert chamber hall Concert Menu. The ‘Saturday Afternoon Chamber Music with kt’, a special performance at the kt chamberhall, is held 24 times all year round, where about 20,000 people attended the concert performed by over 300 professional performers. The kt chamberhall is used as a space for social responsibility and customer satisfaction with extraordinary ticket prices, seat donations, and VIP events, targeting underprivileged people. Professional Basketball Team | During the 2011-2012 Season, Professional Basketball Team provided fans free admissions through the Sharing Clothes for Love event, delivered clothes to the Social Services Center in Dongrae-gu, Busan, and funded eye surgeries for needy neighbors. With the operation of Frontiers 3.0, a Sonic Boom sports experience and PR program, kt has run pro sports experience programs for college students interested in sports marketing for three years, and contributed to creating jobs and developing sports human resources through the pro basketball team internship program that comes with sports job fair participation. The Frontiers Program provided college students job opportunities and became a nationwide experience program. Professional Basketball Team kt chamberhall Professional Basketball Team olleh square Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 87 Dream with Society Pro-gamers Club | kt became the first company to launch a pro-gamers club in 1999 to create a healthy gaming environment for youths. After winning the 2009-2010 and 2010-2011 seasons, the club became most popular in the e-sports industry. In May 2011, the company implemented the u-Learning project in collaboration with the City of Seoul to help youths in low-income families improve their academic performance and develop personalities. At the Korean Business Communication Awards held in November 2011, the company was awarded the Special Prize for its achievement in communicating with fans. Support for Amateur Sports | To develop amateur sports and foster promising players, kt created the Women’s Hockey Team in 1984 and the Shooting Team in 1985. They became the leading amateur sports teams after attending national and international competitions with kt’s support. As a result, kt Shooting Team won a gold medal and a silver medal at the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008, and kt women hockey players performed well at international competitions, representing Korea. With the opening of the olleh Baduk Championship, kt worked hard to communicate with local Baduk fans and contribute to developing promising Baduk players. Support for Child Soccer Competitions | To help aspiring soccer players make their dreams come true, kt sponsors the youth soccer competition (Little K-League), provides underprivileged children with the opportunity to participate in soccer games, and helps create a healthy youth culture. 35 olleh square kt chamberhall Professional Pro-gamers Club Support for Support for Child Basketball Team Amateur Sports Soccer Competitions Support for Amateur Sports Pro-gamers Club Korea Business Communication Awards Support for Amateur Sports 88 Dream with Society Providing Universal Service | Universal service is a basic electrical and communication Universal Service service that any user can access at any time, anywhere, at a reasonable price. It is a telecommunications service that most people can enjoy at an affordable rate, regardless of their income or and Bridging Digital where they live. Divide Currently, kt’s universal services include wired phone and emergency call services, and discounts for people with disabilities and low incomes. In 2012, the company began providing discounts for Internet calls for underprivileged people, as demand for Internet calls increases. kt maintains low rates* so that all citizens can use the services designated as universal, and prohibits discrimination in rates/service quality for geographical, income, or disability reasons. In other words, residents in farms, fishing villages, and island areas are able to access the same quality of service as those in urban areas, unlike most other carriers that limit the scope of service. *Wired call rates in Korea are the second lowest among OECD countries when used in small/large amounts. 2011 Universal Services Provided Category Definition of service Available Wired Phone Local call service Call service through subscriber phones Service provided to 16,258,000 subscribers by the end of 2011 Service Replaced aging phones: 108,000 lines Facility demanded due to new urban development: 129,000 lines Island call service Call service through wireless communicaLocal calls and ultra high-speed Internet service available to 65,000 subscribtions between land and island, or between ers in 422 island areas (there are 3,170 islands in Korea, among which 491 island and island islands are entitled) Local public call service Call service through public phones 80,000 unmanned public phones nationwide Periodic disinfection/hygiene control, phone booths for people with disabilities Emergency Special numbers for Among the backbone communications serApplicable numbers: National security hotline (111), crime report (112), spy Call Service emergency calls vice, services that the Korea Communicareport (113), cyber terrorism report (118), fire/disaster report (119), maritime tions Service has designated as a special accident and crime report (122), smuggling report (125), drug crime report (127) number phone service -119 reports can be made using video calls on mobile phones (limited to Seoul) Telegraphs, phones, and telegrams available on 4,000 subscribed ships Marine wireless service Call service through wireless telecomWhen a GMDSS disaster signal is received, the signal is automatically relayed munications between land and ship, or in real time to related organizations such as the maritime police, pursuant to between ships the SOLAS Convention Call Discount Service discounts for people with dis-Services eligible for discounts: Local/long-distance calls, information calls Service abilities or low incomes, who need social (114), mobile calls, and ultra high-speed Internet protection -Fixed-price discounts for base and call rates -Discounts worth 234 billion won provided for different services to a total of 5,055,000 subscribers in 2011 Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 89 CSR Activities by kt Group Companies kt has reinforced group-wide social responsibility activities to resolve social issues and create public values. To support the healthy development of future generations, the company began extending its associations with group companies and local child care centers in 2011. Under the ELF Campaign, centering on the three key projects, Education, Life, and Family, the company’s CSR activities and employees’ talent-sharing activities are conducted together. kt plans on increasing synergy within the Group by creating a stronger collaborative network among the companies. 90 Overview | kt powertel is a TRS (trunked radio system) provider that allows wireless and mobile call services using one kt powertel phone. By 2000, the company extended the scope of service to mobile call and wireless data services, cementing its position as a total telecommunications carrier. In the second half of 2012, the company will launch a TRS smartphone (Double Revenue Bee) and provide enterprise mobile services. 2010 127.5 billion won CSR Activities | Through its in-house volunteer club called ‘Power Angel’, kt powertel has conducted a wide range of 2011 126.8 billion won cultural experience activities for underprivileged children, such as book club and Didim Seed bank account support, musical performances, making Songpyeon (rice cake), farming experience, and skating. The company is also actively engaged in IT Sharing by delivering TRS phones to care centers for underprivileged children. Further, kt powertel practices employee donations, delivers certificates of blood donation to patients with childhood tumors, and shares briquettes. In 2011, the company held a range of cultural experience programs for children at local care centers, provided necessities, and helped children study in a better environment. Overview | kt networks has specialized NI (network integration) capabilities, from network design to consulting, conkt networks struction, operation, and to maintenance/repairs. To cope with changes in the IT convergence environment, the company provides enterprise customers with IP-based in-building services, as well as IT devices. Lately, the company has Revenue consolidated its position in the green IT market by creating a solar power generator and making waste resources into 2010 342.4 billion won energy. 2011 374.5 billion won CSR Activities | kt networks conducts a wide range of CSR activities in connection with local child care centers, centering on the Love Volunteer Corps consisting of employees at the head office and six other branches. kt networks’ CSR activities are aimed at two-way communication through which the company discusses activity themes, creates programs, and conducts activities with the care centers. In 2011, in collaboration with the care centers, the company provided 24 kinds of CSR activities, such as ‘Creating Necessities for Spring’, ‘Building Pretty Homes in Our Community’, ‘Fun Cultural Experience’, and ‘Outdoor Sports Activities’. Overview | kt commerce specializes in B2B services, delivering customer satisfaction and providing enterprise cuskt commerce tomers with business competitive edges using its procurement capabilities. Its specialized procurement capabilities and expertise have helped the company provide leading enterprises in Korea with procurement agency and consulting Revenue services. Up until now, the company has formed a business network with 550 clients and 7,431 suppliers, and provided 2010 162.5 billion won optimized, integrated procurement agency services using its strategic sourcing expertise for about 200,000 items. kt commerce will help enterprise customers strengthen their procurement capabilities by transforming their ‘procurement 2011 334.2 billion won values’, fulfill its social responsibility, and become a B2B expert creating original values. CSR Activities | kt commerce’s volunteer corps called ‘DANUM’ formed an alliance with Vision School in Ilwon-dong, Seoul, and has provided social services at local child care centers on a monthly basis. In 2011, the company supported orchestra concerts, musical admissions, and festivals during holidays, and donated supplies to a bazaar hosted by Vision School. Through the ‘1 Company, 1 Village’ sisterhood with Solmadang Village in Seosan, Chungcheongnam-do, kt commerce also provides a range of exchange programs, such as providing assistance and farm experience public relations. Donations are provided through the kt commerce Love Sharing Fund, consisting of the amount of contribution set by employees is automatically deduced from their pays, and the same amount is contributed by the company through matching grants. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 91 Overview | Created in 2000 as an Internet advertising media lab, nasmedia provides an integrated digital media stratnasmedia egy by extending the Internet planning capabilities that it has built up in the past decade to a variety of media (digital broadcasting, digital outdoor advertising, and mobile). The company will work harder to convey each client’s message Revenue and value using its media planning expertise in the Internet, mobile, digital broadcasting, and digital outdoor areas, 2010 18.85 billion won and its scientific, specialized solutions to monitor advertising effects. 2011 21.7 billion won CSR Activities | Starting with its 2011 Make-a-Wish Chorus Supporters activities, nasmedia has created a ‘sharing’ culture through regular sponsorship activities for the Korea Heart Foundation and the Seokchon Child Care Center. By contributing 100% of the revenue generated by in-house café called ‘Madang’ to its Social Responsibility Fund, the company spent it on CSR activities and worked with the Heart Foundation to help 10 patients recuperate from surgeries. Overview | Founded in 1988, kt linkus provides public phone services that can be used at any time, anywhere, and has kt linkus developed video phones and transit card phones using its vast experience and technology. The company has since provided AEDs (automated external defibrillator), Lavazza capsule coffee machines, ATM booths, advertising booths, and Revenue logistics services. 2010 76.1 billion won CSR Activities | The company’s Love Volunteer Corps joined by 750 employees consists of 47 teams, and has conducted a variety of volunteer activities each year, including the ‘Beautiful Store’ in 2007, targeting low-income groups 2011 78.1 billion won (children, seniors, people with disabilities, single parent mothers, and adopted children). In 2011, through the Social Welfare Found, the company delivered health products to low-income families, nurseries, elementary schools, and seniors living alone (44 centers, 178 times). Each month, the corps provided donations and volunteer services to the affiliated child care centers and facilities for the disabled. In addition, based on employees’ ideas, the company purchased necessities using kt product points (communications and line rental fees) and delivered them to seniors living alone or with low incomes. Overview | Founded in 1982, BC Card has 43,200,000 members and 2,320,000 affiliate stores, and provides userBC Card friendly credit card services through its 11 member-company network. In 2011, through the merger with kt, BC Card streamlined card payment processing using kt’s ICT and contributed to the growth of the banking industry, and will become a leader in the global mobile payment market. Revenue CSR Activities | Since the early 1990s, BC Card has supported low-income families and disabled people. In 2005, 2010 3,077.2 through its CSR campaign called ‘Make Hope with Red Apples’, the company extended its CSR activities and prepared billion won a framework for employees’ volunteering, and in 2010, by launching a new CSR campaign called ‘Love, Sun Rise!’, 2011 3,137.3 the company renewed its determination and commitment to social responsibility. In 2011, BC Card developed a spebillion won cialized CSR project using its capabilities to build a better society, as well as meet social needs. The new CSR group called ‘Love, Sun School Angel’ provided scholarships and training for parents in low-income families. In collaboration with local child care centers in Seoul, the company launched ‘Love, Sun, Hope & Trees’ to support ‘Baduk’ classes to improve emotional security and help employees provide children at local centers with cultural experiences every month. BC Card also sends ‘Love, Sun, Red Meal Cars’ to 13 care centers nationwide to provide free meals twice to five times each week. From 2005 and to present, about a million people who could not afford food were provided lunch, and BC Card’s employee volunteers also participate in meal delivery each month. 92 Overview | Founded in 1986, kt rental specializes in renting vehicle and IT devices and providing ‘total rental serkt rental vices’ ranging from equipment supply to construction and to maintenance. Using its rental expertise, the company has extended its business to vehicles, construction equipment, monitoring equipment, and office supplies, consolidating its Revenue position as the best total rental company. 2010 629.7 billion won CSR Activities | In 2011, kt rental created an in-house volunteer group called Love Sharing Corps (50 members) and 2011 661.5 billion won formed sisterhoods with three local child care centers to provide social services. Employees raise funds through ‘Sharing Fund’ and the company contributes matching grants to conduct activities like donating laptops for educational purposes and vehicle support for field trips. Since 2002, in collaboration with Beosut Company, the company organized free plays and provided neighboring residents with cultural experiences. In the past decade until 2011, about 50,000 people attended the free performances. In 2011, for nine days in total, the performances were presented at a small theatre called ‘Al and Haek’ attended by about 2,300 people. The company provided rental cars to ensure safety while viewers with disabilities move in and out of the theatre and organized employee volunteer activities and events, gaining immense popularity. Overview | kt music offers plenty of music contents and specializes in innovative music services available in a multikt music screen environment provided by kt. Formed in 1991, kt music services a wired/wireless portal called olleh music (www. ollehmusic.com), and has extended the scope of digital music services through the convergence service combining kt’s Revenue technology and infrastructure. For smartphone users, the company provides personalized music services and increases synergy by investing in digital music contents and providing a distribution channel. 2010 40.1 billion won CSR Activities | Since 2011, kt music has conducted CSR activities that take account of the company’s characteristics. 2011 31.3 billion won Through talent donations by kt, kt music, and a musical team called Throw a Peak, children at the kt olleh Dream Center are provided ‘musical classes’, and a gala show called ‘Dream’ was presented. Since 2010, any employees who wish to participate can visit child care centers nearby and provide services including fine arts classes. To raise funds for local child care centers, the company held a ‘Lunch Box Sharing Showcase’ with celebrities to encourage voluntary donations, and invited 60 children at olleh Dream Centers to the show. Overview | Created in 2007, kt m&s is a communications service distributor that sells wired/wireless communication kt m&s services, as well as IT products, through a variety of channels, and plays a pivotal role in ‘customer retention’. By taking over future-oriented channels, including the B2B market, using the emerging devices, the company will become a Revenue customer-centric wireless distributor. 2010 616.0 billion won CSR Activities | Employees at kt m&s deliver briquettes to low-income families and participate in free meal delivery 2011 917.2 billion won activities. To raise funds for CSR activities, the company operates the ‘Pay Usuri Program’ in which employees set a certain amount and donate it from their monthly wages to the Yangji Sun Child Care Center. To protect the environment, the company also cleans up local communities near Gwanak Mountain, the Yangjae River, and Gwangan-ri. Overview | Separated from kt in 2001, kt tech changed its brand name from EVER to TAKE. By extending its business kt tech to all wiredless device areas, such as smartphones, LTE phones, feature phones, as well as wired phones, M2M, and models, the company is evolving into a total wireless device distributor within kt Group. A leader in Android-powered Revenue smartphones at kt, the company operates TAKE, an innovative brand that suggests a new type of smartphone. The company will lead people’s smart, wireless lives with innovative thinking. 2010 341.5 billion won CSR Activities | Since its foundation, the company sponsors hungry children each month, and helped clean and pro2011 247.4 billion won vide meals with five-member teams at the Jungtap Social Welfare Center (located in Yatap-dong, Bundang-gu, under the Child Foundation) from 9 AM to 1 PM every Monday, through the Happy Monday activities from September 2010 until March 2012. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 93 Overview | kt ds, an ICT expert, has system deployment technologies, including IT system deployment/operation to kt ds provide kt Group companies with IT services, deployment of an ICIS (the world’s biggest open, large-capacity system), development/deployment of NeOSS (the world’s first MS.NET-based integrated operation management system), Revenue deployment of EDW (the world’s third largest-capacity system), and deployment of N-STEP (wireless sales manage2010 355.5 billion won ment system). The company was the first telecommunications company to earn CMMI Level 5 certificate, the world’s best software quality activity, and an ISO20000 (international standard for ITSM) certificate, and has provided world2011 498.2 billion won class ICT services and worked to deploy next-generation systems for kt. CSR Activities | kt ds formed ‘IT Sharing Volunteer Corps’ that uses the company’s IT expertise to provide children at four local care centers with IT training and 1:1 mentoring, and improve the aging facilities and conditions of the centers. To support rural areas, the company formed a ‘1 Company 1 Village’ sisterhood, provided assistance during the spring and autumn, purchased local products, and delivered them to about 450 low-income families, improving the company’s image. In collaboration with social services centers nearby, the company made kimchi for 500 households of disabled people and seniors living alone, and paid visits to 130 homes where senior citizens live alone. Overview | Established in 1995 a kt and Hanjin Shipping’s joint investment entity, kt submarine is the only Korean kt submarine company specializing in and internationally recognized for its submarine communications and cable construction/ maintenance services. Aside from the existing communications/electrical cable construction provided using a variety Revenue of special devices and vessels, the company plans on expanding into the areas of special submarine cable construction and offshore wind power, and becoming a total marine solution provider. 2010 711 billion won CSR Activities | Since 2004, centering on the Love Volunteer Corps, kt submarine has conducted social responsibil2011 111.4 billion won ity activities in collaboration with care facilities for seniors living alone, child heads of household, and children. The company also created a fund dedicated to volunteering participated by employees, and has been involved in community services. Aside from the monthly donations, in 2011, the company also donated to the House of Grace, a local child care facility, the gifts that employees had received during the Seolnal (New Year) and Hangawi holidays. In addition, the company delivered heating fuels and necessities in December, and has extended the scope of support for the underprivileged. Overview | Skylife is the only digital satellite broadcasting company in Korea, and provides services using the most kt skylife advanced digital satellite broadcasting system, ranging from sophisticated HDTV to the 24/7 3D channel, to PVR service, to NVOD service for the latest movies, and to two-way TV, EPG (Electronic Program Guide) service. Going digital in Revenue 2012, Skylife will open an era of ‘5 million subscribers’ and become a total digital media business that provides digital content that meets customers’ needs and delivers fun and happiness. 2010 426.7 billion won CSR Activities | kt skylife increased service for fringe areas by over 50%, relative to the previous year 2010, in 2011 464.4 billion won collaboration with KBS, local governments, and the Korea Broadcasting Commission, providing 20,415 households with satellite receivers. The company will continue to extend the service to ensure the public’s universal access right. Further, the company continued donations with the Rainbow Volunteer Corps, including briquette delivery to low-income families and social services centers, family trips, and baseball game admissions, and extended the CSR activities to kimchi delivery to low-income and multicultural families and funding for patients with serious tuberculosis. In 2012, Skylife will implement more diverse, comprehensive CSR activities, including book donations to underprivileged children. 94 Overview | Founded in 2009, kt is is a marketing company that places the highest value on customer satisfaction. kt is kt is consolidates its position through the kt Customer Center and secure 114 dialling service, while extending the contact and distribution businesses to pave the way for business innovation. kt is will become a leader in customer service Revenue with a distinctive serve strategy. 2010 351.0 billion won CSR Activities | In June 2011, kt telecop expanded the Electric Center’s Love Volunteer Corps to include employees at 2011 375.0 billion won six business units and 44 branches. The company provides cultural/liberal arts experiences, sports activities, and training to children at local care centers, and enforces ‘Safe School Guard’ activities to protect students from school violence and threats. In April 2011, the company also formed a ‘1 Company 1 Village’ sisterhood with a village in Incheodong, Anseong, opened a market where farm products are directly traded, and carried out activities to promote mutual growth in urban and rural areas. kt telecop’s activities also include sharing songpyeon (rice cake) with seniors living alone, delivering lunch boxes to underprivileged neighbors, helping children with leukemia, and blood donations. Overview | Established in 2006, kt telecop has become a leading security company in Korea with its advanced IT kt telecop infrastructure and technology. kt telecop is the first Korean security provider to launch a video surveillance service for smartphones, and has rolled out new security solutions by combining smart video products with next-generation techRevenue nologies such as mobile security services. kt telecop will provide customers with more advanced services with custom2010 216.7 billion won ized security systems. 2011 261.2 billion won CSR Activities | In June 2011, kt telecop expanded the Love Volunteer Corps to all employees from six business units and 44 branches. The company provides cultural/liberal arts experiences, sports activities, and training to children at local care centers, and enforces ‘Safe School Guard’ activities to protect students from school violence and threats. In April 2011, the company also formed a ‘1 Company 1 Village’ sisterhood with a village in Incheo-dong, Anseong, opened a market where farm products are directly traded, and carried out activities to promote mutual growth in urban and rural areas. kt telecop’s activities also include sharing songpyeon (rice cake) with seniors living alone, delivering lunch boxes to underprivileged neighbors, helping children with leukemia, and blood donations. Overview | kt capital is a financial company specializing in loans, leading the convergence of finance and telecomkt capital munications. The company develops financial solutions in varying areas, such as leasing, financing, project financing, enterprise loans, and IT venture investment. By financing investments in the advancement of kt’s wireless services and Revenue supporting other the financial sources needed to execute new projects, kt capital works hard to provide customers with 2010 176.4 billion won convenient, distinctive services. 2011 222.9 billion won CSR Activities | With the volunteer group launched by its employees in July 2009, kt capital created a CSR team under the sustainability policy of kt, its holding company, in 2011, which operates under a systematic process. In 2011, the company provided educational opportunities to students at branch schools in the Seoul metropolitan area that lack cultural resources, and delivered meals and lunch boxes to the elderly living alone and low-income families. The company also provided underprivileged families with briquettes so that they could keep their homes warm during the winter. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 95 Overview | kt cs is responsible for kt Group’s customer services and provides 114 dialling, contact center outsourckt cs ing, and cs Academy training services. Using its distinctive cs capabilities, the company topped the industry with the highest sales, won the President’s Award in Korea Service Quality in 2007 for the first time in the industry, and was Revenue awarded the National Quality Award in 2011. As smartphone users increased, the company launched a phone number 2010 355.1 billion won search app called ‘Smart 114’, and is making forays into new businesses through, for instance, a small/medium entrepreneur marketing care service called ‘SMC Project’. 2011 380.8 billion won CSR Activities | Since 2005, with the Heartner Volunteer Corps, kt cs has conducted volunteer activities under five themes, according to the characteristics of different business teams in 7 areas in Korea. The Heartner Volunteer Corps provides social services under the five themes, namely, Dream (children), Love (elderly), Culture (multiculturalism), Hope (disabled), and Probono (talent sharing). The company visits local child care centers every month to host cultural events and provide learning support, and in 2011, donated about 1,500 best sellers to the care centers. Starting in 2011, the company works with the Ministry of Health and Welfare to implement the ‘Love for the Lonely Elderly’ project to prevent the accidental deaths of seniors living alone by having 200 counsellors calling the seniors once or twice a week, supplying heaters, and paying visits. In addition, the company provides multicultural families with Laughing Cure and Telephone Etiquette training. The ‘Borderless Pursuit of Happiness’ event hosted by the company along with about 250 multicultural family members and immigrant workers in Daejeon gained very positive reception. Other CSR activities include cleaning/repairs for care centers for the disabled and donations of supplies. Last, the company provides elementary/middle/high school students with 114 counsellor experience/telephone etiquette training, and senior citizens with talent-sharing activities, such as Laughing Cure. In 2012, kt cs will start a book recording service for the visually impaired in collaboration with the Dajeon Volunteers Association. Overview | kt mhows is a mobile advertising company created in 2004, and is expanding its business to the areas of kt mhows Wibro, IPTV, and SoIP, as well as mobile media. Ranging from online banners to mobile advertisements and to mobile commerce, its comprehensive and systematic services help the company successfully communicate with customers Revenue and provide appropriate marketing solutions as a digital marketing leader. 2011 34.9 billion won CSR Activities | In December 2010, kt mhows entered into an alliance with local child care centers in Namyangju and provided programs for children, such as recreations, aquarium visits, and fun sports games. Overview | kth has conducted business in smart mobile, content distribution platform, group synergy, and gaming kth areas targeting the 4 Screen, and aims to become a total service provider combining wired/wireless Internet and digital content, as well as building a platform to secure infrastructure. To become an advanced smart mobile company, Revenue kth has strengthened its mobile business capabilities, including local/photo-based social networking services, and provides a unified supply-demand and a distribution channel for the varying contents and solutions needed by network 2010 150.1 billion won businesses within kt Group. 2011 130.7 billion won CSR Activities | In 2011, during the Seolnal (New Year) and Hangawi holidays, kth donated the gifts that employees had received to the Nambu Social Services Center for the Disabled at the Samyuk Rehabilitation Center. In January 2012, with the company’s volunteer club called ‘Plus Happiness’, employees delivered rice to the elderly living alone in Dangjak-gu, Seoul. Further, the company donated PCs, monitors, office desks, chairs and other equipment to organizations for the disabled through a social enterprise called SESNET. 96 Appendix Independent Assurance Statement Scope and objectives Findings Two Tomorrows (Asia) Limited has undertaken independent assurance of We reviewed and provided feedback on drafts of the Report and where kt’s 2011 Sustainability Report. necessary changes were made. On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Report does not propThe assurance process was conducted in accordance with AA1000AS erly describe kt’s adherence to the Principles of the AA1000APS. (2008). We were engaged to provide moderate level, Type 1 assurance, which includes evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2008) prinObservations ciples of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness (the Principles). Without affecting our assurance opinion we also provide the following We undertook no checking of sustainability performance data and conseobservations. quently offer no assurance over performance data or associated claims kt’s 2nd generation of olleh management announces a new management included in the Report. direction for leaping forward as ‘a Global Media Distributing Group’. In the future report, we recommend that kt should clearly discuss the releResponsibilities of the directors of kt and of the assurance providers vance of kt’s key sustainability issues to this new management approach. The directors of kt have sole responsibility for the preparation of the This could be achieved by explaining risk and opportunity relevant to Report. In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the the journey toward ‘a Global Media Distributing Group’ by linking with management of kt. However our statement represents our independent key sustainability issues identified through stakeholder engagement opinion and is intended to inform all of kt’s stakeholders. We adopt a baland materiality assessment. This discussion will enable more effective anced approach towards all of kt’s stakeholders. reporting of kt’s performance and progress relating to these risk and We have no other contract with kt and this is the second year that we opportunities, for example by recruiting experts, enhancing partnerships have provided independent assurance. We were not involved in the with suppliers, improvement of HR and procurement systems and IT infrapreparation of any part of the Report. However, having reviewed and prostructure innovation. vided feedback on drafts of the Report, in a number of instances changes kt discusses many accomplishments in areas such as smart working, were made to the final version. Our team comprised MinGu Jun, project partnerships in growth and social contribution. To enhance the credibility leader, as well as InMog Yang and YoungJae Ryu. This assurance stateof the report we recommend that kt should improve the balance of the ment was prepared by the team in English, and reviewed and signed off report by disclosing the areas where the company underperformed relaby Jon Woodhead, Sustainability Services Director, Two Tomorrows. Furtive to its own or stakeholders' expectations, or critical challenges that ther information, including individual competencies relating to the team required continuous improvement efforts, in addition to reporting on the can be found at: www.twotomorrows.com. current positive performances. Basis of our opinion Inclusivity concerns the participation of stakeholders in developing and We undertook the following activities: achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Review of kt’s process for identifying and evaluating material issues. Stipulating regular reporting of sustainability performance and plans to Analysis of the ESG report of an SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) analyst and our Tomorrow’s Value Rating result to review the issues identified the board of directors is a commendable approach that demonstrates through the kt materiality process. further improvement of sustainability governance. kt can make signifiInterviews with five executive management team members and managcant improvements to the inclusivity of governance processes if exterers responsible for managing non-financial issues, based at the Bundang, nal stakeholders’ involvement is ensured during the review process for Gwanghwamun, Seocho and Umyeon-dong offices. Interviewees were suggested by kt and agreed with Two Tomorrows. sustainability performance and plans. We recommend that kt should Assessment of information provided to us by kt on its reporting and manestablish and operate an advisory committee or independent stakeagement processes relating to the Principles. holder panel where external stakeholders can directly communicate Assessment of supporting evidence for key claims in the Report. with senior management. Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 97 Following the announcement of the new management direction global company, kt should also develop mid-long term strategies based towards a global company, kt should now seek to demonstrate leaderon further in-depth review of these issues. Firstly kt could complement ship in sustainability to meet the expectation of global society. In the the current report with more specific performance reporting on current next report kt should include evidence of actively participating in multiactivities and mid-long term target setting, which might include the stakeholder global sustainability initiatives and demonstration of work amount and targets for collected used phones and distributed Green to address global material challenges. phones, the ratio of classified stations as high EMFs and disclosures of the research undertaken on the impact of EMFs on health. Material issues are those which are necessary for stakeholders to make informed judgments concerning kt and its impacts. Responsiveness concerns the extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues. Based on the work undertaken, we are not aware of any issues that are of high materiality for its operations that kt has not recognised within The governance of kt’s sustainability management is structured cenits report. trally with the corporate Corporate Governance Committee under the board of directors and sustainability Executive Committee. Further We recommend that kt should integrate its corporate key risk manageimprovement can be made if kt designates a board director who can ment process with the materiality determination process for sustaintake responsibility for the sustainability performance review and correcability issues. An integrated process should be established to ensure tive action implementation. We also recommend that kt should reflect that the sustainability issues such as various stakeholders’ expectation the performance of sustainability issue management in the performance collated from the working committees, peer issues, societal norms and evaluation for relevant senior managers, and should provide sustainthe issues covered by media are reviewed at the corporate risk pooling ability training programs not only for the relevant management and stage. Further governance improvement for integrated risk manageworking committee members but also for the all the employees of kt. ment can be achieved if kt combines current operations of risk committee with the sustainability Executive Committee. kt demonstrates a good approach with its partnership in growth initiatives for supporting suppliers including ‘3 Do’ announcements to We recommend that kt should ensure the materiality determination vitalize the software industry. While this is commendable there is a process is integrated in the organization by stipulating that the process room for improvement in kt’s approach to managing supply chain’s CSR is performed through direct involvement of the working committee and issues. As the global telecommunication industries’ demands for manthe result is reported regularly to the sustainability Executive Comaging suppliers’ environmental and social issues increase, we recommittee and the board of directors along with the sustainability performend that kt should develop an in-depth appreciation of supply chain mance and plan. risks and opportunities, and should participate fully in international The issues of mobile phone take-back, and electromagnetic fields initiatives such as the EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition). (EMFs) from base stations are amongst the most material issues for the global telecommunication industry peers. While kt discusses its activities regarding used mobile phone take-back, the Green Phone service Two Tomorrows (Asia) Limited | Seoul, Korea and management of base stations’ EMFs, to prepare the leaping toward 15th June 2012 Jon Woodhead MinGu Jun InMog Yang YoungJae Ryu Project Director Project Leader Lead Associate Lead Associate Two Tomorrows (Asia) Limited is part of DNV, a global provider of services for managing risk, helping customers to safely and responsibly improve their business performance. www.twotomorrows.com 98 Appendix GRI Content Index Reported Partly reported Not reported Not available No. Reporting Page Highest No. Reporting Page Highest No. Reporting Page Highest 1. Strategy and Analysis Economic LA7 51 EM(17, 19) 1.1 2~3 A_1 DMA 22 D(1~3), EC_DMA LA8 51 EM(16, 18) 1.2 2~3 A_2 EC1 31~32 EC1 LA9 51 EN(15, 16) EC2 58~59 EC2 LA10 50 EM27 2. Organizational Profile EC3 33, 52 EC3 LA11 52 EM(26, 28) 2.1 14 A_3 EC4 32~33 EC5 LA12 48 EM9 2.2 26~28, 89~94 A_4 EC5 EM4 LA13 45 EM(2, 33, 34), CO10 2.3 14 A_5 EC6 69~77 EC4 LA14 EM(3, 17) 2.4 14 A_7 EC7 45 EC4 LA15 52~53 EM34 2.5 14 A_7 EC8 32, 69~70, 81, 86 EC6 2.6 14 A_8 EC9 81, 86 EC7 Human Rights 2.7 14, 88~94 A_9 DMA 53 D(1~3), EM_DMA1 2.8 14 A_10 Environmental HR1 76 PN(1, 2) 2.9 14, 23 B_8 DMA 56 D(1~3), EV(DMA, 2, 3) HR2 76 PN(3, 4, 5) 2.10 22~23, 101 EC8, CO8 EN1 EV10 HR3 53, 76 EM(25, 26, 28, 30) EN2 63 EV11 HR4 53, 55 EM(7, 22) 3. Report Parameters EN3 58,100 EV7 HR5 53~55 EM(8, 23, 24) 3.1 cover B_3 EN4 58 EV8 HR6 *4) EM9 3.2 cover B_8 EN5 60~62 EV5, EC9 HR7 *5) EM10 3.3 cover B_6 EN6 60~62, 64 EV5 HR8 EM31 3.4 cover B_9 EN7 60~62 EV(5, 25) HR9 *6) CO2 3.5 cover B_4 EN8 63 EV9 HR10 53 3.6 cover B_1 EN9 63 HR11 53 3.7 cover B_2 EN10 63 EV18 3.8 cover A_6 EN11 Not available EV22 Society 3.9 cover EN12 55 EV(22, 26) DMA 78 D(1~3), CO_DMA 3.10 Not available EN13 Not available EV27 SO1 79~88 C_2, CO(1, 2) 3.11 Not available B_5 EN14 Not available EV(6, 26) SO2 CO5 3.12 98 B_10 EN15 Not available EV28 SO3 19 CO5 3.13 58, 96~97 B_7 EN16 58 EV12 SO4 19 CO5 EN17 58 EV13 SO5 65 CO6 4. Governance, Commitments, and EN18 58, 60~61 EV4 SO6 CO7 Engagement EN19 *1) EV14 SO7 76 CS(2, 3) 4.1 16 GR1 EN20 EV15 SO8 76 CO9 4.2 16 GR(1, 3) EN21 EV17 SO9 41~43 4.3 16 GR2 EN22 63 EV16 SO10 41~43 4.4 4, 54~55 GR12 EN23 *2) EV21 4.5 16 GR(7, 8, 9) EN24 *3) EV29 Product Responsibility 4.6 16 GR(13, 14) EN25 *3) EV19 DMA 34 D(1~3), CS_DMA 4.7 16 GR4 EN26 60~61, 64 EV23 PR1 40 CS4 4.8 15, 17~18 GR10 EN27 63 EV24 PR2 42 CS(2, 10, 11) 4.9 16 GR5 EN28 EV31 PR3 36~40 CS(5~8) 4.10 16 GR6 EN29 59, 61~62 EV30 PR4 CS(11, 12) 4.11 20~21 GR11 EN30 65~66 EV1 PR5 34~40 CS(1, 9, 10) 4.12 17, 99 GR10 PR6 36~40 CS(12, 13) 4.13 100 A_11 Labor PR7 CS(13, 14) 4.14 4 C(1, 2) DMA 44, 68 D(1~3), EM_DMA2 PR8 42 CS15 4.15 4 C_1 LA1 45 EM1 PR9 76 CS(7, 12, 15) 4.16 4 C_2 LA2 EM5 *1) No ozone-depleting substances were detected in the 4.17 4~5 C_3 LA3 52 EM(18, 20, 21, 32) processes. *2) No serious hazardous substances were LA4 53 EM(10, 11, 12) detected in the business processes *3) Not very relevant 5. Management Approach and performance LA5 54 EM13 to the environmental impacts of business activities *4) No Indicators business areas with risks of child labor *5) No business LA6 51 EM14 areas with risks of compulsory labor *6)No intrusions by indigenous communities arising out of overseas businesses Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 99 Appendix kt applied to this 2012 Sustainability Report ISO 26000, an international standard for sustainISO 26000 ability published in November 2010. kt will continue to work on the core subjects of ISO 26000, namely, organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. Core Subject Issue Report Page 6.2 Organizational Governance 6.2.3 Decision-making process and structure 16 6.3 Human Rights 6.3.3 Due diligence 76 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations 53 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity 76 6.3.6 Resolving grievances 51, 53 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 53 6.3.8 Civil and political rights 53 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights 4, 5 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 53 6.4 Labor Practices 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 47, 53 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection 45, 46, 52 6.4.5 Social dialogue 4, 53, 54 6.4.6 Health and safety at work 51 6.4.7 Human development and training in the workplace 48~50 6.5 Environment 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution 63 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use 60~62 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 58~59 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and 55 restoration of natural habitats 6.6 Fair Operating Practices 6.6.3 Anti-corruption 19 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement 6.6.5 Fair competition 76 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 19, 75 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 69 6.7 Consumer Issues 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information 72, 75 and fair contractual practices 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety 42 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption 10, 11, 24, 36 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and dispute resolution 40 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy 42 6.7.8 Access to essential services 88 6.7.9 Education and awareness 43 6.8 Community Involvement 6.8.3 Community involvement 13, 79, 80 and Development 6.8.4 Education and culture 13, 81~87 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 12, 85 6.8.6 Technology development and access 12, 77 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 5, 31 6.8.8 Health 42 6.8.9 Social investment 12, 80, 83, 84 100 Appendix Korea | Korea Research Institute for Competitiveness, Economic Group Council, Network Security Membership Status Forum, Green Investment Forum Korea, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea, World Futures Forum, Korea Association of Smart Home, The Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Lasbiburte Information & Telecom, Korea Association for Telecommunications Policies, Information Technology Forum for Unification, Korea Economic Education Association, The Korean Economic Association, Fair Competition Federation, Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Digital Media Industry Association, Korean Association for Broadcasting & Telecommunication Studies, Korea Academic Society of Industrial Organization, Korea Listed Company Association, Korean Society of Consumer Studies, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korean Society for Journalism & Communication Studies, Korea Ubiquitous City Association, Korea Ubiquitous-Health Association, Korea Association of Natural Disaster Reduction Industries, Korea Radio Promotion Association, Korea Institute of Information Security & Cryptology, Federation of Korea Information Industries, Telecommunications Technology Association, Korea Association of Information and Telecommunication, Korea Advanced Intelligent Robot Association, National Intelligence Communication Enterprise Association, Korea Cloud Service Association, Korea Telecommunications Operators Association, Korea Information and Communication Society, Korea Association for Chief Financial Officers, Korea IT Leaders Forum, CONsortium of CERT (CONCERT), u-KOREA Forum Overseas | WFA (Wireless Fidelity Alliance), FMCA (Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance), OMA (Open Mobile Alliance), WiMAX Forum, VoiceXML Forum, DSL Forum, WBA (Wireless Broadband Alliance), TMF (Telecommunication Management Forum), APT (Asia Pacific Telecommunity), ITU (International Telecommunication Union) Key Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 Indicators Operating revenue Net income billion won billion won 15,906.2 516.5 19,918.4 1,248.8 20,166.8 1,289.0 Capital expenditure billion won 2,958.7 3,057.2 3,318.5 Tax payment billion won 199.1 571.8 567.6 Proportion of female employees % 14.66 14.83 15.00 Proportion of the disabled % 2.9 2.4 2.45 Welfare spending billion won 509.2 303.8 312.2 Accident rate % 0.19 0.22 0.16 Supplier satisfaction index points 75.2 77.4 84.8(2nd half) Support for hearing-impaired children persons 50 21 35 Beneficiaries of IT Sharing persons 515,286 325,771 324,038 Volunteer hours hours 89,621 114,657 147,177 Social contribution spending billion won 35.2 37.0 51.0 Power consumption Mwh 2,310,075 2,369,453 2,372,085 GHG emissions tCO2 1,139,896 1,176,147 1,173,257 Water use ton 2,775,565 3,014,704 2,867,147 Waste disposal ton 11,184 10,224 63,213 Green procurement billion won 1.7 4.8 5.1 Sustainability Shareholders Customers Employees Environment Suppliers Society Appendix 101 Appendix 2011 Sustainability Awards 2011 Awards and kt aims to create value based on ethical, transparent services by focusing on accountability for Recognition non-financial performance, including ethics, environment, and social values, and on balanced management. Awards Organized by February 2012 Best Award in Green Ranking Software/ Newsweek Telecommunications Chungang Ilbo kt olleh font/Typography iF winner Germany’s iF Design Awards (International Forum Design) November 2011 Best Award at the 6th Sustainability Awards Ministry of Knowledge Economy/Small and Medium Business Administration 12 joint projects for Green IT Business Models Energy Management Corporation in 5 areas of industry, construction, transportation, renewable energy, and IT President’s Award at Korea Brand Awards Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Gold Award in campaign Advertisement of Korea Advertising and Public Relations the Year Association Best Practice Award in Respect for Labor at UN Global Compact (UNGC) Korea UNGC Awards Network October 2011 Excellence Award for Sustainability GRI (Global Reporting Initiative / Korea Reporting Standards Association CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) CDP Korea Committee Telecommunications Leader Award Seoul Economic Daily Advertisement Seoul Economic Daily Award in Electronic IT September 2011 Global Supersector Leader in DJSI Dow Jones/SMA/Korea Productivity Telecommunications Headquarters February 2011 olleh square/Corporate Construction Germany’s iF Design Award Interactive iF winner We have a dream kt Sustainability Report 2012 We have a dream Contact Information Additional information is available at kt’s homepage. If you need more information on our sustainability management, please contact us at the following. www.kt.com 100 Sejong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-777, Korea tel : 82-2-730-0246 fax : 82-2-730-0308 Publisher : Suk-Chae Lee Published by : kt Date of publication : June 2012 Planned by : CSR Team This report was printed with bean oil on environmental-friendly paper. kt Sustainability Report 2012
