Social Responsibility Report 2011 of CBMI Preface ◇This report was the portrayal of continuous improvement on implementation of social responsibilities of CBMI Construction Co., Ltd. (CBMI) in 2011. With the help of this report, employees, clients, partners, shareholders and contributors, various national competent departments in charge, societies and relevant people who cared about CBMI could understand social responsibility ideas and practice, and endeavors CBMI had made with a view to promoting economic and social sustainable development. ◇ The annual report was compiled according to the outline recommended by the Center office of Global Compact China Network. The annual report was written in both Chinese and English, the Chinese text shall prevail for report certification. ◇To publicize knowledge and ideas of implementation of social responsibilities, and to ensure that compiling quarry of annual report of implementation of social responsibilities was wide and professional, and to ensure the quality of report compiling, CBMI set up compiling panel and compiling body of annual report of implementation of social responsibilities, formulated and issued policy papers such as annual report compiling procedures and compiling outline to guide and standardize compiling process of annual report of social responsibilities. Financial data involved in the report was in consistence with stipulations of Accounting Standards for Enterprises and Accounting System for Enterprises issued by the State. To 1 ensure the report was authentic and reliable, “Report of Social Responsibilities 2011 of CBMI” was submitted to Global Compact China Network for the third party evaluation and for improvement suggestions. ◇To read online “Report of Social Responsibilities 2011 of CBMI” in electronic form, please visit CBMI website: http://www.CBMI.com.cn, “Report of Social Responsibilities 2011 of CBMI” had been submitted to the website designated by Global Compact Office, please visit http://www.unglobalcompact.com. 2 Address by the President CBMI reaffirmed that accepting social responsibility ideas on observance of human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption of the “Global Compact”, CBMI would continue to support and facilitate the execution of “Ten Principles” in its influencing extent. Strategies, cultural and daily operation would focus on the influence on the stakeholders and implementation of corresponding social responsibilities. CBMI publicly pledged to comply with the idea of “continuous improvement” of the “Global Compact”, continuously improving human rights situation such as Non-discrimination employment, elimination of child labor, no forced labor, and local labor rights; to safeguard the health and personnel safety of the entire team, guarantee their labor income and care about their career development; to promote and use new technology to save energy and reduce exhaust and protect working and living surroundings; to made efforts to construct fair and just culture, maneuver anti-corruption process. CBMI would continue to report the progress of implementation of social responsibilities in a public manner and open to public supervision. Signature of President of CBMI Construction Co., Ltd. 3 Overview 1. Basic Information CBMI is a science and technology oriented, management oriented and international oriented large scaled state-holding enterprise, currently attached to Sinoma international Engineering Co., Ltd, a listed company under the China National Materials Group Corporation Ltd. with a history of over 50 years. It mainly engages in project general contracting businesses both at home and abroad with major business being industrial technology development, equipment research and manufacturing and installation as well such as smelting and building materials. It provides integrated technological services for industrial enterprises, and maintained a leading position in the field of building materials project construction. CBMI has foreign operation rights, import-export rights and national works general contracting qualification of class A. CBMI was registered in Tangshan city, Hebei Province, China, with its management center, technology center, project center and purchase center in Beijing Economic and Technological Development Area. The company possesses complete business chains including project consultation, financing services, project design, equipment manufacturing, complete purchase, logistics transportation, project construction, debugging training, spare parts and production management. CBMI had been certified by ISO9000 Quality Management System (including British UKAS and German TGA certification), ISO14000 Environmental Management and Quality, Environmental Management and 4 Occupational Health Safety System of OHSAS. Credit line kept AAA level continuously. 2. Major Business, Operation Scale and Organizational Structure （1）Major Business CBMI mainly engaged in the general contracting of cement industrial project, providing clients with integrated services of individualized “general contracting” in modes such as EPC and EP on project consultation, design and R & D, equipment manufacturing and complete equipment, civil engineering and installation, production debugging, spare parts, after-sales services and production management of cement production line in various scales, according to needs of various clients and environmental characteristics. Especially for recent years, CBMI had developed and promoted energysaving, environmental protection and low exhausted transformation technology for cement production project, and power generation technology using waste heat. （2）Operation Scale CBMI successively undertook most of major projects of cement production line of domestic cement industry, including the vast majority of foreign investment projects and cement product line project whose scale exceeded daily cement clinker output of over 4,000 tons, with accumulative construction of over 150 cement production lines. At present, the team of over a thousand personnel could carry out construction of over 20 projects with investment amount of nearly RMB 10 billion Yuan in scores of countries around the world. 5 In the cement industrial construction history of China, CBMI created many first items including the first biggest cement factory project construction of two production lines of ten thousand tons and the first complete technology introduced production line, the first self-developed production line of dry rotary kilns, the first Sino-foreign joint venture production line, the first turnkey project in international general contracting mode, installation of the first daily output of ten thousand cement clinker, and the complete equipment of the first cement production line exported to Europe. 3. Distribution of Construction Projects Over 90% businesses of CBMI lied in the international market. Major construction projects undertaken and implemented at present were distributed Europe, Asia, Africa, America’s Spain, France, Italy, Russia, Hungary, Albania, Ukraine, Moldova, Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and Morocco, Mauritania, Zambia, South Africa, Nigeria, Uganda, Benin, Albania, guinea, Dominica, Ecuador, Malaysia and other countries and regions. CBMI was a well-known enterprise, taking the lead to enter the international market in China’s cement project contracting industry. 4. Enterprise Strategies, Values and Social Responsibility Ideas CBMI put forward the international strategy of “Going out of China, gaining firm footing and building a brand”. It can be expressed currently as “strengthening and expanding international markets and general contracting businesses as the goal, enhancing the function construction of turnkey business as the means, promoting fine management and enterprise 6 culture construction as the guarantee, speeding up CBMI’s scale and improvement, and realizing development of great-leap-forward”. CBMI’s core values could be expressed as “both knowledge and achievement being equally important, pragmatic and innovative, and integrity as the best policy.” CBMI would fulfill the enterprise mission of building CBMI into the quality oriented and garden-like cement producer, bringing both joy and benefits to our employees . 5. Awards during the Reporting Period Honors Granted by Hebei Province Foreign Economic Cooperation Hebei Provincial People’s Award for Outstanding Enterprises Government Hebei Province Foreign Trade Export Award Hebei Provincial People’s for Outstanding Enterprises Government Kaisheng Cup Second Prize of Technological China Building Materials Innovation of National Construction Materials Federation Industry China Machine Smelting Building Materials Trade Union National Committee Syria ABC, Nigeria Projects Department Won China National Materials Group Excellent Advanced Grassroots Party Corporation Ltd. Organization The company discipline inspection commission State-owned Assets Supervision was awarded the 2010 annual advanced and Administration Commission of discipline inspection commission Tangshan City Discipline inspection commission secretary Shi State-owned Assets Supervision Lianzhang had been chosen as the outstanding and Administration Commission of 7 discipline inspection commission secretary Tangshan City The company’s Nigeria project party State-owned Assets Supervision organization won the title of advanced basicand Administration Commission of level party organization in 2010 Tangshan City Chief inspector Guo Weisheng was rated as State-owned Assets Supervision outstanding communist party member and Administration Commission of Tangshan City CBMI union committee won the title of “The Industry, Construction, Home of Model Workers in 2010” Communications, Agricultural Forestry and Water Unions of Tangshan Syria ABC, Nigeria project trade union branch Industry, Construction, won the title of “Home of Model Workers in Communications, Agricultural 2010” Forestry and Water Unions of Tangshan City “Advanced Organization” in Population and Chinese Communist Party Family Planning Work in 2011 Tangshan City Fengrun District Committee Tangshan City Fengrun District People’s Government 8 Stakeholder Information 1. Overview of Stakeholders No. Stakeholders Relationship Communication 1 1st shareholder: CBMI International Holdings Engineering Co., Ltd. Shreholders’ 2nd Shareholder: Staff or Natural Meeting Share holder Persons 2 Client Client Service Business Contact 3 Staff A: Registered Staff Labor Staff B: Domestic Employees Contract and Managemnt Staff C: Employees based in foreign Trade Union Relations projects 4 Supplier A:Technical design subcontractor Supplier B: Procurement subcontractor Business Business Supplier C: Engineering subcontractor Subcontracts Interactions Supplier D: Labor subcontractor 5 Community A: company Relevant laws and project-based government and regulations State Administration of Taxation of Levying and Tangshan City Fengrun District Administration Conference and of Taxes visits Local Administration of Taxation of Levying and Tangshan City Fengrun District Administration of Taxes 9 Commercial Banks such as Funds Access, Communicatiosn Bank of China and Credit, and Bank of China Guarantee, etc Fengrun District Housing Accumulation Management Fund Management Center of Employees’ Housing Accumulation Fund Accountant Firm Audit of Annual Financial Statement The State Administraiton of Foreign Foreign Exchange Tangshan City Center Branch Exchange Control State Administration of Taxation of Export Tax Tangshan City Import and Export Tax Refund Branch Meeting and Economy, reservation Employment Community B: company and and Project-based residents Environment Community C: Local community Relating to organization Special Topics of company and project such as Trade Union and Information 6 Local news media of headquarters, Informaiton Interview branch and 10 office and project Advertisement 2. Societies participating at home and abroad No. Name Position 1 United Nations Global Compact Organization Member 2 China Building Material Machinery Association Vice Chairman 3 China Cement Association Member 4 China Construction Enterprise Management Executive Director Association 5 Building Materials Branch, Accounting Society Member of China 6 Taxpayers Club of Hebei Member 11 Corporate Governance and Management 1. Governance Structure CBMI was a limited liability company formed in accordance with the Company Law of the People’s Republic of China. It had set up shareholders, board of directors, supervisors, and general manager according to the charts. The general manager shall be responsible to the board of directors. The board of directors had professional committees including enterprise strategy development committee, production safety committee, tender committee, risk management and internal control leadership group and comprehensive budget management leadership team as well to manage and control enterprise operation risks as well as supervise enterprise honest operation. 2. Decision Making Procedures CBMI would hold office meetings with shareholders, board of directors, board of supervisors and general manager regularly and irregularly. It would also carry out working in accordance with CBMI Articles of Association, Meeting Procedure Rules of Shareholders, Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Director Meeting, Meeting Procedure Rules of Board of Supervisor, and Work Rules of the General Manager to carry out decision making on production, operation and management. 3. Organization Structure At the request of operation, production, management and business development, CBMI had created organizational structures with 15 functional departments. These specific departments included Offices, Human Resource Department, Finance Department, Marketing Department, 12 Technology Center, Equipment R&D Department, Procurement Department, Logistics Department, Project Management Department, Commissioning Service Department, Office of Regional Manager, Quality Control Department, Safety Supervision & Management Office, Settlement Center, and Party & the Masses Work Department. According to the requirement of contract implementation performance of projects undertaken, CBMI shall set up the appropriate project management department at any time. (The following was the organization chart of the enterprise.) 13 Basic Operation Performance In 2011, the operation management of CBMI started from the actual situation at home and abroad, actively adopted measures, reasonably adjusted strategies, and stabilized operation achievement, meanwhile, during business activities, especially when undertaking new projects or prior to participation of bidding of new projects, CBMI paid more attention to the key policies such as local labor, environmental protection, taxation, and customs, and paid more attention to local culture and convention, and regional characteristics to improve execution efficiency, economic benefits for projects, and reduce risks in execution of overseas projects, and taking into account promoting social and economic development in the regions. 1. Business Performance and Development In 2011, with global economy concession and increase of operation cost, competition in the markets was very severe. Facing the rigorous situation, CBMI construction Co., Ltd (CBMI) actively adjusted strategies, and continued to center on themes of globalization, scalization and relevant pluralism, grasped cement project works as the major business and business development in pluralism, accordingly creating a series of brand demonstration projects. Various undertakings such as cultural construction and social responsibility were promoted further to ensure stable development, enterprise harmony, and employee relief of CBMI, and achieved fine economic and social benefit. （1）Technology Upgrades In 2011, CBMI strengthened technological innovation, promoted enterprise technology upgrades, facilitated research, development and application of 14 new products, new technologies and new equipment with great efforts. CBMI obtained 3 patents with the state authorization, and they were respectively rotary fully sealed continuous ethanol fermentation reaction tanks, adhesion-proof rotary air lock feeders and high temperature & wear resistance ceramic valve plates. Eight patents were handled. Details of application and submission, and authorization as well of all patents were listed as follows: Authorization/ Application No. Project Name Type Handling No./Patent No. 1 Adhesion-proof rotary air Utility Handling ZL 201120088105.9 lock feeders Model 2 Rotary kiln axial spacing Utility Handling ZL 201120569771.4 device Model 3 Material taking tooth roll Utility Handling ZL 201120569725.4 harrow Model 4 A portable train bulk Utility Handling ZL 201120289129.0 loading machine Model 5 A wet material bin suitable Utility Handling ZL 201120313887.1 for viscous Model 6 Electric gate valve used for Utility Handling ZL 201120431168.X three times wind ducts Model 7 An electric gate valve used Handling Utility for three times wind ducts ZL 201120432176.6 Model of cement production lines 8 Buried steel rain oil Utility Handling ZL 201120473298.X isolation tanks Model 9 Hermetically sealed rotary Authorization Utility ZL 2010 2 continuous ethanol Model 0675363.1 fermentation reactors 10 Adhesion-proof rotary air Utility Authorization ZL 201120088105.9 lock feeders Model 11 High temperature & wear Authorization Utility ZL 2010 2 resistance ceramic valve Model 0173702.7 plates The technological R & D in 2011 focused on more efforts on environmental protection projects, and energy-saving and exhaust reduction projects, 15 leaving the main achievements being “hermetically sealed rotary continuous ethanol fermentation reactors” and “fly ash high fine powder grinding mills” and so on. Sweet sorghum stalk continuous fermentation and distillation devices researched and developed by CBMI was a new technology using the solid continuous fermentation and distillation of sweet sorghum stalks to produce fuel ethanol, new devices using renewable energy technology, whose achievements could resolve the problems of fossil fuels being increasingly nervous and environmental protection. The devices could ferment continuously straws, bagasses, and corrupted food for alcohol, providing technological support for biological energy production and use and being successfully applied in projects of Inner Mongolia Tehong Biology Co., Ltd. with various exhaust indicators reaching provided requirements of indicators. Fly ash high fine powder grinding mills researched and developed by CBMI, using the grinding technology of CBMI, were a set of complete equipment with fly ash production lines specially researched and developed according to the bearing technology of the-state-of-the-art. With lower temperature of slide shoe bearing at working, it was convenient to adjust and it was high efficient in cooling and it could save water. Its successful R & D reflected the advantage of energy saving and solid waste reuse. As of the end of 2011, CBMI had researched and developed over 40 new technologies and new equipment, details were as follows: Starting Finishing No Project Name Technological Realm Date Date 16 Research and development of large High efficient and energy 1 teeth roller cracker for cracking sticky 200703 201106 saving and wet materials Research and equipment technology Equipment of water 2 development of pollution prevention and 200704 201106 sludge treatment technology control R & D of fly ash high fine powder High efficient and energy 3 200801 201106 grinding mills saving Special technology of industrial coalHigh efficient and energy 4 200801 201106 water slurry saving R & D of air dryer and supporting High efficient and energy 5 201001 201112 equipment saving Design and development of electrical 6 New energy 201005 201212 equipment for wind power generation Development and design of sweet Processing equipment for 7 sorghum stalk continuous fermentation 201005 201106 solid waste and distillation devices Structure optimization and purchased Processing equipment for 8 part optimization of material piling and 201009 201106 solid waste taking machine Research and design of electromagnetic vibration feeders of horizontal head Advanced manufacturing 9 201101 201112 drives, used for vertical mill effluent technology equipment system of Research and design of suspension High efficient and energy 10 vertical dryers with heavy output and 201101 201108 saving heavy drying ability Application research and design of classifying subject (excluding dust Advanced manufacturing 11 201101 201108 collection system) of combined classifier technology equipment in cement combined grinding system Research and design of meeting bellows12 New energy 201101 201108 type by-pass wind technology Research of biological reuse (coffee shell 13 New energy 201101 201107 and rice hull, etc. used for firing fuel) Application, research and design of high Advanced manufacturing 14 temperature butterfly valves in three 201101 201106 technology equipment times wind ducks Research and design of monomer type Advanced manufacturing 15 201101 201108 combination ingredients station technology equipment Research of substitution cement fuel by 16 New energy 201101 201112 massive tires and wood chips Research and design of effective reserves Monitoring equipment and 17 201101 201107 providing homogenization banks controlling system Research and design of effective Monitoring equipment and 18 distributing control of top multipoint 201101 201106 controlling system feeding of preheater Grading research of combined grinding High efficient and energy 19 201101 201108 tubes and mills saving High efficient and energy 20 Basalt crushing technology research 201101 201108 saving 17 Collection, application research of High efficient and energy 21 201101 201108 cement kiln shell heat saving High efficient and energy 22 Ultra-fine tube mill research 201101 201208 saving European pulverized coal preparation Monitoring equipment and 23 201101 201107 system safety standard research controlling system Research and design of ladder Advanced manufacturing 24 warehouses used for high wet high 201101 201112 technology equipment viscosity material Research and design of self-closing Advanced manufacturing 25 explosion valve in compliance with 201101 201112 technology equipment European standards Optimization and the reasonable Advanced manufacturing 26 application research of material valve in 201101 201108 technology equipment the cement production line Process pipe modular design and Monitoring equipment and 27 201101 201108 application controlling system Process pipe modular design and Monitoring equipment and 28 201101 201211 application controlling system Heat exchanger modular design and Monitoring equipment and 29 201101 201106 application controlling system Research and development of high Processing equipment for 30 efficiency spiral type cyclone dust 201101 201106 solid waste collector Research and application of highly sticky Advanced manufacturing 31 201101 201111 and wet materials storage technology technology equipment Research and application of belt High efficient and energy 32 conveyor lightweight structure 201101 201112 saving components Technological research of automatic Advanced manufacturing 33 201101 201108 reset type explosion-proof valves technology equipment C1 spiral type export technology High efficient and energy 34 201101 201112 research saving Optoelectronic Analysis and optimization of harmonic 35 components and their 201101 201112 wave in the power grid products Promotion of steel net cable bridge in Advanced manufacturing 36 201101 201112 the cement project technology equipment Research and application of controlling Monitoring equipment and 37 201101 201112 system of paper bag hoisters controlling system R & D of industrial circulating cooling High efficient and energy 38 water low temperature waste heat for 201101 201105 saving building heating and hot water system Technological research and development of waste heat used in refrigeration/warm High efficient and energy 39 air conditioning system 201101 201105 saving Of a waste heat power generation cement plant Technological research and development of waste heat used in refrigeration/warm High efficient and energy 40 201101 201106 air conditioning system saving Of a non-waste heat power generation 18 cement plant R & D, and application of rain oil High efficient and energy 41 201101 201112 separation devices saving Research of technological optimization 42 New energy 201101 201112 for ground source heat pump system Technological research and development of clean energy comprehensive 43 New energy 201101 201112 utilization in air conditioning and heating system （2）Main Economic Indicators Many disadvantageous factors had resulted in shrink of cement businesses of CBMI in the international markets in 2011. To resolve such an adverse situation, CBMI stuck to pioneering domestic markets and strengthening project management, making fine profitability despite the fact that revenues from sales and assets scale were reduced in 2011. CBMI’s revenue from sales reached RMB 2.165 billion Yuan, total assets being RMB 2.153 billion Yuan, and total profit achieved being RMB 264 million Yuan. This indicated that CBMI was devoted to improving operation management for the enterprise and improving competitiveness among the field of the international cement industry. Meanwhile, it had also laid solid foundation for struggling to promote social, economic, environmental and ecological sustainable development, and for continuing implementing social responsibilities of enterprises. （3）Market Development In 2011, the foreign cement engineering construction markets witnessed a downturn. Firstly, strategic adjustment of several major cement groups, top priority to debts and tight control of investment funds had brought in less investment amount; those projects, whose intent was reached, were 19 started slowly. Secondly, the Middle East situation was volatile and many projects of CBMI in that region were stopped. In addition, many domestic cement enterprises turned to overseas markets; the market strategies of competitors also had a great impact on market development. CBMI had adopted various measures to stabilize the market development. In Syria region, Nigeria region and Morocco region, CBMI took echelon tracking strategy for different proprietors and projects to effectively maintain tracking effectiveness for projects. CBMI strengthened development of medium and small sized clients and established relationship with over 20 medium and small sized clients. Meanwhile, CBMI also enhanced second market development of the regions with projects undertaken and increased tracking dynamics for renewable projects, maintaining stable market shares. In 2011, the total amount of newly signed contract was RMB 1.5 billion Yuan (already effective total amount), of which overseas general contracting contracts ,including the contract of power plants with United Cement Group of Dubai. In China, CBMI had signed with Tianshan Cement for Fukang carbide slag setup project, with Huarun Shanxi Changye for 5000TPD EPC project, with Yaobai Cement for Hetian 4500TPD EPC project and with Tianshan Cement for Dabancheng 6800TPD EPC project. （4）Construction Achievement In 2011, despite adverse overall operation environment, projects of CBMI, which were implementing, was in an orderly progress with 18 construction projects being promoted in an orderly manner and project construction at home and abroad popping up with happy regularity. Four projects in 20 Hungary, Cyprus, Azerbaijan and Nigeria among overseas projects had made smooth ignition and were put into production, in China, two projects in Youkeng, Guangdong and Jiangjin, Chongqing had made smooth ignition and were put into production. In 2011, CBMI had successfully built a series of international brands, which had been landmark projects for the third step strategy of “Going out of China, gaining firm footing and building a brand” in CBMI’ achievement of globalization. On Feb. 04, 2011 the ignition was started, and after 7 days the first batch and qualified clinker was produced by Cyprus Vassiliko cement production line project, the biggest cooperation project between China and Cyprus, and the biggest cement production line in progress in EU countries. Compared with the original four production lines, the output of Vassiliko project after construction was increased to 6,000 tons from 3,600 tons compared with the original four production lines, with operating benefits of various economic and environmental indicators being fine, meanwhile, surrounding environment was improved and great contributions had been made to energy saving and exhaust reduction in EU. Exhaust of CO2 decreased by 17% (About 449,303 tons/year), Fuel consumption decreased by 30% (About 72,654 tons/year), and Electricity consumption reduced by 5%-10% (About 1,660,000 kwh/year). So as to making great contributions to EU energy-saving and exhaust reduction. In November 2011, CBMI completed on time the TTTAN project in Albania, whose final acceptance was made by FAC with test indicators on performance and reliability being over the guaranteed value provided by 21 the contract. There existed no major quality problems in execution of the project, and there was no complaint about project quality and no quality claim occurred, and the overall quality of the project was accepted by proprietors. Syria ABC project, which produced the first batch of cement in Feb. 2011 achieved high quality, high efficiency and no complaint, and started ignition 40 days before the day provided by the contract. In June 2011, it obtained provisional acceptance certificate (PAC), achieved zero accident during execution of the project. Good service provided for proprietors won the further cooperation with proprietors, and after the entire project contracting (EPC), proprietors also ask CBMI to undertake TAA. What was worth mentioning was the execution of the project in Hungary, which set up a monument of the brand for CBMI in Europe. As the first EP project, which was undertaken by CBMI in Europe, the project in Hungary featured plant design and complete equipment provided by Chinese companies, which were packed and delivered to the site, and then 22 executed by European local installation companies with CBMI responsible for installation guidance. This meant that Chinese design, supply, packaging and delivery would go through rigid inspection of European standards and European companies; design and equipment must be seamlessly butted with the plant system, and even a little defect may result in severe claim. The difficulties in the project were that all designs and products must comply with CE certification requirements of European technology and safety standards, not only including the equipment themselves, but also including equipment materials, meanwhile, they must comply with EU standards but also comply with local standards of Hungary. The highlights in the project were zero deaths, zero serious injury and zero major equipment accident in safety execution; it achieved no major quality problem; it was completed on time according to the contract time limit; it had achieved zero claims and got anticipated benefits. Its smooth ignition successfully achieved strategy choices of the enterprise, playing a key role in developing European markets for CBMI. The significance of the project: the project exported steel structure and equipment to Europe nearly 20,000 tons, about 55,000 cubic meters, of which 92% products were made in China; it achieved export of equipment and technology service instead of traditional labor export; it had enhanced understanding of China’s cement complete equipment and technology service by European developed countries, promoting their knowledge and confidence on “made in China”; it had built good image in Europe for Chinese companies. Shao Ning, Deputy director of State Assets Administration Committee of the State Council, made a special trip in October 2011 to Hungary to inspect 23 the project, after listening to the report of Vassiliko execution in Hungary and in Cyprus, TTTAN project execution in Albania, and ABC project execution in Syria in Central and Eastern Europe, he said that “very excited, the trip is fruitful, it has boosted greatly the morale of Chinese enterprises, and it shows increasingly better competitiveness of Chinese enterprises, representing and improving the overall image of us.” 2. Economic and Social Impacts CBMI practiced its commitment of “localization” of materials and human resources during projects’ implementation process, providing tax returns, promoting the social and economic development, increasing employment and running trading activities in the communities where the project lied （1）Socio-economic Development Domestic and international implementation of the projects of CBMI had a large number of materials, supplies and procurement businesses, promoting the domestic and foreign markets in the host country and regional business operations. In 2011, the annual procurement amount reached over RMB 1.08421 billion Yuan, of which equipment procurement was RMB 919.65 million Yuan, procurement amount of bulk materials reached RMB 164.56 million Yuan, steel procurement reached 26,753 tons (amount of RMB 129.92 million Yuan), fixed asset equipment procurement reached 31 sets (amount of RMB 6.7989 million Yuan). Materials Procurement Project Distribution Chart 24 库存（含叙利亚 UACC） Inventories (including Syria UACC) 祁连山酒钢 Qilianshan Jiugang 塞浦路斯 Cyprus 抚顺项目 Fushun Project 广东油坑 Youkeng Guangdong 叙利亚 UCG Syria UCG 尼日利亚 Nigeria 摩洛哥 Morocco 阿塞拜疆 Azerbaijan 叙利亚 ABC Syria ABC 马来西亚 Malaysia 华润项目 Huarun Project 和田尧柏 Hetian Yaobai 库车青松建华 Kuche Qingsong Jianhua 阜康 Fukang 俄罗斯 Russia （2）Increase of Employment Opportunities Project execution of CBMI adopted the “General Contracting” mode, and used a lot of labor works in working layer. In 2011, CBMI had created directly over 1,028 jobs for workers from Sichuan, Jiangsu, Hebei, 25 Heilongjiang, Jilin, Liaoning, Henan, Gansu, Shanxi, Shaanxi and Anhui. All overseas projects hired a lot of local employees, and trained a lot of technical personnel and skilled workers, which had made great contribution to the local employment and improvement of labor skills. In 2011, the total number of local employees for foreign projects was over 670. CBMI organized over 450 employees to take part in all kinds of skills trainings provided by CBMI. Construction of Nigeria project, and Morocco FES projects brought in over 1430 long-term jobs for local residents. Construction of Nigeria project, Morocco FES project and Cyprus project also brought in 1410 long term jobs directly and indirectly for local residents. TTTAN project department in Albania resolved project surrounding employment problem through hiring local employees, and only for the project, the proportion of local workers reached 25%. 阿国员工 Albanian employees 中国员工 Chinese employees 26 Environmental Performance Situation In the international markets, CBMI made more efforts to devote to environmental protection in addition to making contributions to economic growth. During operation management, CBMI adhered to the environment concept of “using human spirit and green sense to build our common home, CBMI tried to comply with regulations such as United Nations Environment Programme Declaration on Cleaner Production and The ICC Commercial Rules. In production, living and office works, CBMI had taken various measures actively to reduce pollutions and protect the environment. In 2011, there happened no major environmental pollution incident in CBMI’s operation and management, and production scope as well. 1. Environmental Management Mechanism （1）Organization In 2011, CBMI leadership group of energy saving and exhaust reduction continued to strengthen, lead and coordinate corporation wide environment protections. While planning and arranging 2011 annual work plans, CBMI had drawn up internal control objectives and indicators of environmental protection as well as implemented responsible departments and persons. （2）System In 2011, CBMI had updated or enriched environmental management system documents to make CBMI’s management activities, production processes and service processes more comply with relevant laws and regulations. In 2011, CBMI had revised existing ISO14000 Environmental Management System again, and passed the authentication of consultation 27 agency as well as passed quality, environment, and occupational health system authentications again. 2. Environmental Management Measures In 2011, CBMI fully took advantage of company’s office systems, networks, newspapers, lectures, etc. to promote energy conservation principles, policies and scientific and technological knowledge, to increase employees’ aware of ecological and environmental protection. （1）Office Life In 2011, CBMI continued to carry out the system of division of HQ and project manager department responsibilities on usage and management of water, electricity, and fuel. General Manager's Office was responsible for managing the water and electricity, and making statistics of water and electricity consumption. Water, electricity, and oil management in the working site was responsible by the project management department, establishing statistical ledger of energy consumption of the project, collecting water, electricity and oil consumption data on a monthly basis, and filling out water, electricity and oil consumption card. CBMI HQ and project manager department checked the assessment of management practices according to usage and management methods of office paper; all departments basically realized double-sided paper use of abandoned paper. Meanwhile, CBMI’s computer system was re-upgraded, to increase the paperless network office management. （2）Production and Operation 28 In 2011, CBMI strengthened the promotion of new technologies, and gave priority to technologies, materials and equipment with good efficiency and low energy consumption when selecting processes and equipment. Every project gave priority to electricity saving, oil saving construction machinery and construction machinery shall be used in a reasonable and scientific way. Firstly, Research, Application and Promotion of New Technology CBMI further promoted SNCR system in projects such as Russian FER projects undertaken, which reduced the NOX exhaust from 1500mg/Nm3 to 400mg/Nm3; it promoted trash-burning system, whose cement technology decomposing furnace could 100% use urban trashes like waste paper and wood chips as fuel. Adopting new technology brought significant benefits for economic and environmental benefits of constructed projects. Cyprus Vassiliko cement production line project, put into operation in 2011, began to appear benefits. The project adopted environmental protection design, with low carbon dioxide emission, using renewable resources such as refinery coke, waste tire, in place of at least 50% traditional fuels such as crude oil and heavy oil, and electricity usage reduced by 5% to 10% compared with traditional fuels. Compared with the original production line, the line after construction reduced CO₂ emission by 17% and fuel consumption by 30%. Statistical Indicator Guaranteed Value of Actual Value Project Contract Quality Heat consumption of ≤ 710 708 rotary kiln（kcal/t) Electricity consumption ≤ 22.6 17.44 of rotary kiln（Kwh/t） 29 Electricity consumption of raw material mill ≤16 15.34 （Kwh/t） Secondly, Harmful Gas Emission and Waste Disposal In 2011, garbage in office and living areas such as CBMI headquarters, every project management department and branch companies continued to be stored in reusable and non-reusable classifications. Every project management department had carried out treating with recyclable wastes in concentration on construction and production sites. For any toxic and hazardous wastes such as waste batteries, waste toner cartridges, fluorescent tubes, and printer cartridges, CBMI implemented the old-fornew-service system or agreed on suppliers to recover them. In 2011, the recovery rate of waste battery waste toner, waste fluorescent tubes and waste cartridge was 100%. Thirdly, Typical Projects Albania project adopted mature technology and established relatively complete environmental protection system, bringing environmental pollution accident control and pollution emission rate of reaching standards into comprehensive goals of the project department with special staff managing special items. After construction, the project achieved fully automatic control, production being advanced and the plant emission being advanced level internationally. The following table was the comparison of waste gas emission, with indicators showing controlling of waste gas emission performance was excellent. Exhaust Unit Guaranteed Chinese European test value name index standard standard 30 Dust mg/Nm3 ≤20 ≤30 ≤20 1.8 exhaust Nitride Mg NOx as ≤800 ≤800 ≤800 798 NO2/Nm3 Sulphide Mg ≤400 ≤400 ≤400 1.7 SOx/Nm3 （3）Major Benefits of Energy Saving and Exhaust Reduction In 2011, CBMI maintained benefits for energy saving and exhaust reduction through technological promotion and strict management with details listed as follows: Target Project Target in 2011 Actual Situation Equipment utilization ≥79% 69.8% ratio Equipment availablility ≥95% 96.8% Comprehensive satisfaction of the ≥86.5% 90% owner Contract compliance 100% 100% rate Bulk materials and equipment saving ≤5% ≤5% control Training coverage 100% 100% Media coverage on 100% 100% energy saving Paper consumption ≤90% 89% Electricity consumption ≤95% 94% Utilization rate of steel ≥96.5% 96.8% 31 Occupational Safety and Health In 2011, CBMI continued to do a good job of occupational safety and health, improving employee working and living environments, and improving employees’ working and living environments, and improving employee’s social security and welfare benefits. According to deployment of State General Administration of Safety Supervision, CBMI took the “Safety Cultural Construction Demonstration Enterprise Standards” as standards, achieving the nine indicators of “safety promise, safety system, safe environment, safe behavior, learning and training, incentive system, personnel participation, occupational health and continuous improvement” to enhance safety values of employees. CBMI had made significant achievement in safety management especially in 2011, there happened no major safety accident, the goal of death rate was set at zero in the beginning of the year, and the goal met deadline at the end of the year. 1. Do a good job in management system construction In 2011, CBMI revised preplan management procedures under the emergency framework of the comprehensive emergency preplan management procedures, and issued various special emergency preplans according to organizational structure and changes to personnel, in accordance with project progress and outside safety environment needs, providing guarantee for various emergency disposal work. Aimed at natural disasters and emergency accidents such has fire, typhoon, terror attacks, various projects carried out emergency evacuation and fire drill, improving self-protection of employees and reaction ability of the projects, and settlement ability for emergency accidents as well. 32 2. Consummating Security System and Management Standards In 2011, CBMI enhanced the safety production responsibility system with all departments and the general manager (GM) signing safety and environmental protection responsibility statement again. In 2011, from the GM to the front workers of subcontractors, there existed 29 projects in 33 total signing 63 safety and environmental protection responsibility statements, making signing rate of responsibility statements being 100%. Meanwhile, CBMI continued to organize subcontractors to sign safety production responsibility contracts, with safety responsibility contracts of subcontractors covering people in charge of subcontractors, insite people in charge and people in charge of teams and major operation workers. In 2011, CBMI stared to compile standardization system documents in combination of actual situation of the enterprise, and further revised standardization documents, aimed at business changes and working process of key points. CBMI sorted out existing system documents and process, consummated and segmented sub-systems, and built focus process and duties of project insite safety production standardization management, established and consummated safety production management procedures for overseas organizations, projects and businesses, made clear duties in management areas for all subcontractors, forming seamless interface for management, and sorted out detailed incite safety standardization operation technology for all projects, working out a set of project construction standardization manual including earthwork construction safety standardization, scaffold construction safety standardization, and concrete construction safety standardization. 3. Investigation of Potential Hazards and Increase of Safety Investment In 2011, CBMI organized various departments to carry out thoroughly various special treatment including insite members, materials piling and hoisting, habitual operation against laws, safety work analysis and license system, post qualification of special operation personnel, implementation 34 of safety technological plans and measures and confiding a safety technological secret. The company set up an inspection team to make safety patrol for all projects and organized all projects to self-examine. There were 150 safety inspections in total in 2011, finding out 816 potential hazards, which were rectified and improved immediately and within a time limit, with rectifying rate of potential hazards being 100%. CBMI further consummated security system thrown by safety production to ensure expenditure on safety management, accident potential hazard rectifying and safety technological measures timely and in place. In 2011, the company totally spent RMB 21.1383 million Yuan on safety management, of which safety protection equipment and facilities cost RMB 7.5926 million Yuan, emergency equipment and personnel protection articles cost RMB 3.0035 million Yuan, and safety production examination and evaluation cost RMB 1.7765 million Yuan, major hazard source related cost RMB 2.2596 million Yuan, safety production training and emergency drill cost RMB 1.8001 million Yuan, environmental safety of overseas project cost RMB 4.062 million Yuan, and safe production and other expenditures cost RMB 644,000 Yuan. 4. Strengthening Safety Training In 2011, CBMI still brought training for people going abroad into the focus management category of safety management department, uniformly compiled training outline and training courseware; and carried out special skill examination for special personnel such as electricians, people working in scaffolds, cranes and workers for welding and torch cutting. People who 35 hadn’t been trained couldn’t be sent abroad. CBMI delivered 1,012 training sessions for people going abroad in total in 2011. In order to ensure the three types of personnel such as major people in charge, people in charge of projects and full time safety production management staff to obtain a certificate for posts, the Company organized relevant employees to participate in relevant training and testing local governmental authorities where the HQ was located at the end of March, and 17 employees who had participated in the training passed the exam and obtained certificates for three types personnel. CBMI carried out safety production activity in June each year. In 2011, in an even larger scope, CBMI carried out ‘safety production’ knowledge competition, with competition topic covering laws, regulations, safety technology, safety management, traffic safety and first aids. The safety management department also started publication of “Safety Briefing”, which was released one issue each month, to timely release relevant policies of the State and safety situation, management dynamics, management experience, report of safety accidents for the purpose of increasing the awareness of self-precaution and self-protection in safe production. CBMI carried out safety production month activities in June each year. In 2011, CBMI held “safety production” knowledge competition in an even larger scope, with competition subjects covering laws and regulations, safety technology, safety management, traffic safety and first aid. In 2011, efforts of CBMI on safety management were fruitful, with various planned indicators finished on schedule; see the following table for details. 36 Fulfillment Information of Safety Management Goals (Indicators) in 2011 Comparision of Indicators Project Planned in Fulfuiled in Fulfiled in 2010 2011 2011 Safety Production Standardization 100% 100% 100% Management Rate of Reaching the Standard: Safe Covering Rate of Safety Training 100% 100% 100% Investment Increase of Special 5% 4.8% 5% Expenditure for Safety Management Incidence Rate of Serious Injury 0 0 0 Accident and above Harmful Working Site Rate of 100% 100% 100% Reaching the Standard after Treatement in Working Environment and Working Conditions Finishing rate of Rectifying for 100% 100% 100% Accident Potential Hazards Certificate Holding Rate for Jobs of 100% 100% 100% Special Working Personnel Passing Rate of Safety Examination 100% 100% 100% Equipment Availability 97% 96.8% 96.4% （5）Typical Cases Impact of safety management was embodied on Albania TTTAN projects concretely. In the safety management of Albania TTTAN project, insite safety, health and environmental protection management complied with European standards, accepting safety audit of the third party in Europe and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development At the beginning of 37 the project, the safety core goal was set for zero death, zero heavy injury and zero major equipment accident. During construction process, project went through safety audit by the third party for nine times and annul safety and health audit by proprietors’ joint-stock banks for twice, to achieve “zero death, zero heavy injury and zero major equipment accident” safety management core goals, and construction safety management was praised by proprietors and awarded additional a slump safety reward. 5. Improve Welfare Security for Employees In 2011, CBMI continued to pay close attention to workers’ welfare and security work, and to keep improving their job security, continuing education opportunities and wage standards. （1）Sign Labor Contracts In 2011, under the guidance of relevant laws and regulations and policies, CBMI continued to improve employee recruitment system. The Company adhered to the spirit of non-discrimination equal pay for equal work principle and did not employ child labor and forced labor. In 2011, CBMI recruited 69 new employees and all of them signed labor contracts with the company. （2）Purchase of Insurance In 2011, the established social security system of CBMI continued to pay the housing provident fund, pension insurance, medical insurance, industrial injury insurance and unemployment insurance for employees. In 2011, CBMI bought the group business health insurance for employees (including external workers), including group accident insurance, group 38 medical insurance, additional accident, critical illness insurance, and group health insurance hospital. In 2011, CBMI provided RMB 235,490 Yuan for 571 employees in unexpected injuries insurance. In 2011, CBMI provided RMB 369,747 Yuan for 595 employees in employer liability insurance. （3）Provide Continuing Education Opportunities In 2011, CBMI made advance plans and arrangements of continuing education for employees, investing RMB 458,360 Yuan on training and holding 41 trainings for 420 people on vocational and technical, management skills, and cultural qualities and titles, academic training and educational promotion. In 2011, the number of new mid-level engineers was 20, the number of new senior engineer was 12 and that of new professor-level engineer was 5. In 2011, there was one employee passed registered safety engineer examination and raised the total number of safety engineer in CBMI to 7. There were 4 employees passed first level architect examination and increased the total number of first level architect to 44. 43 employees in operating level and management level obtained special lifting operating permits. （4）Organize Employees to Do Health Examination In 2011, CBMI continued to organize all employees in three batches (including retired staff and part subcontracting staff) to do annual health examination, and analyzed the examination results to put forward healthy life and health care advice for the staff. （5）Improve Welfare and Salaries for Employees 39 In June 2011, CBMI increased the premium standards for project department in remote areas in China, taking into account district hardship difference. In October 2011, CBMI adjusted the holiday cycle from 30 days a year to 15 days half a year, reducing the holiday cycle. 40 Anti-corruption and Anti-commercial Bribes CBMI’s core business was to carry out business activities of project construction and implementation. Various departments shall contact with foreign frequently, and 100% sectors had the risk of corruption and commercial bribery. CBMI’s finance, auditing, discipline inspection commissions and other institutions were still major barriers for anticorrosion and corruption. All including expense, reimbursement, and settlement shall draw up and implement relative complete management systems. In 2011, CBMI’s Tender Committee was operating normally and implemented the bidding management system to control corruptions and commercial briberies effectively from their sources. In 2011, CBMI organized staff to carry out professional ethics and conduct code training in target as well as anti-corruption educations according to the conditions of project site. In 2011, there was not any corruption and commercial bribery. 41 Social Welfare and Contribution In 2011, CBMI had gotten along well with the local government and residents where the projects were operated as ever, actively supporting and participating public welfare projects in HQ and places where projects were operated. CBMI supported and promoted social and economic progress and development both at home and abroad, carrying out student aiding, poverty alleviation and disaster relief donation. In 2011, CBMI supported the new rural reconstruction with RMB 100,000 Yuan for New Lizhuang Village, Yangguanlin Township, Fengrun District, Tangshan City and Zhuangzi Village, New Juntun Township, Fengshun District, Tangshan City, where CBMI’s HQ was located. On December 06, 2011, the project department of Cyprus contributed funds and donated stationery and sports supplies for Zygi Mapi elementary school where the project was located, and prepared Christmas gifts for the kids, which was warmly welcomed from teachers and students and also apprised highly by local officials. Reporters from Xinhua News Agency participated and reported the donation. During the execution of Albania TTTAN project, CBMI donated to surrounding schools (The following was the letter of thank from the local government). 42 43 Outlook of 2011 In 2012, CBMI would further implement the “Ten Principle” of the “Global Compact”, continue to improve the implementation of social responsibilities and the preparation of annual report as well as further expand the communication and influence of stakeholders. 1. Strengthen Sense of Social Responsibilities among Senior Managers and Common Staff Firstly, CBMI would continue to fulfill promises to implement social responsibilities, and actively participate in various exchange activities organized by the Global Compact. Secondly, CBMI would organize learning and education activities on implementation of social responsibilities to improve the sense of social responsibilities for all employees. Finally, CBMI would facilitate overseas projects to carry out publicizing, inspecting and examining of social responsibilities. 2. Target Management of Energy Saving and Exhaust Reduction In 2012, CBMI would continue to strengthen management of energy saving, exhaust reduction and environment protection to promote the quality of environment management in the New Year. For further information, see the following table. Target Project Target Value in 2012 Target Value in 2011 Equipment utilization ≥78% ≥79% Ratio Equipment availability ≥95% ≥95% Comprehensive satisfaction of ≥90.5% ≥86.5% proprietors Contract compliance rate 100% 100% 44 Bulk materials and equipment ≤5% ≤5% saving control Training coverage 100% 100% Publicity of energy saving and 100% 100% exhaust reduction Paper consumption ≤98% ≤90% Electricity consumption ≤99% ≤95% Utilization rate of steel ≥97% ≥96.5% 45 Evaluation by the Third Party Evaluation Opinion of Annual Implementation Report of Social Responsibilities of CBMI in 2011 I carefully read “annual implementation report of social responsibilities of CBMI in 2011” (hereafter called “report”), and hereby evaluated as follows: 1. Report Characteristics Fully embodying industrial properties. Responsibility field in the report covered economy, environment and society, and fully highlighted industrial practices of CBMI and annual features in 2012, making the report a good representative. Actively responding to social concerns. The report actively responded to hot fields and responsibility issues of CBMI, paid close attention by all walks of life in 2012 such as shareholders, clients, suppliers and local communities, showing active environmental impact and social impact, and embodying CBMI’s active attitude of being responsible to the stakeholders. Rich and accurate dates. The report disclosed a lot of rich and accurate data through comparison of target practices and annual longitudinal comparison, fully and vividly elaborating detailed results on implementing social, economic and environmental responsibilities in favor of improving substantive and effectiveness of communication of the report. 2. Report Evaluation All in all, the report fully showed the fact that CBMI carefully implemented the national principles and policies, and continued to center on globalization, scalization and relevant pluralism themes, doing a good job in cement project proprietors and business pluralism development, and 46 actively implemented social responsibilities to stakeholders such as the state, public and employees, fully playing a role in leading and promoting all-round, coordinated and sustainable development for the economy, society and environment. The report, clear in logic and rich in content, was a readable report of social responsibilities of high level, which was in compliance with international mainstream standards and requirements of the guide, and could lead the development direction of the industrial social responsibilities. 3. Advice for Improvement We advised that CBMI make further efforts in the following aspects to further improve results of social responsibilities and expand its influence: Strengthen training and publicity on social responsibility ideas, in order to make responsibility idea in-depth in the minds of all employees and carried out in daily life. Enhance management of social responsibilities and consummate management system of social responsibilities and in-depth promote social responsibility work of CBMI. Strengthen communication and participation of the stakeholders and organize social responsibility publicity activities in various forms, so as to improve the influence of responsibilities of CBMI. Former director of UN Global Compact Board of Directors Director of Beijing RongZhi Corporate Social Responsibility Institute: Chen Ying 47 Information Feedback Form Feedback Work Unit Person Theme Involved with Feedback Feedback Content Signature (Official Seal): Seal Date: MM DD YY Contact Telephone: MSN： QQ: Note: If the form has been filled, facsimile to 0086-315-322104 or express delivery Yang Jing, No.7 Xingfu Road, Fengrun District, Tangshan P.C.: 063030 48
