moving forward responsibly all ABOARD 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Scope Data Verification This report focuses on Bombardier’s corporate social The information provided for our environmental indicators responsibility (CSR) performance at all of our facilities is only partially verified by an external party. Energy and worldwide. This includes joint ventures where we have greenhouse gas emissions data from our Aachen, Germany, operational control. For detailed information on the and Belfast, U.K. sites is verified by external parties under the geographic scope of our performance indicators, consult European Union Emission Trading Scheme. In addition, eight the Measuring our performance section, pages 73 to 76. German sites and the Wroclaw sites in Poland receive annual This report’s quantitative data reflects our CSR external verification of all environmental data under performance from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). We last reported on progress related to our Objectives In May 2011, our Corporate Audit Services and Risk in the 2010 CSR Report, published in November 2010. Assessment (CASRA) function conducted an audit of our The Objectives in this report cover goals and progress CSR-related data. Totally independent from our business made between February 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011. entities, CASRA can be regarded as a second-party verifier. All amounts are in U.S. dollars unless otherwise stated. It applied recognized standards like AA 1000 and ISAE 3000 to conduct the audit, which included in-depth assessments at 5 Bombardier Aerospace (Aerospace) and 10 Bombardier Reporting cycle Transportation (Transportation) sites. Through this audit Our last CSR publication was the interim 2011 CSR Overview, and with the successful implementation of our new HSE published October 20, 2011. Following the internal audit of data management solution, we’re enhancing the accuracy our complete 2010 CSR Report, as well as Bombardier Inc.’s and consistency of our CSR data in preparation for future conversion to calendar years for financial reporting, this 2011 external verification. CSR Report is aligned with the publication of our Annual Report. We’ll issue our next full CSR Report in spring 2013, GRI compliance continuing alignment with our Annual Report publication. Our 2011 CSR Report has been developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 and the GRI Principles for Defining Quality. In conjunction with other corporate disclosures and information available at csr.bombardier.com, we self-declare that this report meets GRI Application Level B. For more information on how we met the GRI Principles for Defining Quality and the Standard Disclosures, please refer to the GRI Content Index at csr.bombardier.com/gri. Your feedback Let’s continue the dialogue on CSR. You can tell us what you think about our CSR performance by emailing us at csr@bombardier.com. COVER Photos: Q400 NextGen regional aircraft MOVIA metro CONTENTS 2 Executive messages 28 Products 70 The 10 principles of the United 5 Our approach 44 Operations Nations Global Compact 12 Governance 52 Supply chain 73 Measuring our performance 18 Employees 60 Responsible citizenship Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | intro To earn a place at the head of any industry today, you need to lead in corporate social responsibility (CSR). That’s our goal at Bombardier. To create meaningful economic, social and environmental benefits with every step we take. Five consecutive years of focused effort and intense activity in CSR have taught us much. Our most valuable takeaway? People lie at the heart of our journey. Their passion and commitment drive all progress. They help us shape The Evolution of Mobility and ensure the greatest positive impact. People make the difference; they make it happen. That’s why our proudest and most significant achievement in CSR is inspiring a growing number of stakeholders to join us on our journey. We will continue to welcome them aboard as we move forward responsibly. 1 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Executive messages ALL ABOARD Overall, CASRA’s findings confirmed the high quality of our CSR reporting. Not only has CASRA’s audit helped us If we had to describe our approach to Corporate Social improve our internal reporting processes and prepare for Responsibility (CSR) in one word, we’d describe it as external verification, but it has also triggered the launch of a “committed.” We uphold our commitment to CSR through number of strategic initiatives across our organization with a steadfast focus on execution, yielding measurable respect to how we measure and report on performance. improvements over time. CSR is an integral part of We know that we don’t have all the answers to the Bombardier’s competitive foundation, and helps us invest sustainability challenges we face, but we believe that we do in leading mobility solutions, grow local roots in key markets, ask the right questions—and we act on what we learn. We’re and achieve flawless execution every step of the way. committed to pursuing a precautionary approach to the While 2011 marked the fifth year of CSR reporting at CSR issues on our horizon over the next three to five years, Bombardier, we’ve always engaged in best CSR practices as supported by active risk management policies and procedures. part of our daily activities. We’re determined to build on our These issues include: five-year legacy of complying with the highest international CSR reporting requirements and to continue embedding CSR • continuing our commitment to strong governance in everything we do. CSR is a fundamental driver of profitable, and our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, which long-term growth. This is how we move forward, responsibly. enables us to navigate global economic instability and transform downturns into opportunities to strengthen Setting the standard our competitive advantage By mobilizing the future in more than 60 countries around the • implementing our Global Talent Roadmap to address world, our products and services help create transportation the evolving talent landscape, from diversity trends to networks that offer people everywhere more environmentally demographic changes responsible, energy-efficient and convenient transportation • complying with and even surpassing legal and regulatory choices than ever before. requirements with our Design for Environment program We’ve long recognized that our continued success can at both Aerospace and Transportation to ensure that only be achieved by hiring, training, motivating and retaining environmental concerns are addressed from the earliest people with the skills and commitment to make it happen; stages of product development to proactively prepare for their abilities and enthusiasm are the drivers that enable us a low carbon economy, resource scarcity and increasing to accelerate the Evolution of Mobility on a global basis. fuel and energy prices Setting the standard starts at home. At the request of the CSR Committee, in 2011, Bombardier’s Corporate Audit Service • working to steadily reduce our environmental footprint so and Risk Assessment (CASRA) team audited how well our that our global operations will be carbon neutral by 2020 2010 CSR report conforms to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • developing our supply chain compliance program to principles, the effectiveness of the processes and systems we enhance supplier engagement and mitigate supply use to report CSR data, and the reliability and quality of our chain risks performance indicators. We’ve already achieved some important milestones: our energy consumption decreased by 1.4% in 2011 compared to the previous year and greenhouse gas emissions by 5%, while our revenues increased by 2.5% or $0.4 billion compared to last fiscal year. 2 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | Executive messages Pierre Beaudoin Daniel Desjardins Investing in the Promise In the SAM Sustainability Yearbook 2012, we were recognized as the SAM 2011 Sector Mover, ranking within Because it’s our corporate responsibility as well as a sound the top 15% of our sector, Aerospace & Defence, and having business practice, we’re investing in and helping build the achieved the largest proportional year-over-year improvement communities in which we operate. in our sustainability performance. We’re passionate about finding and developing local We also received the SAM Gold Class award, ranking talent, about establishing partnerships with customers, within 1% of the Sector Leader’s score. These awards represent suppliers and academic institutions, and about engaging with international recognition of our sustainability practices and are community groups and NGOs to find solutions that work for a testament to our performance over the past year. all of our stakeholders. Achieving leadership in aerospace and rail transportation Evolving forward carries with it an implied promise to be at the forefront of advancing international CSR standards by: At Bombardier, The Evolution of Mobility is inextricably linked to the evolution of CSR. Throughout 2011, we advanced CSR • embedding the principles of the United Nations Global across our entire organization, from product development and Compact across our organization innovation to talent management and community involvement. • protecting our employees through our Design for Safety Take a look inside our CSR Report and browse our dedicated program and other measures CSR website at csr.bombardier.com to see how we continued to move forward responsibly in 2011. Welcome aboard! • investing in products like the CSeries commercial aircraft, the ZEFIRO very high speed train and ECO4 rail technologies that are setting new global standards of energy efficiency and eco-friendliness • addressing the reporting standards established by the Global Reporting Initiative and following our new reporting cycle, which aligns our CSR Report with our Annual Report to ensure our stakeholders receive information Pierre Beaudoin Daniel Desjardins when it is most relevant President and Senior Vice President, Chief Executive Officer General Counsel and • engaging with our employees around CSR issues, enabling Bombardier Inc. CSR Committee Chairman them with the right tools, trusting them to get us where Bombardier Inc. we need to go, and soliciting their feedback through our Employee Engagement Survey so that we can make their working environment the best it can be Striving for excellence generates tangible results: following our participation in Sustainable Asset Management’s (SAM) Corporate Sustainability Assessment, we were listed on both the Dow Jones Sustainability North America and Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes, benchmark indicators of sustainability, for the fifth consecutive year. 3 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report As a leading aircraft manufacturer, we’re responsible After more than 200 years of service, railway transportation for connecting the world. This responsibility represents is the most cost-effectve and environmentally responsible tremendous impact: contributing not only to investment and means of moving large numbers of people and quantities of product innovation, but to an entire industry of people moving commodities over vast distances on land. The Climate is Right people. for Trains. Beyond facilitating world trade, air transport offers a At Bombardier Transportation, we’re passionate about lifeline to communities lacking infrastructure. In many remote moving people more efficiently, bringing greater mobility to regions, access to the rest of the world and to essential millions of people around the world by developing new rail services such as healthcare is often only possible by air. technologies and extending the capabilities of existing rail In these ways, our obligations to the global community systems. extend beyond addressing environmental challenges. While we Our vision is one of interconnected modality with rail as design our products with the environment in mind, ultimately the backbone of national transportation infrastructures. Our they’re designed by and for people. Our Design for Safety newest mass transit and e-mobility technologies mean that program is a testament to this, ensuring that safety aspects integrated sustainable mobility is achievable today, supporting are considered from the earliest stages of a product’s lifecycle. the urgently needed shift from road to rail to deliver a smaller We share our expertise with our industry, inviting leading environmental footprint. Our smart transport solutions strive to experts to attend Safety Standdown forums on four continents be the fastest way to save the planet. And it’s our people who to present the latest thinking on ways to improve flight safety help us do this. Through innovative global talent management and help ensure that connectivity remains safe. including our renowned Global Graduate Program, we recruit To secure the sustainability of the aerospace sector and train talent from around the world, developing a diverse and our world, our industry has set ambitious environmental workforce with a truly global perspective. targets. We collaborate with organizations within our sector to We’re working hard to ensure that sustainable rail help reduce emissions and share knowledge. I’m proud that our transportation continues to advance The Evolution of Mobility products and programs, such as our new CSeries aircraft, are throughout this century and beyond. part of the solution. Guy C. Hachey André Navarri President and Chief Operating Officer President and Chief Operating Officer Bombardier Aerospace Bombardier Transportation 4 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | Our Approach our approach At Bombardier, we strive to be the world’s leading manufacturer of planes and trains. To us, the word “leading” means driving progress universally by helping people get where they need to go, safely, efficiently, comfortably and with the least possible burden on the environment. It means delivering innovative products of unsurpassed quality and generating ever-greater value for our shareholders. And, as we’ve learned during 70 years of operation, it means acting on the obligation to grow responsibly as a business enterprise. These are the keys to sustaining leadership in a highly competitive global marketplace. 5 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Moving Forward Responsibly Our corporate strategy Risks, challenges and opportunities Creating better ways to move the world is imperative, both on the ground and in the air. It’s the answer to urban congestion In recent years, we’ve matured considerably in our approach and sprawl, escalating oil and energy prices, environmental to CSR. By consistently investing time, effort and resources challenges, aging air and rail fleets, and the overwhelming need in our evolution as a CSR leader, we’ve acquired an in-depth to connect people in cities, countries and continents around understanding of the sustainability risks, challenges and the world. opportunities that we face in the two major industries in which we compete. Our promise: The Evolution of Mobility As a result, our entire organization is working together to: We’re the only company in the world to hold leadership • roll out effective action plans to support our positions in both air and land transportation. This distinctive CSR commitment dual focus multiplies our opportunities to shape the Evolution • help employees, suppliers and other stakeholders of Mobility. understand our CSR commitment and what they The Evolution of Mobility is the promise we make to all can do to reinforce it of our stakeholders. It’s what motivates our people to excel and our customers to choose Bombardier products and • develop and report on key performance indicators services. Equally important, our commitment to CSR is part • improve our ability to track, compile and share of its foundation. accurate data Our growth strategies In 2011, we distilled our strategic framework into three interrelated growth strategies for delivering the Evolution of Mobility. AT BOMBARDIER, WE’RE SHAPING THE EVoLUTION OF MOBILITY BY... … Capturing … Strengthening our … Creating better ways customer-focused global growth to move the world excellence opportunities INVEST IN LEADING ACHIEVE FLAWLESS GROW LOCAL ROOTS MOBILITY SOLUTIONS EXECUTION EVERY IN KEY MARKETS STEP OF THE WAY Our growth strategieS great strong committed active risk talent financial corporate social management globally discipline responsibility Our competitive foundation 6 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | our approach The Six Pillars of CSR Acting as a responsible citizen In 2009, we identified the six areas in which we have the At Bombardier, being a responsible corporate citizen means greatest impact. These are the six pillars of CSR at Bombardier. continuously improving our positive impact. It entails advancing the development of our communities by investing Governing effectively through donations and sponsorships. It also involves volunteering to support community projects while engaging The turbulent economic climate of global financial markets our employees. has been exacerbated by inadequate corporate governance. We’re committed to giving back, annually, 1% EBT It’s clear that the key to surviving the economic fallout (earnings before taxes) of the previous fiscal year to the of these events is strong governance. At Bombardier, our community through our donations and sponsorships approach to governance is grounded in our promise, solid worldwide, and through the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation core values and rigorous application of our Code of Ethics for Canadian charitable organizations. and Business Conduct. Our donations, sponsorships and employee volunteering activities are centred upon our 3E approach: Education, Valuing our employees Environment and Entrepreneurship. These themes reflect our Employees are arguably our most important stakeholder specific strengths as a business and our view of the most group. Our success depends on their full engagement in effective ways to apply our core competencies to give back embracing our business ethics, values and operating principles. to communities where we operate. Engaged employees are innovative, dedicated and productive. By listening to, developing, rewarding and recruiting the best, we promote the well-being and growth of our workforce worldwide. Building responsible products The United Nations Building responsible products is essential to moving forward Global Compact responsibly—safe products that consume less energy and non-renewable materials, and generate less noise, waste We’re dedicated to upholding the and emissions. We’re committed to investing in innovative United Nations Global Compact, the technologies that uphold best-in-class standards of safety and world’s largest corporate citizenship make our products more environmentally responsible. This is and sustainability initiative. A signatory one of the ways we help tackle climate change while reducing customers’ costs, a total lifecycle, bottom-line approach. since 2007, we’ve committed ourselves to actively promoting its 10 principles Operating sustainably addressing the issues of human rights, We want to minimize the environmental impact of our labour, the environment and antioperations. To do so, we act on our commitment to innovation, corruption through our strategies and improved efficiency and investing in our goals of switching to across our operations. Its principles renewable resources where possible. We also aim to eliminate are embedded in our Code of Ethics banned and restricted substances and deliver a “zero waste” and Business Conduct, providing clear performance. Our overriding operational objective remains guidance to our employees as to what is working to achieve carbon neutrality by 2020. expected of them as they carry out their Engaging our suppliers duties and responsibilities. Our supply chain is constantly evolving, with our suppliers becoming increasingly integrated into our operations. This is why it’s more crucial than ever to work closely with them to manage our supply chain responsibly. This entails ensuring the efficiency and viability of our suppliers, enhancing the sustainability of our procurement processes, while at the same time promoting the principles of the United Nation Global Compact throughout our supply chain. 7 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Assigning priorities The knowledge we gained about stakeholder engagement allowed us to identify and prioritize the CSR issues with the To successfully engage with our stakeholders, we need to greatest current or potential impact on our organization. move forward responsibly by addressing their concerns This prioritization formed the basis of our first global CSR and learning from their experiences. Meaningful dialogue materiality matrix in 2010. broadens our understanding of the world and provides us The table below summarizes our diverse stakeholder with different perspectives that ultimately help us deliver groups and some of the ways we engage with them. on our growth strategies. This includes creating better ways to move the world, capturing global growth opportunities and strengthening our customer-focused excellence. In 2010, we began developing an organization-wide strategy and process for systematically engaging with our stakeholders. Through industry benchmarking, informal stakeholder feedback and stakeholder impact assessments conducted for specific projects, we’ve been able to clearly identify our stakeholder groups, deepen our understanding of their expectations and interests, and implement a variety of engagement mechanisms. SHAREHOLDERS, INVESTORS EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSTS Employee engagement surveys, Customer-led advisory committees, Annual meeting of shareholders, union-management forums and work focus groups and customer quarterly conference calls and council consultations satisfaction surveys one-on-one meetings SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES ACADEMIA Supplier forums, Community investments through Joint research projects, scientific supplier development programs, donations and sponsorships, committees, internships, lectures, supplier recognition programs employee volunteering in-kind donations INDUSTRY PARTNERSHIPS NON-GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENTS AND AND ASSOCIATIONS ORGANIZATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITIES Association memberships, participation in One-on-one meetings and Official meetings and briefings to committees and working groups, technical conference calls, donations government officials, regulatory filings, support on regulatory and policy issues, and sponsorships, events, technical support on regulatory involvement in standardization and conferences and policy issues 8 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | our approach CSeries commercial Engaging with stakeholders across aircraft the six pillars In 2011, we solicited the feedback of our stakeholder groups to drive our business by: Addressing shareholder Listening to our employees Promoting product safety concerns by adopting a through our annual, education and awareness “Say on Pay Vote” globally aligned Employee throughout the aerospace Engagement Survey industry with our renowned Safety Standdown program Governance Employees Products p. 17 p. 21 p. 41 Leveraging employee insight Hosting supplier workshops Giving back to the to improve environmental and recognition programs community in the areas of efficiency through our Education, Environment Green Fund and Entrepreneurship Operations Supply Chain Responsible p. 48 p. 58 Citizenship p. 60 ZEFIRO 380 very high speed train 9 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report The 2011 materiality matrix assessment Our CSR Reporting Committee mapped the results of this internal review onto the matrix. The revised materiality matrix In 2011, we revisited our materiality matrix to reassess the (see below) prioritizes the CSR issues that we face over the scoring of our CSR issues with respect to their potential next three to five years and defines our CSR reporting content. or actual impact on our business. Using the same CSR prioritization methodology that was applied in 2010, we Refining the matrix in 2012 interviewed several internal subject matter experts to identify any changes in relevant issues and their material importance. The CSR Reporting Committee developed an action plan Through this partial assessment, we identified key trends to further improve the matrix. In 2012, we plan to conduct impacting the business in the areas of climate change, global a formal survey of our CSR priorities with key stakeholder talent management, health and safety, labour practices, groups to continue refining our materiality matrix. This external product safety and supply chain, influencing the prioritization assessment will also serve to strengthen our stakeholder of our CSR reporting. engagement process. Mapping what matters: our materiality matrix • Governance • Employees • Products • Operations • Supply Chain High • Citizenship Climate Change Health and Safety Product Safety Transparency Corruption and Disclosure Importance to Stakeholders Environmentally Conscious Products Labour Practices Customer Human Rights Supply Chain Satisfaction Community Employee Involvement Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Remuneration Resource and Global Talent waste management Management Low Current or Potential Impact on Bombardier (3 to 5 years) High 10 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | Our Approach Highlights of our 2011 Recognitions Bombardier Inc. Dow Jones Sustainability The world’s 2,500 largest companies (based on the Dow Jones Index World Global Total Stock Market Index) are invited to participate in SAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment every year. The survey results Dow Jones Sustainability determine inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI). Index North America Our DJSI rankings for 2011 represent our fifth consecutive listing on both indexes. SAM Gold Class 2012 Following SAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment, we ranked within 1% of the Sector Leader’s score. SAM Sector Mover 2012 Following SAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment, we ranked within the top 15% of our sector, Aerospace & Defence, and achieved the largest proportional improvement in our sustainability performance over last year. Bombardier Aerospace Flight Safety Foundation’s Aerospace was acknowledged by the Flight Safety Foundation Business Aviation for raising safety awareness in several countries through its Safety Meritorious Award Standdown seminars. Platinum Business in Organizations scoring 90% or higher on Northern Ireland’s leading the Community Award environmental benchmarking assessment are awarded Platinum status in recognition of their achievements. This award recognizes those who perform well with improved environmental efficiencies. As a recipient of this award, our Aerospace group demonstrates that good environmental performance makes sound business sense. Bombardier Transportation iF Product Design Award Our Transportation group received the iF Product Design Award for the ZEFIRO 380 and its groundbreaking fusion of aerodynamic efficiency to reduce energy consumption with a distinctive appearance reflecting our state-of-the-art technologies. Middle East Rail Award At the Middle East Rail Conference in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Transportation won the Middle East Rail Award in the category “Most innovative use of technology” for our game-changing PRIMOVE system. Identified as the industry’s leading innovator, the jury recognized our passion for innovation and setting new standards in electric mobility while providing a smart, competitive solution for urban transportation. For a complete list of our recognitions in 2011, visit csr.bombardier.com/recognitions. 11 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report GOVERNANCE Upholding and expanding on our commitment to CSR is part of the competitive foundation of our long-term growth strategies at Bombardier. Reporting to our President and CEO as well as to the Board of Directors, our cross-functional CSR Committee manages CSR issues by identifying and developing priorities and implementing initiatives. In 2011, we worked towards a clearly defined set of corporate objectives, listened to the concerns of our stakeholders, conducted a rigorous internal audit of our CSR reporting processes and sustained our commitment to ethics across the organization. This allowed us to make steady progress towards our goal of achieving world leadership in advancing CSR standards and practices. 12 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | GOVERNANCE OBJECTIVES: highlights of our goals and performance CSR Governance What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Ensure strong alignment between the • Assessed priorities including more • Conduct external stakeholder survey groups’ CSR strategies and develop key strategic planning while keeping focus and use results to refine our CSR areas for collaboration on project-driven initiatives priorities • Reassess our mediumand long-term • Held CSR Committee meetings every CSR priorities two months as well as conducted CSR reporting workshops and deep-dive sessions on key topics, tracking areas of concern and developing concrete action plans • Reinforced CSR awareness among internal and external stakeholders by improving online communications Promoting ethical behaviour What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Finalize the development of the second • Completed four modules of e-learning • Complete last two modules of second wave of ethics e-learning training ethics training wave of ethics e-learning training and begin developing next phase of ethics • Conduct internal controls survey • Conducted internal controls survey training modules • Published three B-ethics newsletters • Continue to generate awareness in six languages for management, around ethics, publishing three B-ethics also accessible to 25,000 employees newsletters and introducing a single worldwide via intranets intranet for all ethics-related content 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit: csr.bombardier.com/governance/objectives. 13 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Stakeholder Engagement What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Continue reinforcing our relationships • Revised our materiality matrix, applying • Complete external stakeholder with key stakeholder groups and existing methodology and consulting assessment, including identification individuals in communities where internal stakeholders of stakeholder groups, topics and we operate evaluation criteria and consolidate • Played an active role within our results to revise current materiality two industries, aerospace and rail matrix transportation, on several subjects, notably the environment • Continue engaging with key industry associations, NGOs, regulatory authorities and stakeholder groups to expand our presence and influence 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit: csr.bombardier.com/governance/objectives. CSR COMMITTEE (For the complete list of committee members see csr.bombardier.com/csr-governance) From left to right : Isabelle Rondeau, Director, Communications and Public Affairs, Bombardier Inc.; Daniel Bureau, Director, Ethics and Compliance, Bombardier Inc.; Marie-Eve Lepage, Director, HSE, Bombardier Aerospace; Hartmut Mueller, Director Group HSE, Bombardier Transportation; Delphine Néant, Legal Counsel, Legal Services, Bombardier Inc.; Michael Schemmer, Senior Director, HSE and CSR, Bombardier Transportation; John Paul Macdonald, Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Public Affairs, Bombardier Inc.; Dominique Cristall, Analyst, Communications, Bombardier Inc.; Me Daniel Desjardins, Senior Vice President, General Counsel, CSR Committee Chairman, Bombardier Inc.; Karina Ruffo Leduc, Senior Advisor, Communications, Bombardier Inc.; Sharon Christians, Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs, Bombardier Transportation; Bruce Parry, Manager, CSR, Communications, Public Affairs and CSR, Bombardier Aerospace; Anne-Josée Laquerre, Senior Advisor, Communications and CSR, Bombardier Aerospace; Patrick Jacob, Analyst, Public Affairs, Bombardier Inc; Julie Carrier, Senior Advisor, HSE, Bombardier Aerospace 14 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | GOVERNANCE CSR governance structure Informs Health, Board of CSR Safety and Directors Committee Environment Council Informs Reports to President Reports to Bombardier and Chief Aerospace Executive CSR Review Board Officer Informs Reports to Bombardier Human Transportation Resources CSR Council Committee Governing CSR at Bombardier Committee members also chair or sit on their respective Aerospace and Transportation CSR boards. In this way, Our governance structure includes a cross-functional CSR our CSR Committee members and designated functional Committee with broad representation from across the representatives ensure an effective flow of communication organization. Responsible for overseeing sustainability between our three CSR governing bodies. performance and compliance, the committee develops CSR By embedding CSR in our business behaviours, within guidelines and initiatives. It aligns and oversees the various our groups and various functions, we not only improve CSR projects developed by Aerospace and Transportation engagement and reporting, but also encourage the and their business units. development of local initiatives to help achieve our objectives The CSR Committee consists of executives and for each of the six CSR pillars in our communities. senior managers from our Corporate Office, Aerospace, In 2011, the CSR Committee met every two months to Transportation and most recently, Flexjet. It includes review our portfolio of CSR projects, raise concerns, propose representation from Public Affairs and Communications, solutions and plan future initiatives. Legal Services, Health, Safety and Environment, Investor Relations, Ethics and Compliance, Government Affairs, Human Resources and Web Strategy. The committee’s chair, Daniel Desjardins, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, is accountable to Bombardier’s President and CEO and provides him with regular updates on our CSR performance. He also presents the Board with annual progress reports. 15 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Auditing our performance: improving transparency and disclosure As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, Surveying our every year Bombardier’s Corporate Audit Services and Risk stakeholders: Assessment (CASRA) function develops an annual action plan to address our strategic, operational and financial risks. senior management Senior management and the Audit Committee review the results and approve an annual action plan to address feedback these risks. As part of our commitment to listening As part of our precautionary approach to CSR and in preparation for external verification of our CSR Report, to our stakeholders, our Director, Ethics in 2011, the CSR Committee requested that one of CASRA’s and Compliance conducts a confidential auditing activities assess adherence of the CSR Report survey every two years with senior to Global Reporting Initiative principles, the effectiveness management (director level and above) of processes and systems used to report CSR data, and to review our control environment. the reliability, traceability and quality of reported CSR performance indicators. The survey findings help us develop The audit was conducted at a sample of Aerospace and and implement action plans to improve Transportation sites, as well as at Corporate Office, following corporate governance on a wide range recognized standards such as AA 1000 AS, ISAE 3000 of issues from management philosophy and GRI G3. Overall, CASRA found Bombardier’s CSR reporting to be to Human Resources policies. of high quality. Some weaknesses were identified in the CSR The survey provides respondents with the governance reporting processes that may have had an impact on data accuracy and reliability in a few isolated cases. opportunity to submit anonymous and The audit team recommended the implementation of confidential feedback, further helping a new content management system at the corporate level. identify elements requiring improvement This system would support the streamlined transmission of in our control environment. all CSR-related data and information in the same way that Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) information is already Participation in the most recent survey, managed. The team also suggested the creation of a new conducted in March 2011, rose to 73% of operating framework for CSR-related communications within the approximately 1,500 senior managers Aerospace and Transportation. targeted. This represents a 2% increase We’re currently investing significant resources to compared to the previous survey in 2009. implement concrete action plans based on the audit’s findings, including the implementation of a content management The 2011 results showed improvements system and supporting workflow, to improve our CSR reporting across all areas surveyed. processes. Aligning the publication of our CSR Report with that of our Annual Report for improved timeliness in communicating our CSR information is another example of how we’re addressing CASRA’s recommendations. 16 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | GOVERNANCE Enforcing the Code: Giving shareholders a “Say on Pay” ethical behaviour at Bombardier There are various mechanisms by which our shareholders At Bombardier, we understand that establishing and enforcing and employees can provide recommendations to the Board, the highest ethical standards is essential to our immediate and including through shareholder resolutions. Shareholders long-term success. expect the Board of Directors to oversee all business matters Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the Code) sets concerning the corporation, including executive compensation out clearly and definitively the standards of behaviour that are policy, to ensure alignment with the most recent regulatory required of all Bombardier Board members and employees. requirements and best practices. The Code is available in 15 languages and can be viewed The Board of Directors decided to implement advisory, on our website. It helps ensure that we promote ethical non-binding “Say on Pay” votes granting shareholders a role conduct in the work environment, including the management in determining executive compensation. During Bombardier’s of employment practices, harassment and personal security annual general meeting in June 2011, shareholders voted issues as well as HSE issues. for and approved a “Say on Pay” resolution by a more than The Code also provides clear guidance on managing 99% margin. potential conflicts of interest, illegal or improper payments, Being among the leaders of Canadian corporations to participation in outside political activity, and a range of other adopt an annual “Say on Pay” vote furthers our commitment issues that employees and managers might need to address. to good governance, giving stakeholders a voice on It clearly outlines the potential consequences of any violations. compensation issues. In addition, the Code addresses standards of ethical conduct in our business practices and external stakeholder relationships. The Bombardier Ethics Advisory Council (BEAC) directs and oversees the Code’s implementation and refers sensitive or potentially harmful violations to the President and Chief Executive Officer or the Board of Directors, as appropriate. Encouraging ethical behaviour throughout our organization is about more than publishing our formal Code. That’s why, two years ago, we launched B-ethics, a newsletter for management that continues to gain in popularity across the corporation. B-ethics raises awareness of, and interest in, the standards of personal and business behaviour called for in Bombardier’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Written in an informal, reader-friendly style, B-ethics covers a broad range of ethics-related issues, including information on ethics training, the Code and its governance, upcoming ethics-related activities, available resources for addressing ethical issues and questions, and case studies of situations involving potential or actual misconduct. It has been the subject of a growing number of requests for greater distribution inside our organization, enabling us to reach a higher percentage of our workforce. Due to its increased popularity, B-ethics is currently published in English, French, German, Spanish, Swedish and, most recently, Chinese. 17 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report EMPLOYEES Our employees’ ideas move people. They lie at the heart of our category-leading planes and trains. Their commitment, expertise and enthusiasm are the keys to our continued success. Our people are our most important asset. Ensuring that our employees are highly trained, engaged and enabled, as well as providing them with a healthy and safe workplace is a must for sustaining a dynamic workforce. Securing a strong competitive advantage requires that we attract, develop and retain the right talent globally. We’ve taken major steps to transform how we motivate and manage our 70,000 employees working in 40 countries around the world. In key areas such as global talent management, health and safety, employee engagement and performance management, we’re making steady progress, ensuring that Bombardier is globally respected as an excellent employer and celebrated by our employees as a great place to work. 18 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | EMPLOYEES OBJECTIVES: highlights of our goals and performance Managing our talent globally What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Continue implementing the Talent • Released our EVP • Continue implementing the Talent Management Roadmap, including: “Your Ideas Move People” Management Roadmap, including: • Embed and leverage the Employee • Implemented our new online global • Improve the current performance Value Proposition (EVP) in our talent performance management process in management process to strengthen acquisition processes our talent management tool BTALENT alignment with business objectives and clarify desired behaviours and • Improve the current performance • Created the Bombardier HR Strategic competencies management process Dashboard with common global key performance indicators • Align and deploy generic role and • Ensure compensation programs support competency profiles in BTALENT to the Talent Management Roadmap allow our employees to self-assess and refine their development plans • Ensure compensation programs support our Talent Management Roadmap • Expand our leadership training program “Making Great Leaders” across Bombardier • Improve our “Go to Market” infrastructure, enhance the candidate experience and open new sourcing channels 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit: csr.bombardier.com/employees/objectives. Changzhou, China Querétaro, Mexico Savli, India 19 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Health and Safety (H&S) What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Sustain efforts to improve our • Implemented incident/event management, audit • Deploy and align additional HSE H&S performance throughout the management and action plan management tools to increase focus on our corporation functionalities in our HSE IMS safety culture • At Aerospace, continue • Held first global HSE Leadership Conference attended • Continue developing a developing a standardized Health, by Bombardier’s senior management standardized HSE system to Safety and Environnement (HSE) improve performance while • Initiated internal audit on HSE data quality system to achieve our ultimate striving to achieve our ultimate target of zero occupational illness • At Aerospace, implemented HSE system, including target of zero occupational and injury development of eight standardized H&S programs and illness and injury an audit process to evaluate their deployment across • Include H&S deliverables in all sites product engineering processes and increase our design • At Transportation, further enhanced existing and community’s awareness of H&S division-wide certified H&S management system issues • Supported integration of Design for Safety in new • Expand use of leading indicators Aerospace aircraft programs: CSeries, Learjet 85, to improve safety awareness and Global 7000 and Global 8000 aircraft safety culture • At Transportation, continued integrating H&S aspects • Enhance our HSE Information into product design in the Systems division and Management System (HSE IMS) launched first pilot project with new functionalities to support operations Employee Engagement What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Continue to increase employee • Aligned Employee Engagement • Continue to support survey-specific engagement Surveys to create one overall action plans as effective drivers of questionnaire and process employee engagement • Align and consolidate employee surveys across the organization • Made action planning tools and • Support managers to turn action plans resources available to support into results and improve employee • Develop specific action plans as effective managers in creating and engagement drivers of employee engagement implementing action plans prior to the subsequent survey • Our latest overall engagement score reached the level of best-in-class, high performing organizations 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit: csr.bombardier.com/employees/objectives. 20 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | EMPLOYEES Creating global opportunities for employees In 2011, we introduced BTALENT, a user-friendly online tool designed to help our employees around the world take ownership of their career, in keeping with our Employee Value Proposition (EVP) “Your Ideas Move People.” BTALENT facilitates the movement of talent across the organization by identifying employee mobility, interests and skills and matching them to opportunities. It empowers employees to take an active role in their career development by expressing their personal and professional interests through their individual Employee Profile. BTALENT enables managers to support the career aspirations of employees based on their development areas and interests. BTALENT provides us with valuable information on Asking our talent pool, advancing business strategies and mediumto long-term objectives. our employees what they think Aligning our global reporting Every year we conduct a confidential Our Corporate Audit Services and Risk Assessment (CASRA) team’s extensive audit of our 2010 CSR Report identified the extensive survey of employee opinions, need for global alignment of our human resources (HR) key perceptions and concerns. performance indicators (KPIs). As a multinational organization that has grown largely We understand that a high level of by acquisition, many of the techniques we use to track and employee engagement translates into measure HR performance vary from country to country and greater motivation, better on-the-job site to site, leading to difficulties in the aggregation and performance and, ultimately, improved comparison of the data received. customer satisfaction. We also know CASRA’s findings and recommendations sparked a that when Bombardier employees have thorough review and, in some cases, a redefinition of our HR KPIs to guide strategic decision-making at a corporate level the right tools and training, they can and to produce significant improvements in our reporting. achieve outstanding results wherever As a result, we have developed and are now implementing they’re located. a revised Global HR Strategic Dashboard that provides greater accuracy, clarity and efficiency in measuring our KPIs. The new To find out what our employees believe dashboard expands on the previous year’s version by placing we’re capable of doing together, we an increased emphasis on workforce diversity. For example, take the most direct course of action: it records with greater precision the hiring and employment we ask them—and we listen to what rates of women in our workforce, the number of citizenships they have to say. represented, and the number of countries in which our employees are located. We’re also now recording corporate-wide participation in our “Making Great Leaders” program, which places a strong emphasis on leadership style and its impact on the work environment of our employees. We continue to monitor such important measures as employee engagement and enablement, the number of women in senior leadership positions and talent retention on our dashboard to ensure clarity around what we’ve accomplished and what more needs to be done. 21 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report The Global Graduate Program: breakthrough thinking through inspired Global Talent Management The Global Graduate Program provides highly skilled graduates with opportunities that help them qualify for future leadership roles within our Transportation group. This innovative and effective approach to global talent management enables us to recruit the best and brightest candidates by offering a work and learning experience that reflects both our values and our business needs. The 18-month program, which involves six-month rotations at three different Bombardier locations around the world, combines hands-on training with onand off-the-job personal development. In this way, the graduates acquire a global graduate Program participants broad knowledge base and an in-depth understanding of our organization. We work closely with many universities and colleges and participate in numerous career events to attract the best candidates to the program. Global Graduate to make urban transit more energy-efficient Raphael Cavalcanti, a Global Graduate at Bombardier Transportation, is experiencing first hand how our EVP, “Your Ideas Move People”, is applied in the business world. After completing the Global Graduate Program, Raphael joined our Transportation group in Berlin in a career position as a Strategic Analyst. In a time of growing environmental concern, he’ll be in a position to make a difference. In this role, Raphael will be Raphael Cavalcanti able to apply the critical thinking skills he acquired during the Global graduate alumnus 18-month program to increase the energy efficiency of urban transit systems. “When I graduated from engineering Raphael earned a Bachelor of Science degree in school in France, I decided that I wanted Mechanical Engineering at the Universidade Federal do to work with an international company in Paranà, Brazil. He then moved to France to do his Master Europe. I was also interested in becoming of Engineering and Diploma in Mechanical Engineering in a double program at the Institut national des Sciences involved in a graduate program that appliquées (INSA) in Lyon. offered accelerated management training Raphael’s assignments included six months in Bangkok, and a broad range of experiences in a Thailand, in project management for an international railway relatively short period of time. I really project. Before that, he spent six months working in Berlin, believe the program provided us with the Germany, on the design and launch of a division-wide equivalent of five to six years in the field in software tool for project tracking and analysis. Raphael completed his final six-month stint in Montréal, only a year and a half.” Canada, with Bombardier Aerospace Customer Services. He is the first Global Graduate to complete a six-month Raphael Cavalcanti assignment at Aerospace. Strategic Analyst Bombardier Transportation 22 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | EMPLOYEES Building workforce diversity Filling the TAP Ensuring a global perspective is fundamental to our success. The cultural diversity, innovative spirit and unique range of skills and experience of our workforce, present in 40 countries, At Aerospace, our Talent Acceleration give us a strong competitive advantage. Our employees Pool (TAP) will help us increase the represent approximately 100 nationalities and speak around percentage of women in management 70 different languages, providing us with a truly global roles to 25% by 2014. viewpoint of business issues. Our commitment to employee diversity and equal opportunity is described in detail in our The proportion of women in management Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. This promise to our at Aerospace increased from employees and other stakeholders is also reflected in our 16.8% as of January 31, 2011 to Human Resources policies, which are implemented daily at 19% as of December 31, 2011. every one of our sites, from our Corporate Office to local manufacturing sites around the world. The percentage of women in our TAP program reached 34% in 2011, demonstrating clear progress towards achieving our goal. Employees at the Querétaro facility in Mexico 23 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Health and Safety Maintaining the highest standards of Health and Safety (H&S) Design for Safety practices is an obligation at Bombardier that goes far beyond satisfying minimum legal or regulatory requirements. (DfS) We believe our employees have a right to feel safe and protected at all of our onor off-site locations. That’s why we Our DfS approach is concerned with constantly strive to achieve best practices in H&S throughout identifying, controlling, mitigating our organization. and eliminating occupational health risk During 2011, we continued to make progress towards our from the earliest stages of ultimate objective of reaching world-class H&S performance product development. as we implemented new systems to support H&S standards at both our operating groups. To provide the highest level of protection At Transportation, several Design for Safety (DfS) to our employees, we have dedicated initiatives were further integrated into project development and execution. The group introduced improved off-site safety teams of human factors design experts policies and procedures that reflect more comprehensive at work at both our Transportation training and auditing standards. In addition, Transportation and Aerospace groups. performed a group-wide safety culture assessment and began programs to improve the safety culture at all sites. They’re responsible for ensuring that our During 2010 and 2011, Aerospace developed eight technological innovations are designed standardized H&S programs and implemented an audit process from the perspective of the people who to evaluate their deployment across all sites. In addition, the will actually build, install, maintain integration of DfS standards and policies into new aircraft or operate them. Among other things, this programs for the CSeries, Learjet 85, Global 7000 and means introducing ergonomics early in Global 8000 aircraft received strong support within the group. Aerospace is currently implementing a series of systemic the design process to lower the incidence improvements that are expected to enable the group to of work-related injuries achieve its H&S benchmark two years ahead of plan. At the at all of our sites. same time, it continues to seek new ways to improve its H&S performance to ultimately reach the goal of zero accidents. DfS is the highest priority in the product development process at Bombardier and reflects our overriding commitment to protecting the health and well-being of our employees, customers and other stakeholders. 24 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | EMPLOYEES Health and Safety key performance indicators To achieve our objective of a zero-accident culture, we must raise awareness of safety at all levels of the organization. Tracking key performance indicators of our overall H&S performance is a fundamental step in attaining this goal. In 2011, in addition to tracking and reporting on accident frequency and severity, we decided to track the rate of both major and minor incidents, including occupational sickness, temporary assignments and medical situations, to support a stringent mitigation process. This new metric will be included in our CSR reporting beginning in the year 2013. As we approach best-in-class performance, generating improvements becomes more difficult. Our approach to improving will therefore be different. Despite a slight increase in accident severity at Transportation in 2011, the group sustained its world-class performance and remains committed to its goal of zero-accidents. Accident Frequency rate1 Accident Severity rate1 Aerospace Aerospace Transportation Transportation 1.3 1.2 42.0 1.0 39.0 33.0 28.0 0.6 0.6 20.0 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 17.0 0.4 0.4 0.4 12.0 12.0 12.0 11.0 10.0 5.0 20073 20083 20093 20103 20102 20112 20073 20083 20093 20103 20102 20112 1 In previous CSR reports, we reported accident frequency and severity rates including restricted duty cases. As of 2011, for external reporting, we have started to report accident frequency and severity rates for lost workday cases to comply with standard industry practices. Cases are normalized by 200,000 hours worked. 2 Lost workday cases 3 Total lost time including restricted duty 25 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Sharing health, safety and environment Harmonizing health and safety practices leadership best practices Given the history and complexity of our organization, having In March 2011, we held our first annual global Corporate grown by acquisition or by moving to locations that are close Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Leadership Conference, to our customers, our H&S procedures sometimes differ from attended by representatives of Bombardier Inc., Aerospace and site to site. Transportation from around the world. As a consequence, while our H&S procedures always meet This gathering provided HSE leaders with an opportunity local legal requirements, they have evolved in different national to share challenges and best practices and meet with external or social contexts and may require realignment to establish experts as part of our steady effort to achieve and sustain common standards across the organization. world-class performance in this vital area. Among other things, To address this need, we’ve implemented the Health, the conference’s interactive workshops enabled participants to Safety and Environment Information Management System discuss strategies to strengthen Bombardier’s HSE culture in (HSE IMS), a tool that’s applied across our business groups. the coming years. As a result of CASRA’s audit in 2011, we assessed the processes During the conference, the participants: for reporting data into the system for the first time. International standards provide guidance for our safety • discussed ways of enhancing performance over the entire management systems. This year, both operating groups will be lifecycle of a product by fostering integration of HSE improving the systems and maintaining certification according considerations into our continuous improvement systems to the industrial HSE standards OHSAS 18001. • confirmed the necessity of adopting common HSE tools As we evolve at Aerospace, the HSE system will become across Bombardier increasingly embedded in our OHSAS 18001 certification, while furthering a preventive culture through our continuous • recommended taking further steps to identify and monitor improvement system. leading indicators that provide more detailed HSE metrics An additional focus at Transportation will be on deploying for use in internal performance assessments and external standard processes for H&S training at off-site locations. reporting Transportation also developed a group-level HSE manual and • acknowledged the need to reinforce competence revised its standard for HSE roles and responsibilities. development, accountability and the engagement of line management in HSE issues • called for enhanced internal and external communications on HSE matters, with greater leveraging of rewards for performance and more recognition of outstanding achievement by external stakeholders 26 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | EMPLOYEES Employee at the Savli facility in India A mark of respect for employees and families “I strongly believe that caring about health, safety and environment issues is a fundamental mark of respect for our employees and their families. As leaders of a global corporation, our managers must act as role models and demonstrate their commitment to maintaining the same high standards for health, safety and the environment wherever we operate.” Pierre Beaudoin President and CEO Bombardier Inc. 27 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report PRODUCTS The products we design, assemble and service play a major role in the global economy and are contributing to the well-being and prosperity of millions of people. We have an obligation to all of our stakeholders to create products that are safe, efficient and in full compliance with the highest standards of CSR. This year, through our Design for Environment (DfE) and Design for Safety (DfS) programs at both Aerospace and Transportation, we worked hard to meet that obligation at every phase of the product lifecycle, from initial design to end of life. 28 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS OBJECTIVES: highlights of our goals and performance Safe products What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Continue deployment of our • At Aerospace, pursued deployment of our Safety • Continue deployment of Safety Management System to Management System our Safety Management achieve our 2015 target of full System to achieve our 2015 • Expanded Aerospace’s Safety Standdown forums implementation and leverage full-implementation target to São Paulo, Brazil and Shanghai, China, in addition to our expertise to guide our and leverage our expertise to the original Wichita, U.S. forum. We also increased online industries guide our industries communications • Continue existing Safety • Pursue continuous • At Transportation, enhanced our support for the Centre of Standdown forums and improvement of Aerospace’s Competence for Product Safety and confirmed management leverage web-based and social Safety Standdown forums structure in each division media tools, such as podcasts, and related communication webinars and other vehicles to • Updated Product Safety Management documentation and with relevant industry expand message reach created a common database for Transportation to collect stakeholders product safety-related information • Continue rigorous application • Launched training in product safety for Transportation of the measures undertaken employees in 2011, while tracking the number of open product safety cases and our efficiency in resolving them 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit: csr.bombardier.com/products/objectives. Global 7000 business jet Customer Services innovia monorail 29 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Environmentally Responsible Products What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Continue deploying DfE • Implemented a systematic approach to measure, track and • Align our engineering/ capabilities in CSeries, manage chemical risks and chemical regulations, with emphasis design, purchasing and Learjet 85, Global 7000 and on Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and project management Global 8000 aircraft programs Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) processes to address REACH requirements • Develop additional • Enhanced the DfE capabilities of engineering at both Environmental Product Aerospace and Transportation • Sustain progress through Declarations (EPDs) for our our own and joint industry • At Aerospace, refined our Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) rail products and follow the rail initiatives to reduce or methodology for the CSeries, Learjet 85, Global 7000 and industry’s common Product eliminate the use of Global 8000 aircraft programs Category Rules (PCRs) hazardous substances or • Issued two new EPDs at Transportation regulated chemicals in • Establish a standard on our products recyclability calculation • Helped develop a common UNIFE standard for rolling stock and recycling strategies for recyclability calculation as well as helped develop and launch rail systems leading to the the first version of the industry-accepted Railway Industry Association of the European Substances List (RISL) Rail Industry (UNIFE) standard • Expanded Transportation’s ECO4 product portfolio to increase • Increasingly implement the energy efficiency and other environmental features of our ECO4 technologies in our rail products and system solutions rail transportation customer projects and broaden the range of our ECO4 portfolio Customer Satisfaction What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Continue to improve customer satisfaction • At Aerospace, deployed customer • Continue the initiatives undertaken in as measured by independent and internal orientation training to 2,023 employees 2011, launch transformation initiatives surveys and improved customer relationships around key areas to improve Aerospace by holding 72 Executive Listening customer engagement and continue to • Make significant progress towards our visits to customers’ sites and hosting standardize common tools, customer goal of global leadership in CSR in both over 30 customer briefings, committee surveys, metrics and analytics the rail transportation and aerospace meetings and conferences around the industries • Conduct a customer survey with world at least 20 major Transportation • Conducted two surveys with 16 major customers Transportation customers, developed action plans from key findings and held customer workshops to discuss areas of improvement 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011 For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit csr.bombardier.com/products/objectives. 30 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS The world needs more The four cornerstones of ECO4 sustainable mobility Throughout 2011, we continued to work hard to make rail, Given our history, resources and global reach, we believe that the world’s most sustainable mode of mass transit even more we have an essential role to play in the evolution of sustainable environmentally responsible. During this period, we also mobility to achieve a better, healthier and more prosperous developed new technologies that will increase the energy future for everyone, everywhere. We do this through our efficiency of our vehicles and reduce fuel consumption. product portfolio. Launched four years ago, our ECO4 technologies are structured around the four cornerstones of energy, efficiency, economy and ecology. ECO4 is both a product portfolio and a roadmap for action in the rail transportation community. Since that time, our customers have gained 1.7 billion km of experience with ECO4—more than 4,400 times the distance between the earth and the moon. Life Cyc d d Emis C Reduce ce le on s u R ed si EcoSilent osts PRIMOVE MITRAC MITRAC AeroEfficient EBI Drive 50 Optimised Sound Contactless and Hybrid Energy Saver Optimised Train Driver Assistance Design Catenary-Free Shaping System Operation d Emis ce R e d uc se t on s u R ed si Noi ion 50% d Life Cyc rove d Emis C Reduce ce le Life Cyc gy Savin d er m on s u osts l Im prove d Emis C Reduce ent En R ed si ce le gs gy Savin er a m on s u 20% Visu ent En R ed si osts gs 30% Life Cyc d rticle E prove Life Cyc Pa l Im ed Emis C d u ce d c le Life CEym c d Re gy Savin prove d l Im d Reduce ce is er d u ce d rticle E a s si o n s m on s u Effic Visu d Emis Pa osts prove gy Sacevidn Emis l Im Re s Reduce mi ce R ed EnerGplan ent R e d uc si er ioonsts a m En 80% gy Savin Reduce gs Visu se t Visu d Emiesr gs R ed sC on s s si o n s u m on s n u ie Red ed Effic En gs u le mi si No as a ent ce ent R e d uc R ed si cy Simulation Tool i ion En se t 15% on s n u Incre ie R ed 12% cy si Noi ion rticle E Pa rticle E Pa d u ce d rticle E s si o n s ed Effic d Emis Pa Re mi as ce ed d u ce d ThermoEfficient e R uct ed Effic on s d Emis Re Lifse Cyc as si ce Reduce Incre on s s si o n s u Incre ie n ed Effic d Emis R e d uc mi R ed si d No as ion ce Reduc d Lif e Cyc se Climatisation on s n u prove cy d Emis i ie l Im C No se t Reduce ce s si o n s si ion u No cy n Incre le prove Life Cyc mi ed Emis ie Ri ed l Im Red C gy Savin Reduce i d c le System er a m on s gy Savin u cy osts d u ce d Visu prove R ed d Emis er Life Cyc a si m ent l Im C on s Re u En gs ce Visu ent le R ed si osts d gy Savin prove En gs 26% er d Emis a m l Im C on s u Reduce Visu ent R ed si osts ce le En gs gy Savin er a m on s u Visu ent En R ed si osts gs EcoEfficient Life Cyc 10% Optimised prove Pa rticle E d Emis d LifearCtyiccle l Im C No Reduce Environmental ce le d P E gy Savin prove dEu d Em er s si o n l Im s si o n s ed Effic d Emiasrticle E Reduce IncrV m ce E i s is n ce d m i gs s RedRed onsons osts on mi as ce e ua Re P gy Savin e Reduct sed ffic d Emis enitenc Performance i ce si si er a i m u u R e d uc Incre on s s a rticle E Visu d u ce d Costs d u ce d Pa se s si o n s ent s i nc y t Re 5% ed Effic d Emis on s u Re mi as 100% En gs ce R ed le Red 87% u ie R e d uc si No ion d u ce d 2% Ee y s si o n s Life Cyc t ed Emis i on s sed sffic u Re n Incre mi ie d Red si a No ion c R e d uc prove cy d Emis i se t l Im on s C u Reduce n co verabi ce le Incre ie Red l a m S rgy avin 25% cy si Noi ion on s u aerticle E osts Re ity Visu R ed ent P si > 95% d u ce d s Re ion Life CyEcm rticle E ed Effic d d is Pa gs sios prove as d Emis ce R e d uc l Im on s d u ce d En Reduce s si o n s ce ed Effic se t d Emis Re si s mi R ed ce ncygs In gy Savin s ns as En cre R e d uc mi er a m R ed C o ts No ion se u t Visu ie on s n i u ent Incre u ie le Red cy si Noi ion 20% Pa rticle E d u ce d s si o n s ed Effic d Emis Re mi as ce R e d uc se t on s n u d u ce d ie Red si Re No ion rticle E cy i Pa Incre s si o n s ed Effic d is Em mi as EnerGstor FLEXXce ReC.L.E.A.N. d uc FLEXX MITRAC Energy se t on s n u Incre ie Red cy Wayside Energy Tronic Technology si Noi Diesel Power Pack ion Eco Bogie Permanent Management Storage Magnet Motor Control System 31 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS PRIMOVE Imagine a city where all vehicles are electric—quiet and emissions free. No pollution, no fumes, virtually no noise. Imagine electric vehicles that don’t need to be plugged in to recharge—so no waiting, no downtime, ever. Imagine cities where mass transit vehicles don’t alter the landscape but become part of the scenery; no above-ground catenaries or wires leaving the visual beauty of landmarks and heritage sites unspoiled. Our PRIMOVE transportation system transforms this vision from imagination to reality. PRIMOVE technology is one of the highlights within our innovative ECO4 portfolio of technologies, offering energy-efficient and cost-effective solutions for total mobility Primove performance. The PRIMOVE solution is a game-changing technology that enables the wireless charging of all types of electric transport, from light rail and bus networks to commercial vehicles and cars. Based on inductive power transfer, the PRIMOVE system liberates e-mobility from the constraints of cables, wires and plugs, making urban transport more flexible and convenient than ever before. By applying the inductive principle, PRIMOVE technology allows energy to be transmitted without contact between components buried underground and receiving equipment installed beneath the vehicle. It powers vehicles whether they’re in motion (dynamic charging) or at rest (static charging) with energy transfer at high power levels providing quick and convenient charging. With PRIMOVE technology, cities can now integrate light rail vehicles into areas where conventional catenary networks are prohibited or unwelcome, such as urban centres, parks, gardens and protected heritage sites. The charging process is fully automated, driver friendly and hassle free. No specific training or qualifications are required and the driver never comes into contact with electricity, ensuring that the entire process is safe. The system is vandal proof and compatible with all weather and ground conditions. PRIMOVE is about moving people within cities, sustainably and conveniently. 32 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS Cseries aircraft Scheduled to enter service in late 2013, the CSeries jetliner is the only 100% newly designed aircraft to meet Our approach to innovation consists of an understanding today’s operational realities. Optimized for the longer range, of our customers’ needs coupled with the application single-aisle, 100to 149-seat market, the CSeries aircraft family of the most advanced technology to develop high performance offers the lowest operating costs in its class and exceptional solutions. operational flexibility. Tailored to the challenges of our time, We designed the CSeries aircraft family in collaboration this family will meet both the growing demands of airlines and with airlines, listening to what they had to say about their the travelling public with respect to comfort, performance current and future needs as well as their passengers’ and reliability. It will deliver radically reduced emissions and a expectations, while applying our total lifecycle approach. significant fuel burn advantage. These aircraft will fly four times quieter than any other in-production aircraft in their class. With an unmatched environmental scorecard, the CSeries—the greenest single-aisle aircraft in its class—will be as responsible as it is profitable.1 1 Under certain operating conditions, when compared to aircraft currently in service for flights of 500 nautical miles. See CSeries aircraft family program disclaimer on the inside back cover of this report. Cs300 commercial aircraft 33 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Leading through innovation It’s easy being green: the train of the future Setting a new In 2011, the Gröna Tåget (Green Train) research project in standard for Sweden established that new-generation trains running on standard tracks can readily deliver higher speeds and lower trains energy cosumption, noise and costs. The project integrates ideas, proposals and technical solutions aimed at making long distance and fast regional “The Green Train concept has set services more attractive to travellers and operators. a new train standard that offers The project was a cooperative initiative between low-cost high speed capabilities the Swedish Transport Administration, Bombardier with even lower environmental footprint Transportation, the Royal Institute of Technology in than previously achieved.” Stockholm and several other partners. The Gröna Tåget itself is a fast, electric tilting train that Henrik Tengstrand can reach speeds of 300 km/h. Its highly aerodynamic design Director, Mainline and Metros Vehicle Performance and more efficient motors, which even generate electricity Engineering and Bombardier Transportation’s Project when braking, have been shown to reduce power consumption Director for Gröna Tåget by 30% to 35%. Given the nature of existing Nordic track profiles, new “green” trains can be designed wider than current trains, creating more passenger space. This translates into reduced operating costs. Gröna Tåget Green train 34 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS Adding engines to reduce emissions Within Aerospace, Design for Environment has been rapidly gaining traction since its introduction in 2008. The In 2011, Transportation’s diesel locomotive engineers faced the group’s DfE team continues to expand to meet a growing need challenge of achieving compliance with the European Union’s for its services and expertise, with one dedicated DfE expert (EU) latest emission standards, which could not have been met assigned to each new aircraft program. by conventional diesel locomotives with large power packs. The team’s goal is to increasingly embed DfE principles in They also had to address the reality that the number of diesel aircraft design and to write the industry standard for Lifecycle locomotives in production was too small to justify a major Assessments and Environmental Product Declarations, much investment in the development of a new power pack to meet like our Transportation group accomplished in the rail industry. the stricter standards. By December 31, 2011, approximately 200 Aerospace Our engineers came up with an innovative, practical engineers had received in-class DfE training. We’re planning solution: use four smaller industrial diesel engines compliant more advanced training, through both classroom and with the latest standards, already in production in large e-learning programs, for engineers and managers in 2012. quantities. This multi-engine solution offered many advantages, including: • the significantly lower cost of purchasing four engines as compared to designing and manufacturing a custommade large diesel power pack • extremely high reliability as the locomotive can still move even if three of the four engines fail (similar to multiengine aircraft) • major reductions in energy consumption and emissions as one or more engines can be shut down or cut back when full power isn’t required Our Design for Environment approach cs100 Commercial aircraft Our Design for Environment (DfE) approach is a fundamental component of our product responsibility strategy. DfE at Bombardier dates back over 15 years to when our Transportation group began embedding the approach as a core function in designing state-of-the-art rail transportation equipment. Today 25 dedicated DfE experts at Transportation enhance our expertise and ensure current and future legal and environmental requirements are addressed at the earliest stages. More than 900 Transportation engineers and procurement specialists are trained to apply DfE principles and guidelines. 35 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report DfE in the Global 7000 and Global 8000 programs The CSeries was the first aircraft designed with rigorously applied DfE principles from day one. It was also the first program within Bombardier to integrate a lifecycle analysis tool. We subsequently applied the lessons learned during the development of our CSeries commercial aircraft, scheduled to enter into service in 2013, in the design of the Global 7000 and Global 8000 aircraft. The newest members of our Global aircraft family incorporate the latest technologies for reducing the Global 7000 business jet environmental impact of their production and operation. From the first days of development, the Global aircraft design team committed to creating a product that systematically addresses environmental concerns. Among other things, this meant incorporating such features as high efficiency engines and greater controls on emission output to reduce the aircraft’s environmental impact. We also invite suppliers to participate in our design program because we recognize that their decisions can dramatically affect the environmental footprint of our products. Our ultimate goal is to fully embed DfE in Aerospace’s day-to-day business operations and design practices. Global 8000 business jet Designing it right from the start “The aviation industry has collectively set ambitious environmental targets. It is well understood that 60% to 80% of an aircraft’s environmental impact is determined at the design stage, so by applying DfE to our aircraft programs to minimize environmental impact, we ensure that our products are part of the solution to the industry’s ambitions.” Guy C. Hachey President and Chief Operating Officer Bombardier Aerospace 36 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS Short, simple and effective DfE tools This year, Transportation issued two new EPDs for the INNOVIA Metro 200 and a second for the REGINA Intercity X55 Sometimes the simplest solutions are the best. regional train. The INNOVIA Metro 200 EPD is the first EPD During 2011, our Aerospace engineers developed new tools in North America to apply ISO 14025 standards. Both EPDs to accurately measure reductions in CO2 emission levels from apply the Association of the European Rail Industry’s (UNIFE) weight savings and aerodynamic changes by simply inputting Product Category Rules for Rail Vehicles (PCR 2009:05) and fuel consumption rates into a spreadsheet and calculating the follow the International EPD System. results with a couple of mouse clicks. At Aerospace, we’ll issue EPDs for all new aircraft They employed the same idea to calculate drag counts for programs upon entry into service, an industry first. This airflow surfaces, a critical element in wing design, enabling an initiative will begin in 2013 when our CSeries commercial instant review of aerodynamic impacts. aircraft and Learjet 85 business aircraft enter into service. Aerospace also developed a light DfE tool called the EPDs will detail the overall environmental performance B-EcoTool. This tool can be used to easily assess the of our aircraft, including: environmental footprint of a design and while comparing different options in trade studies. It can also be used to assess • hazardous materials used the toxicological effects of some hazardous materials. • raw material use and breakdown These tools help engineers take environmental • recyclability of maintained parts considerations into account at the earliest design stages and • recyclability at end of life to simplify the environmental assessment process, enabling • performance data (e.g. noise and other emissions) Aerospace achieve its DfE targets more efficiently and at virtually no cost. The lessons learned in preparing the environmental impact assessments required to produce these EPDs will be integrated Spreading the DfE word into our DfE process. This will help us introduce continuous improvements in our future aircraft programs and understand Published quarterly, e-IQ is a new, user-friendly environmental more fully the overall environmental impact of an aircraft intelligence report featuring a wide range of content to support throughout its entire lifecycle. decision-making regarding environmental matters. e-IQ updates key internal stakeholders on the latest environmental news. To support the engineering community and DfE-trained employees, we produce DfE flyers and posters that serve as at-a-glance reminders of key DfE principles to apply daily. All DfE documents are made accessible to employees on a dedicated DfE portal on Aerospace’s intranet. Unified approach to material compliance Transportation’s Material Product List helps minimize the duplication of work for DfE engineers and our suppliers. Developed by the Kingston DfE team, this tool streamlines the efforts of Transportation’s North American DfE team when dealing with documentation requirements for suppliers. Using this approach, our Transportation group is able to leverage its Innovia metro 200 purchasing power across its supply chain. Both the Systems division and Bombardier Transportation North America have benefited from this tool. Declaring our environmental performance At Transportation, we publish Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) to inform all of our key stakeholders about the environmental performance of our products. This enables our customers to fully understand the environmental impact of operating the transportation products they buy from us. learjet 85 business jet 37 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Leading through research The aerospace industry in particular faces major product end-of-life challenges. Over the next 20 years, approximately Dealing with a product’s end of life 250 commercial aircraft will be withdrawn from service every When the product development project is launched, it’s year. Due to a current lack of necessary infrastructure and important to immediately consider what will happen to that technologies to undertake recycling of these aircraft profitably, product at the end of its service life. With growing focus on it’s estimated that more than half will be abandoned in deserts energy efficiency, changing waste requirements and steady or warehouses. increases in raw material costs, the management of end-of-life At Aerospace, our goal is to bring that number down issues has become a significant component of the product significantly by improving the reusability and recyclability of development process. aircraft parts. We’re making major investments to achieve That’s why, in 2011, Transportation worked with the UNIFE this objective. Sustainable Transport Committee topical group to develop a For example in 2012, we’ll work with the Consortium for recyclability calculation method (RCM) for rolling stock and Research and Innovation in Aerospace in Québec (CRIAQ) equipment. The method provides a series of algorithms to and other industry partners, donating a Bombardier CRJ200 calculate the percentage weight of the product rolling stock regional jet to be dismantled to determine which of its that can potentially be either recycled, reused or both. thousands of parts and materials can be recycled. The RCM can be applied to follow the flow of materials The dismantling will take place at the new Aerospace extracted, from a vehicle through the pre-treatment, Technology Centre inaugurated in St. Hubert, Canada, dismantling for example, and shredder stages of the recycling in November 2011. This facility will be used to conduct process to determine its overall recyclability potential. experiments associated with dismantling the aircraft. CRJ200 regional aircraft 38 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS The research obtained will help us make a broad range Designing for Safety of recommendations for the recovery, revalorization and Our responsibility for product development includes both redistribution of reusable and disposable parts and materials at environmental and social considerations. Just as we design for the end of an aircraft’s life. the environment in creating new products, we also design for Bombardier Aerospace is acting as the industrial lead safety at every stage of the production, maintenance and endand supplying financial assistance and in-kind contributions to of-life processes to provide end-users with optimal comfort, achieve the best outcomes in the shortest amount of time. We space, reliability, style and security. fully expect this project to deliver a new level of expertise to The mission of our Aerospace and Transportation Design the Québec and Canadian aerospace industries on how to deal for Safety teams is to contribute to and support every phase of with aircraft and other complex manufactured products at the the design effort to ensure that our products take into account end of their service life. the many related human factors. It’s their job to ensure that our At the end of 2011, we also conducted a research and products are fully compatible with the cognitive and physical development project with CRIAQ and other industry partners attributes of the people who will assemble, maintain, support to investigate the recyclability potential of certain carbon and operate them. composite materials. The project studied several methods of Team members participate in the design evaluation recycling composite materials originating from a variety of of every new product, assessing in detail the assembly, sources, including manufacturing wastes, manufacturing molds maintenance and services tasks that will need to be performed and carbon parts removed from aircraft at their end of life. to design, manufacture, service and operate the product over By finding innovative solutions to help eliminate much of its lifespan. the waste produced during the manufacturing and end-of-life Their work is extremely broad and includes carefully cycle of our products, we expect to acquire knowledge that evaluating concerns such as tools suitability, reach zone, we can then share across the aviation industry and in other security, force/fatigue considerations, vision and comfort. manufacturing sectors. At Aerospace, except for the cockpit, DfS team members are involved in every design phase for all aircraft programs. Manufacturing products safely Across our organization, an overriding objective is to design Managing product safety at Aerospace products that have no detrimental impact on the safety of the The travelling public has every right to expect that product people manufacturing, using and maintaining them. We do this safety will keep pace with the growing number of aircraft in by ensuring that we consider the health and safety impacts of service. In 2011, we continued to make significant progress in our significant products and services during all lifecycle stages, implementing our Safety Management System (SMS), which complementing our DfE program. Through this approach, we enforces the highest industry safety standards and integrates strive to: leading safety processes into the aircraft production process. • avoid hazards throughout the product lifecycle by using SMS provides a framework for adding new safety measures proven designs and materials as well as diverse, redundant to our current processes and practices and defines how we or fail-safe components manage product safety throughout the Aerospace group. The Employee Safety Reporting System (ESRS) is one • implement product safety requirements at all project of the SMS processes at Aerospace. This confidential process stages allows employees to report issues that they believe affect • include safety requirements in the project’s Requirements product safety. It serves as an additional safety net to capture Management documentation and procurement potential issues not addressed by regular reporting and specifications corrective action processes. • incorporate safety standards in all operation and maintenance documentation • ensure product safety through subsequent product changes or modifications 39 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Managing product safety at Transportation Minimizing use of hazardous substances Launched in 2005, Transportation’s Product Safety Hazardous substances may impact production, maintenance, Management System specifies the roles, responsibilities use and end-of-life treatment of our products. To comply and cycles for ensuring continuous improvement within the with regulations, including the European Union’s Regulation group by: on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), our Aerospace and Transportation groups • defining product safety requirements based on laws and apply a systematic approach to measure, track and manage regulations in each country in which the group operates chemical risks throughout our supply chain. and on customer, regulator and other legitimate thirdThe Bombardier HSE Council keeps each of our operating party criteria units abreast of any changes in REACH regulation while • ensuring that safety requirements are fulfilled during the participating in the Aerospace and Transportation REACH development and delivery of products and services working groups launched in 2011. We continue to work with our suppliers to build our knowledge of chemical risks and identify • analyzing incidents and accidents to review and improve alternatives to hazardous substances. product safety performance Our Banned and Restricted Substances List takes into Every project design team is responsible for collecting and account HSE issues. This list helps us eliminate banned integrating safety analyses conducted by the subsystem substances and reduce the use of restricted substances teams. This data is then summarized in a Safety Case Report while remaining fully compliant with legal requirements. It prepared by the project’s lead safety engineer. also assists us in targeting and replacing substances that are currently restricted and may be banned in the future. Enhancing product safety skills We share our Banned and Restricted Substances List with our suppliers and require them to disclose the substances they In 2011, Transportation launched an action plan to review use. This enables us to ensure that supplied products and subits programs and develop new courses that closely reflect assemblies comply with our requirements. industry standards in Product Safety. The group will continue The list also helps us identify where these substances are to pursue this initiative in 2012 with the aim of harmonizing used in manufacturing our products as well as work with our and enhancing its product safety initiatives. suppliers to make substitutions if and when necessary. Transportation’s Centre of Competence in Product We review our list annually, adjusting the status of Safety is composed of representatives from all Transportation substances or adding new materials based on changes in divisions, including specialists in product safety. These applicable regulatory frameworks. specialists meet twice a year for face-to-face meetings and monthly for conference calls. A variety of subjects are Release of an industry-accepted discussed and actions taken to constantly enhance the group’s Railway Industry Substances List (RISL) product safety organization, process and methodology. In 2011, Transportation successfully implemented a safety During 2011, we continued our work with UNIFE’s Sustainable incident/accident reporting database to apply the lessons Transportation Committee throughout a comprehensive learned from experiences in the field during the design process review of European and selected international environmental to improve the safety of its products. legislation. The result is an industry-accepted list of substances that are either classified as prohibited or declarable. The Railway Industry Substances List (RISL) provides guidance for the entire supply chain on controlled substances, banned substances as well as substances that must be declared prior to use in the design. 40 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS Standing up for safety: Aerospace’s Safety Standdown Over the past 10 years, nearly 80% of all business and corporate turbojet accidents have been caused by human error. The fact that over 18,000 business jets are operating around the world today underlines the importance of Bombardier’s Safety Standdown forum. This annual gathering of aviation professionals, including pilots, flight crews, technicians, schedulers and aviation executives has become the industry’s most respected and valued safety forum. Safety Standdown was conceived in 1996 as a safety training event for the Bombardier Learjet flight demonstration team and was opened to outside pilots and flight crews three years later. Safety Standdowns are held annually in Wichita, Safety Standdown training U.S., and around the world. 2011 marked the expansion of the initiative into Asia, with the launch of the first Safety Standdown event in Shanghai, China, in June and saw the second Latin America Safety Standdown in São Paulo, Brazil, in August. Bombardier’s Satety Standdown is supported by the National Business Aviation Association (NBAA) and has been endorsed by the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. The program is also recognized by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Bombardier is the only civil aircraft manufacturer currently offering knowledge-based training free of charge The 15th Annual Safety Standdown in Wichita, U.s. across the aviation industry. From left to right: Gene Cernan, American astronaut and Bombardier Safety Ambassador; actor William Shatner; Rod Williams, Vice President Marketing, In April 2011, the Flight Safety Bombardier Business Aircraft Foundation presented Bombardier with the Business Aviation Meritorious Service Award in recognition of the Safety Standdown Program. 41 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Excellence in execution Like any business, our skill in executing the projects we take on the execution determines how much value we generate for our stakeholders. Customer satisfaction is about asking ourselves “If I do imperative this, will it create value for our customers? If not, what can I change so that it does?” Over the past three years, Transportation’s Customer “Strong execution increases productivity, Satisfaction Management process has been used to engage lowers costs, reduces waste and thus with the group’s top 25 customers worldwide. ensures greener and safer operations, Twice a year, it tracks and measures 14 internal KPIs in four areas: and improves the customer experience. It also means that we’re managing our risks • customer orientation well. In fact, it’s all interconnected. When • sales and price • project management our employees are engaged and their • product execution talents fully developed, we operate more smoothly and deliver a higher quality Our Transportation group conducted five surveys to date consisting of face-to-face interviews with our key customers. product and service, which translates into The result has been a steady improvement in performance happier and more engaged customers.” in three of the four areas, with product execution—on-time delivery—remaining our customers’ biggest concern. Pierre Alary Individual customer action plans are being implemented Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer across the organization to improve our execution in all Bombardier Inc. four areas. Embracing change to increase customer satisfaction When our Transportation group won the contract to provide 140 regional coaches to the Swiss Federal Railways (SBB), customer-centric the value of its change in approach to customer engagement was clearly demonstrated. metrics built into To win the TWINDEXX double-deck bid, Transportation incentive plans presented a proposal that went beyond a product investment perspective to take into account SBB’s total lifecycle, operational and technological issues. “To achieve our goal of being number one SBB has clearly been impressed by the group’s performance: in less than four years, Transportation’s customer in customer satisfaction, customer-centric satisfaction rating from SBB tripled. metrics are now part of all management and employee incentive plans. This makes our commitment to customer satisfaction very tangible and real.” André Navarri President and Chief Operating Officer Bombardier Transportation 42 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | PRODUCTS Keeping the promise: operating Regional Support Offices (RSO) staffed by more than brand ambassadors 150 support personnel, to deliver the highest standards of service excellence to our customers. Putting customers first You. First. Best-in-class engagement That’s the motto of Bombardier Customer Services As part of our growing regional support network, we doubled the (BCS)—a promise that’s being kept by more than 4,000 BCS number of RSOs around the world in 2011 to provide even better brand ambassadors every day. They say: “we’ll do whatever it service to our business aircraft customers. takes to put our customers first.” A new feature-rich online customer portal, iflybombardier.com, Their mission is to be recognized as the number one is also earning top marks with our customers. aircraft services company in the world and the primary reason Our most recent customer engagement survey reported why customers choose to operate Bombardier aircraft. that both Business and Commercial Aircraft continue to improve BCS is the only division that extends across the entire customer satisfaction. Business Aircraft customers rated us bestAerospace group. In its own words, BCS brings together in-class in customer engagement, with Learjet approaching the “the people, the passion and the performance” to put world-class benchmark. customers first. This means investing in product enhancements to deliver the highest levels of reliability and performance across our platforms. It entails investing nearly $200 million to support Aerospace’s Parts Satisfaction Guarantee. And it includes Global, learjet and challenger business jets 43 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report OPERATIONS We’re committed to fostering innovative operations that enables us to deliver more environmentally compatible aircraft and make the world’s most sustainable mode of mass transit—rail—even more sustainable. We’re committed to doing this with the least environmental impact possible. This includes monitoring key environmental performance indicators, setting realistic targets and developing concrete initiatives to achieve our goals. It also includes implementing innovative programs like our Bombardier Green Fund, dedicated to leveraging employee insight to improve the environmental efficiency and impact of our operations. 44 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | OPERATIONS OBJECTIVES: highlights of our goals and performance Resource and Environmental Management What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Further enhance our centralized HSE • Implemented new management • Implement 2012 Green Fund projects, Information Management System (IMS), application in our centralized HSE IMS launch 2013 Green Fund campaign, integrating HSE data collection and siteand support best practices across • Began to monitor new environmental specific management programs and tools organization indicators to broaden the scope of • Begin monitoring new environmental future reporting • Develop dashboard with strategic indicators (waste valorization index, use indicators for our centralized HSE IMS • Launched the 2011 Green Fund of volatile organic compounds [VOC] implementation in 2013 campaign and implemented a number and number of environmental incidents) of Green Fund projects • Review and improve Aerospace’s across Bombardier Energy and Carbon Management • Defined site-specific GHG emission • Enhance existing environmental reporting Strategy reduction targets for the most using these new indicators to better significant locations and monitored • Eliminate redundant data management fulfill Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) progress at Transportation to satisfy needs of requirements specific system standards • Launch an annual Green Fund project • Identify optimum targets for water campaign across the company to finance consumption and waste generation at environmental efficiency initiatives Transportation and establish related • Establish site-specific CO2 emission action plan studies at local level reduction targets for our Transportation sites 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit: csr.bombardier.com/operations/objectives. querétaro, mexico qingdao, china mirabel, Canada 45 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Our environmental performance OUR EQUIVILANCIES Between 2007 and 2011 we... … decreased … achieved an … saved … decreased our water overall 8.2% or 71,899 metric hazardous waste consumption 411,338 gigajoule tonnes of CO2 production by 5.3% or reduction equivalent, by 10.7%, from 120,852 cubic in energy comparable 11,758 metric metres, a consumption, to taking tonnes in 2007 reduction savings that could 14,097 passenger to 10,498 metric equivalent to the power more than vehicles off the tonnes in 2011, volume of water in 119,000 homes road over a year. comparable 40 Olympic-sized over a month. to taking swimming pools. 36 fully loaded merchandise trucks off the road. Our environmental targets Energy consumption and Waste and Water GHG emissions1 hazardous waste consumption an additional 10% reduction between an additional 9% reduction between an additional 3% reduction between 2009 and 2013, based on 2008 data 2010 and 2012, based on 2009 data 2010 and 2012, based on 2009 data 1 Transportation’s reduction target is 20% for GHG emissions. 46 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | OPERATIONS Our environmental performance1,2 Energy Consumption GHG Emissions Water consumption (in millions of gigajoules) (in thousands of metric tonnes CO2e) (in millions of cubic metres) Aerospace Aerospace Aerospace Transportation Transportation Transportation 5.36 412 4.99 5.00 384 2.28 2.30 2.30 4.64 361 2.13 2.16 4.58 328 312 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Energy Energy Energy Consumption Consumption Consumption GHG GHG GHGEmissions Emissions Emissions Water Water Water Waste Waste Was(H ( 2.86 2.862.862.13 2.132.13 201.88 201.88201.88181.86 181.86181.86 12 1 3.16 3.163.162.20 2.202.20 1.55 1.551.55 3 0.72 0.720.72 Waste (Hazardous 218.25218.25 218.25 193.36 193.36193.36 Hazardous Waste 12 1 2.88 2.882.882.12 2.122.12 and Non-Hazardous)3 183.66 177.39 183.66 183.66 177.39 (in thousands of metric1.57 177.39 1.57 1.570.72 tonnes) 0.720.72 11 1 2.82 2.822.821.83 1.831.83 (in thousands of metric tonnes) 1.58 1.58 1.58 0.72 0.720.72 180.43 180.43180.43147.80 147.80147.80 20 2 2.952.951.63 2.95 1.631.63 Aerospace Aerospace 1.60 1.601.600.53 0.530.53 Transportation 178.84 178.84 133.00 178.84133.00 133.00Transportation 20 2 1.54 1.541.540.61 0.610.61 11.76 55.31 11.24 10.50 49.58 10.15 9.80 28.61 28.18 24.40 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ter Waste (HazardousWaste (Hazardous and Non-Hazardous) and Non-Hazardous) Hazardous Waste Waste Hazardous 1 7.91 3.85 7.91 3.85 As of 2010, the scope of our reported environmental and energy data includes: buildings we own or lease long term and manage as the sole tenant, with more 12.33 16.28 12.33 16.28 0.72 than 15,000 square metres (50,000 square feet) of conditioned space; sites having 150 employees or more; sites that are considered primary production/operation 8.73 8.73 2.51 2.51 and service facilities; group headquarters; and joint ventures where we have operational control (where we own more than 50% of voting shares). 12.94 15.23 12.94 15.23 0.72 2 2010 data has been updated to address internal audit findings by the Corporate Audit Services and Risk Assessment (CASRA) internal audit team. 11.17 11.17 data has13.24 13.24 7.63 2.52 7.63 2.52 0.72 3 As of 2010, our waste been expanded to include all disposal streams and not just non-valorized waste as reported in previous years. 20.11 29.47 20.11 29.47 6.60 3.20 6.60 3.20 0.53 20.47 34.84 20.47 34.84 7.01 7.01 3.49 3.49 0.61 47 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report The Bombardier Green Fund Our employees are the heart of our operations. In 2010, we created the Bombardier Green Fund to solicit the best management and employee insight to further improve our energy efficiency and overall environmental footprint. We wanted to draw upon their understanding of our day-today operations while further embedding CSR across our sites. Proposals are submitted to the Green Fund selection committee which selects projects based on optimal energy and GHG emission savings, payback period and cost. The Green Fund enjoyed outstanding success in its first year, with 19 projects implemented at both Aerospace and Transportation. solar wall, global completion centre, canada 48 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | OPERATIONS Aerospace: solar preheating and new lighting fixtures save energy In 2011, Aerospace received nearly 200 Green Fund ideas from employees and selected eight to launch the program within the group. At our Global Completion Centre in Montréal, Québec, where the installation of interiors is the final production step prior to delivery of the aircraft to the customer, we installed a solar wall to preheat the building in which the paint shop is housed. This move will result in CO₂ emission savings of 65 tonnes annually and 35,000 m3 of energy savings from natural gas. lighting system, Toronto Downsview facility, canada At our Toronto Downsview site in Ontario, we replaced the 20-year-old lighting fixtures in the warehouse building and bay area with the latest in fluorescent fixtures, reducing energy consumption by 45%. This initiative will result in an annual reduction of 181 tonnes of CO2 emissions and energy savings of 821,000 kWh. Also in Toronto, the Green Fund financed the replacement of the existing constant-flow chilled water pumping system with a variable flow system. This change made the building more comfortable for employees by improving control of the interior climate. It also resulted in substantial cost savings. In addition, CO2 emissions will be reduced by 128 tonnes annually and 584,000 kWh of electrical energy will be saved annually. At the Dorval headquarters, near the Montréal-Trudeau International Airport, an electrical steam boiler that generates humidity for the ventilation system was replaced by an atomized water system that requires no heat to operate. This initiative will reduce annual CO2 emissions by nine tonnes and cut electrical energy consumption by 1.8 million kWh annually. In the Business Aircraft Service Center in Dallas, Texas, financial support from the Green Fund enabled the group to replace 77 1000-watt Mercury Halide fixtures with 12 T5 high-output High Bay lights. The old fixtures were positioned between two hangars and consumed nearly 600,000 kWh annually in electrical energy. By replacing them with the 12 new lamp fixtures, total energy use per year will be reduced by more than 230,000 kWh, resulting in major cost savings. In addition, CO2 emissions will be reduced by 156 tonnes annually. 49 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Transportation: carbon-neutral operations in sight At Transportation, more than 80 prospective projects were identified through nine separate studies. Following a review of each proposal, 11 Green Fund projects were implemented during 2011 that proved to be not only environmentally responsible but also cost effective. Transportation also achieved an annual reduction of 1,800 tonnes of CO2 emissions from projects supported by the Fund. The range of Transportation’s Green Fund projects is widely dispersed both geographically and operationally. Česká Lipa, Czech Republic At our Česká Lípa site in the Czech Republic, we made the paint shop operations more energy efficient by introducing a sand-blasting robot. This move significantly reduced energy consumption and optimized the timing of on-off appliance switching in the spraying and drying booths, which lowered annual CO2 emissions by 800 tonnes. Eventually this site plans to purchase 20% of its annual electricity consumption from renewable sources. Also at the Česká Lípa site, we implemented a high efficiency ventilation control system, adjustable to the demands of the production process. Ventilating units equipped with heat recovery are auto controlled to ensure maximum energy saving, reducing carbon emissions by 80 tonnes Siegen, germany each year. Lighting optimization projects are popular at several sites because of the moderate investment required and their short payback period. For example, Česká Lípa installed automatic switch-off controllers to shut off its main lighting during breaks and at shift-ends, reducing annual carbon emissions by 28%. Another successful initiative was the recent installation of fluorescent lights with electronic ballast to replace old mercury lamps at our site in Siegen, Germany. This move reduced annual greenhouse gas emissions by 23 tonnes. The total reduction in carbon emissions resulting from all lighting projects will be more than 400 tonnes per year. At our Görlitz site in Germany, we optimized energy GÖrlitz, germany consumption during set-up and drying operations in the painting booths by installing a smart consumption controller. This will reduce carbon emissions by 300 tonnes annually. 50 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | OPERATIONS Transportation’s Carbon Neutral Champions Network will be a key factor in developing these projects successfully. This network of energy specialists from 20 sites around the world liaises regularly via conference calls to share best practices. The network plays a major role in Transportation’s efforts to embed CSR throughout its operations. Transportation expects that an estimated 400 Green Fund projects will have been launched across all its sites by the year 2020. These are but a few of the many Green Fund projects that are currently underway or in development to help us meet our environmental responsibilities with the help of our employees. Employees at the Derby facility, U.K. 51 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report SUPPLY CHAIN To achieve a high standard of corporate social responsibility, we strive to develop and sustain strong supplier relationships based on trust, transparency and open communication. That’s why we work with suppliers that commit to our rigorous Supplier Code of Conduct. It’s also why we go beyond the provisions of this code to actively engage our suppliers on a daily basis in responsible supply chain management. 52 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | SUPPLY CHAIN OBJECTIVES: highlights of our goals and performance Supply Chain Management What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Develop a comprehensive five-year • Brought the number of suppliers • Continue the deployment of our roadmap to reduce restricted and committed to respecting the principles responsible supply chain roadmap, hazardous substance use in supplied of our Supplier Code of Conduct to focusing at Transportation on products and work with other Original more than 500 Transportation master conducting more on-site CSR spotEquipment Manufacturers to harmonize vendors and 245 Aerospace suppliers checks and at Aerospace on further supplier requirements operating under formal contracts implementing the compliance program for the Supplier Code of Conduct • Continue deployment of the compliance • Developed a responsible supply chain program for our Supplier Code of Conduct roadmap • Train our high potential procurement managers on CSR values and practices • Explore options to harmonize our • At Transportation, completed a second Supplier Code of Conduct with other survey on supplier relationships approaches taken by the European rail • Started to train key Aerospace team industry through UNIFE (The Association members on social and environmental of the European Rail Industry) to reduce issues within the framework of our duplication of monitoring efforts Supplier Code of Conduct compliance • Launch a survey of Transportation plan suppliers on supplier relations management and communication with a participation feedback rate of at least 30% of our master vendors 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit: csr.bombardier.com/supply-chain/objectives. CSERIES aircraft interior pratt & Whitney Purepower® innovia metro interior geared turbofan engine 53 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Strengthening every link in the supply chain Our Supplier Code of Conduct: a statement of principle Four years ago, we launched our Supplier Code of Conduct, a clear statement to the industry and the public of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact principles. To do business with us, our suppliers are also required to commit to respecting these principles. As of December 31, 2011, 245 Aerospace suppliers operating under formal contracts had committed to respecting the principles of our Supplier Code of Conduct. Of these, 93 are aircraft equipment suppliers whose products and services represent 91%1 of our total aircraft-related procurement spend. The remaining 152 suppliers provide non-aircraft-related products and services, representing about three-quarters1 of spend in that category. At Aerospace, the target is to have 100% of suppliers committed to our Supplier Code or equivalent code. To achieve this target, the Supplier Code is systematically incorporated into every new contract, contract amendment and purchase order. A strategy is now in place to monitor compliance. By the end of 2011, all 548 Transportation master vendors had reported compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct, representing 70% of the group’s procurement spend, compared to 469 at year-end 2010. Because the list of master vendors changes regularly as projects are started and completed, Transportation requires that vendors affirm their compliance with the Supplier Code on an annual basis. At Transportation, the focus is currently on securing the commitment of all master vendors to the Supplier Code. Master vendors are strategic suppliers as well as suppliers with a high annual spend. We’ll gradually cast our net wider to include smaller, higher risk suppliers. Going beyond the Supplier Code of Conduct At both Transportation and Aerospace, 2011 was dedicated to developing strategies to ensure our suppliers respect the principles of our Supplier Code of Conduct. We’re currently implementing a series of compliance programs designed to support these strategies. Compliance means that suppliers have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct, have signed equivalent industry-association codes, have demonstrated that their internal systems cover our Supplier Code, or have provided evidence that their parent company’s commitment meets the standards required by our all aboard! Supplier Code. 1 Using 2008 as reference year 54 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | SUPPLY CHAIN At both Aerospace and Transportation, we’re actively The objective is to harmonize the group’s compliance embedding our supply chain roadmap to promote CSR among programs and external verification with the UNIFE framework. our suppliers and integrate its principles into our Supplier Harmonization will reduce the time and, for suppliers, expense Evaluation and Approval Process (SEAP) to help assess risk Transportation devotes to monitoring its suppliers and ease in our Procurement Excellence program, and into our supplier the burden of compliance reporting that they currently face. development process. These initiatives are helping both our Aerospace and To better manage non-financial risks, in 2011, Transportation groups make steady progress towards their Transportation updated its Procurement Guide and related common goal of building and sustaining a reliable network directives as well as systematically anchored CSR in the of socially responsible suppliers in our key markets around procurement process. the world. In June 2011, Transportation completed a CSR supplier self-assessment survey to verify acceptance of its ethical, Forging alliances environmental and social standards. The self-assessment Transportation’s supplier communication plan helps forge survey is part of Transportation’s supplier roadmap to develop strategic long-term alliances with key suppliers and improve and integrate CSR practices in its supplier relationships. overall supply chain performance. The group’s various supplier More than 400 responses were received. advisory and technical boards encourage collaboration This self-assessment process provided a clear picture of on market strategies, technology roadmaps and business what our master vendors are doing in the high priority areas continuity issues. of HSE and quality control. It also gave us the information In addition, Transportation conducts regular supplier we needed to plan further initiatives to enhance the forums to facilitate discussions on key market issues, fostering business process. a mutual understanding of the potential major business The roadmap also includes on-site spot-checks introduced challenges that may lie ahead and how both sides can work in 2012. By the end of 2012, Transportation’s procurement together to address them. specialists will have conducted spot-checks with all critical Similarly, every year Aerospace invites top suppliers for a suppliers. When abnormalities are found, the next steps include full day of open discussions at its Strategic Supplier Executive extensive audits, improvement programs if required, and Meeting (SSEM). termination of the relationship in cases of continued non-compliance. Roadmap for integrating csr into procurement processes and supplier performance Self-declared compliance Simple Detailed, evidence-based Off-site management system with Supplier self-assessment desktop assessment maturity assessment Code of Conduct survey Management system On-site audits for critical suppliers, (own, 2nd and 3rd party) (primarily (14001/18001/EMAS) cross-linked to external risk assessment management requirement definition system focused) On-site spot-checks 2010 2011 2012-2014 Develop ON SITE Refine and roll out tool-supported Audits Iso-based SPOT-CHECKS FOR simple assessment audit scheme approach CRITICAL SUPPLIERS Compare INTEGRATE CSR-RELATED BINDING AND INDUSTRY Underlying different STANDARDS IN PROCUREMENT SANCTIONED CSR SECTOR Standards industry codes PROCESS REQUIREMENTS STANDARD of conduct 55 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report At the 2011 SSEM, frank and open discussions on key A BASiS for improvement market issues and opportunities to develop complementary In 2009, Aerospace launched a new supplier performance business strategies took place with 47 strategic suppliers. indicator tool called BASiS—the Bombardier Aerospace In the same spirit, the Supplier Advisory Board (SAB) is held Supplier Improvement System—to track supplier quality on a biannual basis, gathering eight of Aerospace’s most and delivery performance. The data gathered is shared with strategic suppliers for in-depth discussions on strategy, the suppliers to ensure that they consistently meet the required market and the industry at large. standards. In 2010, the group introduced top 30 suppliers. At Aerospace, we’re constantly looking for ways to By the end of 2011, BASiS was fully deployed across contribute to our suppliers’ development and help them all Aerospace production sites. Aerospace now tracks the improve operations. In 2011, we accelerated the deployment performance of all its suppliers and to this day, more than of our supplier value creation approach and other continuous 100 suppliers of aircraft-related materials, representing improvement programs. 450 production sites, benefit from this monitoring and Exemples include the 5-Star certification program communication tool. for fabricated metal parts suppliers, and several specific As a result, group managers were able to engage in much quality improvement plans developed with suppliers. We more comprehensive and fact-based discussions with these also collaborated with industry associations to create and suppliers to improve operational performance and meet their implement supplier development programs. mutual social responsibilities. Through these initiatives, we work collaboratively to: • improve productivity and quality “Deep dives” with master vendors • remove low value activities from our supply chain Transportation’s Supplier Relationship Management Program • integrate processes has the same objectives as BASiS. Using the master vendor • implement Lean manufacturing techniques that preserve list, the group collaborates with key suppliers to systematically value while requiring less work measure and analyze their performance. The program assists in the management of the technical, Three years ago, we began conducting executive reviews operational, commercial and financial performance of more with key suppliers, allowing all stakeholders to drive root-cause than 500 master vendors. It also plays a role in developing analysis and help achieve the permanent resolution of issues common product and market strategies. based on factual evidence. In 2011, we conducted six executive reviews with key strategic suppliers. acknowledging supplier achievement: Bombardier Aerospace 2011 CSR Awards From left to right: Guy C. Hachey, President and Chief Operating Officer, Bombardier Aerospace; Hélène V. Gagnon, Vice President, Public Affairs, Communication and Corporate Social Responsibility, Bombardier Aerospace; Rob Wilson, President, Business and General Aviation, Honeywell Aerospace; Maria Della Posta, Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing, Pratt & Whitney Canada; Marc Parent, President and CEO, CAE Inc.; David Gitlin, President, Aerospace Customer & Business Development, Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation; Janice Davis, Vice President, Supply Chain and Chief Procurement Officer, Bombardier Aerospace 56 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | SUPPLY CHAIN The Supplier Relationship Management program incorporates a series of case-driven, “deep dive” workshops that take a “total cost of ownership” (TCO) approach to Safeguarding optimizing the value chain. supplier health TCO includes the purchase price of a product and its transportation costs, as well as the handling, inspection, quality, and safety rework, maintenance and all other follow-in costs associated with the purchase. When we updated our HSE Policy three Building on this program, every year Transportation invites years ago, we clarified our HSE vision for between 120 and 140 master vendors to a Suppliers Day to all our stakeholders, including suppliers. discuss market developments and current business issues. In addition, the group completes more than 200 quarterly In 2011, we continued to leverage our business reviews with suppliers to address operational and HSE Policy, HSE directives and our financial issues and talk about business strategies. Supplier Supplier Code of Conduct to enforce performance dashboards have been introduced to help identify high standards across our facilities and issues for discussion and improvement. throughout the entire supply chain. Sharing product responsibility In fact, whenever suppliers sign a In 2011, to further reduce the use of restricted and hazardous contract with us, they’re expected substances in suppliers’ products, Aerospace published to uphold OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001 an engineering requirement document that provides a list or equivalent HSE standards. of banned and restricted substances for suppliers for new aircraft programs. That same year the group became a founding member of the International Aerospace Environmental Group (IAEG). This organization seeks to harmonize the industry response to existing and emerging environmental regulations and develop a common approach for supply chain issues. It also promotes the development and implementation of global environmental reporting standards for the entire aerospace industry. In the same way, for many years, Transportation has played a leading role in the UNIFE Sustainable Transport Committee, which developed an agreed list of prohibited and hazardous substances to provide guidance across the railway industry’s entire supply chain. To comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements, including REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) in the European Economic Area, both Aerospace and Transportation have implemented a systematic approach to measure, track and manage chemical acknowledging supplier achievement: BOMBARDIER TRANSPORTATION risks throughout the supply chain. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS AWARD We continue to work with suppliers to improve mutual From left to right: Shigeharu Nonoyama, General Manager, Hitachi Power Device Division; Pierre Attendu, Vice President, Operations knowledge of chemical risks and identify alternatives to and Chief Procurement Officer, Bombardier Transportation; the use of hazardous substances in product manufacturing. William McCluskey, Group Vice President, ABB; Christoph Schwärzler, Director, CSR Strategy, Bombardier Transportation We also maintain a list of restricted substances in the supplier requirement documentation. 57 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Engaging with others Acknowledging supplier achievement Fostering a responsible supply chain relies on our industry Our efforts to engage with suppliers on CSR go far beyond involvement. We actively engage with our suppliers to optimize requiring their compliance with our performance standards. supply chain performance throughout our sectors. We also believe that it’s important to recognize suppliers that share our commitment to CSR and demonstrate this Aerospace: building Québec’s commitment in the way they do business. aerospace supply chain In 2011, both Aerospace and Transportation established supplier recognition programs to acknowledge suppliers that, Our Aerospace group continues to play a leadership role in through their own initiatives and business practices, add value the MACH initiative of Aéro Montréal, the Québec aerospace to our supply chain and help us achieve our CSR goals. cluster. The MACH initiative, officially launched at Aerospace’s administrative centre in June 2011, is designed to optimize the performance of Québec’s aerospace supply chain and increase its global competitiveness. Transforming the supply chain requires a commitment to steady development and continuous improvement by all stakeholders. The MACH initiative aims to strengthen the Purchasing supply chain structure and the companies involved by creating managers special collaborative links between customers and suppliers. It also promotes specific strategies and individual projects that pass the test will help fill integration gaps within Québec’s aerospace supply chain and help it achieve true world-class status. on CSR topics Transportation: providing industry leadership This year, our Transportation group launched a pilot program in partnership For many years, our Transportation group has played with the European Institute of a leadership role in Der Verband der Bahnindustrie in Deutschland (VDB), the German railway industry association. Purchasing Management (EIPM). Eleven The railway industry in Germany is made up of more than Transportation managers successfully 130 companies, ranging from a few large-system operators, to completed the first certification courses a variety of medium-sized businesses. These companies supply for purchasing managers. specialized and innovative railway technology components and subsystems to a number of small businesses that provide These advanced procurement courses, engineering, testing and leasing services. held at EIPM in Archamps, France, By working closely with the VDB, Bombardier consisted of four week-long modules in Transportation fosters cooperation between suppliers and which CSR-related topics were embedded vehicle manufacturers to enhance the eco-competitiveness of in the curriculum. all forms of rail transportation. The group’s efforts are intended to encourage the development of superior technologies that In fact, CSR-related subjects made not only lower greenhouse gas emissions but also increase the up 20% of the total examination score energy efficiency of the entire rail infrastructure. for the program. 58 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | SUPPLY CHAIN Supplier recognition at Aerospace Supplier recognition at Transportation At Aerospace, our BASE (Bombardier Achieving Supplier In 2011, Transportation recognized the CSR achievements of Excellence) awards recognize suppliers that support our its suppliers Hitachi Europe Ltd. and Asea Brown Boveri Ltd. strategy of delivering an amazing customer experience by presenting them with its first Sustainable Suppliers Awards. through superior performance. These recognitions were awarded on the basis of our The BASE program evaluates suppliers by applying factsupplier self-assessment survey. The selection criteria cover based standards and a transparent measurement methodology conformity to international standards for quality systems (IRIS); to recognize their strategic contributions to our success. environment and HSE systems (ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001); During 2011, Aerospace also announced the results of its labour conditions and business ethics (SA 8000); as well as a new CSR supplier recognition program, which acknowledges general commitment to socially responsible business practice suppliers that distinguish themselves through their initiatives (such as GRI Level B reporting), and include philanthropic in support of CSR values and standards. The recipients for engagement. 2010 were: The awards acknowledge supplier accomplishments in sustainable development to emphasize the importance • CAE Inc., Montréal, Québec, Canada of corporations fostering a responsible supply chain as a strategic priority. • Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation, Windsor Locks, Hitachi was honoured for its sustainable product design Connecticut, U.S. and lifecycle concepts while ABB received the award for its • Honeywell Aerospace, Phoenix, Arizona, U.S. long-term engagement and continuous improvement in CSR. Additionally, in June 2011, Transportation inaugurated • Pratt & Whitney Canada, Longueuil, Québec, Canada the Supplier Improvement Award and honoured its Polish supplier RAWAG Sp. z o.o. in recognition of its outstanding achievements during the previous year. CRJ AIRCRAFT SHADOW AGC REGIONAL TRAIN 59 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report RESPONSIBLE CITIZENSHIP At the local level, we’re determined to live up to our responsibilities as a business, employer and community member by investing in and strengthening the communities in which we operate. Our goal is to make a positive contribution everywhere we do business. Today our efforts to support community engagement involve thousands of employees who are active volunteers in their communities. Our entire organization is becoming increasingly aligned around our 3E—Education, Environment, Entrepreneurship—approach to community engagement to heighten our social impact as we achieve our CSR goals. In the years ahead, we intend to enhance our focus on the 3Es and increase the number of employee volunteers participating in 3E-related initiatives. In 2011, we contributed more than $12 million to help build stronger and more self-sufficient communities, including $6.7 million to the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation and an additional $5.7 million to community organizations worldwide. The J. Armand Bombardier Foundation donated $6.5 million Cdn and pledged more than $11.3 million Cdn over the next eight years. 60 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | RESPONSIBLE CITIZENSHIP OBJECTIVES: highlights of our goals and performance Community Involvement What we said What we did1 What we’ll do we’d do in 2010-111 Progress in 2012 • Ensure progressive migration of • Improved alignment with our • Update the Donations, Sponsorships and Community community-related spending to 3E approach by nearly doubling Involvement Policy to include common Employee our new 3E approach supporting our focused contributions within Volunteering guidelines across Bombardier Education, Environment and the 3Es from 17% in 2010 to 33% • Define common key performance indicators (KPIs) Entrepreneurship, with the aim of in 2011 to measure community involvement (donations, achieving 80% of our donations • Created and implemented sponsorships and employee volunteering) with accurate and sponsorships budget to be a governing Employee monitoring, documentation, targets and reporting aligned with 3Es by 2015 Volunteering Committee • Further increase the percentage of spending dedicated • Provide a structured framework to establish guidelines and to initiatives aligned with the 3E approach for employees interested in formalized the guidelines in a volunteering activities draft company-wide policy • Grow internal and external awareness of the 3E approach and our related community activities 1 Due to the change in our reporting period to calendar year beginning in 2012, “What we did” covers the period from February 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011. For a complete list of our Objectives and progress, visit : csr.bombardier.com/responsible-citizenship/objectives. EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT ENTREPRENEURSHIP 61 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report How to apply for Bombardier’s support As a global corporate citizen, Bombardier supports charities, Our 3E Approach non-profit organizations and volunteering activities to build to Community strong communities, especially those in which we operate. When these communities thrive, then all our stakeholders, Support including our employees, benefit in the long term. Each year Bombardier receives many requests for financial Our 3E approach concentrates our support. Prospective applicants should be aware that the commitment to responsible citizenship objective of our Community Involvement policy is to allocate and community support on three 80% of our community funding to projects that fall within themes: Education, Environment and the Bombardier 3E approach, which is focused on Education, Entrepreneurship. These 3Es reflect Environment and Entrepreneurship. All requests must be submitted online at our core values and competencies as bombardier.sponsor.com. an organization. They help us ensure The following table summarizes our direct and indirect consistency in our community investment contributions over the past five fiscal years to the communities decisions across our groups, divisions and where we operate around the world. operating units worldwide. CONTRIBUTIONS WORLDWIDE (for the fiscal years ended) (in millions of dollars) Bombardier to the community Bombardier to the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation 16.1 7.5 13.4 7.6 12.4 6.7 10.4 10.7 4.5 5.3 8.6 5.9 5.8 5.7 5.4 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Jan 31 Dec 31 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 62 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | RESPONSIBLE CITIZENSHIP Contributing Globally: Students are given six weeks to build robots to meet The 3Es in Action the assigned sports challenge of the year. With the help of a mentor, they work with strict rules, limited resources and time constraints, combining the excitement of sports with the Education intellectual challenges of science and technology. Laurent Beaudoin, Bombardier’s Chairman of the Board Canada: inspiring a passion for technology of Directors, heads up FIRST Robotics Québec’s board. The organization receives funding from Bombardier Inc., The FIRST Robotics program turns learning about science and the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation, the BMO Financial technology into a hands-on experience—creating an exciting Group and other leading Québec corporations. Youth Fusion, adventure for kids around the world that’s rapidly gaining fans an organization dedicated to reducing the dropout rates in in Québec, Canada. Québec schools, also supports First Robotics. The FIRST Robotics program—“FIRST” means “For When FIRST was introduced in Québec in 2009, a pilot Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology”— project was held in two schools. In January 2011, our Saintis an innovative program that not only develops students’ Laurent manufacturing hangars hosted the inaugural FIRST science and technology skills and interests, but also their selfRobotics competition launch in Québec. confidence, leadership and life skills. In March 2011, teenagers from 14 Québec high schools travelled to Toronto to participate in the competition. First robotics program 63 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report United Kingdom: Austria, Germany and Switzerland: soaring with the Flight Experience Girls’ Day showcases career options As part of our extensive educational outreach program in For several years, our Transportation group has invited girls Northern Ireland, each year we invite about 500 students to aged 12 to 16 to visit local production sites in order to gain take part in the Flight Experience, our award-winning program fresh insight into a variety of career options traditionally for schools across the country. The program includes a wide dominated by men, such as welding, painting and mechanical range of practical activities and field trips to provide hands-on engineering. learning experiences. In April 2011, the group welcomed about 60 girls to Students learn about the history of flight and how production sites in several European sites, including Mannheim, to build a balsa-wood aircraft. The program also includes Kassel and Aachen in Germany, Vienna in Austria and Zurich in visits to a local museum and Belfast’s interactive discovery Switzerland. centre in addition to presentations from company engineers, The girls discovered the diverse job opportunities available apprentices and commercial pilots. in the rail industry and took part in new learning experiences, The program’s High Flyers module targets nineto such as exploring a powerful wind tunnel where vehicles 11-year-olds with a series of workshops. The module’s are tested under extreme climatic conditions in Vienna, and highlight—a flight in a Bombardier Q400 NextGen aircraft— touring a power lab in Zurich. allows the young high flyers to experience some of the theory they’ve learned. The Flight Experience program received the Belfast Telegraph’s Outstanding Community Involvement Award and the Allianz Arts & Business NI Business and Sustainability Award. the flight experience, u.k. girls’ day, VIENNA, AUSTRIA Flying full circle “The Flight Experience has been running for 10 years, and we are now starting to see some of the children who previously took part in the program applying for apprenticeships with us.” Tony Monaghan Education Liaison Officer Bombardier Aerospace Belfast, U.K. 64 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | RESPONSIBLE CITIZENSHIP India: a National Art Competition on South Africa: “Smart Transportation” reaching for the STARS In 2011, in partnership with the High Commission of Canada In 2011, we continued our long-term investment in the young to India, our Transportation group organized a nationwide people who will shape South Africa’s future through our competition encouraging youth aged 10 to 18 to submit support of the STARS program. STARS completed its third artwork on the theme of “Smart Transportation.” year of operation to create a network of education, training More than 300 creative entries were received, with about and innovation opportunities in the area of sustainable 12,000 votes cast by the public on the Facebook page of transportation. Canada’s High Commission to India. In the months following Between 2009 and 2011, 1,435 students participated in the competition, the artwork of all 36 finalists was incorporated the STARS Saturday School program. Of these students, 98% into special displays showcased at High Commission events. finished the program successfully and received graduation certificates enabling them to continue on to university. Drawing by: vedant kajaria, age 12, kolkata, india stars PROGRAM, south africa 65 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Environment United States: rebuilding a devastated community Germany: In October 2011, more than 20 employees from our sponsoring the first Climate Concert Transportation group volunteered to work on a community project in New Orleans to rebuild homes destroyed by Our Transportation group sponsored the first Climate Concert Hurricane Katrina in 2005. They were attending the American in Berlin, Germany, to support a forest conservation initiative Public Transportation Association (APTA) Expo 2011 in New in India, one of its key markets. World-renowned conductor Orleans when they decided to take part in the St. Bernard Zubin Mehta, a citizen of India, led the Orchestra for Change Project during APTA Community Service Day. at the Berliner Staatskapelle. The project, sponsored by the United Way, was The Orchestra for Change is a creation of the NaturTon established six years ago to rebuild homes within New Orleans’ Foundation, which initiates and assists in climate and St. Bernard Parish, which was the site of 27,000 homes and environmental conservation projects with the support of 14,000 businesses prior to Katrina. All were destroyed during Transportation. the onslaught of the hurricane. Transportation’s volunteers spent the day working in two groups to help the rebuilding efforts. So far, volunteers for the St. Bernard Project have rebuilt about 350 homes, with more under construction. Bombardier Transportation was officially recognized as the company with the highest number of volunteers taking part in the Community Service Day. APTa Community Service Day, New Orleans, u.s. 66 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | RESPONSIBLE CITIZENSHIP United States: Rock ’n’ Recycling The Wichita River Festival, a 39-year tradition, is a nine-day community celebration held every spring. For five years, the Learjet name has been front and centre at the Festival’s landmark Legends of Rock concert, which regularly features world-famous acts such as Steppenwolf and Loverboy. This year, Learjet became the festival’s first-ever official recycling partner in a move that demonstrated a creative way to continue supporting the celebration while ensuring consistency with Bombardier’s 3E approach. The Festival routinely draws about 300,000 visitors and has an annual economic impact of over $20 million in the community. Nearly 50,000 beverage containers are sold at the festival. By the time the festival drew to a close on June 11, 2011, an estimated 23,000 bottles and 5,600 pounds of plastics and cardboard had been sent for recycling rather than dumped in a landfill as a result of Learjet’s sponsorship. Mexico: preserving ecological diversity The Sierra Gorda Biosphere Reserve is located in the State of Querétaro and represents one of the most ecologically rich and diverse areas in the world. Since 2008, Bombardier has been committed to the conservation of these ecosystems and has supported the Grupo Ecológico Sierra Gorda A.C in carrying out three specific projects: Sierra gorda biosphere reserve • watershed restoration reforestation project, mexico • reforestation • economic development Our assistance benefits the reserve’s 23,000 residents directly and the more than 90,000 people living in the surrounding area indirectly. The projects we support include reforesting devastated areas of the reserve and commercial plantations as well as restoring the community’s watershed. They also assist in developing sustainable and diversified work projects in the reserve’s northern region. A variety of northern and tropical species flourish in the reserve. Within its boundaries, Northern firs grow as well as the desert plants and tree ferns typical of humid mountainside forests. The reserve is also home to endangered and threatened animal species, such as jaguars and otters, as well as 650 species of butterflies. 67 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Entrepreneurship Both programs reinforce our commitment to Entrepreneurship. Saksham, a program run locally by Plan India, promotes employment among disadvantaged girls Worldwide: and boys in the Delhi region through vocational training. It contributing by e-card also provides them with access to well-paid employment opportunities. For the 2011 holiday season, our Transportation group decided In the Campina area of São Paulo, Brazil, a program called to reduce the environmental impact of its Season’s Greetings Youth Entrepreneurs as Changemakers offers entrepreneurial and free up funds for charitable donations by transmitting its education to young people from low-income and at-risk good wishes electronically instead of sending out paper cards. communities providing positive experiences that counteract Together with their partners, United Way Worldwide violent influences in their lives. (UWW) and Plan India, members of Transportation’s CSR team The program is managed by United Way Brazil in selected two projects that were consistent with our 3E approach cooperation with local partner Ashoka and the state’s to community investment to be beneficiaries of the initiative. Department of Education. These projects received donations equivalent to the group’s normal annual spending on paper-card production and postage. Five-year anniversary celebration at the Querétaro facility in Mexico 68 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | RESPONSIBLE CITIZENSHIP Our employee volunteers Our employee volunteers contribute their time, energy and skills to community projects on a worldwide basis with our support. For example, in Canada, 435 Montréal-area employees have been trained as volunteers with the Québec Red Cross for the “Ready When the Time Comes” program. When a major flood occurred in the area in 2011, 188 Bombardier employees volunteered 1,925 hours to work with the Red Cross to aid flood victims. Before their involvement with the “Ready When the Time Comes” program, more than half of these employees had not had the opportunity to volunteer for over five years. Their interest in contributing to the community was made possible by a structured employee volunteering program that created Red cross volunteers, québec, canada new opportunities to help in a significant way. In 2011, we established a governing Employee Volunteering Committee to develop a set of company-wide guidelines on employee volunteering for incorporation into a formalized policy. The Committee worked on developing a draft of the policy in 2011, to be finalized in 2012. Five years in Querétaro, Mexico On May 2, 2011, our Aerospace group celebrated the fifth anniversary of its operations in Querétaro with a ceremony held at the Aerospace Park facility attended by the group’s 1,700 employees in Mexico. At the event, 160 employees who have been with us since the start of our Mexican operation were recognized for their contribution to our success. Since our arrival in the community, we’ve made a major commitment to the Querétaro region. In 2007, employees launched Causa Querétaro, a group of volunteers that supports a variety of local organizations. During a special community week in the summer of 2011, 200 members of the group volunteered to take part in more than 15 activities that benefited the local community. 69 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC) 10 principles in The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and antisupport and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights The table below provides examples of how we promote • The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on these principles internally and externally: Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption Human Rights UNGC Principles and Bombardier Initiatives Corresponding GRI Indicators Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights DMA, 4.12, HR1, HR2, HR3, LA4, LA6, Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, our Supplier Code of Conduct, and our Health, Safety and LA7, LA13, LA14. Environment Policy formalize our commitment to safeguard internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights DMA, HR1, HR2 We continue to roll out our Supplier Code of Conduct across our global supply chain. The Supplier Code of Conduct is aligned with the principles of the UNGC. Every new supplier contract automatically requires adherence to the Supplier Code of Conduct. In 2011, we gained further commitments to respect the Supplier Code of Conduct and developed compliance programs at both Aerospace and Transportation. 70 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | UNGC 10 principles Labour UNGC Principles and Bombardier Initiatives Corresponding GRI Indicators Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right HR5, LA4, LA5 to collective bargaining We acknowledge our employees’ right to freedom of association based on applicable legislation and foster a constructive dialogue with all labour unions and work councils active in our operations. Among our Aerospace and Transportation employees, 50% and 60% respectively were covered by collective agreements in 2011. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour HR7 Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct articulates employee rights to work in a safe and healthy environment. Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines specific requirements to support the elimination of forced labour. For example, supplier employees must be free to leave work or terminate their employment with reasonable notice, and they are not required to surrender any government issued identification, passports or work permits as a condition of employment. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour HR6 Our Supplier Code of Conduct clearly stipulates our position against child labour. By child labour, we mean employees under the age of 15. However for work not suitable for a person under the age of 18, child labour refers to employees younger than 18. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation HR4, LA14 In November 2009, we launched the second phase of our e-learning program on ethics, which includes six modules on specific provisions of the Code. The module that addresses employment practices and discrimination was completed in 2011 by our management. 71 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Environment UNGC Principles and Bombardier Initiatives Corresponding GRI Indicators Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 4.11 Through a risk assessment approach, our Environmental Management System helps us identify significant environmental aspects and take appropriate action for continuous improvement. Energy and resource consumption, along with waste generation, are our most significant environmental impacts. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN3-9, EN16-18, EN22, EN23, EN26-27, SO5 Our Health, Safety and Environment Policy calls on us to remain vigilant and seize every opportunity to constantly improve our performance and minimize our environmental impact. We’re pursuing two core opportunities to reduce the environmental footprint of our global operations: • Decrease our consumption of inputs and resources such as energy, water and materials • R  educe and, where possible, eliminate unwanted outputs, including greenhouse gas emissions, volatile organic compound emissions, wastewater release and the generation of non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials Our industry leadership in Environmental Product Declaration publication at Transportation, and soon at Aerospace as the new aircraft programs enter into service, demonstrate our commitment to transparent communications surrounding the impact of our products. We’re playing a leadership role in industry efforts to define future environmental targets and communicate environmental achievements and challenges. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies EN18, EN26-27, SO5 Our innovative Design for Environment approach at both Aerospace and Transportation ensure that environmental considerations are taken into account from the earliest stages of design. Anti-Corruption UNGC Principles & Bombardier Initiatives Corresponding GRI Indicators Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery SO2-SO4 Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct articulates our position against corruption and illegal and improper payments. Every year, management (director level and above) is required to renew their commitment to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, acknowledging that they have read, respected and have no personal knowledge of any breaches of the Code. By March 2011, the Ethics and Compliance Office had confirmed the compliance of 100% of our 1,754 senior managers. We also launched the second phase of our e-learning ethics program for management, including specific modules on bribery and corruption, anti-trust laws and conflicts of interest. 72 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | measuring our performance Measuring Our Performance(a) HEALTH & SAFETY 2011 2010 (Dec 31, 2011) (Jan 31, 2011) Accident Frequency (with restricted duty) (Injury Rate)(b),(d) _ 0.5 Accident Frequency (without restricted duty) (Injury Rate)(b),(c) 0.5 0.5 (c) Employee accident frequency (without restricted duty) in Europe 0.4 0.5 (c) Employee accident frequency (without restricted duty) in Asia-Pacific 0.3 0.1 Employee accident frequency (without restricted duty)(c) in North America 0.5 0.5 Employee accident frequency (without restricted duty)(c) in other regions 2.3 1.3 (b),(f) Accident Severity (with restricted duty) – (Lost Day Rate) _ 19 (b),(e) Accident Severity (without restricted duty) – (Lost Day Rate) 14 14 Employee accident severity (without restricted duty)(e) in Europe 13 14 Employee accident severity (without restricted duty)(e) in Asia-Pacific 8 3 Employee accident severity (without restricted duty)(e) in North America 16 18 Employee accident severity (without restricted duty)(e) in other regions 68 18 On November 30, 2011, the Board of Directors approved the change of our financial year-end from January 31 to December 31, effective December 31, 2011. 73 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report ENVIRONMENT(g) 2011 2010 (Dec 31, 2011) (Jan 31, 2011) Total Energy Consumption (Direct and Indirect) (Gigajoules (GJ)(b),(h),(i) 4,578,361 4,643,114 Total Direct Energy Consumption (GJ)(b),(h),(i),(j) 2,514,833 2,607,940 Proportion of renewable energy (%)(l) Less than 1% Less than 1% Natural gas energy consumption (non-renewable) (GJ) 1,955,406 2,062,882 Kerosene energy consumption (non-renewable) (GJ) 450,730 439,555 Other non-renewable energy consumed (GJ) 108,457 105,304 (b),(h),(i),(k) 2,063,528 2,035,174 Total Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) (m) 632,461 631,671 Electricity from renewable sources (GJ) Electricity energy consumption (GJ) 1,797,451 1,731,641 Total GHG Emissions (Direct and Indirect) (tonnes of CO2 equivalent [tCO2e])(b),(h),(i) 311,844 328,230 (j) 153,062 156,533 Total direct GHG emissions (tCO2e) Total indirect GHG emissions (tCO2e)(k) 158,782 171,697 Total Water Withdrawn (Cubic metres [m3])(b),(i) 2,157,323 2,127,979 Municipal / water utility withdrawal (%) More than 90% More than 90% Total Waste Generated (hazardous and non-hazardous) (metric tonnes)(b),(i),(n) 55,309 49,576 Hazardous waste (metric tonnes) 10,498 9,802 Non-hazardous waste (metric tonnes) 44,811 39,774 Waste to landfill (hazardous and non-hazardous) (metric tonnes) 8,964 9,466 ECONOMIC 2011 2010 (Dec 31, 2011) (Jan 31, 2011) Revenues (in millions of dollars) 18,347 17,892 Dividends paid (in millions of dollars) 156 197 Income Taxes (in millions of dollars) 203 222 Wages, Salaries and Other Employee Benefits (in millions of dollars) 5,185 4,739 Bombardier Inc – Donations and Sponsorships (excluding those to the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation) (in millions of dollars) 5.7 5.4 Bombardier Inc. to the J. Armand Bombardier Foundation – Donations and Sponsorships (in millions of dollars) 6.7 5.3 On November 30, 2011, the Board of Directors approved the change of our financial year-end from January 31 to December 31, effective December 31, 2011. 74 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report | measuring our performance EMPLOYEES 2011 2010 (Dec 31, 2011) (Jan 31, 2011) Number of Employees(o) 70,028 65,324 Active and inactive employees (%)(p),(q) 89 91 Contractual employees (%)(r) 11 9 Number of Employees by Region _ _ Europe(s) 31,875 30,707 Asia-Pacific 2,696 2,684 North America 34,876 31,442 Other regions(t) 581 491 Number of Employees by Level _ _ Senior leadership positions(u) 39 39 Management positions(v) 4,583 3,814 Women in the Workforce (Active and Inactive) (%) 18.2 17.5 Women on the Board of Directors (%) 14.3 14.3 Women in senior leadership positions (%)(b),(v) 20.5 18.5 (u) 15.4 14.2 Women in management positions (%) New Employee Hires(w) 5,935 _ New hires—women (%) 23.3 _ Employee Turnover(x),(b) Rate (%) 2.5 2.2 New hire turnover rate (%) 2.5 _ Turnover rate—women (%) 3.2 _ Employee Citizenships(y) More than 99 _ Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements (%) 54 53 Employee Development _ _ (z) High Potential Talent Pool (%) 2.4 2.0 Women in the High Potential Talent Pool (%)(aa) 25.5 22.8 (bb) Participants in “Making Great Leaders” (%) 45.3 _ On November 30, 2011, the Board of Directors approved the change of our financial year-end from January 31 to December 31, effective December 31, 2011. 75 Bombardier inc. 2011 CSR Report Footnotes: (a) We have adjusted the environmental data for 2010 and 2011 to ensure (m) Indirect renewable electricity covers consumption from Québec, joint ventures that are less than 50% and not under Bombardier Belgium and Sweden. control are excluded from the environmental data scope. As a result, (n) We have adjusted the waste definitions for 2010 and 2011 to ensure environmental data from this CSR report and our previous CSR report that all disposal streams are included in the reporting scope. As a are not comparable. result, waste data from this CSR report and our previous CSR report (b) 2010 data has been updated to address internal audit findings by the are not comparable. In previous years, only non-valorized waste was Corporate Auditing Services and Risk Assessment (CASRA) internal reported. audit team. (o) The total number of employees represents the sum of all (Corporate, (c) The accident frequency rate measures the number of accidents Aerospace, Transportation and Flexjet) active employees, inactive (including lost-time accident cases and excluding restricted duty) employees and contractual employees. resulting in lost work days expressed per 200,000 hours worked. (p) Active includes employees that are permanent full-time, permanent In order to be consistent with industry reporting standards, we are part-time, temporary full-time, temporary part-time and paid excluding restricted duty from the accident frequency rate from 2011. apprentices. In 2012, we will be including a new measure for incident rate, which will capture the restricted duty cases. (q) Inactive includes employees on short-term leave, maternity and parental leave, and other long-term leave including long-term (d) The accident frequency rate measures the number of accidents disability. (includes lost-time accident and restricted duty cases) resulting in lost work days expressed per 200,000 hours worked. (r) Contractual employees include interim managers (also called consultants at Transportation), non-employees (Aerospace) and (e) The accident severity rate is the number of accidents resulting in lost agency outsourced employees. workdays, expressed per 200,000 hours worked. The total number of lost days includes days away from work and excludes days in (s) The definition of Europe changed in 2011 from previous years – it no restricted duty. longer includes Russia. (f) The accident severity rate is the number of accidents resulting in lost (t) The definition of Other Regions changed in 2011 from previous years – work days, expressed per 200,000 hours worked. The total number of it now includes Russia. lost days includes days away from work and days in restricted duty. (u) Senior Leadership Positions are defined as direct report to Group (g) As of 2010, the scope of our reported environmental and energy data Presidents or CEO. includes: buildings we own or lease long term and manage as the sole (v) Management positions are defined as Manager and above. tenant, with more than 15,000 square metres (50,000 square feet) of conditioned space; sites having 150 employees or more; sites that are (w) New hire is a measure of permanent employees (active and inactive) considered primary production/operation and service facilities; group hired externally within the reporting period. headquarters; and joint ventures where we have operational control (x) Turnover measures the percentage of employee turnover explained by (where we own more than 50% of voting shares). voluntary departures (employee-initiated terminations). (h) Some of this data has been third-party verified. The verification covers (y) Number of different citizenships registered for all employees included sites that qualify under the European Union Emission Trading Scheme in the employed workforce at the end of the reporting period. (EU ETS). (z) The percentage of employees identified as part of the High Potential (i) Some of this environmental data has been third-party verified. (HP) Talent Pool. The verification covers sites participating in the European Union Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). (aa) The percentage of women within the organization’s pool of HP employees. (j) Direct energy/emissions are from sources that are owned or controlled by the Company. (bb) The percentage of leaders (Directors and up) within the organization who have participated in “Making Great Leaders” since the beginning (k) Indirect energy/emissions result from Company activities but are of the program. generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization, which is mainly electricity. (l) Direct renewable resources are capable of being replenished within a short time through ecological cycles as opposed to resources such as minerals, metals, oils, gas and coal that does not renew in short time periods. 76 The CSeries family of aircraft, Learjet 85 aircraft and Global 7000 and Global 8000 aircraft programs are currently in development, and as such are subject to changes in family strategy, branding, capacity, performance, design and/or systems. All specifications and data are approximate, may change without notice and are subject to certain operating rules, assumptions and other conditions. This document does not constitute an offer, commitment, representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind. The configuration and performance of the aircraft may differ from the descriptions and photos provided and, together with any related commitment, representations, guarantee or warranty, shall be determined in a final purchase agreement. Bombardier, Challenger, CRJ, CRJ200, CS100, CS300, CSeries, ECO4, EnerGplan, EnerGstor, FLEXX, Global, Global 7000, Global 8000, innovia, Learjet, Learjet 85, MITRAC, NextGen, Q400, PRIMOVE, regina, The Climate is Right for Trains, The Evolution of Mobility, Twindexx, You. First. and ZEFIRO are trademarks of Bombardier Inc. or its subsidiaries. RESPONSIBILITY Design: CG3 To reduce our environmental footprint, complete information on our CSR performance Printing: Transcontinental Acme Direct including our GRI Content Index, is available at csr.bombardier.com. Additionally, our choice of Enviro 100 paper, containing 100% recycled fibre, Printed in Canada has allowed us to save: ISBN: 978-2-923797-15-1 Legal deposit, Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec All rights reserved. © May 2012, Bombardier Inc. and its subsidiaries. 98 5,474 kg 14,230 kg 361,398 litres mature trees, of waste, or the of CO2, of water, equal equivalent to contents of 112 equivalent to to 1 person’s the area of garbage bins the annual consumption 7 tennis courts emissions of water during of 5 cars almost 3 years moving forward responsibly online... csr.bombardier.com
