Sustainability Report 2012 IntrOdUCtIOn Introduction 2011 has seen signiﬁcant development and social and environmental value through their progress in the way that our business innovative uses of electronics. implements its sustainability strategy, both Changes in the economy, the environment and the internally and in the services that we offer to I am proud to social needs of our global society are evident every our customers. While continuing to manage day, and it’s imperative that business responds to see the how the our own impacts and their cost implications, those needs, using our skills and resources to work that we've we have enhanced our services that support create shared value. Premier Farnell is committed to done during the customers in improving their own sustainability this, and we hope to bring our customers, suppliers, last year ranked performance, reducing the lifecycle impact of shareholders and employees with us towards a so highly on the using Premier Farnell to support their designs. better future. global stage. It has been a year of recognition of the achievements Our endorsement of the United Nations Global and potential of our Trust Agenda. With a second Compact remains an important factor in the inclusion in Ethisphere’s ‘World’s Most Ethical development of our Trust Agenda and sustainability Companies’ listing, and an entry into the European strategy. I would encourage other businesses to join Dow Jones Sustainability Index, I am proud to see us by becoming signatories themselves and how the work that we’ve done during the last year achieving similar beneﬁts in the structure and ranked so highly on the global stage. direction of their thinking on sustainability. This year, 2012 will see further evolution in our sustainability we have again highlighted where we have worked to strategy as we develop closer links with organisations put the principles of the Compact into action. that use our products to deliver real Harriet Green CEO 2 IntrOdUCtIOn What we do Premier Farnell plc is a leading high service, Marketing and Distribution Division (MDD) multi-channel distributor, committed to becoming Our Marketing and Distribution Division operates the trusted global source for engineering solutions predominantly in the high service, time-critical by focusing on the core pillars of our strategy. We sector of the electronic components market and purchase electronic components and maintenance also includes CPC and MCM which are distributors and repair products in large volumes from over of finished electronic products. 3,500 of the world’s leading manufacturers and suppliers. We then sell these products, services, Countries of operation tools and technology solutions in small volumes Austria, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech to a customer base consisting of over two million Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Electronic Design Engineers (EDEs), Maintenance, Holland, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Romania, Singapore, Slovakia, Repair and Operations engineers and purchasing We purchase Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, professionals. Taiwan, Thailand, United Kingdom, United States. electronic components and In most cases, we deliver our products the same Industrial Products Division (IPD) maintenance day or the next day. We offer a rich online Akron Brass is a manufacturer and marketer of and repair customer experience including software, high performance fire fighting and rescue products in large information and other services beyond product volumes from equipment as well as lighting and equipment that support our customers, including our over 3,500 of the designed to improve the safety and efficiency of industry-leading community, element14. The world’s leading personnel engaged in fire suppression, emergency quality of the customer businesses that we serve manufacturers medical response, and pupil transportation. We and the value that they attribute to our offering is and suppliers. manufacture a number of these products on-site reflective of the strength of the proposition and in Ohio, USA. the high level of service we provide. Countries of operation Australia, Canada, China, United Arab Emirates, France, Germany, Singapore, United Kingdom, United States. 3 IntrOdUCtIOn Financial performance Group sales for the financial year were £973.1m Summary financial data1 reflecting a year-on-year sales growth of 1.6%, based on sales per day for continuing businesses £m 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 at constant exchange rates of 1.60. Revenue 973.1 990.8 795.3 Net adjusted operating 277.7 295.4 243.7 expenses2 The Group’s gross margin in the year was 39.6%, Employee benefit 167.2 184.4 153.2 in line with our cross cycle average gross margin expense More detailed percentage and compared with adjusted gross Payments to providers 52.2 50.8 49.5 information margin of 40.7% in the prior year. Adjusted of capital 3 on Premier operating profit for the year was £107.3 million Income taxes paid 26.9 29.6 11.6 Farnell’s strategic compared with adjusted operating profit of £108.5 and financial million the previous year1. The full year adjusted Community investments 4 0.059 0.057 0.08 performance operating margin was 11.0% compared with can be found adjusted operating margin of 11.2% in the Notes in the online prior year1. 1. Relates to financial year and not calendar year Annual Report 2. Excludes one-off items and Accounts, 3. Comprises net interest paid, on preference shares available at ¹ Adjusted to remove the impact of one-off items in the and ordinary dividends paid. current year and in the prior year to exclude the trading http://annualreport2012. 4. Includes direct cash donations, good and money raised premierfarnell.com results of TPC Wire & Cable business, disposed of on 31 by employees. Excludes value of employee time. January 2011, to aid year on year comparison. Further details are given in the Consolidated Annual Report and Accounts. 4 IntrOdUCtIOn Sustainability at Premier Farnell We believe that our business must continue to evolve Our vision is to become the world's most trusted, to be sustainable and to continue delivering proﬁtable and sustainable provider of goods, proﬁtable growth as the world in which we live services and solutions to EDEs by 2020. Managing changes. Published by the World Business Council our impacts on society and the environment, and for Sustainable Development, the report 'Vision working to develop and support solutions to global 2050' has featured prominently in informing our challenges is not only a 'sustainable' way of doing thinking about the sustainable development of our business but, we believe, a way to deliver continued business. With the World’s population predicted to proﬁtability and real differentiation from our reach nine billion people by 2050, consuming 2.3 competitors. times the planet’s resources, increasingly living in Our continued efforts to embed sustainability into urban environments and affected by climate change, our business strategy and everyday processes build business needs to react to support sustainable a relationship of trust with our stakeholders (both development and help mitigate against these major internally and externally) which is vital to our success issues. as a business. In FY2011, we made clear our intention to become a company with a successful future, reﬂecting our long and distinguished heritage. Work by leaders from across the Group developed our long-term sustainability strategy that links together those elements of our operations that we believe have a signiﬁcant impact on our sustainability performance. 5 IntrOdUCtIOn The Premier Farnell Trust Agenda Our vision: to be the world’s most profitable and sustainable provider of products and services to EDEs PRINCIPLES PLANET PEOPLE To be known for our exceptional ethical To operate with minimum practicable environmental To be an organisation that beneﬁts all the people standards and compliance and for the way impact and be the leading innovator of with whom it interacts and enables its workforce that we treat our stakeholders environmental beneﬁts in our industry to realise their full potential Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Business ethics Health and Safety Emissions from business travel Waste Employee development Industry legislation Paper marketing materials Absenteeism Strategic commercial projects Management standards Packaging dispatched to our customers Work place standards of our supplies Water Trade compliance Community investment GHG emissions from deliveries 6 IntrOdUCtIOn Our stakeholders Identifying our stakeholders In addition, we consider the common-interest We have identified our stakeholders as those groups to whom we report our progress to be groups directly affected by the activities of the important stakeholders, including Business in the Group as we pursue our business strategy and this Community, the Carbon Disclosure Project and report addresses the issues that we believe are the United Nations Global Compact. most relevant to each of them. Our primary stakeholder groups are: The United Nations Global Compact • Colleagues working in Premier Farnell In September 2009, Premier Farnell became the ﬁrst company in our sector to join the United Nations Global companies globally Compact, a voluntary business-led group of companies • Customers of Premier Farnell group companies committed to furthering the millennium development goals. • Suppliers to Premier Farnell group companies Our commitment to making a difference through the way we conduct our business aligned us closely with the principles of • Existing and prospective Premier Farnell the Global Compact, and we therefore took the decision to investors, including the indices which inform formally commit to its principles. them, such as FTSE4GOOD and the Dow Throughout this report, we have identiﬁed areas where our Jones Sustainability Index activities support the principles of the Global Compact to assist readers in assessing our progress. • The local communities in which our operations We welcome communications from other Global Compact are based signatories, and encourage interested parties to contact our • Charitable and other non-profit organisations Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, and with whom we work, both directly and indirectly. executive sponsor for our sustainability work, Steven Webb for further information at swebb@premierfarnell.com 7 IntrOdUCtIOn Our market position Identifying and defining material issues Premier Farnell’s role as a high-service distributor There are a number of sources and methods of means that we deal with many thousands of stakeholder engagement available to us that we customers each day. Average order values are can use to identify those issues that are of interest £260 for North America and £160 for Europe and and importance to our stakeholders. Asia Pacific. No customer accounts for more than Using element14, our industry-leading online 1.5% of sales. The breadth of products community for electronic design engineers, we are and services supplied and the number of able to identify issues that users are interested in manufacturers with whom we deal (over 3,500) and concerned about. We can use this live and means that no supplier accounts for more than up-to-date information to inform our understanding 5% of the products sold. of what is important to the people who are using Average order This huge diversity of customers and suppliers our products, services and solutions. values are limits the Group’s exposure to regional or Customer comments, complaints and feedback £160-£260, and industrial sector economic cycles, but also are logged in our Feedback Management System, no customer presents challenges in obtaining a consistent which enables us to review and trace feedback accounts for view of what these stakeholders view as important and our responses through the Company, and are more than in business sustainability. We have therefore shared openly with our employees as we foster a 1.5% of sales. employed a range of methods to engage with culture of customer focus. them and these are described in this section. 8 IntrOdUCtIOn The Company has run its annual all-employee 'Your responsibility', although it still remained the highestVoice' engagement survey, for the last four years, scoring metric in the survey overall. including during the period of global economic All employees are encouraged to select an objective downturn. It is now administered by CLC Genesee that relates to a cause they feel passionately about, and allows colleagues to give their opinions giving them the opportunity to use their roles to have anonymously on the performance of the Company a positive impact outside the business. and the leadership teams. In 2011, the survey attracted a response rate of 85% – above the High-performing companies response rate normally expected from highHigh-performing companies are defined at those that performing companies. demonstrate three consecutive years of business Through this survey, colleagues are able to express growth. We use their scores as a benchmark of our performance. the issues that concern them and highlight where they feel we are performing well or have room to improve. This feeds into the ongoing development FY2010 77 of our sustainability strategy and Trust Agenda, 87 identifying areas and activities that employees ﬁnd highly engaging as well as those areas that they FY2011 80 93 feel need more work or focus. The results of the engagement survey are shared 77 FY2012 with senior leaders within the business, who use 85 them to develop action plans that respond to concerns and improvement areas identiﬁed. The 0 20 40 60 80 100 survey results this year indicated a small decline in Engagement score the engagement score for 'corporate social Response rate 9 IntrOdUCtIOn The contents of our Sustainability Reports are also start of the product design cycle. Many of our large inﬂuenced by surveys that we receive from customers, suppliers are international corporations, who have their suppliers, special interest groups and multi-stakeholder own deeply embedded values, processes and organisations, such as Business in the Community understandings of sustainability. (BITC). The multi-stakeholder groups represent the In some situations, this challenges our ability to interests of a large number of participants and the exercise inﬂuence over these suppliers on sustainability results of their research. As such we consider the issues and as a result, we focus on our private label content of these surveys and expectations of the suppliers, over whom we have greater inﬂuence. ranking systems to be indicative of the interests of a broad spectrum of stakeholders. These suppliers also represent the highest area of reputational risk within our supply chain because they: We have again decided not to include a materiality matrix in this Report. Our sustainability reporting • manufacture products under Premier Farnell’s own has developed based on the issues raised by brands stakeholders and therefore reﬂects issues that are • are smaller organisations than our franchised material to those individuals or groups. suppliers, potentially with fewer resources to maintain We aim to report on those performance indicators that high standards of ethical compliance reﬂect issues we understand to be important to our • are under less public scrutiny over workplace stakeholders, particularly our employees, who are our and environmental concerns. most interested and engaged stakeholder group. We apply a collaborative approach with all of our Our influence suppliers to address sustainability challenges, The nature of our customers’ requirements during the and include sustainability criteria in our standard design and maintenance phases of their work means supplier contracts. However, we recognise that that, while we source large quantities of products from our sphere of inﬂuence does not extend to us manufacturers, we do not operate on the same scale mandating sustainability criteria with all suppliers and as volume distributors and, for many of our suppliers, that many have their own sustainability systems already we are relatively small customers, though vital in in place. seeding their new technologies to market at the very 10 IntrOdUCtIOn Communicating with our stakeholders During the year, we have engaged with our stakeholders through a variety of methods and media, using those that we believe to be most appropriate for each group. The methods used are outlined below, along with our primary impacts on each group. Stakeholder Group Relevant impacts Method of communication Colleagues working in Premier • Health & Safety • Health & Safety programmes Farnell group companies • Development opportunities • All-employee engagement survey • Labour standards • Online Sustainability Report • Business ethics and our Code of • Annual kick-off meetings Conduct • Employee volunteering advertisements • Diversity and equality • Online Learning Centre • Environmental impacts • Company intranet • Employee wellbeing initiatives • Regular internal communications • Volunteering opportunities • Performance review process • Networking groups • Employee whistle blowing hotline • 'Global Green Day' Q&A sessions with the CEO • Quarterly business review meetings • Premier Farnell Leadership Council meetings • Green Teams • 'Townhall' meetings and smaller direct team meetings • Ask Harriet confidential email inbox for employees to contact the CEO 11 IntrOdUCtIOn Stakeholder Group Relevant impacts Method of communication Investment Community • Business performance • Investor relations function • Corporate Governance • Annual reporting • Environmental performance • Corporate communications • Business ethics • Direct communications from investor groups • Supply chain standards • Quarterly results briefings • CEO/CFO investor meetings • Membership of the FTSE4GOOD Index • Membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index • Reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project • Investor surveys • Chairman’s investor meetings • Investor visits and regular Investor days • Internet and media coverage Customer companies • Packaging • Replies to individual customer enquiries • Environmental legislation • Sales managers • Product compliance • Customer-facing employees • Business ethics • element14 community • Environmental impacts • Fact sheets • Supply chain standards • Online Sustainability Report. • Community investment Individual Electronic Design • Product delivery times • element14 community Engineers • Environmental legislation • Customer-facing employees • Product compliance • Sales managers • Packaging • Focus groups • Websites, media and social media coverage 12 IntrOdUCtIOn Stakeholder Group Relevant impacts Method of communication Suppliers • Supply chain standards • Response to individual supplier enquiries • Business ethics • Supplier audits • Environmental impacts • Supplier managers • Environmental legislation • element14 community • Business performance • Fact sheets • Online Sustainability Report • Regular CEO updates • Business results announcements • Corporate website • Media coverage Multi-stakeholder organisations • Environmental performance • Responses to regular surveys • Labour standards • Corporate website • Diversity and equality • United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress • Investment in local communities • Carbon Disclosure Project submission • Employee wellbeing programmes • Business in the Community CR Index • FTSE4GOOD Index • Dow Jones Sustainability Index Local communities • Employment opportunities • Recruitment • Investment in local communities • Community partnership relationships • Environmental impacts • Corporate website 13 IntrOdUCtIOn Review our report and Feedback and our responses feed back concerns We received feedback via the and new issues PriceWaterhouseCoopers 'Building Public Trust' DERS Awards on our 2010 Sustainability Report. OL H As a result of the feedback, we have improved the clarity of our management approach to each of the STA KE impacts disclosed in our report. PACTS We report annually on IM our progress alongside our Annual Report and Accounts ACTIO Businesses develop NS strategies to address new impacts or improve on previous years’ performance 14 INTRODUCTION Our sustainability policies Premier Farnell maintains an overarching Policy updates Sustainability Policy that is the responsibility of the During the year, we reviewed and updated our Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Following Code of Ethics, in the light of the UK Bribery Act, the launch of this report and our new sustainability in order to ensure that it was clear and easy to vision this policy was reviewed and approved by follow for all employees worldwide. This was the Board of Directors in September 2011. The renamed as our Code of Conduct and published policy is available at www.premierfarnell.com in 11 languages in January 2012. Our core impacts in the following areas are governed by policies which apply to all Group companies: • Environmental management • Workplace health and safety • Supply chain and procurement standards • Community investment Our environmental and health and safety policies are in accordance with best practice outlined in ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 and are applied globally to all business units. 15 IntrOdUCtIOn Highlights of the year • Our Distribution Centre in Liège, Belgium was FY2008 Silver certified to the OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management Systems standard FY2009 Gold • Inclusion in the Dow Jones European FY2010 Platinum Sustainability Index and mention in the SAM Sustainability Yearbook FY2011 Platinum • Being listed as one of the ‘World’s Most Ethical FY2012 Platinum Companies’ by Ethisphere for a second time Our performance in the Business At the beginning of financial year 2011, we set in the Community CR Index ourselves the target of achieving BITC’s Since financial year 2008, when we were achieved 'Platinum +' award by embedding sustainability the Silver standard our progress in developing our throughout our business and decision-making business in a sustainable manner has been processes by financial year 2013. We have recognised by consistent improvement in the BITC maintained our Platinum ranking in the BITC CR Corporate Responsibility index rating of Premier Index for FY13, based on our performance in Farnell. We have used this external assessment as FY12. Business in the Community did not accept an ongoing benchmark of our overall performance applications for Platinum + in 2012 and therefore in embedding sustainability into the business. we aim to apply for Platinum + at the end of FY13. 16 IntrOdUCtIOn Reporting our impacts This report is an important opportunity to The data contained in this report are assured by communicate our progress during the year, and the SGS United Kingdom Ltd and we have improved environmental, social and ﬁnancial impacts of our the coverage and transparency of our data to that initiatives. As we develop our sustainability strategy of GRI Level B+. Data tables to support our GRI internally, we also see this report as a way of application level and reporting to meet our United communicating the longer-term planning that Nations Global Compact commitments can be underpins the sustainability decisions that we are found at the end of this report. making now. We select the impacts that we report based on their scale, our perception of their materiality and the extent to which we are able to affect them. We also include those issues that we see becoming increasingly prevalent amongst stakeholder groups or the reporting community in general. 17 OUr PrInCIPles Our Principles OUR VISION To be known for our exceptional ethical standards IMPACTS and compliance and for the way that we treat our stakeholders. Ensuring that Premier Farnell conducts business in an ethical manner We believe that businesses must operate in a way Provision of products that comply with that is ethical, professional and upholds the values legislative requirements and principles of its shareholders and employees Supplying guidance on industry-specific in all of its dealings. legislation to our customers and suppliers We consider the 'Principles' element of our Trust Operating in a manner that reflects bestWe have been Agenda to reflect the way that we believe business practice through management standards recognised should be carried out. We have identified best Compliance with trade security as one of practice and opportunities to support our industry requirements. the World's sector through engaging with governments and Most Ethical regulatory bodies to ensure that we are able to Companies for provide our insights as relevant legislation and a second year regulation is formed. by Ethisphere We have been recognised as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for a second year by Ethisphere, amongst a list of 145 companies leading their industries in ethics and governance. 18 OUr PrInCIPles Managing our impacts The impacts that fall under our Principles category are managed by a variety of functions across our The Principles element of our vision reﬂects our belief business rather than under a single department. We that in order to be sustainable, a business must have reported the way that each impact is managed ensure that it employs best practice management in its own section. methods and upholds the highest standards of governance and conduct, both internally and in its Detailed information speciﬁcally on the governance of interactions with the outside world. the company and the Premier Farnell Board of Directors is available in the Annual Report 2012, starting on page 78. Detailed Our target Our performance information Gap analysis of Premier Farnell performance against We carried out a review of our alignment with the ISO 26000 standard for Corporate specifically on ISO 26000 has been completed and a cost/benefit Social Responsibility and have identified a number of gaps which we will work to close the governance review of implementation and a recommendation has between FY2013 and FY2016. been made. of the company and the Premier Distribute the Annual Sustainability Report electronically The Annual Sustainability Report was made available on our corporate website, as well Farnell Board to all employees and set up a feedback mechanism to as on our company intranet. For employees without regular access to computers, address comments and questions. printed copies were made available in communal areas such as canteens. of Directors is available in the Employees were directed to an internal email address to send comments and questions, and sustainability is a topic that can be raised at a number of internal Annual Report forum-type events for employees who are not able to email regularly. 2012, starting Identify target NGOs and Government organisations with We have identified a number of organisations, both at an industry level and also on page 78. which Premier Farnell companies could develop specific to technology sectors that we will be pursuing during FY2013. strategic engagements. 19 OUr PrInCIPles Our aims for next year During FY2013, we will begin to close the gaps identified between our current performance and the guidance set out in ISO 26000. To add a new layer of oversight to our business principles, we aim to establish a Youth Board in at least one region, inviting young Electronic Design Engineers, students, customers and suppliers to participate in a focus group that will convene quarterly to review the business’ performance and key initiatives. 20 OUr PrInCIPles Business ethics Our Code of Conduct How does this affect… It is crucial for us that we are able to assure our customers that we conduct business in an ethical CUSTOMERS and transparent manner. We maintain consistently • Customers can be confident that Premier high ethical standards across our group in all of our Farnell employees will operate with integrity. dealings with customers, employees and suppliers. =EMPLOYEES In 2011 we reviewed and re-launched our Group Code of Conduct, taking into account important • All employees must be aware that breaching developments brought about by the UK Bribery the Code of Conduct is a serious disciplinary offence, and behave in a manner that is Act. The Code features as part of the induction consistent with the expectations that the Code process for all new employees and all employees sets out. are required to re-read it annually as part of the UNITED preparation for their mid-year review with their INVESTORS NATIONS GLOBAL line manager. This also gives employees the • Investors can be confident that Premier Farnell COMPACT opportunity to discuss any concerns or questions is an ethically low-risk investment. PRINCIPLE 10 that they have about the Code and how to ensure Businesses should work that they comply with it. SUPPLIERS against corruption in all its forms, including Ethical conduct of a business unit is the • Premier Farnell representatives must never extortion and bribery responsibility of the General Manager of that make or accept bribes, facilitation payments or business and the Code of Conduct is overseen by gifts from suppliers intended to influence a purchasing decision. the Group Company Secretary. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • Premier Farnell employees will not be involved in any form of bribery. 21 OUR PRINCIPLES The Premier Farnell Code of Conduct All business units are audited annually by our Our full Code of Conduct is available at Internal Audit team to ensure that they are compliant www.premierfarnell.com/investors/code-conduct with our Code of Conduct. Compliance statements must be submitted by the heads of all business units The Code is clear in forbidding the giving and confirming that there have been no areas of concern receiving of bribes, ‘compensation payments’ and (ethical or financial) and that any concerns have any other form of remuneration, reward or gift which been reported appropriately. could under any circumstances be construed as improperly affecting (or being intended to affect) a Breaches of the Code of Conduct are considered business decision. to be acts of serious misconduct and are treated accordingly. Employees and Directors are required to disclose any concerns of a conflict of interest in any business 84% of employees confirmed this year that they had 84% of transaction to the Company Secretary and are read and understood the Code during their mid-year employees review using our online 'Futures' HR system. required to remove themselves from a transaction confirmed this should any form of conflict become apparent. year that they had read and Gifts to persons involved in local or national understood the governments are strictly prohibited and any form of Code during donation, support or sponsorship (cash or in kind) to their mid-year a political or lobbying organisation must be reported review using our to the Company Secretary before it takes place. online “Futures” HR system. 22 OUR PRINCIPLES TRACE International Premier Farnell UK Ltd is an intermediary member “In re-launching the Code of Conduct, we had of TRACE International Inc, which is a non-profit the opportunity to make our business ethics, membership association that assesses the and the importance of our principles and wider transparency of its members in dealing with sustainability programme clearer and more customers, business partners, suppliers and accessible to our colleagues worldwide. other contacts. We’ve taken great care in the way that we’ve written the Code and explained the implications of each element so that everybody feels that they can understand and follow it easily. In an industry where there is a real concern over counterfeit components and ways of working with countries in which governance is less developed than the United Kingdom or United States, for example, being able to demonstrate to our customers and suppliers that we have a robust Code of Conduct in place that is widely understood is a real benefit to us.” Steven Webb Company Secretary and General Counsel 23 OUr PrInCIPles Raising concerns We review the number of calls that the Trust Line All Premier Farnell employees have access to a receives against a benchmark for the similar number of ways in which they can raise concerns businesses provided by Global Compliance related to the Code of Conduct or in the way our Services. The results of the benchmarking exercise business is conducted. We have provided an for 2010 are as follows: anonymous telephone whistle-blowing service, operated by Global Compliance Services, called the Trust Line. Similar Businesses Premier Farnell plc Employees reporting Employees are able to use this number to report ethical concerns 1.26% 0.07% any concerns that they have about unethical Follow-up conduct in the business, where they do not feel investigations as a comfortable or are unable to discuss it with their 24.94% 100% percentage of line manager. employee reports In the last 12 months, 5 calls were received by the Trust Line (increased from 1 in 2010). These were fully investigated, with conclusions that the issues Employees are also able to report concerns to raised did not give cause for concern. The Board their line manager or, if they feel that they cannot receives an anonymous, confidential report on the do this, directly and confidentially to the CEO number of calls to the Trust Line and any serious using the askharriet@premierfarnell.com issues are flagged. email address. 24 OUr PrInCIPles Our FY2012 Targets Our Target Our Performance Code of ethics The Code of Ethics was re-launched as the re-launched Code of Conduct on January 28th 2011 Our aims for next year The incentive programme across the business has been reviewed this year so that managers whose direct reports do not complete their personal development documentation and regular reviews will not be eligible to receive any bonus payments at the end of the financial year. We therefore aim to achieve 100% of employees responding that they have re-read the Code of Conduct and discussed it with their line manager when these forms are completed. 25 OUr PrInCIPles Environmental and ethical legislation in our industry Legislation in the electronics industry is a How does this affect… continuously-developing field which presents a number of regulatory challenges CUSTOMERS for us, our customers and our suppliers. • Customers have access to RoHS and REACH data by individual product through our The key pieces of legislation that affect our transactional websites, making this important information easy to find. • Wide-ranging information is available on global legislation that is relevant to their industry. industry are: • The EU RoHS and REACH directives and =EMPLOYEES their Chinese and other equivalents – • Employees are informed about key developments and therefore are able to support addressing chemicals in electronic customers and suppliers with this information. components • The EU WEEE directive – concerned with INVESTORS the recycling of end-of-life electronic • As legislation increases, our proactive approach to compliance and information services components and devices and other positions us strongly in comparison to our competition as a favourably-perceived provider national legislation outside the EU of knowledge to the industry. • The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Regulation SUPPLIERS and Consumer Protection Act – section 1502 of which implements reporting • Our suppliers are required to provide us with increasing amounts of data on products that requirements on 'Conflict Minerals'. we purchase. • Improving the quality and quantity of data available to customers makes suppliers’ products a more attractive prospect to customers wishing to comply with legislation. • Wide-ranging information is available on global legislation that is relevant to their industry. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • In the UK, we participate in consultations on legislation affecting the electronics industry. • We make all of our legislation guidance freely available to all users of element14. 26 OUr PrInCIPles Managing our legislative responsibilities RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances The Head of Legislation and Compliance, based at (in electrical and electronic equipment-EEE) Farnell in the UK, is responsible for monitoring RoHS restricts lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent international legislation affecting the electronics chromium and ﬂame retardants PBB and PBDE from 8 industry and translating the implications for the categories of EEE unless an exemption applies. A Recast business, our customers and suppliers. The of the Directive (or 'RoHS2') became law in July 2011 and Legislation Team manages the collection and extended the scope to ten categories with an 'open scope' processing of RoHS, REACH and other productCategory 11 scheduled for 2019. From January 2013, RoHS will become a CE Mark directive. level data as well as overseeing our membership of relevant compliance schemes. REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation – and restriction – of Our performance this year Chemicals requires the flow of specific From 20,000 Premier Farnell has continued to provide industrysafety data throughout the supply chain hits to the leading guidance on RoHS and REACH legislation For the vast majority of the 30,000 most frequently used dedicated in Europe, and developing environmental chemicals information on properties, uses and risks is legislation legislation in the US and Asia. limited. Batches of Substances of Very High Concern portal during (SVHCs) were published in June and December 2011. We 2010 to over collect, and make available on our website, obligatory information on over 400,000 products. Manufacturers and 200,000 in importers of chemicals are responsible for producing data 2011, a clear to deﬁne the hazards and risks to the downstream user. indication that Farnell has its finger on the pulse. 27 OUR PRINCIPLES By offering this support free of charge to the electronic design community via “Hits to the dedicated legislation portal www.element14.com/legislation clearly reflect a growing element14, we are able to increase the thirst for information on an ever-increasing number of existing coverage of our guidance and to legislative matters. Interest has expanded from 20,000 hits promote debate and collaboration over to the dedicated legislation portal during 2010 to over minimising the environmental impacts of 200,000 in 2011, a clear indication that Premier Farnell has engineers’ designs. its finger on the pulse. The Head of Legislation and Compliance Information and guidance is updated daily on the legislation for Premier Farnell sits as a member on portal and includes industry leading, exclusive, step-by-step the UK Electronics Regulatory Group guides to the various directives. These take the text of the legislation and summarise the key points and, more (ERG), a lobbying body representing the importantly, what it means to the customer. For example the interests of the electronics industry to the 800+ pages of the REACH Regulations are summarised in UK government. For example, during an 8 page, downloadable document. element14 now offers 2011 we led a debate around the burden advice and guidance in multiple languages and is supported on the industry of the EU REACH by both blogs and social networking posts. Regulations. A popular 'Ask the Expert' feature provides free of charge In the Americas, our Corporate Director guidance. In our hectic world element14 provides the for Environment, Health and Safety electronics design engineer with a single source for the participates in the IPPC steering group on legislative information they need to help comply with the many regulations that affect them.” Conflict Minerals, formed to develop a system for managing the obligations of Gary Nevison the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Regulation Head of Legislation and Compliance and Consumer Protection Act. 28 OUr PrInCIPles Developments in 2011 Our Target Our Performance We make information available through a number The legislation pages During FY2012, the legislation pages of of channels, including two main online sources – on element14 receive element14 received 224,600 page views our legislation pages on element14 and the at least 219,000 page Directive Decoder blog in Electronics Weekly. views per year During 2011, these received a combined average of 750 hits per day. Our aims for this year In 2012, we will help industry with the significant Blog content on legislation from Premier Farnell task of collecting CE Mark information in respect now features on two significant government of the RoHS Recast. There will be more batches websites – the Knowledge Transfer Network and of REACH SVHCs, as well as developments of the Electronics Regulatory Group. We are no energy reduction legislation. Our two main longer featured by the Engineering and Physical online sources Science Research Council. To further develop our involvement in the of environmental legislation process, and to enable us to better Global legislation features as one of our strategic legislation support our customers and suppliers in programmes, designed to improve the benefits content received understanding and complying with legislative that we receive from our deep understanding of a combined issues, we will aim to have at least one the legislation affecting our industry. average of 750 representative from each of our regions sitting on hits per day During 2011, we expanded the provision of a body that advises or responds to consultations in FY2012. information to include the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall from Governments in respect of legislation Street Regulation and Consumer Protection affecting the electronics industry. Act provisions regarding Conflict Minerals in electronics. We are well-placed to react once further details are published. 29 OUr PrInCIPles Implementation of management standards We operate our business in line with best practice International Management Standards in management standards. Where it is appropriate, or we believe that the structure would be beneficial, we implement the certification of management standards by independent certification bodies. 11 11 9 9 6 33 Management Standards are implemented by local 7 55 6 7 4 4 teams, dependent on the Standard in question 13 1 2 21 8 8 12 31 2 1 (e.g. local Quality Managers implement ISO 9001). Our Regional Safety, Health, Environment and Quality Managers oversee the local systems within their respective regions. Facilities currently certified to 01 10 international management standards We make all of our management standards certifications available on our transactional ,dnal1niFNewark llenraF Distribution 11 llenraFFrance, ,hciruZ 4GAFarnell 7 ,ecn7arFFarnell llenraFAG4 Zurich, noitubirts11iD k raweNFinland, Farnell 1 websites. At present, our businesses are certified dnalniF Ohio, USA Centre, 8002:1ISO OSI 009 9001:2000 reztiwS dnalFrance Switzerland ecnarF ASU ,oihO Finland ,ertneC 0002:1ISO 009 14001:2004 OSI 041 9001:2000 4002:10ISO OSI 0002:1ISO 009 9001:2008 OSI as follows: AS9120 ,ylatIISO raF 21 llen14001:2004 ISO 9001: 2000 0002 :1009 OSI 0219SA stnenopmoC llenraF 8 4002:10Farnell041 OSIItaly, 8 Farnell Components 12 ylatI 5 nia pS ,LSBelgium, Farnell ,muigleBSL, llenSpain raF 5 Italy 009 OSOhio, 80022:1MCM, I USA 0002:1Belgium 009 OSI mISO leB uig9001:2000 ASU ,oihO ISO,M9001:2008 CM 2 ISO 9001:2000 ISO 14001: 2004 4002 :10041 OSI 0002:1009 OSI ,ssarB norkA 31 ,enOnIISOllen9001:2008 raF 9 009 OSIInOne, 80092:1Farnell 13 Akron Brass, U ,oihO Farnell 3ASPremier krOHSAS amneD18001: 20077002 :10081Denmark SASHO l l e n r aF rOhio, eimerUSA P 3 0002:1UK009Ltd, OSI UK 0002 :1009 OSI ISO 9001: 2000 KU ,dtL9001:2000 KU ISO 7002 :10081OHSAS18001:2007 SASHO 6 Farnell BV, ,VB llenraF 6 7002:10081OHSAS SASHO18001: 2007 ISO 14001:2004 ailartsuA ,41tNetherlands nemele 01 dnaelement14, s10 lrehteN Australia 4002:10041 OSI ISO 9001:2008 0002 :1ISO OSI 009 9001:2000 009 9001: 0002:1ISO OSI 2000 8002:1009 OSI 8991 :1-5-04316 RT CEI IEC TR 61340-5-1: 1998 30 OUr PrInCIPles Our FY2012 Targets Our Target Our Performance Achieve OHSAS Our Liège facility is now certified to the 18001 certification at OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Liège Management Standard Our aims for next year Having achieved OHSAS 18001 at Liège, we will continue our programme of certifying our management systems and assess the Health and Safety Management System at our distribution centre in Gaffney, South Carolina. 31 OUr PrInCIPles Trade compliance As a global company, we have a responsibility to How does this affect… ensure that our supply chains are secure, and that we take all possible precautions to ensure that our CUSTOMERS activities and our shipments are protected against • Customers’ orders are less likely to be subject to risks to our own employees, and to the customers inspections and stoppages in transit. and countries to which we deliver. =EMPLOYEES Managing Trade Compliance • Employees are required to observe strict security Each of our three operating regions (US, Europe standards when on our premises. and Asia-Pacific) has a Manager responsible for • Employees working in the “Goods Out” area of our UK the implementation of trade compliance Distribution Centre must undergo background checks programmes, including import, export and security covering the past five years. Premier Farnell regulations. Internal training is given to relevant UK Ltd has been INVESTORS departments by these managers to ensure that an Authorised colleague have a clear understanding of the • The value of our proposition to customers is enhanced, Economic legislation affecting them and its implications. improving our attractiveness as a supplier. Operator – accredited Premier Farnell has been a participant in the US SUPPLIERS business Customs and Border Protection 'Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism' (C-TPAT) through • Our suppliers must comply with the requirements of since 2010. trade security programmes. our Newark business since 2007. In this voluntary • By participating in trade security programmes, we are programme, we work with Customs to prevent the increasing the security of suppliers’ products in transit to movement of items that could be used for the our customers. purposes of terrorism. We participate by ensuring that we maintain strong security measures in our EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS facilities, and communicate our focus on security • Customs agencies and logistics providers can have measures throughout our supply chain. confidence that Premier Farnell shipments have been prepared in a secure environment and do not pose a risk. 32 OUr PrInCIPles In 2010, Premier Farnell’s UK distribution centre was Our aims for next year awarded Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) During FY2013, we will build on the interaction status. To become an AEO operator, all aspects of between our Trade Compliance teams and other the business, from ﬁnancial stability and IT systems to functions within the business, particularly our physical security measures are examined to make Services Beyond Product teams. We will improve sure that an operator is not susceptible to security processes to consider Trade Compliance issues for breaches in their operations. new products at an earlier stage. This includes We have expanded the presence of Trade collecting technical information on the products and Compliance information onto element14 during FY12, services to aid in a quicker classiﬁcation of products sharing our knowledge with customers and suppliers and obtaining of any relevant export licences. through the existing legislation portal on the site. On element14, we will continue to build the Our FY2012 Targets repository of information available to users, working towards the coverage of global issues. Interactive Our Target Our Performance features such as Trade Compliance web seminars will be made available for users of element14 to Trade Compliance Trade Compliance was added to the training for Europe legislation portal on element14 in raise questions and discuss best practice. gradually added to November 2011 element14 Trade Compliance Trade Compliance training has been training conducted completed in China and Hong Kong. During across Asia-Pacific FY2012, we recruited a new Trade Compliance Manager for Asia-Pacific, who will continue to conduct training across the region in FY2013 33 OUr Planet Our planet OUR VISION To operate with the minimum practicable environmental impact and be the leading innovator of environmental benefits in our industry. Managing our Planet impacts and also with local-level facilities managers or The overall environmental strategy for the Group is nominated contacts to implement and audit developed by the Group Company Secretary and environmental management systems and to the Sustainability Manager. This includes the oversee environmental reporting and compliance. development of annual group-wide targets, based Our larger facilities, including distributions centres on the business’ sustainability vision, and the and large regional offices have local Facilities implementation and management of specific Managers or Operations Managers who are projects such as our initiative with the United Bank responsible for overseeing the implementation and of Carbon (p64). Our environmental impacts, risks maintenance of environmental management and opportunities are considered by the Board systems. They are also responsible for the twice per year through internal sustainability identification and implementation of energy reports during Board meetings. efficiency initiatives, recycling programmes and At a regional level, the Group employs environmental performance reporting. Environment Managers for the Americas and for At our smaller facilities, and at those where we do the Europe and Asia-Pacific region. These not have financial or operating control over the managers work with the Sustainability Manager facilities (such as rented space in managed 34 OUr Planet offices), local volunteers or nominated employees Planned improvements to our are responsible for environmental performance management approach reporting and local volunteer ‘Green Teams’ are During FY13, the management incentive plan responsible for the recycling of waste. for senior leaders within the business will include Specialist issues, such as the monitoring of Green explicit targets that contribute towards our overall House Gas emissions from logistics and paper sustainability strategy. These targets will reflect consumed in the production of catalogues and their relevant areas of responsibility in the business direct mail, are managed by the relevant functions and recognise that ‘business as usual’ activities within the business. contribute to the sustainable performance of our business from an environmental, social Following the sale of our business TPC in January and governance perspective as well as an 2011, we have removed the environmental economic one. impacts from previous years’ environmental performance figures to ensure that we continue to compare the same facilities throughout our report. This means that the performance figures reported for previous years will not directly match those in earlier sustainability reports. 35 OUr Planet Our impacts on the environment Electronic equipment plays a significant role in our society’s transition towards a sustainable IMPACTS economy. Electronic design has a positive role to play, enhancing the capacity of individuals and Primary communities, as well as significant environmental GHG emissions from energy use in our impacts arising from the manufacture of products, facilities their energy consumption while in use and their disposal at the end of life. We therefore GHG emissions from business travel believe that, as a company involved in this The waste produced by our operations sector, a leading approach to managing these Paper consumed in the production of our impacts at the same time as enabling the positive main marketing material for the Farnell, elements is both a requirement and a source of Newark, MCM, CPC and element14 UNITED business opportunity. businesses NATIONS GLOBAL As natural resources become increasingly scarce Using the way that we do business to COMPACT and expensive and international awareness of the support and encourage innovations that PRINCIPLE 7 impacts of climate change increase, we believe benefit the environment. Businesses should that pro actively managing our environmental support a precautionary Packaging dispatched to our customers. approach to the impacts positions us well to be competitive in a environment changing market both from a regulatory and Secondary reputational perspective. Water consumed at our facilities Waste electronic components and equipment GHG emissions from the delivery of our products to customers. 36 OUr Planet We have prioritised our impacts based on our understanding of their scale, their affect on customers and the environment. The packaging dispatched to our customers has been reclassified as a primary impact as a result of the significant number of items of feedback that we receive from customers on the issue. The energy consumed by our organisations and related emissions trading schemes in the United Kingdom represent costs to the business as well as an impact on the environment. We manage our energy consumption in order to reduce the operating costs of doing business as well as to reduce our GHG emissions. 37 OUr Planet Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from energy use We have been measuring the carbon footprint of our global operations from the energy consumed The Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol to heat and light our main facilities since 2003. The GHG Protocol is a voluntary standard for measuring emissions from facilities and business activities. This In 2006, we set a three-year goal to reduce these standard, produced in partnership by the World emissions by 10% against our baseline year of Business Council for Sustainable Development and the 2006. We surpassed this goal, achieving a World Resources Institute is the most widely-used method for calculating emissions. reduction of over 20%. In our last report, we set The GHG Protocol defines three 'scopes' or categories ourselves the new target of achieving a further of emissions: 10% reduction by the end of financial year 2013. Scope 1 We have included in our footprint those activities Direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by over which we have direct control – from the the organisation, including on-site stationary combustion In 2006, we set receipt of products into our warehouses to their of fuels (e.g. gas central heating) and mobile combustion a three-year of fuels in company-owned vehicles etc. final preparations for despatch to customers. goal to reduce Scope 2 these emissions We exclude the delivery of products to and from Indirect emissions generated in the production of by 10% against our distribution centres, as this is carried out by electricity consumed by the organisation. our baseline third party logistics providers and, as such, forms Scope 3 year of 2006. part of our Scope 3 emissions under the GHG All other indirect emissions that are a consequence of In 2009, we protocol. This section focuses on the Scope 1 and the activities of the organisation, but from sources that surpassed this Scope 2 emissions of our business. are neither owned nor controlled by the business. This goal, achieving can include emissions from sources such as commuting, business travel, third-party logistics emissions etc. a reduction of over 20%. 38 OUr Planet How does this affect… Calculating our carbon footprint We include the energy consumption of all CUSTOMERS processes from receiving goods into our distribution centres up to dispatching them to • The carbon emissions associated with each of our products customers. We also include the energy is reduced by reducing the energy used in holding them in consumption of the facilities used to conduct our warehouses. sales, marketing, administration and other • Customers are increasingly requesting information on our business support activities. environmental impacts and how we are mitigating them. We include the consumption and emissions of motor vehicles used for business travel reasons in =EMPLOYEES our Scope 1 emissions (other business travel is • Employees are required to self-monitor their behaviour, and reported separately later in this report). ensure that they take steps to reduce their own In our last report, This data is based on the calendar year January to environmental impact in the workplace. we set ourselves December. We collect data in this way to ensure • Our Group carbon reduction activities are identified and a new target that our annual reports are comparable and to implemented by employees from a variety of business units ensure that we have a full dataset from all of our and functions. of achieving facilities. We use invoices from utility suppliers to a further 10% record our consumption. With facilities located INVESTORS reduction by around the world, we receive invoice data from the end of utility companies at differing times and in order to • Driving for energy efficiency and reducing our consumption the financial ensure we provide comparable data globally we leads directly to lower running costs for our facilities. year 2013. set the cut-off point at December. • As increasing degrees of environmental legislation come We use conversion factors published by the Green into force, taking action now to reduce our emissions House Gas protocol to convert energy protects us from financial and legislative risks in the future. consumption into carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e) emissions. We update these figures SUPPLIERS annually and correct published figures from previous years in order to reflect updated data. • We focus on procuring goods and services for our own use that can fulfil our requirements with minimum environmental impact. The energy consumption of a product is a significant factor in our decision to purchase. 39 OUr Planet Total amount used Unit rate/£000 sales Unit rate/square foot ('000) £975,900 £962,300 £777,300 1,768,432 2,113,574 2,128,863 Type of Energy consumed 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Electricity KwH 31,637 31,342 29,873 32 33 38 18 15 14 Natural Gas m³ 1,202 1,266 1,335 1.2 1.3 1.7 0.7 0.6 0.6 Propane Kg 5 7 6 0.01 0.01 0.01 Fuel Oil litres 94 62 102 0.1 0.1 0.1 Petrol for company cars/trucks litres 235 208 261 0.2 0.2 0.3 Note We utilize World Resources Diesel fuel litres 288 310 338 0.3 0.3 0.4 Institute recommended 'Greenhouse Gas Protocol' in Employee Business Travel calculating the company’s CO² Petrol for rented cars/trucks litres 285 296 387 0.3 0.3 0.5 emissions. We updated our GHG CO² conversion factors in 2010. Metric tonnes CO2 emitted Metric tonnes CO2 / 1,000 of sales 23,231 23,324 22,732 0.024 0.024 0.029 Unit rates for sales are calculated on the basis of the calendar year January to December. 40 OUr Planet Energy consumption in Gigajoules Measuring our performance As we increase the coverage of energy metering Type of Energy consumed 2011 2010 2009 across our businesses, we expect to see our Electricity1 113,893 112,831 107,542 capability to report in real-time improve and we Natural Gas1 43,271 45,577 48,077 hope then to be able to align our energy Propane1 242 296 248 consumption reporting with the financial (February 1 to January 31) year. Fuel Oil2 3,334 2,216 3,621 Petrol for company cars/ 7,726 6,857 8,583 This year, we have included energy consumption trucks2 figures in Gigajoules for each source. This enables Diesel fuel2 10,245 11,035 12,01 readers to understand the level of energy used by source in a uniform format. Reporting in this Employee Business Travel2 manner also allows us to more easily meet the Petrol for rented cars/trucks2 9,376 9,718 12,743 needs of some rating organisations, who measure TOTAL 188,088 188,529 192,830 energy consumption in Gigajoules. We have calculated our energy consumption by Our target is to achieve a reduction of 10% against 1 Electricity, natural gas source in Gigajoules using conversion factors from our baseline emissions in 2009 by the end of and propane calculated the World Energy Council, International Energy FY13. This year, we report a reduction in our GHG using direct conversion Agency and European Commission Joint Research emissions of less than 1% compared to FY2011. factors. This equates to a 0.2% increase in emissions Centre (for mobile sources). Electricity, natural gas 2 Oil derivative fuels against our 2009 baseline. Based on current and propane have been calculated using direct converted to Tonnes of conversion factors. Oil-derivative fuels have been performance and the increasing difficulty in Oil Equivalent and then to GJ using a net converted to tonnes of oil equivalent before being identifying cost-effective energy efficiency calorific value. converted to GJ using a net calorific value. upgrades, we currently anticipate that we will not achieve the 10% target by the end of FY13. 41 OUr Planet Since 2009, we have achieved a 0.23% (442GJ) We have reduced the number of facilities we are reduction in total energy use as a result of lower use estimating this year by incorporating data for our of more energy-dense fuels such as natural gas. largest ofﬁce in India, based in Bangalore. We have also revisited our estimation calculations, based on We have updated our emissions data according to data taken from our other facilities and applied these new statistics made available by the Green House to our estimated facilities for 2010 and 2011, which Gas Protocol. During 2011, the organisation released we believe gives a better picture of our environmental the carbon emission calculation factors for CO2 impacts. There is, therefore, an increase in the emissions occurring in 2008. We have applied these environmental data reported for 2010 when factors to all years subsequent to 2008 (as the most compared to our FY2011 Sustainability Report. recent data) and this has resulted in our reported carbon emissions for each year rising. Net CO2 emissions The change in emissions ﬁgures as a result of this Our approach to reducing carbon emissions by update does not reﬂect a change in performance, it is improving our energy efﬁciency means that we do not a re-statement using the best data available to us purchase carbon offsets as these make no from the World Resources Institute Green House Gas contribution to the overall reduction of energy Project. consumption or carbon emissions. We support the We estimate the environmental impacts of some of renewable electricity generation industry by our smaller facilities, accounting for approximately purchasing ‘green tariff’ electricity from mixed 3.5% of energy use spread across 18 facilities. We renewable sources where it is available and calculate these estimates because we do not have competitively priced. In effect, this produces a net access to actual data for every environmental reduction in our green house gas emissions as this indicator at every facility. For example, some of the electricity is zero-carbon. properties that we occupy are leased and the property landlord receives the utility invoice and apportions this to tenants by ﬂoor area occupied. 42 OUr Planet Green tariff facilities We have calculated the net impact of using ‘green The following facilities have used green electricity tariff’ electricity in the table above to represent the tariffs for the full year January 01 2011 to December potential emissions reduction achieved by having 31 2011: chosen these suppliers. In our carbon accounting, we use standard WRI emissions factors for our • Farnell Leeds green tariff facilities, to recognise that the • CPC Darwen electricity is not generated on-site and is therefore • CPC Fulwood drawn from the national electricity grid (supplying • Farnell Liège mixed-source electricity). Accounting for our net emissions reduced by Green Tariff electricity, we have achieved a reduction in GHG emissions of 2011 2010 2009 2008 approximately 37%. Gross emissions 23,231 23,324 22,732 25,534 Calculated Our Carbon Reduction programme emissions avoided The Premier Farnell carbon reduction programme 9,437 4,706 782 – by ‘Green Tariff’ focuses on our largest facilities, which account for 75% electricity of our total electricity consumption and 88% of gas Net emissions 13,794 16,618 21,950 25,534 consumption. These facilities identify potential investments that will deliver energy efficiency savings and submit them to their annual budgeting process. Energy efficiency upgrades are given the same consideration in the budgeting process as all other business activities and must be able to demonstrate a 1 Based on the emissions from electricity of those facilities favourable return on investment. purchasing energy on a Green Tariff 43 OUr Planet Our FY2012 Targets Our Target Our Progress Complete budgeted carbon reduction initiatives 20 projects were proposed at the beginning of FY2012. 15 of these projects were at eight major facilities. Review all budgeted completed by the end of the financial year actions at each business’ Quarterly Business Of the five incomplete projects, one was replaced by an efficiency upgrade offering Review meetings better reductions Revise the Company’s approach to budgeting We have revised the budgeting process to assess all projects as part of a single Groupfor selecting carbon reduction investments level budget, rather than individual business units assessing their own projects. This allows us to make the best decisions for the financial and environmental situation of Premier Farnell as a whole Complete an audit of out-of-hours energy Walk-around assessments of major sites after-hours were completed in the US. consumption for major facilities Assessments for the European and Asia-Pacific regions will be completed during FY2013 Review printing practices and devices in the Eight printers were removed from our US businesses in the first phase of this project. USA and APAC and rationalise office equipment A further 23 fax machines are planned to be removed during FY2013 as part of the to reduce the number of printers in use second phase Default all printers across the business to Printers that have a double-sided functionality have been set to this by default. Not all double-sided printing printers in the business are currently capable of printing on both sides. Where new printers are installed, these have double-sided capability Our aims for next year To assist in closing the gap towards this goal, we During FY2013, we will continue to target a 10% will revisit our major facilities’ out-of-hours reduction in CO2 emissions against 2009 levels by procedures to ensure that energy consumed by implementing ongoing efficiency measures the business when not operating is minimised. throughout the year. At present we expect to 1 Estimate excludes the impacts of the weather on consumption achieve a 2% reduction in emissions against our and of savings not yet realised from projects implemented in 2009 baseline by the end of next year.1 late FY2012. 44 OUr Planet GHG emissions from business travel As a global business, our employees are How does this affect… required to work with internal and external contacts around the world. We take CUSTOMERS advantage of video conferencing and • Customers will still get maximum value from face to face meetings with Premier Farnell other virtual meeting tools where possible; representatives. however we recognise that there are times • Where we do not already do so, customers will begin to see virtual meeting options made available when it is necessary to travel in order to to them to engage with the Company, reducing the need for either party to travel. meet the needs of the business. =EMPLOYEES As a result, we measure and report on our business travel using carbon emissions • Employees will be required to take better account of the impacts of their business travel. • Employees that travel will be expected to do so in a manner that is efficient and commensurate with data directly from our travel agents for the importance, distance and length of their trip. travel originating in the UK or USA1. The • Whilst we will not dictate the method employees use to travel to and from work, we will make it emissions of cars used by employees on easier and more appealing for employees to choose low-impact commuting where possible. business travel are accounted-for in our • Reducing the amount of travel required of employees helps contribute to a better work-life balance. Scope 1 and 2 emissions. INVESTORS • Inefficient travel is potentially a waste of business resources. Controlling employees’ business travel with efficiency and value in mind will contribute to reduced operating costs of the business. SUPPLIERS • Suppliers will still get maximum value from face to face meetings with Premier Farnell representatives. • Where we do not already do so, suppliers will begin to see virtual meeting options made available to 1 Some of our smaller facilities (that do not use travel agents) estimate business travel based on them to engage with the Company, reducing the need for either party to travel. the distance between the two locations, rather EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS than receiving an absolute report from an agent. • By reducing business travel we will reduce the overall level of carbon emissions. 45 OUr Planet Measuring our performance 697 employees responded to the survey (42% of US employees) from which we calculated 5,846 Domestic International Rail Total tonnes of Green House Gas emissions. These Air Air primarily result from personal car use (which 71% Distance (km) 4,669,3533 10,259,919 6566 14,935,838 of respondents use to commute to work). CO ² We will use the results of this survey to offer emissions 765 1,309 0.7 2,075 (tonnes) improved work travel incentives, such as metro cards, more widely and will repeat the survey with Business travel is reported on the January to a wider pool of employees globally during FY2013. December calendar year to align with our GHG Our aims for next year emissions reporting. We will continue to pursue our target of reducing During FY2012, business travel was restricted to the air miles per travelling employee by the end of only those journeys that directly benefited financial year 2013. Air travel is the highest-impact customers or that were strictly required for form of business travel and as such we believe employees to carry out their duties. This has that working to maintain our business performance resulted in a reduction of 1,304 tonnes of whilst reducing air travel would have a significant emissions from travel when compared to FY2011. impact on our emissions from employee travel. We do not currently measure the environmental We will also expand our reporting from 'business impact of employee commuting to work. In travel' to GHG Protocol Scope 3 emissions and FY2012, we surveyed our US businesses’ include employee commuting and the GHG employees to understand their commuting habits. emissions of third-party logistics providers delivering our products to customers. 46 OUr Planet Our FY2012 Targets Our Target Our Progress Review and improve Business travel was heavily restricted to the Company save costs in challenging economic Business Travel conditions. These restrictions went beyond policy to reduce those likely to be introduced in a revised non-essential travel travel policy and short-turnaround flights Complete We have completed travel surveys from all-employee employees across our US businesses commuter survey to Our European and Asia-Pacific businesses begin developing have not yet been surveyed Scope 3 emissions from employee travel 47 OUr Planet Waste produced by our operations Our business activities involve the unpacking How does this affect… of large quantities of products from our suppliers in our distribution centres, as well CUSTOMERS as the use of a large quantity of ofﬁce • We are reducing the waste that we create for customers by stationery in our sales, marketing and sending them less packaging and ensuring that more of the administration centres. packaging that we do send is recyclable or biodegradable. We work to reduce the amount of waste that =EMPLOYEES our facilities generate, and simultaneously to ensure that an increasing percentage of • Employees are required to comply with local recycling practices. • Green Facility programmes and local green teams allow waste is recycled. As we reduce the amount employees to identify ways to reduce waste and operate of waste generated, we also reduce the more efﬁciently. We work to absolute volume of waste to be recycled. reduce the INVESTORS amount of waste • Disposing of waste is a costly activity. Reducing the amount of that our facilities waste generated reduces cost. generate • We have negotiated rebate arrangements with a number of waste disposal contractors for recycling waste materials. SUPPLIERS • Our vendor compliance policy requests that suppliers use packaging economically to reduce the amount of waste generated by inbound deliveries. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • By increasing our recycling rates, we are reducing the amount of waste sent to landﬁll sites. 48 OUr Planet Our performance this year (tonnes) 2011 2010 2009 Waste disposed per £1,000 sales 0.0013 0.0011 0.0018 (tonnes) 2011 2010 2009 Waste recycled per £1,000 sales 0.0035 0.0034 0.0038 Waste disposed (including sent 1,305 1,088 1,383 to landfill) We have seen a 5% increase in the weight of waste Of which was hazardous¹ 318 260 198 sent to landﬁll, primarily in the ‘hazardous’ category, Waste recycled 3,440 3,346 2,971 which includes obsolete products that are treated Of which was hazardous² 3 3 3 prior to disposal. This has resulted in a decline in our Total waste generated 4,745 4,434 4,354 recycling performance of 3%. % waste recycled 72.5% 75.5% 68.2% Akron Brass is responsible for approximately 51% of all waste produced by Premier Farnell companies, 'Hazardous waste' includes: lead contaminated machining with a recycling rate of 81% of waste generated. It is lubricants, metal scrap, scrap foundry sand, ﬂammable paints, also the only business unit to produce hazardous cleaning ﬂuids and damaged, returned or discontinued chemical products and those that have exceeded their shelf-life so that waste as a result of the industrial processes they can no longer be sold to customers. employed in manufacturing its products (hazardous waste generated by other businesses is a result of disposing of obsolete or returned stock), and the weight of waste generated is directly related to the levels of production at the facility. 1 'Disposed' includes hazardous waste that is treated appropriately prior to disposal, where it is not sent speciﬁcally Akron Brass has systems in place to reuse or to a materials reclamation facility. recycle waste material from the manufacturing of 2 In terms of hazardous waste, 'recycled' refers to material its products, including additional work shifts to reclamation carried out on hazardous waste e.g. the distillation reintroduce waste materials into the production of solvents. process. 49 OUr Planet Our aims for next year Our FY2012 Targets We will continue to reduce the waste generated Our Target Our Progress by our operations by re-using packaging waste (one of our largest sources of waste) as an Group recycling rate We experienced a 3% drop in recycling reaches 75% performance to 72.5% improvement over recycling it, and we will work to improve our recycling rates for waste that is not reused. We do not currently track reused waste at Akron Brass as it would not be efficient to weigh it between uses, and will continue to investigate ways of tracking the weights of waste that avoids By improving disposal or recycling by being used again in the levels of our operations. waste that we generate, we are reducing our operating costs relating to disposal as well as our impact on the environment. 50 OUr Planet Secondary Impact: Waste electronic components and equipment The electronics industry is How does this affect… responsible for significant amounts of waste resulting CUSTOMERS from the disposal of • Where applicable, we participate in WEEE compliance schemes, to meet our regulatory obligations and ensure that the electronic equipment. As a disposal of products that we provide is adequately funded. distributor of components, • Our customers are equally subject to environmental legislation covering the disposal of electronic waste, and as such we we are not responsible for offer free guidance on environmental legislation affecting the industry. the waste that is generated =EMPLOYEES when finished products made by our customers are • Employees need to ensure that electronic equipment in their business is properly disposed of and that sufficient records disposed at the end of their are maintained. useful life. • We encourage our employees to recycle their own waste electronics responsibly, and, where possible, we provide bins for employees own waste batteries. However, we are conscious of this considerable waste INVESTORS stream and therefore take • Reputational and legislative risks associated with the improper disposal of electronic waste are affecting a growing number of what steps we can to companies. By ensuring that we take a best-practice global approach to disposal, we are proactively mitigating these risks. mitigate it. We also have legal responsibilities in SUPPLIERS Europe for the limited • Our suppliers are equally subject to environmental legislation covering the disposal of electronic waste, and as such we number of finished offer free guidance on environmental legislation affecting the industry. products that we sell and for the electronic waste we EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS generate from the disposal • We have business operations in regions where there are concerns over the treatment of electronic waste – predominantly of products that we use in in China and India. our business. • By conducting diligence over the companies with whom we work to dispose of our own waste, we are ensuring that waste does not enter illegitimate “recycling” streams and supporting the legitimate and safe recycling industry. 51 OUr Planet Our performance this year We have begun to track the weights of obsolete products that are disposed during the year. We do this We account for the end-of-life electronic equipment, using waste transfer data obtained by our facilities when such as ofﬁce equipment that we dispose of during the obsolete components are collected for disposal and year and report this as part of our waste totals. In order through our back-ofﬁce systems. Of the 4,727 tonnes of to ensure that our waste is correctly disposed, all of our waste disposed by Premier Farnell businesses during businesses are required to select recycling providers FY12, 172 tonnes comprised of ex-stock electronic that comply with our internal standards for electronic components from our MDD businesses. waste disposal. Of the 3,440 tonnes of waste recycled by Group companies during FY2012, 22 tonnes Our aims for next year comprised of end-of-life electronic products or 'IT Having identiﬁed the quantity of waste electronics waste'. produced by the business, we will conduct site audits All of our Newark remains a member of the e-Stewards on the companies that collect and process the waste to businesses Enterprise network, committing to dispose of electronic ensure that they meet our expectations and standards. are required to waste only through veriﬁed recyclers who do not ship select recycling We will also look for ways to reduce the weight of any electronic waste out of the United States to be components that is disposed and will consider options providers that dismantled or recycled. such as donating obsolete products to local school comply with our internal For obsolete products, we have negotiated scrapping science and art projects. standards for agreements with several of our suppliers (as opposed to electronic waste agreements to ship obsolete components back to them Our FY2012 Targets disposal for disposal). This reduces the carbon emissions Our Target Our Progress associated with the obsolescence of products and Measure and report We have measured and reported the scrapped allows us to ensure that they are disposed of through the amount of product product weights from our Distribution Centres responsible recyclers. scrapped by Premier in the USA, UK and Singapore. We have Farnell businesses. identified 20.7 tonnes of obsolete stock that was destroyed under scrapping agreements. 52 OUr Planet Paper marketing materials Catalogues We offer additional digital options to customers Paper catalogues remain an important marketing who prefer a catalogue experience, including channel between us and our customers. We application-specific microsites and portals, as well shipped almost 400,000 catalogues this year as digital versions of our printed catalogue worldwide, and recognise that this is a significant available both online and on CD and also in a environmental impact. tablet-optimised format. We aim to support our customer base through We work to reduce the weight of paper used in whichever communication methods they believe to each catalogue, and to use sustainability-certified be the most efficient and suitable to them. Our paper stocks where this is possible. catalogue supports our multi-channel proposition to customers, offering products both through our Digital versions transactional websites and through local-language of our printed sales contact centres. catalogue are available online, on CD and also in a tabletoptimised format. 53 OUr Planet 12% 18% Certified1 and Recycled Paper Certified1 Virgin Paper 14% Virgin Paper Recycled Paper Our Performance 1 Virgin paper is manufactured from fibres sourced directly Virgin Paper Our catalogue production has been significantly from trees or other plants, having not been used 56% lower during FY2012. A total of 864 tonnes of previously in other products. paper were used to produce our catalogues, Virgin paper can be certified to represent the source farm adhering to standards for sustainable farming that which is 40% of that used in FY2011. maintains the crop of trees and protects biodiversity. FY2012 FY2011 12% 18% Certified1 and Recycled Paper Certified1 and Recycled Paper 31.46% Certified1 Virgin Paper Certified1 Virgin Paper 14% Recycled Paper Recycled Paper 68.54% Virgin Paper Virgin Paper 56% 1 'Certified' means paper that carries FSC, SFC or PEFC sustainability certification, sourced by our printers. Certified1 and Recycled Paper 54 31.46% Certified1 Virgin Paper OUr Planet Minilogs Recycled Paper As well as catalogues, we ship a number of regular Recycled paper is manufactured from fibres reclaimed 1.17% direct mail supplements 16.84% to interested customers 0.39% from either post-consumer waste paper or from other each year. 2010 was the first year that all three of wood products. our regions reported paper usage Certifiedinand 1 these Recycled Paper Certifying recycled paper verifies its content as being 'Minilogs'. Certified Virgin Paper 1 recycled or reclaimed. Recycled Paper Our Performance 81.60% Virgin Paper FY2012 FY2011 1.17% 16.84% 0.39% 28.87% Certified1 and Recycled Paper Certified1 Virgin Paper Certified1 and Recycled Paper Recycled Paper Certified1 Virgin Paper Virgin Paper Recycled Paper 71.13% 81.60% Virgin Paper 55 28.87% Certified1 and Recycled Paper 1 OUr Planet We have identified over 500,000 more minilogs In the US, we entered into renegotiations with our during FY2012 than in FY2011 as a result of printer. During these negotiations, the US expanding our audit of paper-based marketing. publishing team were required to use alternative Virgin-sourced paper with no sustainability print suppliers who were sometimes unable to certification remains a significant source of paper provide sustainably-sourced paper, resulting in a for our minilogs, although we have increased the number of publications in the US being printed on amount that is certified by 28 percentage points non-sustainably sourced paper. We anticipate that this year (equating to 235 tonnes). We have also this will be remedied in FY13. significantly increased the amount of recycled Following an audit of printed marketing materials paper used, however none of this had been conducted this year, we have identified 60 certified. publications and print runs of varying sizes (e.g. All of our business units now purchase sustainable localised flyers, posters and leaflets) that are not (recycled and/or certified) paper for catalogues captured by our current catalogue/minilogs and minilogs as standard. Publishing managers recording processes because they are purchased work to source the most sustainable paper by local marketing executives rather than the available for each printing. Publishing functions. Following this audit, we are now in a position to begin tracking and reporting on smaller runs of printed material during FY13. 56 OUr Planet Our aims for next year Our FY2012 Targets In line with our strategic drive towards increasing Our Target Our Progress transactions over the web, our regional marketing teams will develop and implement new strategies Review paper Guidelines have been revised and purchasing guidelines communicated to publishing managers. All to incentivise customers to choose not to receive to ensure that all paper-based marketing materials are now copies of our catalogues and instead to use our paper in the ordered on sustainably-sourced paper transactional websites. By doing so, we also aim publication of (where available) as standard catalogues and direct to achieve a reduction in the weight of paper mail is from required to produce marketing materials. sustainable or recycled sources Audit publishing and The auditing process has been completed, marketing purchasing identifying marketing materials that are not processes to map currently captured in our reporting because ordering of printed they are not purchased by central marketing materials functions, primarily in Europe. These will be integrated into FY13 reporting 57 OUr Planet Strategic commercial projects Reusing packaging in our Semiconductors and small components are often European Supply Chain shipped in waffle trays for protection, or attached Our approach to sustainability focuses on to reels for efficiency in our customers’ production delivering services that are valuable for our processes. This packaging is made of moulded customers, the environment and also for the plastic and, in most cases, would need to be business. Part of our Trust Agenda, our shredded and reprocessed before they could be sustainability strategy drives solutions to used again for another purpose. environmental and social challenges that are also Working with our logistics partners, our European beneficial for Premier Farnell and our customers. customers can now request a recycling pack from The volume of packaging that we ship to their Farnell account manager and return waffle customers is a significant environmental impact of trays and reels to our UK Distribution Centre freedoing business, and also represents a cost to us of-charge, instead of paying their waste disposal UNITED contractors to recycle them. NATIONS of purchasing new packaging and to our GLOBAL customers in disposing of it. COMPACT PRINCIPLE 8 During 2011, we launched a scheme to reclaim and reuse packaging that Farnell customers would Businesses should encourage the development otherwise dispose of as waste. and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies 58 OUr Planet At our Distribution Centre in Leeds we work with How does this affect… Remploy, a local social business providing jobs CUSTOMERS and training for individuals with complex barriers to work, to sort and clean the packaging that we • Customers in Europe can avoid the cost of disposing of receive. The packaging is then restocked in order plastic packaging received from Premier Farnell by joining to be used again to protect customers’ orders. the scheme and returning it for free. • Participating customers’ own waste output is reduced. By looking at the value derivable from packaging as a resource, rather than as a waste product, we INVESTORS are able to create value for our customers by • Overheads from packaging are reduced in line with the reducing the cost and inconvenience of handling number of customers that participate. waste packaging, create jobs in the local community and reduce our spend on protective EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS packaging. Since the pilot launch in October 2011, • The scheme provides paid work to our local community. we have reclaimed and reused over 750kg of packaging, reducing our costs by over £12,000. 59 OUr Planet Services beyond product Delivering Customers Design different aspects of their designs. To find out more Engineering Solutions about this groundbreaking innovation visit http:// Our Services Beyond Product (SBP) initiative www.element14.com/community/community/ focuses on delivering enhancements to our knode. proposition so we support an EDE at every phase of their design cycle; not just through the providing Version 6 of CadSoft’s EAGLE software them with quick access to electronic components, Two and a half years ago we acquired CadSoft but also through the provision of software, tools GmbH, a leading German-based developer and and services. supplier of the EAGLE CAD software for electronic design engineers. In December our continued The Knode thirst for innovation saw us develop and release In June of this year we launched the Knode on version 6 of the award-winning EAGLE software. Since it was element14. Created by engineers for engineers, This key milestone sees us deliver significant launched, the the Knode is an intelligent online search and enhancements and new features to the EAGLE Knode has received over knowledge tool that helps customer select and software that provide design engineers increased 320,000 visits purchase complete engineering solutions for their flexibility and efficiency when designing the layout from customers design. These solutions range from exclusive of their Printed Circuit Board. Another example of element14 development kits to operating system how our SBP work is helping us meet the software from Micrium and development tools engineers' ever changing design needs. from ARM. Since it was launched, the Knode has received over 320,000 visits from customers, who have used the Knode to research over 860,000 60 OUr Planet The Acquisition of Embest partnered with five new Printed Circuits Board (PCB) services partners, added embedded In December we announced our intention to software to our extensive product portfolio and acquire Shenzhen Embest Technology Co Ltd joined forces with ARM, the world’s leading (“Embest”). Embest is a technology company supplier of semiconductor intellectual property, focusing on the design, development and whose development tools suite is at the heart of marketing of embedded development tools, the digital electronic design. The addition of such reference designs and engineering design software and services augment our component services. With the addition of these new product portfolio to solve problems commonly capabilities and Embest’s customer base in China faced by EDEs. By making the EDE’s job easier exceeding 20,000, this acquisition represents a from the start, these design solutions create significant opportunity for us and great progress in differentiating value for our portfolio long before our evolution to become the trusted global source component specifications are made, ultimately for design engineering solutions. positioning us as the distributor of choice when it The Knode, the release of version 6 of EAGLE and comes to the resultant electronic component the acquisition of Embest are clear indications of purchases generated by the new designs. our move to become a leader in the world of design engineering solutions. This year we also 61 OUr Planet Our FY2012 Targets How does this affect… Our Target Our Progress CUSTOMERS £27m in revenue £15m in revenue has been delivered in delivered by FY2011 by our Services Beyond Product • Customers and users of element14 will have access to non-component sales range including development kits, software a suite of connected applications and services that and PCB manufacture referrals can help reduce the time required to design their products. INVESTORS Services Beyond Product • We are differentiating the services that we offer to customers beyond the physical products that we sell recognises and improving our offering to customers beyond that the valuable of our competitors. opportunity in meeting SUPPLIERS the needs of customers that • Suppliers that provide services such as PCB extend beyond prototyping. the delivery of EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS components, improving the • The virtual workspace ‘rooms’ will be available to any sustainability registered users of element14, expanding its of our business availability beyond customers. proposition. 62 OUr Planet Global Product Segmentation How does this affect… – “Green Technology” CUSTOMERS As in FY2011, we have continued to pursue our • Customers developing alternative energy applications Global Product Segmentation Strategy. The strategy have access to an improved marketing proposition focuses our capability to sell our products and that is tailored to their needs. services into key vertical segments including medical technologies, lighting and alternative energy. =EMPLOYEES As the demand for efﬁcient lighting solutions and • New skills are required from employees in alternative low-carbon energy technologies continues to grow, energy-generating technologies and vertical we have identiﬁed signiﬁcant commercial marketing. opportunities in providing tailored solutions to these We have INVESTORS segments that groups the products, services and delivered more solutions most needed by these markets together • Alternative energy and “green” technologies are then three times rapidly-expanding marketing with predictions of into an integrated offering. our target sales strong future growth. By investing in improved service rate in Green for these sectors, we are investing to generate Our FY2012 Targets Technology improved returns for shareholders. products during Our Target Our Progress FY2012 SUPPLIERS £7.1m sales to “Green The alternative energy and lighting technology” segments have delivered £21.6m sales • We have improved our capability to market suppliers’ (alternative energy during FY2012 products into these sectors. and lighting segment) customers 63 OUr Planet Premier Farnell Sustainable Electronics: The United Destruction of rainforest areas releases signiﬁcantly is bringing vital Bank of Carbon/Tongwe Trust project more Green House Gases into the atmosphere per sustainable As a distributor of new components to the day than we are able to abate as a business in a technology to electronic design community, we are positioned year. In order to begin making a tangible impact on 40,000 people looking after within a very specific niche of the electronics environmental sustainability, we have developed a 10 million of industry that gives us the opportunity to promote project that uses innovative electronic design to the planet's and enable innovation, both from our own staff reduce the risk of deforestation and help to directly tropical trees. and from the companies that we purchase from combat climate change. and supply. The project aims to use technology to make it The company is clearly One area in which we can promote that innovation simpler for communities living in rainforest areas to demonstrating the is the sustainable use of electronics to deliver earn a living wage and remain there, preventing social leadership social and environmental benefits. As the demand deforestation by making the forest more valuable without which for products with reduced environmental impact, standing as an ecotourism and scientific interest there can be no site rather than incentivising local people to move greater efficiency and longer lifetimes increases, real business we have identified opportunities to provide away to towns and cities. leadership. technology solutions that can make a real social During FY2012, design engineers and product Jonathan Wild, and environmental difference at a low cost. managers within our business developed a simple, Chairman, United Bank of Carbon We have partnered with the United Bank of easy-to-repair and easy-to-customise solarCarbon, Fauna and Flora International and Tongwe powered LED lighting circuit for use in areas with Trust in Tanzania to continue a project that no grid electricity. The circuit uses our own private commenced in FY2011, following the donation of label components and can be regularly adjusted to two solar-powered fridges to villages in the Mahale feature cutting-edge LED and Driver technology to Mountains National Park. remain highly efficient. 64 OUr Planet In FY2013, we plan to provide over 400 How does this affect… demonstration kits to communities in Tanzania with the help of Tongwe Trust in order to promote CUSTOMERS the benefits of renewable electric lighting over • Customers will be able to build on their own efforts to kerosene and other fossil fuel-burning lights. This mitigate their environmental impacts by participating in an will increase safety and education in rural industry-wide partnership to reduce the risk of deforestation communities as well as making it easier and more that contributes significantly to climate change. cost-effective for villagers to continue living in =EMPLOYEES off-grid rainforest areas. We will report publicly on our progress during • Employees are able to use their skills during working hours to support and continuously develop sustainable electronics FY2013, and will use this initiative as a platform to solutions for the area of Tanzania that we are supporting. engage customers and suppliers in projects to • Prospective employees can readily identify a cause about develop sustainable technology solutions to which our organisation is passionate – demonstrating our benefit developing communities. commitment to both sustainability and innovation. Our FY2012 Targets SUPPLIERS Our Target Our Progress • Suppliers will have the opportunity to showcase their latest Publicly launch We announced our initial partnership with components in circuits and have them ‘ﬁeld tested’ by Premier Farnell the United Bank of Carbon in August 2011 communities that will derive a real beneﬁt from the technology. support for the United • Suppliers will be able to build on their own efforts to mitigate Bank of Carbon their environmental impacts by participating in an industrywide partnership to reduce the risk of deforestation that contributes signiﬁcantly to climate change. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • Local communities in Tanzania will benefit from access to free or low-cost lighting in the first phase of the project. 65 OUr Planet Packaging dispatched to our customers As a distribution company, one of our primary Our products require a minimum amount of impacts is the waste that we generate by packaging to ensure that they are not damaged in packaging products for our customers. We receive transit. In addition, some products require products packaged from our suppliers, and in specialist packaging such as metallised shielding order to store and dispatch them, we need to bags or moisture barrier packaging. The amount of remove them from their original packaging and packaging that is used for each delivery is dictated transfer them to our packaging. by these protection requirements and so we focus our efforts on reducing the impact of the packaging We actively engage with our suppliers through our that we ship. supplier management and vendor compliance functions to control the quality, quantity and We continue to use our innovative 'peel pack' materials used in packaging that we receive. packaging to replace wafﬂe trays and other forms UNITED All of our distribution centres have internal of protective packaging, with over 2100 eligible NATIONS recycling processes to ensure that inbound lines (products that can be shipped in the GLOBAL waste is prepared for processing by waste packaging) being despatched in this packaging. COMPACT management companies. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies 66 OUr Planet How does this affect… CUSTOMERS • Improving our packaging reduces the amount that customers will receive, that ultimately becomes waste • Our own innovative compostable, static-dissipative packaging allows customers to reduce the total amount of waste that they dispose of for landfill or recycling by shipping orders using bags that will safely biodegrade. =EMPLOYEES • Our public target is that our recycling levels will not fall below 70% of all waste generated. Our employees are required to ensure that they correctly sort inbound packaging for reuse and recycling. • Our offices have been furnished with paper and plastic recycling bins which employees are expected to use to ensure that recycling is not limited only to our distribution centres. INVESTORS • Managing our packaging better reduces costs of disposal for the business. • In the UK, we are required to report the weight of packaging for which we are responsible on an annual basis. Reducing the packaging attributable to us limits our liabilities under these regulations. SUPPLIERS • We ask our suppliers to ensure that their products are delivered to us in recyclable packaging, enabling us to minimise our collective impact on the waste stream. • Our packaging vendor compliance also requests that they make efficient use of packaging and that it is recyclable and recycled where possible. • Efficiencies in packing goods shipped to our distribution centres reduce packing costs for our suppliers. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • By accepting less packaging into our facilities and dispatching less (and more recyclable) packaging to customers, we are influencing the amount of waste that goes to local landfill sites and reducing the frequency of traffic associated with 67 the waste collections. OUr Planet Measuring our performance BS EN 13432 Standard In accordance with UK legislation, we track and BS EN 13432 is the British Standards Institution report the weight of packaging for which we are requirements for packaging recovery through deemed to be responsible. We supply our composting and biodegradation. Materials that meet European distribution centre with packaging via these requirements, such as our biodegradable ESD our UK warehouse, and so packaging use for the packaging, are suitable to be fed into industrial two centres is captured as one figure. composting machines. Packaging is purchased on a just-in-time basis; therefore purchases are indicative of packaging Example that has been shipped out. We do not track the Primary packaging Moisture barrier packaging, static exact packaging that each order is shipped in. dissipative packaging, “waffle” tray We report on secondary and tertiary packaging, packaging as different products require different varieties Secondary packaging Air-filled plastic bags, recycled paper and quantities of primary packaging, which void fill is specified or provided by the manufacturer Tertiary packaging Recycled cardboard packing boxes (e.g. metallised shielding bags or electrostaticallydissipative packaging. The weights of packaging are measured by tracking the packaging purchased by our distribution centres and converting this using the known weights of packaging. This is tracked on the calendar year in line with our environmental reporting. 68 OUr Planet UK and European Distribution Centres1 We have included our main Asia-Paciﬁc Distribution Centre in Singapore for the ﬁrst time this year, 2011 2010 2009 following an exercise to collect packaging data Shipping boxes (tonnes) 974.7 986.4 448.2 from the past three years. We do not have the data Packaging materials including available to report three years of US packaging. primary and secondary 402.5 376.2 153.6 packaging (tonnes) The weight of packaging dispatched relates largely to the number of products sold, however the amount of packaging used is also affected by the US Distribution Centres2 volume of products in orders and the nature of 2011 2010 their requirements for protection (e.g. moisture or Shipping boxes (tonnes) 587.1 610.9 static-sensitivity). Wherever possible we aim to Packaging use consolidate shipments to ensure that customers Packaging materials including has reduced primary and secondary 74.8 73.4 receive all of their products (and therefore less by 36.2 tonnes packaging (tonnes) tertiary packaging) at once. between 2010 and 2011 Singapore Distribution Centre 1 We have been able to retrospectively collect data to account for 2011 2010 2009 our CPC business in the UK for 2010 as well as 2011 and have Shipping boxes (tonnes) 33.6 34.8 17.2 included this packaging to give a better view of our overall impact. We have not been able to collect this data for 2009. We Packaging materials including have also corrected some errors identiﬁed in our 2010 data for primary and secondary 22.2 23.0 12.2 our Maybrook and Liege sites. packaging (tonnes) 2 Our Springboro Distribution Centre receives estimates of annual packaging purchase by weight, which has been recalculated by our supplier, leading to a change in FY2010 data. 69 OUr Planet Our aims for next year Our FY2012 Targets We will expand the take-back and reuse service Our Target Our Progress currently on offer in Europe to our US customers, further reducing our own need to purchase Identify the recycled This project has not taken place in FY2012 content and and will be carried out in FY2013 instead packaging, and the cost to customers of recyclability of all disposal. We will also continue to investigate forms of packaging environmentally low-impact packaging to build on shipped by Premier Farnell and supply our award-winning biodegradable ESD protective this information to packaging. We will also improve the quality of data customers on the capture to reduce errors in future reporting. packaging Our biodegradable ESD packaging has won five industry awards for our innovation in improving the environmental impacts of a frequentlyused type of packaging. 70 OUr Planet Water consumed at our facilities The Marketing and Distribution Division (MDD) of business because all irretrievable consumption is our business does not manufacture any of the tied exclusively to the health requirements of our products that it sells. This means that we have no employees. process use of water and all water that is consumed is for domestic and sanitation purposes. Measuring our performance Our Akron Brass facility uses water in their (’000 litres) 2011 2010 2009 processes in two ways: Public (mains) supply 37,935,227 54,613,636 53,150,566 • To mix coolant and machining lubricants Well water 68 0 0 • To test fire hose nozzle products Bottled water 108,448 552,762 129,414 All mixed coolant is held within a closed-loop Total 28,043,743 55,166,398 53,279,980 system with no effluent. Waste coolant is transported offsite by road for specialist treatment. We work to reduce the amount of bottled water we We account for disposed coolant in our waste purchase, as this lessens the environmental impacts figures earlier in this report. of transporting water bottles to and from our Water that is used in testing nozzles is collected in facilities. By installing mains-sourced water coolers an onsite pond with no effluent and recycled back into our facilities, we can reduce the emissions and into the process. costs associated with providing employees with water for drinking. This is not possible at all of our We include water-saving investments into locations, as some do not have potable mains water businesses’ 'carbon reduction plans', which focus supplies. Where this is the case we must continue to on upgrading our facilities’ equipment to consume provide employees with access to water and will do fewer resources. We believe that water so with bottled coolers. consumption is a secondary impact of our 71 OUr Planet GHG emissions from our deliveries Our high-service distribution business model to expand our customers’ choice of how and when requires us to use third-party logistics companies they receive their order while also allowing them to to deliver our products to customers as we do not reduce the environmental impact of purchasing own any of our delivery networks. We use reliable from Farnell. third-party logistics companies to dispatch our We currently offer this 'greener delivery' option in orders to customers worldwide. Italy and Denmark – two countries to which we can This means that we are not currently able to reliably deliver by road within two to three days of directly affect the environmental impacts of the a customer placing an order. Each delivery reduces delivery of our products by changing vehicle types the cost of logistics to Premier Farnell as well or delivery routes. These actions are undertaken as the carbon emissions of the delivery by up to independently by the companies that provide our eight times. Our Greener delivery services for us. Delivery option In certain regions, we are able to meet a next-day reduces the delivery demand by road, and in others we are environmental required to use air freight. In some countries, our impact of logistics partners are able to offer a two or three deliveries day delivery by road, from our UK and European in Italy and Distribution Centres. We see this as an opportunity Denmark by replacing air deliveries with road. 72 OUr Planet Measuring our performance How does this affect… FY2012 FY2011* CUSTOMERS Number of customers choosing 928 192 “greener” deliveries • Customers wishing to reduce the embedded carbon of their designs can do so by requesting a delivery the Total saving (£) 806 187 results in lower GHG emissions. • Customers who do not want to receive an order the *The project commenced during FY2011. FY2012 is the first full next day can delay the shipping of their order to a time financial year of operation. that suits them. Our aims for next year INVESTORS As we continue our re-branding journey in Europe, • The business is addressing the fundamental alternative lower impact delivery options will be challenges of the rising financial and environmental developed as part of the brand identity of the costs of logistics. business. Our US business will investigate the regions of the country to which it can reliably offer SUPPLIERS the same service. • Suppliers of logistics services will increasingly be expected to be able to support our drive to reduce the environmental impacts of our deliveries. 73 OUr PeOPle Our People OUR VISION To be an organisation that benefits all of the people with whom it interacts and enables its workforce to realise their full potential. Managing our People Strategy Planned improvements to our The impacts under our People Strategy are management approach managed across a broad range of functions. During FY2013, the management incentive plan for These are coordinated by the Chief People Officer senior leaders within the business will include and Sustainability Manager through regular explicit targets that contribute towards our overall meetings with the functions involved. Specific sustainability strategy. These targets will reflect information about the management of particular their relevant areas of responsibility in the business impacts will be included in that impact’s section. and recognise that ‘business as usual’ activities Data on employees is stored and managed in our contribute to the sustainable performance of our 'Futures' Human Resource Information System business from an environmental, social and (HRIS). Administrators use this HRIS to monitor governance perspective as well as an economic relevant data about employees, such as the one. completion of business objectives and online People are at the heart of every organisation and performance management. we recognise that investing in the people who Senior leaders and Individual managers have work for and with Premier Farnell is a valuable incentivised objectives to ensure that their teams contribution to the sustainability of our business. are trained during the year and that they are recruiting an adequately diverse workforce 74 OUR PEOPLE With approximately 4,000 employees across the globe, vacancies filled by internal talent. Targets to reduce the our organisation is broad and diverse. We work to ensure voluntary turnover of talent will also be set by region. that we have a positive impact on the people that are involved with Premier Farnell, whether this is ensuring that we train and develop our employees; support our • IMPACTS suppliers in operating safe and fair workplaces or investing our resources in building the communities in which we Health and Safety performance at our facilities operate. Absenteeism The investments that we make in developing and Employee Wellbeing supporting our people are repaid through lower accident Diversity in the Workplace and sickness rates, improved employee engagement and Employee Development increased diversity and depth of skills and talent across the organisation. Workplace Standards of our Private Label Suppliers As the talent pool changes, becoming more diverse in employee ages and backgrounds, we recognise that we Community Investment need to change as an employer in order to meet their needs and attract the best talent in our industry. Similarly, the needs of our customers and suppliers are changing Sustainability is an integral part of our employee value and we continue to use our influence to ensure that our proposition and our people agenda. Our sustainability Private Label suppliers’ employees are treated programme supports the attraction, retention and appropriately in the workplace. Our business units will engagement of our talented people and is included in have targets to meet diversity goals, including gender and our annual objective setting process. ethnicity amongst others, and with a focus on continuing Sandra Campopiano, Chief People Officer to increase the number of 75 OUr PeOPle Health and Safety Performance at our facilities Premier Farnell companies operate a number of How does this affect… distribution centres globally, which rely on our employees to hand-pick the majority of orders that CUSTOMERS we dispatch to customers. The safety of our • A safer environment reduces the rate of employee accidents employees is critical to the business’ success. and lost-time injuries. This in turn results in more employees being on-site and able to provide consistent service levels Management of Health and Safety to customers. Our facilities’ safety performance is managed regionally covering the Americas, Europe and =EMPLOYEES Asia-Pacific. These regions each have a Manager • Our employees are able to work with confidence in an responsible for Health and Safety, who oversees environment where we have taken all possible precautions the implementation of the necessary systems and to ensure their safety. • Should an accident occur, employees are required to report processes. Premier Farnell (UK) Ltd and Akron to a supervisor, so that an investigation can be carried out. Brass are certified to the OHSAS18001:2007 standard for Health and Safety management. INVESTORS Our Distribution Centre in Liège achieved • Injuries that involve employees being away from work are certification to OHSAS 18001:2007 in FY2012. a cost to the company. This reinforces that the facility maintains the same high standards of Health and Safety management SUPPLIERS as our other Distribution Centres worldwide. • A controlled safety environment means that suppliers can have confidence that risks to their personnel have been minimised whenever they are visiting one of our facilities. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • Many of our employees live in the communities close to our facilities. Providing them with a safe place of work benefits those communities. 76 OUr PeOPle Measuring our performance Using the latest OSHA industry average rates for The current rates for all of our businesses1, injuries that are available at the time of setting excluding our facilities in Liège, and our associated the target, we calculate targets for our business targets for injuries per 100,000 hours worked are regions, taking into account the classiﬁcations of as follows: industries that make up that region’s proﬁle. Average rate Our target Our All of our major US facilities (eight in total) qualiﬁed based on OSHA (<50%) performance for National Safety Council Occupational 2008 statistics Excellence awards for achieving accident rates Recordable 1.60 0.56 0.25 lower than 50% of their industry average during injuries the year. DAW injuries 0.45 0.18 0.10 OSHA No injuries resulted in fatalities or disablement The Occupational Safety and Health Administration is a (permanent or otherwise). department of the United States Department of Labor whose role is to ensure safe and healthful conditions for working men and women. We data provided by OSHA to set global health and safety performance targets for 1 Rates are calculated on the calendar year January 1 to our businesses. December 31. This aligns our data with benchmark data produced by the Bureau for Labor Statistics. 77 OUr PeOPle This year, we set our Distribution Centre in Liège Recordable Injuries the same injury rate performance targets as the Recordable injuries are injuries or illnesses incurred in other Distribution Centres across our business but the workplace that result in: death, days away from have continued to report it separately. We work, restricted work or transfer to another area of work, medical treatment beyond on-site ‘first aid’ or loss of anticipated that the facility would be signiﬁcantly consciousness. stretched to achieve this rate in the ﬁrst year. For While some countries in which we operate include FY2012, Liège’s injury rates are as follows: injuries incurred on the journeys to and from work or incurred on the premises but as a result of employee Our target Our performance negligence, we do not count these injuries in our Recordable injuries 0.56 7.4 Group-level figures. DAW injuries 0.18 7.4 DAW injuries Days-away-from-work (DAW) injuries are those which result in an employee being advised to take time off work or being unable to attend as a result of, or to recover from, an injury incurred in the workplace. DAW injuries also include those that require the injured employee to be placed on restricted duties for any period of time. 78 OUr PeOPle Liège did not achieve its recordable or DAW injury As our injury rate has not met our target we have rate targets, and reported a signiﬁcantly higher rate implemented a new system of responsive safety of injuries than FY2011. We believe that this is a training under which employees will receive result of Belgian legislation, which entitles all refresher training based on the accidents that have workers to a medical inspection for any injury taken place with the greatest frequency in the incurred at, or on the way to or from, their preceding month. workplace irrespective of the severity. This means that injuries that would normally be treated by Cost of injuries ﬁrst-aid on site (such as a superﬁcial cut) are The estimated total cost to the group of DAW assessed and treated off-site in Belgium, leading to injuries in 2011 was approximately £252,000. This a recordable injury under our reporting is higher than in FY2011. methodology. The national average injury rate for manual handling industries in Belgium is 11.65, based on the latest data available (January 2010). Accidents at Liège by category 5% Knee strain 5% 5% Hand Injury 5% Back Strain 38% Arm or Elbow Strain 9% Cut or contusion Pulled muscle in leg 14% Foot Injury 19% Other 79 OUr PeOPle Our aims for the next year Estimating the cost of injuries To continue verifying our management systems, We use National Safety Council (NSC) and Health & we will build the business case for certifying our Safety Executive (HSE) statistics to calculate the cost of injuries resulting in days away from work for the USA and Gaffney North Carolina facility to OHSAS 18001 Europe and Asia-Pacific respectively. In 2011, the NSC this year. In the longer term, we aim to certify all introduced a new matric for estimating the cost of of our Distribution Centres to the standard. injuries We have decided not to use the new metric this year, as it does not compare with our injury At the end of FY2012, we will reintegrate Liège classifications. This year, we will continue to use the into our Group Health and Safety performance NSC estimate given in 2011. reporting ﬁgure as we continue to drive The NSC estimates that each “disabling injury” in 2011 improvements in the management of safety on-site. cost US businesses $43,000 and we use this figure to estimate the costs of our DAW injuries. For Europe and OHSAS – The Occupational Health Asia-Pacific, we use the Health and Safety Executive & Safety Administration Service statistic of £5,800 for each injury resulting in three or more days of absence from work. The Occupational Health & Safety Advisory Services (OHSAS) was formed in January 2001. OHSAS is a multi-disciplinary organisation with expertise in a comprehensive range of occupational health and safety skills. 80 OUr PeOPle Employee Development An unrelenting focus on people is vital for acquisition to address business and performance achieving superior business performance. We requirements and provides our employees with have a strong commitment to keep our people and valuable professional and life skills that can be our customers at the heart of our organisation. Our used throughout their careers. It also ensures that talent management & development strategy is a our talent pool is both consistently well-trained, key enabler in ensuring the delivery of both and continually engaged, as they grow business and people results against this professionally and personally with the business. commitment. The linkage between our business and people strategy is essential to supporting the Management of Employee Development organisation in delivering its goals and achieving Employee Development is the responsibility of the its aspirations. Chief People Officer, and supported by the Global Head of Talent and Organisational Effectiveness. Each business With approximately 4,000 employees worldwide, Each business region has an Organisational region has an we recognise the strategic value of investing in the Development Business Partner who supports local Organisational development of our people. Employee HR and Management in delivering appropriate Development development provides the means of significantly learning and development strategies to the Business enhancing the experience our customer and businesses. Partner who suppliers receive when working with us. Employee supports development goes beyond knowledge and skill local HR and Management 81 OUr PeOPle Our senior leaders conduct regular formal How does this affect… talent reviews of both the regional and global talent within the organisation. CUSTOMERS These talent reviews serve to ensure that • The development of skills and knowledge provides the necessary capabilities to we actively plan, implement and monitor enable employees to provide better service to both external and internal customers. appropriate employee development to ensure that we obtain the most value for =EMPLOYEES them and for the organization. • Employees are clear about what they need to do. The performance management process is • Employees have access to a full suite of developmental courses through our Online central to our people strategy to ensure Learning Centre, as well as access to online resources such as the Ashridge Virtual clear objectives, for people to achieve Learning Resource Centre. business results, and development • All employees have the opportunity to use one hour per week to develop their skills planning. All employees have formal and knowledge through appropriate external courses and other forms of learning. performance reviews with their line • Employees have equal opportunity to the various development options we offer managers twice a year and receive INVESTORS frequent feedback and coaching throughout the performance management • Business goals are met cycle. After formal performance reviews • Employee development is a signiﬁcant factor in attracting and retaining the best are conducted, the employee’s individual talent to improve, transform and deliver business performance. training needs are identified and agreed with their manager and entered into their SUPPLIERS online Personal Development Plan or • The development of skills and experience allows employees to provide greater “PDP”. People are also encouraged to value to our suppliers such as building business partnerships. develop an Aspirational Development Plan to focus on their longer-term career EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS goals and ambitions. • We use volunteer activities to deliver beneﬁts and value to the local community whilst helping employees to develop skills such as mentoring and project 82 management. OUr PeOPle We believe that the role of the business in developing all of our employees is to provide the tools and opportunities for people to develop their skills in a way that beneﬁts both them and the business. The suite of development options and tools available to employees include: Personal/Aspiration Development Plans Mentoring e-Learning Every employee in the business has an entitlement to The global mentoring programme has a The Online Learning Centre (OLC) is a virtual resource that a Personal Development Plan (PDP) and Aspiration very clear purpose of accelerating the provides access to both internal training modules and external Development Plan (ADP). development of our talent pool and educational resources that employees can access either Personal Development Plans are used to craft supporting the development of our leaders on-site or at home. We also have an active partnership with a learning & development objectives in collaboration of the future. It is a key element of our prominent European business school, with the establishment with the manager, with a view of how to best develop talent management strategy and a lever in of our Ashridge Virtual Learning Resource Centre. employees within their current and desired future our aspirations of becoming a high There are several options available for on-line access: roles in the business. performing organisation. • Learning Guides (informative overviews on over 60 subject Aspiration Development Plans provide our “Key All employees have equal opportunity to areas) Talent” and “Emerging Talent” employees with a tool develop through a mentoring relationship with a senior leader within the business. • Book Reviews (summaries of over 375 business books) to map out their longer term career goals. However, they are available to any employee that chooses to Leveraging our global mentoring • Knowledge Maps (one-stop-shop for materials in various use them. programme, employees can be matched subject areas) with a suitable mentor located throughout • Pocketbooks (fun and easy to read mini-books for training our global network in all three regions. or self-learning) Both parties stand to enrich their personal and professional development from the • Infotrac (resource for articles in over 200 key management experience. and business journals) • Personal Development (tools for facilitating self career management) 83 OUr PeOPle 360 Feedback Leadership Development Volunteering All people managers within the business participate Our foundational programme, “the element14 Leader” aims Employees are able to volunteer during in a 360 Feedback process at 18 month intervals. to equip all people managers with the basics of what it working time for community projects that will This manager’s direct reports, peers and internal means to be a people manager and what it takes to develop their business skills, such as project customers with whom they have regular contact successfully manage people within the organization. The managing charity events. In 2011, we provide feedback as raters on how frequently they programme focuses learning through each of the critical introduced the “My Cause” objective which display desired leadership behaviours as described in stages of the employee life cycle, from the time an allowed employees to set one of their our leadership competency model. employee is hired, through to effective induction, performance objectives to reflect their objectives setting, feedback & coaching, performance passion, and how to apply what they enjoy The people manager gains invaluable personal review and development planning. doing most to work. insight on how they demonstrate specific leadership behaviours. Through one-on-one data interpretation The “Extra Degree” programme develops leaders in the sessions, they will also be guided though what they business at three levels – Front-Line Managers, will ‘start, stop and continue’ as part of their Operational Leaders and Strategic Leaders. These on-going development to be more effective leaders. experiential training courses address developing enhanced leadership, communication, problem solving & decision making skills and to prepare our leaders to take on the next level of their role in the company or along their desired career paths. Sales Effectiveness Your Hour Global Induction In line with our commitment to develop a world class As part of our employee engagement commitment The creation of a New Starter Portal years sales organization, we established the Global Sales worldwide, all employees are actively encouraged to spend ago was done in response to the critical Academy, an on-line learning portal aimed at an hour each week on self-study. Each employee may use requirement that all new hires have the need supporting the professional development of their one hour per week allocation or save up hours to to quickly learn about the organization, to employees in a sales role. It comprises modules to invest in their own self-study through reading or utilizing understand its strategy, to embrace our enable the induction of new hires to rapidly learn the resources & tools available to them on-line. culture and values. The on-line New Starter about the organization, the sales processes and Additionally, employees have the freedom to pursue their Portal was specially designed to facilitate the systems and to develop sales skills. learning in unique ways such as accessing experts in the systematic induction of a new employee by In addition, we have dedicated resources towards the field, and learning new technology. Some employees even ensuring they have all the tools needed to on-going provision of sales effectiveness skills in use their Your Hour entitlement to master a new language quickly transition into the new job and to start direct support of our multi-channel strategy. We have or to host a internal sharing session to discuss ideas with personally contributing to the business. This also defined the critical competencies required of their team members. learning avenue also neatly complements and sales professionals and this serves as a basis for supports local orientation processes to ensure performance management and development planning that all new employees are engaged all through targeted competency assessments. through the first phase of their career with us. 84 OUr PeOPle Work Shadowing Work shadowing is a way for employees to find out what it is like working in a specific functional area of our business. Shadowing helps the employee to: • Explore career opportunities within Premier Farnell • Understand more about different functional roles to underpin meaningful Aspirational Development Plans • Enhance wider business and industry knowledge • Develop specialist skills • Expand their internal network Works shadowing is available to all employees across the organisation. 85 OUr PeOPle Measuring our performance Developing our core employee group Mentoring remains key development tool at We track three key performance indicators that Premier Farnell available to all employees. The represent the level to which our employees engage small reduction in mentoring relationships is in part with the development programmes available to due to organisational changes. OD and HR teams them. We use these metrics to judge the are proactively working to ensure that mentees are attractiveness of the tools available. reassigned with mentors whenever changes occur, and that training is provided for first time FY2012 FY2011 mentors and mentees to maximize the value Employees with a Personal 71.5% 75% obtained from an active mentoring relationship. Development Plan Number of mentoring relationships 378 400 Leadership and Succession Planning Our leadership development focuses on the “Key Average OLC page views per month 29,620 20,000 Talent” designation of employeesmanagementlevel employees at grade 6 and above. We We have introduced a new component to the conduct several Key Talent Reviews annually to People element of our Management Incentive Plan address appropriate leadership development to for this year which emphasizes the critical role that ensure that we continually drive and populate the people management plays in the organization. future leaders pipeline within the organization. This Each people manager will be required to ensure also allows us to proactively plan for succession in that specific actions are completed. For example, the business and to ensure that we are directing managers are accountable for ensuring that relevant development interventions and responses Personal Development Plans are duly planned, to each group. Succession planning allows the agreed upon and implemented. organization to ensure that it has the bench strength and future capability for the sustainability of the organisation. 86 OUr PeOPle Key talent employees… FY2012 FY2011 all high-performing talent. Personal Development Plans are instrumental in supporting employees in With objectives in their Aspiration 80% 80% Development Plan their professional enhancement and career growth, and our target is for 100% completion of PDPs this With objectives in their Personal 82% 79% Development Plan coming year. To fulﬁl this promise of employee development, we are also ensuring that we provide Who have completed, or are 75% 50% participating in the 360 Feedback opportunities for development in each of the key programme areas highlighted, such as on-line learning, sales Who have workplace mentors 72% 70% effectiveness, mentoring, leadership development and other means. In addition to continually matching mentees with We have also developed a Change Management suitable mentors, we are also working towards toolkit and training materials to equip people building a larger pool of potential mentor managers and change agents within the candidates. organization to effectively plan for and roll-out Our aims for next year change initiatives more effectively. This year, we have a commitment to hold three We will drive the completion of all mid-year and annual Talent Reviews with all our leaders across year-end review processes to 100% completion. the businesses globally to review strategic The plan will be amended so individual managers progress on leadership and talent development, bonuses are linked to the achievement of this succession planning and employee workforce completion and compliance within the appropriate development. timescales. We will continue to consolidate our people policies and our focus on development and opportunity for 87 OUr PeOPle All employees will have a ‘My Cause’ objective for Our FY2012 Targets something they feel passionate about and is related Our Target Our Performance to their work. Senior level employees will have a sustainability goal which will be bonusable. These 100% of employees In FY2012, 71.5% of employees had a have a completed completed PDP. targets were set speciﬁcally to ensure that we PDP that is reviewed This rose to 80% specifically for the “Key achieve a harmonious blend of goals aimed at and supported by Talent” category of employees. achieving immediate business needs as well as their manager. longer term development needs. 88 OUr PeOPle Diversity in the workplace We are a company that encourages people from How does this affect… all backgrounds to apply for positions within the business. We maintain equal opportunity CUSTOMERS recruitment policies and an active internal • With operations in over 30 countries, it is important that programme promoting the appreciation and we employ a workforce with the diverse background inclusion of all employees. Our vision is to create a representative of the community that we serve to enable culture where everyone feels respected and valued us to better understand and meet their needs. and sees something of themselves reflected as =EMPLOYEES they strive to reach their full potential. As a global business, we believe that a diverse • Our employees’ differences are respected, supported and celebrated by the Company. workforce is a genuine benefit to us – giving us the • Employees are able to raise concerns that their needs cultural knowledge and talents required to make are not being met through affinity groups, and can informed decisions and deliver excellent service in participate in developing the Company’s solutions. all of the geographies in which we operate and we were shortlisted for a European Diversity Award INVESTORS during the year. • Investors can be confident that the Company is utilising We have a global target that 30% of managers at the best talent available. Grade 6 and above will be female by the end of SUPPLIERS FY2013 and departments have individual diversity targets to meet specific diversity challenges and to • With operations in over 30 countries, it is important that contribute towards this goal. we employ a workforce with the diverse background that will enable us to understand and meet their needs. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • We respect the differences and needs amongst the communities in which we operate. 89 • Employment at Premier Farnell is open to any applicant. OUR PEOPLE Measuring our performance ”Diversity adds richness and value to our We measure diversity metrics associated with business, giving us access to the very best talent gender in order to assess our performance on from every background and enabling us to build a observing equal pay for equal work. business that represents the views, experiences We do not track ethnicity-based diversity and opinions of all the communities that we performance metrics. A number of the countries in interact with.” which we operate have legislation in place which Harriet Green, CEO prevents us from collecting ethnicity data on our local Premier Farnell employees. We are therefore unable to track or publish data that would be genuinely representative of the group’s performance as a whole. We have used global data generated in July 2011 following the last all-employee pay review and compared the difference between the average pay for men and women against the average pay for all employees at each salary grade. 90 OUr PeOPle Employee Gender Split Gender-Pay differential Our employee gender split, by percentage of the The following table shows the difference between workforce is as follows: the average salary for each Grade (0.00%) and the average salary for all men and all women at that FY2012 FY2011 Salary Grade. Positive figures represent pay above Female employees (UK) 39% 39% the non-gendered average value and negative Female employees (worldwide) 46% 46% figures pay below it. We have focused our assessment on Salary The gender-split of our managerial roles is as Grades 1–7 as these represent approximately 98% follows: of Premier Farnell employees at the time the data was collected. The data also excludes the CEO, FY2012 FY2011 COO and CFO and those executives below board whose remuneration is governed by the Board Managerial-grade female 34% 29% employees (UK) Remuneration Committee. Managerial grade female 29% 21% We have also specifically excluded commissions employees (worldwide) or overtime payments and unionised employees in the USA, who operate under a collective We define 'managerial grade' employees as those bargaining agreement. who are Grade 7 and above on the organisation’s graded pay scale and who have employees that report directly to them. 91 OUR PEOPLE We have seen a significant improvement since grades, including roles in the Distribution Centres FY2011 in the difference between male and female and Contact Centres. This indicates that gender pay at Grades 2 and 3. Grade 2 has seen the is not a determining factor in awarding pay to average gap close from 7.61 percentage points to employees. 3.66 percentage points. The gap between average salaries in Grade 3 has closed from 8.16 Total number of employees by percentage points to 2.09 percentage points. Salary Grade (July 2010) This gender-pay analysis is based on the We reviewed the pay award process for Grades 1, employee population in July 2011, the period of 2 and 3 during the annual salary review process. the Company’s last global salary review. The We identified no statistically significant difference gender distribution by Grade at that time is in the salary increases given to male or female represented in the following table: employees in the nine most populous roles in these 8% Male Female 800 Male Female Number of employees (07/2011) 6% 5.79 700 725 % Difference from average pay 4% 600 2.49 2% 1.14 1.77 1.58 500 0.24 0.42 471 0% 400 -0.14 423 384 -2% -1.17 -0.95 -1.15 300 345 346 314 -2.89 -4% 200 261 -3.92 225 -5.20 157 179 -6% 100 88 98 32 -8% 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Pay Grade Grade 92 OUr PeOPle Our FY2012 Targets Our aims next year Our Target Our Progress We continue to work towards our goal of further Review pay levels at We assessed the pay awards of the nine increasing the diversity of the employee population salary grades 1, 2 most populous roles in these three grades across all Group businesses to create an inclusive and 3 to ensure that during our 2011 pay review process. culture, supported by the necessary tools and no pay gaps exist as a No statistically significant difference was facilities to satisfy the needs of all employees. result of employee found in the annual salary increases for gender by the end of either male or female employees in FY12 these roles 93 OUr PeOPle Employee wellbeing The physical and emotional wellbeing of our How does this affect… employees, beyond just the health and safety procedures of our facilities is an important =EMPLOYEES contributing factor to the performance of the • Employees have access to a wide variety of support business and employee engagement and part of and wellbeing programmes, both at work and at being a trusted employer. home, including a wide range of exercise programmes and activities. Highlights of our contribution to employee wellbeing this year INVESTORS As an outcome of our annual all-employee • Working to benefit the emotional and physical health engagement surveys and regular surveys across of employees leads to lower absenteeism rates and the business, we maintain a continuous improvements in levels of performance. programme of wellness initiatives for employees. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS These differ between region, based on local need and demand. • Families of employees have access to a number of our wellbeing programmes. In Europe, employees now have access to either on-site gymnasium facilities or to subsidised facilities local to them. In Leeds, our largest European facility; we have a dedicated on-site gym and instructor. The Leeds facilities are used on average by 88 employees per day between Monday and Friday. 94 OUr PeOPle Cycle-to-Work schemes are available in a number In Singapore, employees focused on quarterly of European countries, enabling employees to events which promoted team working and cultural purchase a bicycle to commute to work by making diversity in the offices, as well as disability deductions from their monthly salary. awareness by working with our sponsored Para-athlete Nurulsyiqah Mohammed Taha. Employees and their families have had the chance to participate in various cycling events also in A number of our businesses also host family Leeds, Preston and Chicago alongside two of our events through the course of the year. sponsored para-athletes, both road cyclists, David Stone (GB) and Sam Kavanagh (USA). Our aims for next year We will continue to offer employees in each of our In the Americas, on-site sessions of Yoga, locations access to wellbeing and wellness Kickboxing and Weightwatchers meetings are We support programmes and initiatives. These programmes available for employees to join. 'Wellness Fairs' three parawill remain locally-driven, as we believe that this and flu and blood pressure checks are available for athletes, one guarantees that each facility receives the most our Chicago-based employees. in each of appropriate and appealing opportunities. our business regions, who are exceptional examples of the determination and commitment to success that we wish to exemplify. 95 OUr PeOPle Absenteeism We monitor and work to reduce absenteeism in How does this affect… the workplace by engaging directly with employees. There are a number of factors that can CUSTOMERS contribute towards absenteeism figures, including, • Fewer staff absent from work results in a better, more illness, personal issues or disengagement. We consistent service for our customers. monitor sickness-related absence specifically. =EMPLOYEES Managing absenteeism • We work hard to engage employees with the Group and Sickness absence figures are tracked by our HR with our values and strategy through strategic and Payroll departments, based on reports of programmes to involve employees as much as possible in sickness absence submitted by employees’ Line the decision-making processes of the businesses and to Managers. These figures are calculated as a understand their individual contributions to its success. percentage of the total days worked for the We believe that an engaged workforce is less prone to absenteeism. purposes of this reporting. • Where we experience recurring issues with absenteeism, Managing absenteeism is the responsibility of employees can expect to be contacted directly, and for the General Managers and employees’ Line Managers, company to be willing to work with them to understand the causes of absenteeism and ways that we can work with support from HR Business Partners. We together to reduce it. implement a number of measures (examples of which are described in the Employee Wellbeing INVESTORS section) to reduce absenteeism caused by • Absenteeism represents a cost to the business, which we employees’ disengagement with their roles and are reducing as we improve our absenteeism performance. by general poor health. SUPPLIERS • Reducing absenteeism in the workplace means that the relationships and processes with suppliers and the procurement of our products can run more efficiently, making us a better customer to deal with. 96 OUr PeOPle Measuring our performance We monitor the rates of sickness absence for hourly employees in our American and European facilities. We do not currently report on our Asia-Pacific absence performance and we are working to improve our internal tracking to enable us to do so in the future. USA Business Facility FY2012 absenteeism FY2011 absenteeism FY2010 absenteeism Akron Brass Ohio 4.0% 4.3% 4.0% MCM Ohio 1.5% 1.9% 1.7% Newark South Carolina, 1.9% 1.7% 1.7% Chicago & Ohio Premier Farnell Group Ohio 1.2% 0.9% 1.2% The rates of absenteeism in our US businesses are in line with national averages; therefore we have not set any reduction targets. 97 OUr PeOPle Europe Business Facility FY2012 absenteeism FY2011 absenteeism FY2010 absenteeism CPC Preston DC 3.3% 3.1% 3.0% CPC Preston Contact Centre 1.0% 2.0% 2.3% Farnell Liège DC 8.0% 6.2% 7.9% Farnell Leeds Maybrook DC 5.1% 4.2% 6.3% Farnell Leeds Contact Centre 5.3% 3.4% 9.0% In our Contact Centres, we have seen In Liège, where sickness absence rates are improvements in absenteeism rates, whereas all persistently higher than our other locations, we use three Distribution Centres have seen increases in a Bradford Factor2 calculation to communicate with their absence rates. The total cost of absenteeism employees about the impact of their own globally to Premier Farnell in FY2012 was an absenteeism rate on the business, and to identify estimated £2.8m1. cases of persistent short-term absenteeism that warrant intervention from line managers and the Human Resources department. 1 The cost of absenteeism is estimated by multiplying the rate of absence per business by the total cost of labour for that business during the financial year. 2 The Bradford Factor is a method of calculating the impact of an employees’ absence on the business’ capability to perform. It recognises that a higher number of very short-term absences are more damaging to a business’ productivity than a low number of long-term absences, for which replacement resources can be planned. 98 OUR PEOPLE Employee engagement Employee Turnover We know that absenteeism represents a significant We measure the rate of employee turnover across annual cost to the business, and work to reduce our business units. Our turnover rate for new this by engaging our employees. We measure the employees (those hired during FY2012) was 12%. engagement of our employees with the Company Turnover is calculated as the proportion of new on an annual basis, using a survey administered by employees1 who leave within the same financial CLC Genesee. In previous years this was carriedyear as joining the business. out by Towers Watson. 500 Hired Left We targeted to increase our employee 450 engagement score by 2% from 2010 however we 400 have seen a 3% decline in the engagement score 350 this year, returning to the same level as 2009 300 250 which had a similar economic environment. 415 200 306 150 Year FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 100 Response rate 85% 93% 87% 50 36 49 Engagement 77% 80% 77% 0 Male Female 1 New employees” are those employees who joined Premier Farnell for the first time in FY2012 99 OUR PEOPLE New employee turnover by region Our aims for next year The turnover rate for all employees who left the We have set a target to improve employee business during FY2012 who had tenure of less engagement by 2% during 2012. We believe that than one year was 22.5%. This includes those improving employees’ engagement with the employees who joined the company in FY2012 but business in turn improves the rates of absenteeism left during FY2012 but before their anniversary of and improves performance. This target is joining. cascaded through the senior leadership team’s 350 management incentive programme to ensure that Hired Left 300 it is given sufficient attention. 250 200 268 150 245 208 100 50 21 36 28 0 Americas Asia-Pacific Europe 100 OUr PeOPle Workplace Standards at our Private Label suppliers Premier Farnell does not manufacture the private How does this affect… UNITED label components that it supplies itself, and NATIONS subcontracts this work to a number of manufacturing CUSTOMERS GLOBAL COMPACT companies in Asia, where labour laws differ. • Private label products that customers buy from Premier PRINCIPLE 1 Farnell companies come from manufacturers with high Using suppliers with low standards of treatment for Businesses should standards of health, safety and employee treatments. their employees would represent a significant risk support the protection of internationally proclaimed in the electronics supply chain. At Premier Farnell, =EMPLOYEES human rights we will only work on a continued basis with suppliers that demonstrate a commitment to the • Members of our Technical Support Team in Asia-Pacific are responsible for conducting workplace audits. We welfare of their employees. We believe that high ensure that they receive the right training to be able to workplace standards reflect a business with strong carry this work out. UNITED NATIONS management and the qualities of a good supply GLOBAL chain partner. INVESTORS COMPACT PRINCIPLE 2 We recognise that these Private Label suppliers • The social and ethical risks of investing in a business that Businesses should are our highest risk of being involved in a failure to is working with smaller suppliers in Asia are reduced. make sure they are not meet appropriate standards of human rights and SUPPLIERS complicit in human workplace treatment, and also that these are the rights abuses suppliers that we are most able to influence. • Our private label suppliers are asked to participate in site audits to confirm that they meet our workplace standards requirements. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • By only supporting suppliers who demonstrate appropriate workplace standards, we are contributing to the business case for all suppliers adopting these standards in order to secure business, and thereby improving the conditions of workers in these countries. 101 OUr PeOPle Managing workplace standards The workplace standards audits and surveys of our Our workplace standards active1 Private Label suppliers are managed by the • Factories or production sites do not use forced, bonded or involuntary labour. Technical Support Team members in our Strategic Sourcing Group in Asia-Paciﬁc. This team is • Workers are not forced to lodge unreasonable deposits or their identity papers with their employers. In countries responsible for the identiﬁcation and assessment of where deposits are prohibited by law, no deposits are Private Label suppliers and include assessing their allowed. ethical, social and environmental position. • Freedom of association and the right to collective Key members of this team have received training in bargaining are respected except where prohibited by law. SA 8000 Social Auditing and act as lead auditors • The factory or production site is a safe and hygienic place during site visits. The team reports regularly to the to work. Private Label sourcing team, and also biannually to • Responsibility for health and safety is assigned to a senior the Group. The progress in these reports is management representative. provided to the Board. • There must be an adequate number of safe, unblocked fire exits, escape routes and fire fighting equipment accessible Suppliers are surveyed based on our spend with to workers from each floor or area of the factory or them, and the team select audit sites based on the production site and accommodation (if provided). information returned in surveys. • Accommodation, if provided, is safe and hygienic and segregated from the factory or production site and from SA8000 material storage areas. SA8000 is an auditable certification system, based on • The factory or production site only employs workers who the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and are over the local legal minimum age. Where this is less International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions than 15, or where there is no legal minimum age, workers regarding the standards of working environments and should not be less than 15 years old. the treatment of workers. • Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards. 1 Active suppliers are those that we have purchased any amount of product from in the last six months. • Working hours comply with national laws. 102 OUr PeOPle Measuring our performance Of these, the team made a risk-based selection of During FY2012, our Technical Support Team 22 suppliers at which to carry out a full site audit of contacted 67 suppliers to complete an initial their processes. Eight supplier audits identified workplace standards survey, which is translated nonconformities with our standards. These into Chinese in order to make it simpler for local nonconformities fall into two categories – the companies to understand and to complete. All provision of adequate numbers of maintained fire contacted suppliers responded to this request and fighting equipment and adequate identification of returned a completed copy of the survey. high-risk areas of the production process. 12 suppliers returned survey responses that were All of the eight suppliers at which nonconformities not satisfactory. The primary concerns identified were identified have completed remedial actions to were the absence of satisfactory health and safety improve their performance, which has been Our workplace management systems, safety inductions and fire reviewed by our Technical Support Team. standards are evaluations. 11 of the suppliers have undertaken In total, Premier Farnell has now audited 53 based on the actions to adopt management systems and suppliers since 2008, when we began the process. Ethical Trading accident reporting procedures to correct these We continue to add Private Label suppliers to our Initiative Base issues. One supplier has declined to do so due to line card, and 53 audited suppliers now equates to Code, and a lack of resource to implement the system at this surveys and 25% of our total Private Label supplier population. time. Our Technical Support Team has judged that audits are this supplier’s facilities are low risk and that the carried our by risk of accidents is low. colleagues who have received SA 8000 social auditing training 103 OUr PeOPle Our FY2012 Targets Our aims for the next year During FY2013, we will continue to survey and Our Target Our Performance audit our active Private Label suppliers, aiming to 50% of Private Label 67 suppliers completed surveys in FY2012. have covered a total of 70% of suppliers with our suppliers have Since the programme began, we have now completed workplace surveyed 50% of our Private Label workplace standards survey and have completed standards suppliers. audits on 35% of suppliers. questionnaires We recognise that auditing our suppliers is a slow 25% of Private Label 22 suppliers were audited during FY2012. process, and in order to increase efficiency, we will suppliers have Since 2008 we have audited 53 sites, completed site audits. equating to 25% of our Private Label ensure that in all new and renewed Private Label Suppliers. supplier contracts, submitting a completed workplace standards questionnaire and undergoing a site audit is a non-negotiable contractual element. Both of these aims have been adopted as incentivised objectives by the Global Head of Supply Chain as part of our overall improved approach to managing sustainability through function leaders’ objectives in FY2013. 104 OUr PeOPle Community investment The well-being of the communities in which we How does this affect… operate is critical to our success as a business – providing a pool of talent from which to recruit. EMPLOYEES We recognise that there are a number of • Through volunteering activities, new development opportunities to support the communities local to opportunities are available. • Employees are engaged with the business, as our operational facilities and also to derive demonstrated by our score of 84% for responsible strategic business benefits, such as developing business behaviour in the annual all-employee employees skills and improving motivation and engagement survey. engagement at the same time. • Employees have the opportunity to invest their time in the local communities that matter to them. Identifying clear values and goals for both parties • Employees can foster a sense of personal and has created a sustainable programme of organisational pride in working for Premier Farnell. community investment for Premier Farnell, focusing on meeting the needs of the local area INVESTORS whilst delivering engaging development • Employee engagement is related to productivity in the opportunities for our employees. workplace and as such is linked to the financial health and performance of the business. EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • Local community organisations have access to professional and specialist skills that may not otherwise be available, or may come at extensive cost. • Some organisations are able to use Premier Farnell support to secure matched funding from other sources for their projects. • Local organisations can build a lasting relationship with a global business, raising their proﬁle and access to support. 105 OUr PeOPle Managing community investment Our community investment strategy is to focus on build skills and knowledge. This allows employees science, technology, engineering and maths to develop their skills and experience, while (STEM) education where our partnerships enable providing organisations with support that they are us to do so. This links directly to our core business, often lacking and would need to outsource. and the skills that current employees possess and We believe that strategic partnership work with that we will need in the future. community organisations such as local charities Community Investment is managed at a local level and schools presents the most effective by volunteer teams who identify opportunities to opportunities to make a difference to local work with local community partners. We operate a communities. For example, in Singapore we work tiered approach to volunteering, offering activities with the Macpherson Moral Family Service Centre to employees that range in time commitment from to support educational activities for young children a half day to shorter sessions over the course of in the Macpherson area near to our ofﬁces. In the several months. UK, employees volunteer to support Armley Helping Hands, a local charity that provides care Community investment activity is tracked by the for elderly people in West Leeds. leader of each local team and reported centrally twice per year. Where we engage with organisations, we aim to do so in a structured way that will allow us to measure Our approach to community investment is primarily the impacts and beneﬁts of our efforts and ensure based on providing time and professional expertise that we are providing value both for our community to community organisations such as charities and partner and for our volunteers. schools, rather than the provision of cash donations. We have found that the most beneﬁt can be gained both for the community organisation and the Company through direct engagement and work to 106 OUr PeOPle Volunteering for good causes represents an FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 opportunity for our employees to develop skills that Non-management 2,205.0 309.0 558.4 can be used in the workplace in a new environment employee time that delivers a tangible beneﬁt to their community Management 728.5 269.5 162.2 at the same time, and we support our employees employee time choosing to further their personal development in Administration and 1,583.3 282.5 353.5 this way. planning time Measuring our performance Value of time donated Volunteer hours We calculate the financial value of volunteering Our Company Volunteering Policy allows during Company time based on the value to the employees to apply to volunteer during normal Company of the time a colleague is engaged in the working time. activity. We apportion this as follows: We do not include hours volunteered over the Non-management £13.16 per hour weekend or outside of the 0900-1700 timeframe, except where the activity is sponsored by the Management £25.00 per hour business. The hours volunteered by nonTime spent planning/arranging etc £19.08 per hour employees (e.g. employees’ families, friends etc.) are also excluded. 107 OUr PeOPle FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 Non-management employee time (£000) 29 10 21 Management employee time (£000) 8 7 7 Administration and planning time (£000) 11 3 7 Total value (£000) 48 20 35 These ﬁgures aim to cover the range of salaries Data is collected by a volunteer administrator in and roles held by the employees who engage in each region and collated centrally. Developing volunteering, and are intended to be a conservative our local estimate of our investment. The value of time spent communities organising activities is averaged between the two to ensure the values, to account for employees of different levels availability of vital within the business engaging in the process. business and electronic design engineering skills in the future is an important part of our long-term sustainability strategy. 108 OUr PeOPle Charitable Giving FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 Premier Farnell maintains a Charitable Giving (£000) (£000) Policy to support good causes identified by our Direct cash donations 36 27 9 employees. We have a Group budget of Funds matched approximately £20,000 per annum, split equally 23 30 9 by the Group between our American and European regions. Total donations from The Asia-Pacific region also makes donations to 59 57 18 Premier Farnell plc charitable causes on a request basis. In addition Stock donated 53 0.4 1 to this, business units can make donations at the General Manager’s discretion. Non-stock goods donated 9 0.2 21 by employees The focus of the budget is matching funds raised Cash raised or donated by by employees through their own efforts. In financial employees 56 65 44 year 2011, the budget was fully distributed. The total value of donations made globally by Premier Farnell in ﬁnancial year 2011 was as follows: Data is collected by local volunteers and verified against our financial reporting system. Local currencies are converted into GBP at the average exchange rate for the month in which the donation was made. 109 OUr PeOPle Status: Sponsor and anchor business of Swallow Hill Community College Community Investment and a careers marketplace event in the afternoon. 110 Make the Grade is an innovative schools and business Year 10 and 11 pupils from the school attended Farnell’s partnership initiative aimed at raising educational premises over two dates in March 2012. 16 Farnell The activity has volunteers supported and facilitated this event, which attainment and preparing young people for the world of benefitted our allowed pupils to experience a “live” workplace in addition work. pupils by raising to the specific activities. the awareness High schools are able to design a programme tailored to of the need to their individual needs offering an extensive and varied Languages subject support summary study a language programme of volunteering activities for business to On 25th January 2012 three volunteers from Premier and raising the engage in to support staff, pupils and parents. Farnell volunteered to run a language session with two profile of MFL School background: Swallow Hill Community College Year 9 groups. Each session was one hour long with the (Modern Foreign opened in September 2009 on a split site with 1750 first focusing on the middle level groups and the second Languages). students. The school resulted from the merger of two focusing on the higher ability cohort. The volunteers spoke It helped the neighbouring high schools judged to be satisfactory and to the pupils about what it’s like to work for Premier students to good respectively by Ofsted in previous inspections. Farnell, focusing on what they produce and the benefits of realise what Significant numbers of students are housed in areas of working here. One volunteer talked about working with opportunities are significant deprivation, with 49% of students living in an multiple worldwide languages in her role and how studying available to themarea ranked in the top 10% most deprived areas in and working with languages has opened up exciting England. opportunities for her. especially if those opportunities are Careers and interview skills events in the local area Premier Farnell worked with Leeds Ahead to deliver two Julia Hulme full careers days made up of an interview practice session (Swallow Hill) and interactive employability workshops in the morning 110 OUr PeOPle Our aims for next year Our FY2012 Targets We will continue to increase the number of Our Target Our Performance facilities worldwide that have local community teams; however we have pushed our target that The USA and Europe Each of our North American businesses have full Community now has a team in place to pursue every European business will have a community Investment and community investment activities team back to FY2016, given the challenges of 'Green' Teams in In Europe, our Leeds, Preston, France and integrating our global strategy across countries place Germany offices now have Community for which community investment can be culturally Teams in place very different. As we develop our school partnership with Swallow Hill Community College in Leeds, UK, we will look to build a model that can be applied at any of our businesses to work with a local school on STEM issues. Senior leaders across the business will be encouraged to engage directly in STEM activities, as well as supporting their teams' participation. 111 targets and tables Our sustainability strategy targets PRINCIPLES FY2021 Target FY2016 Target FY2013 Target Fines/Regulation breaches None Management standards Premier Farnell holds the most high-approved Achieve the standard of management set out by Complete a gap-closing exercise to bring Premier management standard for sustainability ISO 26000 Farnell closer to ISO 26000 alignment management All appropriate Premier Farnell facilities have achieved OHSAS 18001 Code of Conduct No breaches of the Code of Conduct Sub-distributors are contractually obliged to 100% of employees confirm that they have read Details of any breaches occurring are made observe the Premier Farnell Code of Conduct and understood the Code of Conduct in their publicly available mid-year review Legislation Guidance Premier Farnell is involved in the design process Premier Farnell is able to engage in consultation Representatives from Premier Farnell sit on one of global legislation impacting electronics as a processes on environmental legislation affecting government advisory body per region on the result of demonstrating its leadership in the electronic design engineers by using element14 issues surrounding legislation in the electronics arena of supporting electronic design engineers to poll EDEs and collect responses to legislators’ industry with legislative requirements comments Trade Compliance A world-class trade compliance system is built Widen the available Trade Compliance data on into all element14 systems element14 to cover global issues The Trade Compliance blog on element14 becomes interactive with Trade Compliance best practice discussed and issues solved through the site 112 targets and tables PRINCIPLES FY2021 Target FY2016 Target FY2013 Target Stakeholder Representation Premier Farnell has a full stakeholder interests Each Premier Farnell Region has a local Youth Board A Premier Farnell Youth Board is established in council, including; customers, suppliers, established and representatives from these Boards one region employees, local communities and government meet as a global body at least once per year and industry bodies Premier Farnell has acquired new talent following successful Youth Boards Premier Farnell is regarded as pioneering and leading stakeholder representation across its industry and is featured within an established ‘most desirable company to work at/with’ listing Governments and NGOs Premier Farnell is involved in the design process Deliver four successful campaigns with NGO Deliver plans for each region to engage in of global legislation and policies impacting partners to mobilise electronic design engineers’ partnerships with targeted NGOs the United Bank electronics as a result of demonstrating its ability skills through element14 of Carbon and Bath Institute of Medical to support policy makers with information, skills Engineering and innovation Premier Farnell is regarded as a key partner for non-governmental organisations wishing to engage the electronics industry 113 targets and tables PLANET FY2021 Target FY2016 Target FY2013 Target Green House Gases Emissions of CO2 per £1,000 revenue are Invite all facilities to submit carbon reduction reduced by 50% (11,582 tonnes) against a plans and implement the new carbon reduction Financial Year 2011 Baseline by the end of investment selection process FY2021 Include CO2 impacts of employee commuting in our published carbon footprint Absolute CO2 emissions are reduced by 10% against the baseline year of 2009 All third party logistics suppliers provide GHG emissions data on Premier Farnell deliveries to customers and this is publicly reported Out-of-hours energy is only consumed by devices necessary to either safety and security or providing services to our customers Business Travel Business flights are reduced to essential Every employee has access to individual video Review and improve the Company Business face-to-face work only. All other meetings are conferencing tools from their desk to allow face Travel Policy to reduce non-essential travel and facilitated by eLife to face meetings online short-turnaround flights Employees have individual travel emissions Reduction in air miles per travelling employee allocations Waste Premier Farnell Companies reuse or recycle Transactional websites and/or element14 hold Complete audits of all waste stream sat each 100% of recyclable waste and all food waste is information on all of our packaging Premier Farnell business and implement composted 25% reduction in the volume of stock becoming improvements to reduce the waste disposed All packaging used is recyclable or biodegradable scrap per year. by 10% 50% reduction in the volume of stock becoming Identify the recycled content and recyclability of scrap per year all forms of packaging shipped by Premier Farnell and supply this information to customers on the packaging Complete audits on all scrap recycling companied used by the business to ensure that they meet our e-waste disposal standards Water Water use per employee does not exceed 7,700 litres per year 114 targets and tables PLANET FY2021 Target FY2016 Target FY2013 Target Services Beyond Product 30% of revenue is generated by non-component element14 is available as a tool to combine £50m in incremental revenue is delivered by sales Electronic Design Engineers’ skills to create non-component sales socially useful electronic innovations Sustainable Electronics Premier Farnell is the hub for sustainable element14 facilitates, and is used a collaboration electronics innovation, linking Electronic Design space for solving environmental challenges Engineers with NGOs and specialists to deliver solutions to real-world problems One new product or service with an improved environmental impact is launched per year Global Product Segmentation Sales to “Green” target customers achieves £28.4m Paper Usage All communications with suppliers that do not Release an online archive to store all internal 100% of customer and supplier-facing printed legally require a signature or hard copy are communications that is accessible to all material including; invoices, catalogues and carried-out electronically. Customers are able to employees despatch notes are accounted-for and reported opt-in to completely paperless ordering publicly Final versions of all documents that are for Achieve a reduction in the total weight of paper internal use only are produced in a non-printable used in customer and supplier-facing printed format material All internal comms materials are released in a non-printable format, except for employees who do not have regular access to a computer 115 targets and tables PEOPLE FY2021 Target FY2016 Target FY2013 Target Employee Engagement The all-employee engagement score subset for The Sustainability and Trust Agenda elements of The all-employee engagement score increases sustainability consistently achieves 100% across the all-employee engagement survey have been by 2% all employees revised to better reflect the state of the Over 95% of employees complete the survey programme in FY2016 each year Organisational Development At least 30% of all company vacancies are filled At least 15% of all company vacancies are filled 100% of employees have a completed PDP that by internal candidates through promotions on by internal candidates through promotions or is reviewed and supported by their manager relocation relocation Gender Equality Premier Farnell has created a culture where 30% of employees at salary grade 6 and above current and potential employees feel that they are are female valued by the Company and that they can contribute to their full potential Health and Safety Health and Safety systems are in place to ensure Achieve OHSAS Certification at our Singapore Reintegrate Liège safety performance reporting a global lost-time injury rate of 0.0 per 100,000 Distribution Centre into global performance reporting and targeting hours Supply Chain Sustainability 100% of Private Label suppliers have completed Premier Farnell has joined an industry-wide body 70% of Private Label suppliers have completed workplace standards questionnaires driving sustainability throughout the supply chain workplace standards questionnaires 100% of Private Label suppliers have completed and implemented programmes necessary to Over 35% of Private Label suppliers have workplace standards site audits become a fully-compliant member completed site audits Unannounced site audits of workplace standards Completing a site audit is a non-negotiable are a non-negotiable element of Private Label element of Private Label supplier contracts for all supplier contracts for all new and renewed new and renewed suppliers suppliers The contracts of all suppliers that refuse to All franchised suppliers either submit evidence to comply have been reviewed as necessary support that they maintain high workplace standards or agree to become part of the Premier Farnell workplace standards site audit programme Community Investment All employees that are interested in volunteering All Group locations have active community teams Formal organisational development processes are able to do so for at least 8 hours per year and reporting structures in place and metrics have been defined to assess volunteering as part of employees’ development 116 targets and tables GRI content index G3 Profile Description Location in report/Further information G3 Profile Description Location in report/Further information Disclosures Disclosures 1.1 Statement from the most 2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal Public Limited Company (LSE:PFL) senior decision-maker of the form organization (e.g. CEO, chair, 2.7 Markets served (including 3 or equivalent senior position) geographic breakdown, about the relevance of sectors served, and types of sustainability to the customer/beneficiaries) organization and its strategy 2.8 Scale of the reporting All operations within Premier Farnell plc 1.2 Description of key impacts, Summaries of our impacts, risks and organization excluding CadSoft Computer GmbH risks and opportunities opportunities can be found on pages 6, 18, 36, 75 2.9 Significant changes during the The disposal of our business TPC on reporting period regarding January 31 2011. Reported data has 2.1 Name of the organisation Premier Farnell plc size, structure, or ownership been recalculated to exclude TPC from 2.2 Further information on each 3 previous years impact is included within its 2.10 Awards received in the Available online through press releases at own section reporting period www.premierfarnell.com 2.3 Operational structure of the 3 3.1 Reporting period Data is reported on the company financial organization, including main year February 1 to January 31 except divisions, operating where stated otherwise. Data tables in companies, subsidiaries and the report distinguish between calendar joint ventures years and financial years through the 2.4 Location of organization’s London, United Kingdom abbreviation FY. headquarters 3.2 Date of most recent previous 12 May 2011 2.5 Number of countries where 3 report the organization operates, and 3.3 Reporting cycle Financial year Feb 01 2011 to Jan 31 the names of countries with 2012 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the Environmental and Health and Safety sustainability issues covered reporting cycle is Jan 01 2011 to Dec 31 in the report 2011 117 targets and tables G3 Profile Description Location in report/Further information G3 Profile Description Location in report/Further information Disclosures Disclosures 3.4 Contact point for questions Mr Steven Webb, Company Secretary and 3.10 Explanation of the effect of We have updated GHG calculation figures regarding the report or its General Counsel swebb@premierfarnell. any re-statements of in line with the latest data available from content com information provided in earlier the WRI GHG Project and to remove TPC Mr Charles Denham, Sustainability reports, and the reasons for from previous years’ reported figures Manager, cdenham@premierfarnell.com such re-statements This ensures that year-on-year performance reports are comparable and 3.5 Process for defining report 7-17 do not recognise the disposal of a content business as an environmental saving 3.6 Boundary of the report This report covers all operations of All instances where data and/or the Premier Farnell plc excluding CadSoft contributing indicators have changed are Computer GmbH highlighted with that data 3.7 State any specific limitation on Specific exclusions to our GHG 3.11 Significant changes from Inclusion of energy reported in Gigajoules the scope or boundary of this measurements are given in the Planet previous reporting periods in Inclusion of employee turnover data report section of this report the scope, boundary, or 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint No joint ventures or owned facilities measurement methods applied ventures, subsidiaries, leased leased to third parties in the report facilities, out sourced 3.12 Table identifying the location 118 operations, and other entities of the Standard Disclosures in that can significantly affect the Report comparability from period to period and/or between 3.13 Policy and current practice We seek to have the data in our organizations with regard to seeking Sustainability Report and our GRI external assurance for the Application Level verfied annually. To 3.9 Data measurement techniques Where we use specific calculations or report ensure impartiality, we use an and the bases of calculations, techniques to make estimates, we have organisation that is not already connected including assumptions and outlined these in the report to our reporting process. techniques underlying estimations applied to the 4.1 Governance structure of the Annual Report and Accounts 78-117 compilation of the Indicators organization, including and other information in the committees under the highest report governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of Ms Valerie Gooding is the Chair of the the highest governance body Board of Governors. She is not an is also an executive officer executive officer of the company 118 targets and tables G3 Profile Description Location in report/Further information G3 Profile Description Location in report/Further information Disclosures Disclosures 4.3 For organizations that have a The Board comprises of five non4.8 Internally developed statement 6 unitary board structure, state executive directors of mission or values, code of the number of members of the conduct, and principles highest governance body that relevant to the economic, are independent and/or environmental and social non-executive members performance and the status of their implementation 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Annual Report and Accounts 96 and employees to provide for 4.9 Procedures of the highest Annual Report and Accounts 81 117 recommendations or direction governance body for to the highest governance overseeing the management body of economic, environmental and social performance, 4.5 Linkage between Annual Report and Accounts 102 117. including relevant risks and compensation for members of opportunities, and adherence the highest governance body, Sustainability is not explicitly reflected in or compliance with senior managers, and the Board's FY2012 remuneration internationally afrees executives (including arrangments. We have outlined plans to standards, codes of conduct departure arrangements) and include sustainability considerations in and principles the organisation's performance (including social the Group's Management Incentive Plan 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Annual Report and Accounts 86 and environmental from FY2013 in this report highest governance body's performance) own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.6 Processes in place for the Annual Report and Accounts 86 environmental and social highest governance body to performance ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.11 Explanation of whether and Annual Report and Accounts 94 95 how the precautionary 4.7 Processes for determining the Annual Report and Accounts 90 approach is addressed by the composition, qualifications organisation and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.12 Externally developed United Nations Global Compact body and its committees, economic, environmental and (September 2009) including any consideration of social charters, or principles, gender and other indicators of or other initiatives to which diversity the organisation subscribes or endorses 119 targets and tables G3 Profile Description Location in report/Further information Disclosures on Management Approach Disclosures We have included our Disclosures on Management Approach in 4.13 Memberships in associations 26 29 the appropriate section of the report. The following table identifies (such as industry associations) which section of the report addresses each indicator set. and/or national/international advocacy organisations in Report section G3 Indicator set Location in report/further which the organisation: information 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 12-14 Annual Report and Economic (EC) Annual Report and Accounts engaged by the organization Accounts 36-50 4.15 Basis for identification and 7-15 selection of stakeholders with Principles Society (SO) 19 which to engage Product Responsibility (PR) 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder 7 14 engagement, including Stakeholder engagement takes place in a Planet Environment (EN) 34 frequency of engagement by variety of forms throughout the year. We type and by stakeholder group do not currently record our report the People Human Rights (HR) 74 frequency or outputs of specific activities Social (SO) 4.17 Key topics and concerns that Issues were raised with the clarity of the Labour Practices and Decent have been raised through business' explanation of its management Work (LA) stakeholder engagement, and of sustainability impacts. We have taken how the organisation has steps to improve these by aligning our responded to those key topics reporting with GRI Application Level B+ and concerns, including through its reporting. 120 targets and tables G3 Performance Description Location in report/Further G3 Performance Description Location in report/Further Indicators and information Indicators and information Sector Sector Supplement Supplement Indicators Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and 4 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and 71 distributed, including revenues, operating destination All water is discharged costs, employee compensation, donations into public sewerage and other community investments, systems and contains no retained earnings, and payments to capital process effluents. providers and governments EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 50 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 37-38 method opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change EN24 Weight of transported, exported or treated The weight of hazardous waste deemed hazardous under the terms waste generated by the EC4 Significant financial assistance received The business has not of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and organisation is reported from government received any significant VIII and percentage of transported waste on page 53 financial assistance shipped internationally during financial year We do not export any of 2012 our hazardous waste; all waste is disposed of EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 54-58 domestically EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 54-58 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental 35-75 recycled input materials impacts of products and services, and the extent of impact mitigation EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 41 energy source LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 79-80 days and absenteeism, and number of EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary 41 work-related fatalities by region source LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention 96-97 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 42 and risk-control programmes in place to efficiency improvements assist workforce members, their families, EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 73 or community members regarding serious diseases EN14 Strategies, current actions and future The organisation plans for managing impacts on biodiversity currently does not have HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and 102-105 any plans in place as we contractors that have undergone screening do not have any on human rights and actions taken significant impacts on biodiversity in our areas of operation 121 targets and tables G3 Performance Description Location in report/Further Self-Declaration of GRI reporting level Indicators and information We are currently reporting at level B+, having met the disclosure Sector Supplement and performance indicator requirements of GRI level B and Indicators commissioned the auditing of our Sustainability Report and GRI HR5 Operations identified in which the right to 102 content by SGS UK Ltd. exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having significant 102 risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour HR7 Operations identified as having significant 102 risks for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour SO2 Percentage and total number of business 22-26 units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Available on the Premier public policy development and lobbying Farnell website PR3 Type of product and service information 27-30 required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements 122 TARGETS AND TABLES Index of United Nations Global Compact Principles supported in Financial Year 2012 Principle Action Further information Feedback As part of our commitment to open and 1 Businesses should support We request that all Private Label 102-105 and respect the protection suppliers comply with our workplace honest dialogue with our stakeholders, of internationally standards policy to protect suppliers' we invite feedback on the contents of proclaimed human rights employees. this report, or any other sustainability issues of importance that we have 2 Businesses should make We audit the standards of Private 102-105 not covered. sure that they are not Label suppliers. Please address all feedback to complicit in human rights abuses Steven Webb, Company Secretary at swebb@premierfarnell.com 7 Businesses should support We employ a number of methods to 35-75 a precautionary approach to reduce and improve our impact on the environmental challenges environment 8 Businesses should We have marketing strategies in place 64 encourage the development to support the development of new and diffusion of technologies in the alternative energy environmentally friendly sector technologies 10 Businesses should work Premier Farnell businesses operate 22-26 against corruption in all its under the Group Code of Conduct forms, including extortion and bribery 123 ASSURANCE STATEMENT SGS UNITED KINGDOM LTD’S REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN THE PREMIER FARNELL PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 NATURE AND SCOPE THE ASSURANCE/VERIFICATION SGS United Kingdom Ltd was commissioned by Premier Farnell plc to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2012. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included the text and 2011 data in accompanying tables contained in this report. The information in the Sustainability Report 2012 of Premier Farnell plc and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and the management of Premier Farnell plc. SGS United Kingdom Ltd has not been involved in the preparation of any of the material included in the Sustainability Report 2012. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs and statements within the scope of verification set out with the intention to inform all Premier Farnell plc’s stakeholders. The SGS Group has developed a set of protocols for the Assurance of Sustainability Reports based on current best practice guidance provided in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006) and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). These protocols follow differing options for Assurance depending on the reporting history and capabilities of the Reporting Organisation. This report has been assured as an AA1000AS Type 2 assurance at a moderate level of scrutiny using our protocols for: • evaluation of content veracity; • evaluation of the report content and supporting management systems against the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008); and • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006). The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, interviews with relevant employees in the UK (sites in Leeds and Preston) and USA (sites in Newark and Washington); documentation and record review and validation with external bodies and/or stakeholders where relevant. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited financial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of this assurance process. STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, testing and verification, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service certification; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS United Kingdom Ltd affirm our independence from Premier Farnell plc, being free from bias and conflicts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with AccountAbility and Canadian Environmental Certification Approvals Board (Environmental Management Systems Lead Auditor). VERIFICATION/ ASSURANCE OPINION On the basis of the methodology described and the verification work performed, we are satisfied that the information and data contained within Sustainability Report 2012 verified is accurate and provides a fair representation of Premier Farnell plc’s sustainability activities in 2011. The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders and we believe that the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this stage in their reporting. AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES (2008) CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS In our opinion the Premier Farnell Sustainability Report 2012 fulfils all expected elements to demonstrate strong commitments to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Our findings and recommendations for future reporting are summarised below. Inclusivity Premier Farnell measure well on the principle of inclusivity and have developed systematic and appropriate methods of engagement with stakeholders. The methods of engagement are extensive and varied to reflect the various relationships with stakeholders. This is especially evident with the communication and dialogue with customers and the development of engagement regarding the future change in branding. The development of a youth board is best practice and future reporting should focus evaluate how it contributes to the governance of the organisation. Premier Farnell need to improve reporting on engagement and the results of engagement carried out locally at sites globally. Materiality The materiality determination and review processes are integrated and ongoing and have been continuously developed over the past years using the engagement with key stakeholders. The report demonstrates the changes in priority of material issues and the reasoning. The report includes good coverage of industry regulatory impacts and the action in line with these and the review of engagement with regulatory bodies / government would support this in future reporting. Responsiveness The approach and response to material issues is mature and balanced. That actions have been taken to address needs and concerns of stakeholders has been demonstrated during the assurance process over the past three years, and the change in format of the report this year makes this clearer. The report does not reflect whether the timetables for action are acceptable to stakeholders and future reports should address this. This is especially appropriate for employees. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING GUIDELINES (2006) CONCLUSIONS, FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS In our opinion, the Premier Farnell plc Sustainability Report 2012 meets the content and quality requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Version 3.0 Application Level B+. Principles In our opinion the content and quality of the report adheres to the ten GRI Principles. Opportunities were identified for consideration in future reporting cycles to ensure continual improvement, including • future reports should provide more information on issues raised in stakeholder engagement and feedback and how these have influenced the report content; • future reports would benefit from highlighting the geographical and site context on the company material issues; • data collection and collation systems should be further integrated into the company’s management systems for all reported data. Standard Disclosures All of the standard disclosures required for reporting at an application level B+ were included or referenced in the report. Indicators – The required number of core indicators are included in the report. Signed: For and on behalf of SGS United Kingdom Ltd Jan Saunders UK Systems and Services Certification Business Manager Camberley, May 2012 WWW.SGS.COM
