Company Corporate performance indicators The companies of ALTANA AG develop, manufacture, and distribute high-quality, specialty chemical products and provide the associated services. ALTANA is a globally active 2011 2010 corporation headquartered in Wesel, Germany, with an Number of employees 5,313 4,937 international revenue share of approximately 85 percent. Its four Divisions, BYK Additives & Instruments, ECKART Sales € 1.617 million € 1.535 million Effect Pigments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants, occupy a leading position EBITDA € 308 million € 314 million in their target markets with respect to quality, product EBITDA margin 19.1 % 20.5 % solution expertise, innovation, and service. Research and development expenditures € 88 million € 82 million ALTANA offers innovative and environmentally comInvestments € 94 million € 74 million patible solutions with the matching specialty products for coatings manufacturers, paint and plastics processors, Total production **** 547,451 t 495,509 t for the printing and cosmetics industry, as well as for Gross value added **** € 593 million € 567 million the electrical and electronics industry. Our product portfolio includes additives, special coatings and adhesives, Final products **** 422,450 t 374,591 t effect pigments, sealants and compounds, impregnatWAI 1* 7.43 7.73 ing resins and varnishes, and testing and measuring instruments. WAI 3 ** 69 99 Total CO2 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) *** + **** 133,348 t 135,901 t The ALTANA Group currently includes 41 production sites and over 50 service and research laboratories worldwide. Drinking water **** 562,870 m³ 559,685 m³ All of the shares in ALTANA AG are held by SKion GmbH, an investment company owned by Susanne Klatten. Non-hazardous waste **** 7,556 t 6,057 t Employing a workforce of approximately 5,300, ALTANA Hazardous waste **** 20,418 t 18,323 t posted sales exceeding € 1.6 billion in ﬁscal 2011. Its impressive earning power and high growth rate make * Work Accident Indicator 1 (Number of occupational accidents with lost work time of more than one day per million working hours) ALTANA one of the most successful and innovative ** Work Accident Indicator 3 (Number of lost work days due to occupational accidents chemical groups worldwide. per million working hours) *** Scope 1: direct emissions; Scope 2: indirect emissions **** Projection for 12 months (calendar year) About this report The Sustainability Report 2011 was written to provide the pubour statements apply to all Divisions and worldwide subsidiaries lic, our employees, business partners and authorities, nonthat were part of the ALTANA Group prior to January 2012. governmental organizations, and all other stakeholders with The report follows the international G3 guidelines of the Global information about the sustainability strategy of ALTANA AG Reporting Initiative (GRI). We performed an in-house assessin terms of economy, ecology, and social responsibility. Our ment of our compliance with GRI indicators and have concluded 2011 Annual Report offers details about our economic develthat the report meets the requirements of application level B. opment, while the content of this report is guided by stakeholder interests. For further information on the topics presented in this report, please visit www.altana.com/sustainability. The Sustainability The facts and ﬁgures presented in this report refer to the ﬁscal Report 2010 was published in October 2011 and is available year 2011. Because of the switch in the reporting period from for download online. Future reports will be published annually the calendar year to the period from October 1 to September 30, and will serve as the required communication on progress for the absolute environmental indicators of the ﬁrst nine months the Global Compact. The report is available in both German were projected for the full year 2011. Unless otherwise noted, and English. 4 Sustainability Report 2011 Dear Readers, Thank you for your interest in the ALTANA SustainOur employees who develop sustainable solutions ability Report 2011. Our Sustainability Report also and products with great dedication, creativity and illustrates our progress, which–together with our professionalism are our most important asset for annual report– offers a comprehensive insight in innovation and for consistently pursuing sustainthe way ALTANA lives its corporate responsibility. ability goals. This report highlights their efforts, and every section of this report presents employThis report covers a wide range of topics, extendees who drive respective efforts and innovations ing from responsible use of valuable resources to at ALTANA. our human resource policies and social commitment. The concept of sustainability serves as a guideline Our Identity, which was discussed in detail and and represents a self-obligation that far extends broadly communicated in 2011, also expresses past statutory provisions and standards. the importance of our employees’ well-being and places employees at the center of our corporate As a specialty chemicals company placing partidevelopment. The new Guiding Principles include cular importance on sustainable development, our all important aspects of our voluntary commitactivities can be broadly summarized to focus on ment. ALTANA also supproducts that protect and optimize surfaces and ports the objectives of help both our company and our customers reach the UN Global Compact, sustainability goals. Sustainable development ofwhich are full in line with fers fundamental opportunities for ALTANA and the Identity of ALTANA. our customers, provided of course that we are As a consequence, this intimately familiar with the current requirements sustainability report also of sustainable development, of climate protection, serves as our annual and resource concerns. communication on progress for the UN Global The major challenges of the future associated with Compact. resource and energy efﬁciency, healthcare, or secure drinking water and food supply can only be solved in conjunction with the innovative develI hope you will enjoy opments of the chemical industry. In addition, your reading. we believe innovation and responsible care are the best ways for hedging against the risks of the global economy. Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 6 Sustainability Report 2011 8 Sustainability Report 2011 Guiding Principles ambassadors of the 2011 Identity Workshops We have charged forty trained ambassadors to communicate Meeting in Wesel in October 2011. All employees had attendthe content of the Guiding Principles and to bring them across ed a one-day workshop about the new Guiding Principles in an entertaining manner with the help of a special tool box. globally by the end of March 2012. “Employee response has “In the end, all participants will have a personal identity set, been very positive,” says Flüggen. “People like how clearly the text is phrased, and our principle, “We want to be leading in everything we do” expresses the continuous development at ALTANA and will be part of our shared identity in the future. “Employee response has been The aspects of cooperation and corporate culture are described very positive” by four values. “The goal of developing the Guiding Principles was not just consisting of the Guiding Principles and the Leadership Guideto deﬁne the ALTANA philosophy in print, but to achieve lines to identify even more with their work and ALTANA,” broad acceptance among employees,” summarizes Lampe. explains Annette Lampe. The ofﬁcial kick-off for implementing Supplementary measures in years to come will ensure the the Guiding Principles was held at the Global Management lasting effect of the new guidelines. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 9 Company ALTANA develops, produces, and distributes high-quality, inThe companies we acquired during the reporting period, along novative specialty products for coatings manufacturers, paints with the associated expansion of our innovative product and plastics processors, for the printing and cosmetics industry, portfolio, are a key component of our sustainability strategy. as well as for the electrical and electronics industry. The busiThis includes the can end sealants business for the metal can ness seat of our globally active Group is Wesel. The ALTANA packaging market of Watson Standard Adhesives Company, Group comprises four Divisions, BYK Additives & Instruments, which was acquired as part of an asset deal and has been ECKART Effect Pigments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and integrated into the ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants Division. The ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants. additional products are mostly based on a sustainable, renewable resource. We also acquired the Color Chemie Group, ALTANA AG has a dual management and monitoring system. which manufactures environmentally friendly, water-based The Supervisory Board appoints two executive managers specialty printing inks for packaging boxes, foils, carrier bags, for a term of ﬁve years. The Management Board is solely gift wrapping papers and wallpapers and also was integrated responsible for managing the company and exclusively serves into the ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants Division. ECKART Effect its interests. The Management Board forms the advisory Pigments also took over the production of Metalure pigments Executive Management Team together with the Presidents of (PVD aluminum pigments) from Avery Dennison to accelerate the Divisions and selected executives of central functions. its innovation processes, and ALTANA added Kometra Kunststoff-Modiﬁkatoren und -Additiv GmbH to its portfolio, The Supervisory Board of ALTANA AG has twelve members, which is part of the BYK Additives & Instruments Division as half of which are elected by German Group employees in BYK Kometra GmbH. The additional know-how will give us accordance with German corporate co-determination law. The access to a patented, globally unique technology that enhances other six members are elected by the annual shareholders’ the durability of technical plastics and contributes to resource meeting. Supervisory Board members serve terms of ﬁve years. efﬁciency. The Supervisory Board monitors the business and advises the Management Board on company management matters. We divested the ceramic paint business of ACTEGA Rhenania With the exception of Susanne Klatten, all Supervisory Board to focus even more on our core competencies. The elimination members elected in the shareholders’ meeting, along with the of the energy-intensive ceramic paints also improves the CO2 Chair of the Supervisory Board, are independent. emissions balance of ACTEGA Rhenania. At the same time, we divested the pearlescent pigment business of ECKART in For more information on the company please visit www.altana.com Finland that was based on natural mica (glimmer mineral). That unit will now concentrate on pigments from synthetic sources, which also helps prevent interference with biodiverAcquisitions and divestments sity and child labor in the extraction of natural glimmer in India, since the new material will no longer be surface-mined Thanks to our clear, strategic alignment with innovative and in India. Furthermore, we closed the facility of ACTEGA Radcure technically demanding growth markets, we are optimally posiin the U.S. and integrated the corresponding activities into ACTEGA tioned in our current environment. In addition to targeted WIT to reduce our footprint and optimize energy efﬁciency. acquisitions, large investments in research & development play a vital role and our share of R&D expenditures, which is far above the industry average, is an important aspect of our growth. In 2011, ALTANA invested some € 88 million in promising projects, exceeding our R&D expenditures of the previous year by € 6 million. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 13 The same topics are discussed in this sustainability report. Although we ﬁnd all action areas important, our special focus is on the topics in the right ﬁeld of the matrix. A few of the winners of the ALTANA Innovation Award 2011 Memberships Regular professional exchanges are part of our sustainability The innovative contribution of this system was underscored concept. Accordingly, the German companies of the ALTANA by our high rankings in the German Packaging Award 2011. Group are members of the German Chemical Industry The world’s ﬁrst PVC-free lug cap Pano Blue Seal powered Association (VCI), of CEPE, the umbrella organization of the by PROVALIN/metal screw closure with TPE seal, produced 17 European professional associations for coatings, printing by ACTEGA DS and Pano Verschluss GmbH, won ﬁrst prize inks, and artists’ colors as well as the Association of the in the category Design, Equipment, and Optimization. In German Coatings Industry (VdL). Some of our afﬁliates also addition, we were nominated for the WorldStar of the World are members in the German Verband der MineralfarbenPackaging Organization (WPO). industrie (association of producers of pigments, ﬁllers, functional additives, food colorants and others, VdMi), the German Association of Plastic Films (IVK) and TEGEWA Employee suggestion system (association representing manufacturers of textile, paper, leather and fur auxiliaries and colorants, surfactants, ALTANA began the implementation of a global employee complexing agents, antimicrobial agents, polymeric ﬂoccusuggestion system in 2009 to provide employees with the lants, cosmetic base materials, pharmaceutical excipients opportunity to share their ideas for cost savings, occupational and allied products). safety, or protection of environment and health. Ideas are rewarded appropriately, and there is a mechanism for exchangBy joining the Global Compact, ALTANA conﬁrmed the iming ideas within the Group. The global implementation was portant role of social commitment and our full support of completed in April 2011 with the ratiﬁcation of the concept in the Compact's ten principles of human rights, occupational the U.S. standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. Protection and respect for human rights are part of our core values. This topic, which is overseen by the head of Corporate Procurement, may be associated with risks among 2010 2011 our suppliers. ALTANA has been committed to the principles Total rewards paid € 131,881 € 105,917 of Responsible Care, an initiative of the global chemical Calculated savings in the ﬁrst year € 152,344 € 340,402 industry for product stewardship, occupational health and Number of improvement suggestions 790 855 environmental protection, since 2002. Awards For further details on our company, our strategy and on As part of the ALTANA Innovation Conference, outstanding the topics of the Global Compact, Compliance, manageprojects have been honored with the ALTANA Innovation ment systems, and our vendor relationships, please visit Award since 2009. Last November, the award went to www.altana.com or see our latest annual report. employees of the ACTEGA Division for their work on PVCfree sealant and coating systems that increase food safety. 14 Sustainability Report 2011 Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 17 The intensive research effort has paid off, and Sebastian For more information on the innovation culture at ALTANA, Landeck and his colleagues from the sister companies ACTEGA visit our website at www.altana.com/innovation or ﬁnd out Rhenania and ACTEGA Artística not only won the 2011 about Provalin at www.provalin.com ALTANA Innovation Award, but PROVALIN also was recognized in the German Packaging Awards. The work will not stop here, and the team is already working on the next innovation: the upcoming generation of sealing compounds will be biodegradable. 18 Sustainability Report 2011 Environmentally sound products The chemical industry is facing a clear challenge for the future in the time from 1990 to 2009, while greenhouse gas emisand must strive to achieve greater sustainability. This applies sions even fell by 47 percent with increases in production in particular to products “green” products. Even though the of 42 percent. This trend makes us hopeful that the develexact characteristics of “green,” or environmentally compatopment can be continued in the future. ible, is not clearly deﬁned, new products such as PROVALIN undoubtedly stand out for better environmental properties than their predecessors. This not only takes into account prodMore savings with additives uct properties, but also resource efﬁciency and fewer emissions. BYK calls this strategy “Greenability,” while ECKART As a research-intensive specialty chemicals company, ALTANA refers to it as “Blueffects,” but they both mean the same. At has brought a number of innovative environmental products the same time, our “green” products are designed to help our on the market. Besides the plasticizer-free sealing compound customers achieve their environmental goals. PROVALIN, this also includes a number of new additives. For example, BYK-P 9908 and 9909 improve the compatiChanges in production, energy consumption, and greenhouse gas emissions bility of polyol blends, which German chemical industry 1990 2009 saves energy because the easily separable blends can be stored without continuous agitation. Similarly, the addi+ 42 % tive BYK-399 for coatings Greenhouse with solvent content has no Energy use gas emissions ﬂuoric components. Production Our last sustainability reoutput 30 % port contained informa47 % tion about BYK-C 8000, an additive that improves the mechanical stability of radically curing systems ﬁlled with quartz Source: VCI statistics on energy, climate protection, and resource use in the chemical industry sand (e.g. unsaturated polyester resins). It signiﬁcantly prolongs the service life of ready-made Since the chemical industry consumes some 25 percent of parts or reduces the the entire energy used in commercial processing, optimizing resource consumption resource and energy consumption is a core task. On the other of items such as plastic hand, the chemical industry has been able to uncouple enerpipes by ﬁfty percent gy consumption and growth in a manner no other German without impacting meindustry could. Thus, energy use was reduced by 30 percent chanical stability. This Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 19 makes an essential contribution to the resource efﬁciency of to pipelines (e.g. for wastewater) and kitchen sinks to winour customers. dow sills. We expect signiﬁcant sales of BYK-C 8002 to start in 2012. Improvement of ﬂexural strength in different types of ﬁlled resins with BYK-C 8002 Greater transparency with eco balances The foam inhibitor BYK-1740 is produced from renewable resources (plant oil), making it biodegradable and solvent-free. + 54 % + 55 % That not only saves fossil resources, but also reduces the + 43 % energy consumption to one ninth compared to the conventional petroleum-based product; at the same time, emissions in form of CO2 equivalents dropped to below 20 percent. Unsaturated Orthophthalic DCPD resin polyester resin acid resin CO2 equivalent The CO2 footprint is a partial aspect of the lifecycle analysis. As an added advantage, simple quartz can be used as ﬁller It reﬂects the greenhouse gas emissions generated throughout instead of the usually required silanized quartz (silane coma product lifecycle and is indicated as Global Warming Potential (GWP100), using kg CO2 equivalent per functional unit as pound at the surface). This cuts out a process step that is the calculation unit. All substances that contribute to global associated with major energy and water consumption, and warming potential according to the Intergovernmental Panel accordingly, saves costs for our customers. The improvement on Climate Change (IPCC) are converted into CO2 equivalents consists of mechanically embedding the quartz sand in with a speciﬁc factor. Thus, methane (CH4) has 25 times the the polymer matrix. The long-chained additives create a perglobal warming potential of CO2. In practical terms, this means manent bond with the quartz and the polymer, saving about that the emission of 1 kg CO2 and 1 kg CH4 result in a net 16 kilograms of polymer and 160 kilograms of quartz per global warming potential of 26 kg CO2 equivalents. kilogram of additive. By the end of 2011, we had sold some 23 metric tons of BYK-C 8000, which means that our customers in theory saved 4,200 tons of resource materials. This volume is expected to BYK uses eco balances, or lifecycle analyses (LCA) to be more increase further in years to come, as customer testing phases precise, to specify the energy and resources consumed from prior to the actual use of an additive can take a long time. production and transport to selling a product along with the associated emissions. The results, which are calculated with BYK-C 8002 was another additive of the same type we introspecial software, are documented in the Environmental Prodduced in the market in 2011. It expands the portfolio of uct Declaration (EPD) according to the ISO standard 14025. synthetic systems in which the additive will be used (e.g. aluBYK is the ﬁrst additive manufacturer to have four eco balanminum trihydroxide, ATH). The applications of resins in which ces certiﬁed on the basis of standards ISO 14040 and 14044 the additives can be used range from polymer concrete for the additives DYSPERBYK-190, BYK-012, BYK-023, and Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 21 Greater food safety Products that extend the shelf life of food items make a signiused for metal closures made from TPE and another resin. ﬁcant contribution to sustainability. The longer food can stay METALSTAR FPG 11 by ECKART is another product offering fresh in packaging, the longer it can be offered for sale, which greater food safety. It is the ﬁrst low-migration, sensorially translates into lower consumption of resources and energy for neutral metallic printing ink that is suited for all paper and replacement food and lower waste volumes. Based on the procardboard packaging with food contact. cess of oxidation, oxygen has a particularly pernicious effect on food. The barrier properties of sealing compounds develCoatings for food packaging produced at ACTEGA Terra oped by ACTEGA have the capacity to protect products from have been marked with the “FoodSafe” seal since 2011. damaging external inﬂuences such as oxygen and keep food FoodSafe seals fulﬁll three quality characteristics: They are fresh along ever-growing transport paths. At the same time, low in migration and remain below the global migration limit the materials guarantee optimal pressure or vacuum position value of 60 mg/kg. They are analyzed in accredited testing in case of mechanical impact. One of the newly developed laboratories and are certiﬁed for direct contact with dry sealing materials even absorbs oxygen actively and leads to a and fatty food items. FoodSafe coatings meet the provisions signiﬁcantly improved protective function. of the Swiss Consumer Goods Ordinance and exclusively contain the materials that are listed in that legislation. In addition to PROVALIN completely plasticizer-free vacuum Additionally, FoodSafe coatings do not contain any undesirable twist closures require further components for a perfect seal components and are low in odor. Some forty water-based between the lid and the glass. Thus, the sister company coatings of ACTEGA Terra currently meet the stringent ACTEGA Rhenania developed a suitable coating to be FoodSafe requirements. 22 Sustainability Report 2011 Greater protection for brand-name products Brand piracy and plagiarized products result in corporate In UV coatings, the diluting function of the solvent is taken losses of several hundred billion Euros every year. Items that over by the so-called monomer. It reacts with other substances are pirated in large volumes include pharmaceutical and cosduring ﬁlm formation and becomes a ﬁxed component of metic products as well as ink and toner cartridges. ACTEGA the coating that is not released into the environment. These offers solutions for open or concealed brand name protection systems typically require UV radiation for curing, which is for printing and coating, including phosphorescing pigments why they are also called UV coatings. ACTEGA produces such or magnetic ink. They can change the color impression of an coatings for packaging. imprinted package under an infrared or UV light to document the authenticity of a product. Open and concealed security UV radiation has been a proven industrial process for years. characteristics can also be combined for particular effect. Our Chinese company ACTEGA Foshan is researching this environmentally friendly technology for areas such as metal Pearlescent pigments made of silicates are an environmentally packaging where UV curing has not yet been applied. To overfriendly and socially acceptable alternative for conventional come technical difﬁculties and to guarantee appropriate supeffect pigments that are frequently extracted in non-sustainport for such a project, we assembled a development team able surface mining (e.g. in India). LUXAN CFX pigments made of resource vendors, coatings manufacturers, printers, can from borosilicate can be integrated into aqueous or solventmanufacturers, and end customers in China under the project based coating systems with little energy. They are resistant to management of ACTEGA Foshan. Thanks to the intensive UV radiation and can withstand condensation and rainwater, work, the project, which was initiated in the second quarter of which means that fewer coats of paint are needed and the 2010, has produced a practical solution that has already been associated large resource volumes can be saved. implemented, with a market launch for selected customers in the second half of 2011. Protecting the environment with solvent alternatives Water-based coatings reduce VOC emissions by partially or One of the greatest environmental effects of coatings results completely replacing solvents with water. This also makes a from solvent emissions, the so-called volatile organic comcontribution to resource efﬁciency because fewer fossil fuels pounds (VOC). VOC are air pollutants and are responsible for are needed. the so-called summer smog (ozone formation). VOC emissions also accelerate climate change, and efforts are underway In 2011, BYK developed a number of additives for manufacturworldwide to prevent these emissions. ing aqueous coatings: Ě CERAFLOUR 1000 (see also page 20) Technical solutions for reducing VOC emissions in the coatings Ě AQUACER D 272 increases scratch resistance (resource industry include: efﬁciency). Ě Water-based coatings (water as solvent) Ě BYK-1711 is a foam inhibitor for aqueous coatings. Ě High-solid coatings (reduced solvent content) Ě AQUAMAT 272 (higher scratch and abrasion Ě Powder coatings (no solvents, but energy use for ﬁlm resistance, for matting) formation) Ě The BYKJET family for inkjet printer inks includes Ě UV-curing coatings products for aqueous, solvent-free, and radiation curing systems. ALTANA is making contributions in all of these areas with a Ě BYK-015 is a silicone-free polymer foam variety of products to reduce environmental impact, either by inhibitor for aqueous coatings. developing the corresponding coatings or by offering additives and pigments that allow for manufacturing such coatings. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 23 BYK has also introduced new additives for powder coatings. They improve ﬂow, an essential property of coatings that is Overview of UV-curing products difﬁcult to achieve. BYK-3933 P is a multifunctional additive that not only improves ﬂow but also prevents craterization Ě First commercially available UV-curing heat seal coatings with almost complete transparency. as an alternative to solvent-based coatings Ě UV curing bonding agent for use in lithium ion batteries ECKART also developed new products for water-based coatas a contribution to electromobility ings: Ě Graphic arts and the packaging industry are consistently Ě The new borosilicate-based pigments of ECKART are suitsearching for ways to enhance the appearance of imprinable for water-based systems. ted products. ACTEGA Terra came out with a UV-curing primer and a UV-curing coating that does not emit Ě New products of the HYDROLAN series (effect any volatile organic compounds thanks to UV curing. This pigments for water-based systems) allows for high-value products with recycled paper or cardboard. ECKART also introduced new pigments for powder coatings. Ě UV-curing printing ink for inkjet printers can now replace Powder Coating Ultra (PCU) has only been available with alusolvent-based products. minum pigments in the past and is now also available as gold Ě UV-curing printing ink for use on shrink sleeves: The bronze pigment. PCU stands out for higher durability thanks to UV-curing product must be able to withstand shrinkage a double coating of metal pigments. of up to 80 percent. Meanwhile, ELANTAS Italia optimized a water-based product (epoxy resin dispersed in water) and adapted it to customer requirements. It is VOC-free and handles both the use of the emulsion and the wetting of metal without problems, which ACTEGA further expanded its palette of water-based products, improves resistance to corrosion and enhances resource efﬁboth with the acquisitions of the Color Chemie Group and ciency. The product is the successful result of team work with with developments of its own. other ALTANA companies. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 25 We have also noted that the conditions for the safe handling management measures to guarantee safe handling for of chemicals have not led to any changes in our facilities. humans and the environment. Changes to facilities would The reason is that the chemical facilities we operate are subonly need to be made if REACH were to result in new toxicolject to stringent permit requirements, which focus on risk ogy or ecotoxicology evaluations. 26 Sustainability Report 2011 Global Product Strategy Globally Harmonized System The “Global Product Strategy” (GPS) is closely associated The Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of the United Nations with REACH. This initiative and self-obligation of the Internais a proposed standardized worldwide system for classiﬁcation tional Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) has the supand labeling of chemicals. ALTANA monitors the implementport of many national chemical associations. ALTANA has also agreed to contribute to GPS as part of its product stewardship and sustainability efforts. The goal of GPS is to reduce differences in chemicals safety between developing countries, emerging economies, and industrial countries. The effort will increase product safety and sustainably improve the handling of chemical products, while creating fair global competition. GPS therefore beneﬁts environmental and occupational safety and implements the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) of the United Nations. The implementation follows the same time schedule as REACH. ation of this system in national legislation and complies with The goal is to make the insights of REACH (toxicology and the resulting requirements. GHS was implemented in China in ecotoxicology data, measures for safe handling) available to 2011 and the corresponding U.S. law will take effect in 2012. the public online (both on the ICCA website and on company sites) in useful summaries. This makes the necessary information available to all users of a substance on a global basis and without dependency on a supplier. The ﬁrst self-imposed deadline expired at the end of 2011 for substances registered in late 2010. ALTANA published an online summary for three registered substances that allowed for such a step (see www.icca-chem.org/en/ Home/ICCA-initiatives/global-product-strategy or www.altana.com/sustainability/environment/ global-product-strategy.html). This was not feasible for two substances because of conﬁdentiality. In this respect, we hope for solutions from chemical associations so that ALTANA can continue to contribute to GPS in the years to come. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 27 Nanotechnology For ALTANA, nanotechnology is closely associated with Do these products constitute a risk for humans and the REACH review (see page 24). The European Union intends environment? Consulting the list of “Criteria for the preliminto regulate nanotechnology and may do so as part of the ary assessment of nanomaterials regarding their impact on REACH review. ALTANA supports this approach since REACH humans and the environment” of the German government’s is suitable for regulating the handling of nanomaterials. In Nano Commission, we concluded that our products are in the our view, a separate regulation would be disproportionately category “No acute need for preventive measures” because expensive. REACH could fulﬁll the requirements in its current Ě The products are manufactured in a closed facility, for version, but further details would be helpful. which ACTEGA Rhenania invested in new equipment. Ě The material is dispersed in a ﬂuid for further processing, The statutory regulations are based on the concern that naso that no dust, aerosols or wastewater concerns are prenomaterials may harbor risks that cannot be discerned today. sent The German Advisory Council on the Environment (SRU) Ě The material is permanently bonded in the coating and published an expert report on “Preventive strategies for does not represent a risk for consumers and the environnanomaterials” in September of 2011, in which it proposes ment criteria for preliminary risk assessment where data may Ě The material is not used in the form of ﬁbers, rods, or be missing. tubes Ě The materials are not chemically, catalytically or biologically ALTANA also researches the area of nanotechnology and reactive has marketed the material in additives, where nanomaterials enhance scratch resistance and UV protection of coatings. CARBOBYK-9810 is an exclusive eight-percent dispersion of Coatings durability makes an important contribution to recarbon nanotubes (CNT) by BYK. CNT are difﬁcult to disperse source efﬁciency and NANOBYK-3605, introduced in August and most dispersions contain one percent. For our custo2011, enhances the scratch resistance of radiation-curing mers, this means high safety for handling the nanomaterials coatings without any negative impact on the transparency or because no dust can develop. Furthermore, CNT stand out shine of coatings. Overall, BYK now markets eight nanoprodfor their high thermal and electrical conductivity as well ucts for various systems with higher scratch resistance and as mechanical characteristics that may help to replace copper. eight products for better UV resistance. 28 Sustainability Report 2011 30 Sustainability Report 2011 Dr. Andreas Diez, Head of EHS at ALTANA, with EHS manager Irene Li and her Chinese colleagues EHS managers must have broad knowledge and master a variety of topics, particularly in smaller companies. In principle, all executives and employees of “EHS managers identify deﬁcits and a company are responsible for environmental protection, health and safety. suggest improvements” As a consequence, most EHS managers serve in an advisory capacity to the executive management. They ensure that companies use water, extensive expertise. She therefore was charged with introenergy and other resources with consideration for the enviducing the Globally Harmonized System of Classiﬁcation and ronment and without waste and that all applicable standards Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) in China as part of a team (see and legal requirements are met in production and for the also page 26). emission and disposal of hazardous materials. EHS managers are charged with identifying deﬁcits and suggesting improveAs EHS manager, Li is also responsible for the implementation ments. Of course, they also advise on the best approach to of all occupational health measures. As an example, the comply with individual safety and environmental regulations storage of methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI) in Zhuhai and permits. Given the wide range of tasks, larger companies underwent important improvements. The substance, a known typically employ an EHS team that divides the various activicarcinogen, used to be stored in pulverized form, but the risk ties among several employees. of dust development could not be ruled out. MDI is now supplied in insulated and heated containers and pumped into a tank via closed pipelines, where it is diluted with a solvent Chinese EHS meetings introduced to ensure that the melting point remains below 80° C and that MDI can ﬂow into the reaction container from the tank in a During her training, Li also visited the ELANTAS Beck plant in closed circuit. “This process is much safer for employees, who Hamburg, which gave her an opportunity to deepen her no longer have to wear protective clothing and respirators, knowledge of European environmental standards. Furthermore says Li. In an additional effort, Zhuhai has started replacing she and some of her Chinese colleagues took part in European diesel-fueled forklifts with environmentally friendly electrical EHS meetings. ALTANA now also holds special Chinese EHS models. “We plan to replace all ﬁve forklifts by 2016 at the events to keep the Chinese colleagues informed about the latest. The new models not only have fewer emissions, but also activities in other Divisions. Over the past years, Li has gathered use less energy, explains the 29-year-old chemist. 32 Sustainability Report 2011 BYK-Chemie introduced a PC training program for computer workstations to encourage employee ﬁtness throughout the workday. The simple exercises, shown in videos and images, help avoid unilateral strain and everyone can put together individual exercise programs. The program supports participants with instructions, tips, and e-mail reminders. After the pilot phase, up to 90 percent of survey respondents indicated that the use of the exercise program had resulted in improvements of the three most common health complaints (back pain and tension in the neck and shoulders). Health days for greater sensitivity ACTEGA Rhenania, BYK-Chemie, and ECKART GmbH held health days to sensitize their employees to occupational health concerns. While BYK emphasized emotional health, ACTEGA focused on cardiovascular diseases. The activities included health screening, blood typing, an ergonomics course to explore back health, a workshop on coping with stress, attentiveness training, imagination travel, a drunk-driving simulator, goggles to simulate the inﬂuence of alcohol, as well as spinning, ﬁtness boxing, and massages. The response of employees who were Global Management Meeting October 9 -11, 2011 able to attend the events during working hours to the program of the health days was exceedingly positive. Participants also had an opportunity to test the exercise Global Management Meeting program for computer workers, engage in sports, and to learn more about ergonomic computer workplaces. Additional ALTANA Health was one of the core topics of the 2011 offers included nutrition counseling, BMI measurements, and Global Management Meeting. The offers included a workthe option to try different ﬁtness gear. The relaxation chairs shop as well as information booths on ergonomics, nutrition with massage function as well as audio and light stimulation and emotional health. Various measures, such as improved were particularly popular. ECKART in Güntersthal already ergonomics for employees at ECKART, health management provides two of these relaxation chairs to employees. The at BYK-Chemie, and the iHealth concept at BYK USA earnings from the 1-Euro user fee for ten minutes are donated were presented for information exchange among the sites. to charity. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 33 Sports activities and occupational health activities around the globe Many sites offer their employees ﬁtness rooms or even running Thirty-two employees of ELANTAS PDG posted an unusual trails (BYK USA) to stay in shape. At ACTEGA Artística some achievement when they jointly lost 751 pounds (1 pound = 35 percent of employees regularly visit the company gym that 454 grams) of body weight as part of a “Biggest Loser” features treadmills, spinning bikes, cross-trainers, and a program over the course of 18 weeks. The campaign weightlifting bench. Some sites also offer ﬁtness courses, such was followed by a physical maintenance program to enas yoga at ELANTAS Beck India. The offer is supplemented with courage the employees to keep the weight off until at least annual health screenings for all employees along with on-site February 2012. health and nutrition counseling. Further sports activities include the indoor soccer team sponThe health management of BYK USA has been operating an sored by ACTEGA Artística. The focus of the team is less on extensive “iHealth” initiative to support employees and their athletic competition and instead emphasizes social relationfamilies with their efforts to achieve better health. Everyone ships between employees from production, research & develreceives a guideline with recommended medical examinations opment, accounting, and sales. ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg and vaccinations for all age groups, cancer prevention inforalso has a soccer and tennis group for employees. mation, and a newsletter. The company also offers an information hotline for health questions. 34 Sustainability Report 2011 “5S” introduces greater order Orderliness and cleanliness are important prerequisites for lowering the risk of occupational accidents and to improve work processes. These considerations prompted several companies (ELANTAS PDG, ELANTAS Italia in Collecchio and Quattordio, Occupational safety ELANTAS Beck, BYK USA) to independently start “5S” projects. The term stands for clearly deﬁned measures to design ALTANA has deﬁned key performance indicators for accidents workplaces and their surroundings in a safe, clean, and clearly and has implemented a corresponding system for mandatory structured way. This can, for example, be visualized with regular data collection. Our goal is to be a permanently acciimages (before/after) in workplaces. All companies working dent-free company. To achieve this, we primarily focus on with this method saw improvements in the level of safety, employee behavior, because this approach can now achieve order, and cleanliness. more for occupational safety than technical options. What does “5S” stand for? Most occupational accidents are the result of human error, Ě Sorting including the improper use of machines and tools, failure Ě Straightening out to wear, or improper wearing, of protective clothing, undue Ě Systematic cleaning haste, or stumbling. This makes constant reminders about proper behavior all the more important, and we use approaches Ě Standardizing such as Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) that are rooted in the Ě Sustaining (the practice) analysis of behavior with the goal of correcting unsafe behavior by positive intervention. Enhanced safety with modern technology € 8,000 investment in monitoring limit values has reduced explosion risks and regulates the exhaust air speed on the basis At ELANTAS Italia in Quattordio, technical measures were of the measuring data while saving fan energy. able to achieve advances in safety. With an investment of almost € 700,000, the plant separated the production of priAt ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg, “5S” is part of an even more mary and secondary insulation materials, which involved an comprehensive Excellence Team Program (ETP) for the genealmost completely new construction of the secondary insural improvement of safety, organization, quality, and service lation materials unit and the installation of an automatic ﬁre awareness. A number of different project teams are working extinguishing system (water/foam). In addition, we automated to optimize technical resources, workplace equipment, and the pallet and ﬁlling station, which resulted in considerpreventive health services. able ergonomic improvements and lower air pollution from solvents (VOC) in the building. New ﬁlters with improved ELANTAS Beck India has had a very good safety record for handling also contributed to ergonomic enhancements and a years (accident-free). This is due to many programs that new lifting stage for € 40,000 made working at large heights strengthen the culture of safety at the company. To give an quicker and safer. example, the Indian National Safety Day of March 4 prompted an entire safety week with ﬁre drills, posters, information We invested € 18,000 in a magnet-coupled gear pump for booths, quizzes, and writing contests. The purpose was to handling toxic materials, which reliably prevents material leaks not only inform the employees about the “zero accidents” and the associated air pollution. As an added beneﬁt, the new policy of the company, but to actively involve them in the pump only uses a third of the energy compared to the old effort. Thus, the team of the Pimpri plant entered into a full model. The continuous infrared measurement of the VOC concommitment to greater safety, and the management issued centration in the exhaust air system (thermal afterburning) has certiﬁcates and awards for a number of contests. brought additional safety and energy efﬁciency, while the Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 35 Number of signiﬁcant accidents increased Regretfully, ALTANA recorded six signiﬁcant incidents (as deﬁned by VCI) in 2011 (see also page 66). We therefore plan to conduct internal one-day training sessions worldwide on the issue of industrial incidents in 2012 and 2013 with the responsible executives and EHS managers (see also page 29). The events will address speciﬁc risks for ALTANA, strategies to avoid incidents, and proper responses in emergencies (e.g. development of an emergency plan with the corresponding training). Another training emphasis will be on internal and external communication and its management in emergencies. At BYK-Chemie, a project to improve emergency management was initiated with the help of external consultants. It will be completed by the end of 2012 and may serve as a Best ELANTAS Beck India featured a safe-driving course to discuss Practice example for all Divisions. “Safety on the Job” is animportant principles for defensive driving in city trafﬁc and other initiative within the scope of the ALTANA Management other heavily used trafﬁc zones. The company also organized Development Program (MDP) that aims to ﬁnd Best Practice safe driving courses for suppliers and logistics companies examples within ALTANA and in other companies to improve handling their ﬁnal products and distributed checklists to all occupational and process safety. Plans call for ﬁnding, evaluatdrivers about proper ways to secure cargo. ing and proposing such practices as recommendations or standards by the end of 2012. Clamping down on speeding Fewer accidents with BBS The “Safe Driving” campaign at ECKART in Güntersthal was part of the “Risiko raus” (Out with Risks) initiative to improve Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) is another promising method, safety on the works premises. Some 2,000 vehicle movements which was introduced with very positive results at ELANTAS are counted on the premises every day and speed controls Italia in Ascoli Piceno and is now also in use at ACTEGA between 2006 and 2009 showed that 30 to 40 percent of Rhenania. The program focuses on ergonomics, work structure, drivers exceeded a speed of 35 km/h, although the speed limit equipment operation, protective gear, as well as order and is 30 km/h. This prompted speed readings from 2010 and cleanliness. BBS was begun in the fall of 2010 with the training speeders are now informed about their misconduct. Trafﬁc of twelve employees who monitor the daily work of all guidelines were integrated into the plant’s management employees. The collected data are evaluated statistically and system in 2011. From now on, speeding will have direct condiscussed in a so-called competency team, which determines sequences for employees, including a report to the HR ofﬁce. the necessary actions and controls their implementation. Prior to Those found to drive speeds of 35 to 45 km/h will get an the introduction of BBS, ACTEGA Rhenania had always exexhortation, while speeds over 45 km/h result in ﬁnes amountperienced more than one occupational accident per year, but with ing to one percent of the employee’s salary. BBS, the plant has remained accident-free for more than a year. 36 Sustainability Report 2011 Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 39 CO2 emissions With reference to GVA (g/Euro) 2010 43.1 2011 38.7 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 ACTEGA Radcure + ACTEGA WIT ACTEGA Radcure integrated Energy efﬁciency Electricity Energy efﬁciency has become one of the core aspects of corWith reference to GVA (Wh/Euro) porate sustainability and ALTANA has been working to improve its energy balance for years, for two primary reasons: Ě High share of energy cost in production cost 2010 62.1 Ě Rising energy prices 2011 68.3 However, it is equally important to reduce our speciﬁc CO2 emis10 20 30 40 50 60 70 sions and to make an essential contribution to climate protection apart from the contribution of our products. These objectives ACTEGA Radcure + ACTEGA WIT apply to all ALTANA sites worldwide. ACTEGA Radcure integrated Energy efﬁciency can also be achieved by streamlining the corNatural gas consumption porate portfolio and merging sites. Thus, ACTEGA Rhenania With reference to GVA (Wh/Euro) divested its ceramic color unit, which was its most energyintensive production, and ACTEGA Radcure was integrated into ACTEGA WIT. This allows for better capacity usage 2010 54.3 of volume-independent energy consumers such as light, 2011 18.9 ventilation, heating, or air-conditioning. Our acquisitions also made a comparable contribution to efﬁciency, for example 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 the acquisition of Watson Standard Adhesives Company, where production will be integrated into existing manufacturACTEGA Radcure + ACTEGA WIT ing processes (see also page 9). ACTEGA Radcure integrated Analysis prior to efﬁciency measures Prior to taking energy-saving measures, we typically perform ECKART America in Painesville also developed a list of various a thorough analysis of consumption and savings potentials measures, but without external support. It ranges from improving through the energy management system (e.g. at ECKART the compressed air network to speed-controlled compressors, GmbH, BYK-Chemie Wesel). In other cases, we rely on external more efﬁcient electrical motors and lights to time-controlled expertise. To give an example, ECKART America in Louisville consumers (e.g. heaters) and switching from compressed air cooperated with the J.B. Speed School of Engineering of the motors to electrical drives. University of Louisville to compile an “Environmental Sustainability Report On Site Opportunities.” The report identiﬁed ten measures, which were then rated for their proﬁtability. Five “Spotlight” on illumination of them had amortization periods of less than a year, while the others will pay off in one to ﬁve years. Leakages in the Other sites also maintain working groups that regularly address compressed air system were ﬁxed in 2011 and other measures savings potential and the associated measures. For example, pertaining to management, exhaust heat use, movement BYK USA in Wallingford has formed an energy efﬁciency team sensors, or illumination will be implemented in steps. within the context of the ISO 14001 management system. In 40 Sustainability Report 2011 Large savings potential of exhaust heat addition to speed-controlled and efﬁcient motors, the focus of ECKART in Güntersthal uses the exhaust heat of its mill cooling these efforts is particularly on illumination. This was the case water to heat an entire building. This will save some € 33,000 at ACTEGA Kelstar in the context of a laboratory renovation in or 450 MWh and 120 metric tons of CO2 a year based on Cinnaminson, which also involved optimizing the ventilation a ﬁfty-percent reduction of heating energy needs. The exsystem to improve the air quality in the laboratory. ACTEGA haust heat of a compressor was used to heat another building, Kelstar also plans to switch to more efﬁcient lighting, while saving €18,000 and 66 metric tons of CO2 a year. The investfurther savings are expected to come from speed-controlled ment in the heat exchanger paid for itself in just one year. motors and high-efﬁciency pumps. ECKART in Wackersdorf adopted the same approach and also managed to save € 18,000 and 66 metric tons of CO2 a year by converting the exhaust heat of a compressor. The amortization is expected to be about 1 year. ELANTAS Italia in Quattordio installed a heat exchanger at a cost of € 61,000 to combine the recovered heat from the exhaust gas combustion with the gas boiler. Savings are expected to amount to approximately € 24,000 or 80 metric tons of CO2 a year, and the measurement of VOC (solvent emissions) in the exhaust air cleaning system is saving additional energy. Meanwhile, ACTEGA Terra started a system for load optimization. The so-called 3-phase voltage stabilizer balances the grid when its standardized voltage level rises or ﬂuctuates because these processes lead to higher energy losses, unnecessary power consumption, higher use and more wear and tear, all of which contribute to higher cost. Savings are ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg upgraded its outside lighting to expected to amount to approximately €14,000 or 30 metric LED technology for € 33,000, which will reduce the annual tons of CO2 a year, with an amortization time of about consumption from 71,000 to 14,000 kWh. Amortization is exeight years. pected in three to four years. ACTEGA Foshan in China also invested € 22,000 in outdoor and hall illumination with LEDs, which will save some € 4,800 in utility costs a year. Since LEDs New production process with higher energy efﬁciency require little maintenance and repair, the upgrade will pay for itself within a few years. ECKART in Güntersthal initiated a new approach to using energy more efﬁciently. Since the company uses a number Further energy savings measures have to do with heating: of energy-intensive methods to prepare products, it develIn facilities with high ceilings, such as the production hall of oped a new approach that not only reduces energy conECKART America in Painesville or the high-bay warehouse at sumption by up to 90 percent, but also the use for source ELANTAS Italia in Collecchio, heat tends to collect underneath materials by up to 30 percent. This allowed us to save 84,000 the roof. These operations installed fans to counter energy liters of fuel oil and accordingly, 200 metric tons of CO2 in waste, and ACTEGA Kelstar even uses large hoses to return 2011. The projected emissions reduction for 2012 is approx. warm air to lower levels with even greater consistency. 600 metric tons of CO2. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 41 Emissions ECKART in Güntersthal conducted a feasibility study for energy-intensive milling of pigments to establish whether the use of wind power would reduce CO2 emissions. The study focused on three potential locations, none of which were in the immediate vicinity of the company’s premises. The project has been suspended pending further decisions because of the uncertain permit situation on the part of the authorities and unclear proﬁtability data (depending on the wind yield at the site), in addition to relatively high investment costs. New investments also offer excellent opportunities for increasing energy efﬁciency and cutting down on CO2 emissions. As a consequence, ALTANA has developed a checklist that is used ALTANA generates the following emissions: for renovation measures. It contains all CO2 reduction potentials Ě CO2 (from energy consumption) known to us and is continuously updated. A new laboratory constructed at BYK in Wesel is an example of greater enerĚ VOC (in production) gy efﬁciency. The building, which has been operational since Ě Wastewater October 2011, uses heat pumps for heating, groundwater Ě Dust for cooling, and recycled heat from the ventilation system. This Ě Noise saves some thirty percent of energy compared to conventional buildings and was recognized with a pre-certiﬁcation award by the U.S. Green Building Council, along with BYK’s efforts to use renewable resources. BYK scored 85 of a possible ECKART in Güntersthal sees feasible reduction potential in the 110 points, and hopes to seek ﬁnal certiﬁcation in 2012. conversion from oil-fueled to natural gas heating, which would lower the resulting CO2 emissions by more than 20 percent, or A new building at BYK-Cera even managed to save CO2 twice. 1,500 metric tons. In spite of the relatively long gas pipeline and The company built a new plant for micronized waxes for apthe conversion of boilers, the upgrade makes economic sense prox. eight million Euro. The building height of over 16 meters and will be completed by 2013. The same switch is also planned allowed for the vertical installation of ﬁlters, mills, and mixers for ELANTAS Zhuhai, but the timing depends on the installation so that source materials move through the processing line of the necessary pipelines by the potential natural gas utility. exclusively by force of gravity. The mills are operated with compressed air and therefore require multiple compressors with high power use, but the corresponding exhaust heat 650 new trees for climate protection is sufﬁcient to heat the entire building and an adjoining warehouse. This represents an emissions reduction of about Except for simple avoidance, planting trees is one of the easiest 900 metric tons of CO2. Since the production facilities are measures to reduce CO2 emissions. ELANTAS employees in India designed as a closed-circuit system, no dust can develop in planted 650 trees on the premises in Pimpri. 500 of these were the manufacturing process, which protects workers from needed for the new administrative building, since Indian law redust and from the risk of dust explosions. Furthermore, the quires one tree for every ten square meters of new construction. new plant replaces a contract production agreement and also Another 150 trees were planted voluntarily and together, the saves transports, resulting in a further emissions reduction of trees bind about 6.5 tons of CO2 per year. However, the Indian 90 metric tons of CO2 per year. employees went even further. They grow seedlings on the roof of 42 Sustainability Report 2011 mineral as a raw material. However, water consumption has been reduced considerably with process optimization, and a conversion to synthetic glass ﬂakes as base material will further cut it down. When leakages were discovered at ACTEGA Foshan, the entire piping network was renovated, which will have a positive effect on the 2012 balance. ECKART Pigments Ky drinking water consumption production-related (in m3/t) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Employees of ELANTAS Beck India in Pimpri planted 650 new trees 100 200 300 400 500 the administrative building in Pune and distribute them to employees and others with the request of planting them. ALTANA already installed a number of exhaust air cleaning sysWastewater/solid waste/existing tems in past years to reduce VOC emissions so that there is no contamination further need for action at this time. The expansion of the waterbased product portfolio, especially at ACTEGA, is another effecELANTAS Beck India built three new basins for aerobic wastetive measure against VOC (see page 22) along with the use of water treatment at its Pimpri site. The system uses smaller air resource tanks. In closed systems, source materials have no conbubbles than the previous treatment plant, which resulted in tact with the outside world from delivery to use, which means energy savings of over 40 percent. Emissions into wastewater there are no emissions. BYK USA in Wallingford und ELANTAS (measured as chemical oxygen demand) also are 30 percent Italia in Collecchio have invested in expansions of their tank farms. below those of the old plant. The two former treatment basins will be used to catch rainwater in the future, including for landscape watering. Water Resource efﬁciency has special signiﬁcance next to climate ALTANA tracks its consumption of drinking water as well as protection and biodiversity. According to the German Adgroundwater and surface water. ECKART Pigments Ky has visory Council on the Environment (SRU), the drastic reduction the largest water consumption, which is associated with the of our resource and energy use and the associated environspeciﬁc production processes that involve the use of a natural mental damage are the core challenges of the 21st century. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 43 ALTANA hazardous waste ALTANA non-hazardous waste With reference to GVA (g/Euro) With reference to GVA (g/Euro) 2007 37,33 2007 18,09 2009 34,29 2009 14,86 2011 34,44 2011 12,75 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 5 10 15 20 25 Objective 2011 Objective 2011 Resource efﬁciency in the production processes of ALTANA containers. The “FoodSafe seal” has also contributed to the can also be expressed in terms of waste volume. It is approxincrease because it limits the reuse of cleaning water. imately ﬁve percent (in terms of manufactured products), with a resource-product conversion rate of 95 percent. NeverACTEGA Terra has made several attempts to reduce the volume theless, we are making every effort to further increase our of contaminated water with aerobic and anaerobic treatresource efﬁciency to create even less waste. ment, without much success. A vacuum evaporator did not provide any solution and ﬁlters became stuck. It took until 2011 to optimize the cleaning of the facilities and the reuse Exemplary employee behavior of cleaning water. As a result of the measures taken to date, ACTEGA Terra expects a hazardous waste reduction of ten ALTANA keeps records of hazardous and non-hazardous percent from 2012. waste and publishes its recycling and disposal volumes. We exceeded our waste-related goals by 8 and 28 percent, The recycling of distillation water via phase separation, acrespectively (see also page 62), as a result of the exemplary tivated carbon ﬁlters, and combustion at ELANTAS PDG has behavior of employees and technical measures. As an examnot yet achieved the desired results, as there are use restrictions ple, ELANTAS Beck had not been recording the consumption because of ofﬁcial limit values. Nevertheless, the company of cleaning solvents in the production area for impregnating has reported some cost savings and lower waste volumes and and casting resins, but the installation of a counter allowed the improvement work is still ongoing. for product-related volume speciﬁcation for cleaning and dosing via the process control system, which saved 15 percent of Our support for the industry association to promote the rehazardous waste and € 30,000 in expenses. storation of contaminated sites in North-Rhine Westphalia (AAV) has been described in past reports. AAV is a cooperaUnfortunately, not all optimization attempts are equally tion model that involves state authorities along with munisuccessful. ACTEGA Terra recorded a signiﬁcant increase of cipalities and various corporations, including from the chemhazardous waste. It consists primarily of contaminated cleanical industry. The revenues from the sale of restored areas in ing water, for example from taking back cleaned empty part come back to the AAV and are then available for new Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 45 Transport ALTANA exclusively works with logistics and transport companies this Web platform. The data associated with the exchange that have certiﬁed environmental and quality management form the basis of this transparency, ranging from intermediatesystems. This strategy has proven helpful because it guarantees term optimization of material ﬂows to pooling the transport that our standards are upheld whenever we order transport volume to reduce individual shipments. services. When deviations occur, which can happen in daily business, we are notiﬁed without delay and make every attempt To improve the market presence of ACTEGA Artística in to address shortcomings with our service providers to achieve the U.S., ACTEGA Kelstar set up a manufacturing facility for permanent improvements. its products. This eliminates the need to ship ready-made products from Spain to the U.S. ACTEGA Rhenacoat began Furthermore, we were pleased to notice that a growing number constructing a new warehouse in 2011, which will eliminate of customers are asking about our criteria for service provider a large number of transports, since the company had previselection within the scope of their audits and that these ously leased a warehouse for ﬁnished products and source questionnaires inquire about the environmental management materials at a distance of 100 km for reasons of safety and systems of our vendors with growing frequency. Accordingly, environmental protection. The new micronizing process at our actions not only meet our own expectations for sustainable BYK-Cera (see also page 41) will also contribute to reduced management, but also are increasingly in line with the requiretransport needs. ments of our customers. That is a clear competitive edge for ALTANA. Among our speciﬁc environmental measures is also a new policy for company vehicles that was introduced in 2011. It Internet platform for greater transparency speciﬁes company subsidies for vehicles with emission values below 140 g CO2 / km as an employee incentive to choose Thanks to an Internet-based logistics platform that we use to environmentally friendly models. exchange transport data with our logistics providers, we were able to further optimize our supply chain. The full transparency For further information on our transport logistics and supply of our global material ﬂows is an important strategic aspect of chain, please see the performance indicators on page 64. 46 Sustainability Report 2011 48 Sustainability Report 2011 pro homine in the House of Health in Wesel All employees in Wesel or Kempen are entitled to ﬁve annual advisement is to develop long-term solutions to help cope counseling sessions of 50 minutes each at the expense of with crisis situations. A total of twelve counselors are availBYK. The company cooperates with “pro homine,” an expeable to employees in the House of Health in Wesel. They rienced provider of occupational health services that has been include physicians and advisors along with labor experts, called upon in the past for other company ﬁtness concerns. psychologists, psychiatrists, and psychotherapists with many “All counseling meetings will be kept strictly conﬁdential. years of experience dealing with emotional stress and mental illness. The sessions are based on scientiﬁcally recognized “The new counseling center is methods and external advisors such as addiction or debt counselors can be called in to help as needed. open to everyone.” The number of appointments has shown how great the need for the new offer is among the employees. In the ﬁrst six BYK will not tell anyone that an employee came in at a spemonths, forty employees scheduled over 160 counseling ciﬁc time or with a speciﬁc concern, says Dederichs, addresssessions. In severe cases, access to further therapy was ing potential skepticism. In the mind of the 49-year-old arranged without delay, “which is an essential advantage for employee, this is “an incredible show of trust on the part of cooperating with pro homine, since affected people often the employer. ﬁnd it difﬁcult to ﬁnd a suitable therapy opening, explains Frank Dederichs. The goal is to offer any employee who requests counseling services an appointment within four days. The purpose of the Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 49 Employee survey The commitment of our employees is an essential factor of of the chemical industry, but also above the industry-speciﬁc the past success of ALTANA. Consequently, we carry out average. At the same time, the responses demonstrated the a global employee survey every three years to ﬁnd out what need for further improvements in some companies and in the mood is among employees and to hear their important the functional units of the companies. suggestions for improvement. During the last employee survey in 2008, respondents brought up concerns and action ALTANA will continue to make every effort to improve the areas pointing at potential improvement. Since then, we survey results of local companies and the Group. The most have been working in the Divisions and local companies to important effort now is to initiate the right improvement develop and implement the corresponding measures with the measures in shared workshops, meetings, and projects with assistance of employees. employees and management on the basis of the survey results. The feedback of our employees encourages us to This made it all the more important to carry out another consistently keep working on improvements to be among employee survey in 2011 to ﬁnd out whether and how the the best employers in the industry. attitude of employees about the company changed, including in light of the economic crisis since 2009. We also wanted to ﬁnd out whether the initiated improvement measures met the approval of employees and where there might be further room for improvement. In May 2011, all employees around the world received a questionnaire in their corresponding national language. The response rate of 79 percent was signiﬁcantly higher than three years earlier (71 percent). We are pleased to report that the survey values improved signiﬁcantly in all Divisions and in most companies. Employee commitment to the Group and identiﬁcation with the company again rose since 2008 and the survey results underscore that the commitment of ALTANA employees is clearly above the average 52 Sustainability Report 2011 54 Sustainability Report 2011 Children at Howard Park Center in Ellisville When Howard Park Center searched for sponsors for a new in its founding year and two subsequent years. The funds program to serve autistic children in 2011, ALTANA came will be used to hire specially trained teachers and to provide forward to offer its support. The Early Intensive Behavioral scholarships to families who cannot afford to pay full tuition. Intervention Classroom (EIBIC) is speciﬁcally designed for “We are convinced that this type of support is the best assisautistic children between the ages of two and ﬁve. Research tance we can provide to the affected children,” says Murray, has shown that intensive individual intervention such as the himself a father of three. services provided by EIBIC has the best learning results for children with autism. “The earlier the intervention, the Howard Park Center Howard Park Center was founded in 1971 as St. Martin’s School better the therapy chances” for Special Children and was renamed in honor of its founder, Howard Park, in 1992. The non-proﬁt organization addresses the needs of mentally disabled children and their families. “ALTANA is involved in a number of projects and initiatives, Children with minor to severe disabilities receive intensive support with their scholastic and physical development to attain both at the regional and the international level. Our clear focus their highest potential later in life. The Center is funded by is on education, science and research,” explains Murray. The charitable contributions and donations. sponsorship initiatives of ALTANA follow the same guidelines. Some € 30,000 will be invested in the promising EIBIC project Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Responsibility 57 Ethiopia. ALTANA also sent a donation of € 90,000 to the trail. The donations collected at the ﬁrst-ever “BYK Open” Japanese Red Cross to assist Japanese people affected by at the Weselerwald Golf Club in the amount of € 2,500 went the earthquake and tsunami in that country. to the palliative care unit of the Lutheran Hospital in Wesel. ALTANA also demonstrated its commitment to regional aid At the same time, ALTANA also supports employees who projects with donations to food pantries in Wesel and Kempen volunteer for charitable projects. Employees of the HR dein the amount of € 6,900, which had been collected on partments of BYK and ALTANA again used an opportunity to the occasion of the Open House Day for Chemical Companies volunteer at the International Peace Village in Oberhausen in (see also page 12). May 2012. ALTANA donated the work materials that were required to renovate the children’s playground. Donations of ALTANA also were used to fund a movie event for one hundred children attending the full-day Lutheran elementary school Böhlschule Wesel and employees of Donations for charity ECKART in Wackersdorf donated € 9,000 to a society serving cancer patients and disabled children (VKKK). Among other The employees of BYK in Wesel took part in the 9th Light Run purposes, the funds are earmarked for assisting the siblings at the Wedau Sport Park. The City of Duisburg used the proof sick children served by the society. ceeds to fund lighting along the popular regatta track running Key performance indicators 59 On the environmental indicators This section presents selected environmental data in aggregated form for ALTANA and its four Divisions. We make a particular effort to compile data on the areas of climate protection and energy consumption, waste, resource efﬁciency, and water consumption. Emissions into water (chemical oxygen demand or heavy metals), emissions of ozone-depleting substances, or climate-relevant gases from production processes play no or just a minor role. Our environmental data are recorded, reviewed, We have switched the reporting period for environand released at the individual production sites in mental KPIs to October 1 through September 30. accordance with internal speciﬁcations. Key environBecause of this switch, only nine months of data mental data are shown as a volume (e.g. in kWh) were available for 2011. The absolute values were with reference to gross value added (cost of labor projected for twelve months for easier comparabilplus EBITDA in Euros). In their compressed form, the ity. The shorter period is not relevant for the values environmental indicators reﬂect tendencies in the associated with gross value added. development of the entire environmental burden of the Group. Overall, we collect environmental data In summary, ALTANA has met or even exceeded its at 31 sites that were part of the ALTANA Group prior own goals. Please refer to Section 4, Environment to Dec 31, 2010. We only consider data that make from page 36 for more information on the measreference to gross value added relevant for our obures that led to changes in our environmental jectives and the corresponding degree of attainment. performance indicators. The following sites or Group companies were not included: Ě Companies acquired during the reporting period Ě Production sites of Instruments Ě Non-production companies (e.g. administration, laboratories) Energy consumption Although absolute energy consumption is of course heavily signiﬁcant improvements for all energy sources in terms of dependent on produced quantities, we were able to achieve gross value added. Oil Oil (in KWh/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.08 2007 M Wh 73 25,083 13,626 806 39,588 0.07 2008 M Wh 32 24,967 4,171 1,105 30,275 2010 M Wh 129 28,818 5,424 1,158 35,529 0.06 2011 M Wh 67 25,384 5,747 996 32,194 2007 2008 2010 2011 * For a complete overview of key performance indicators since 2006 or 2007 and additional environmental performance indicators, please visit www.altana.com/sustainability 60 Sustainability Report 2011 Natural gas Natural gas (in kWh/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.40 2007 M Wh 33,852 52,542 71,339 11,302 169,035 0.35 2008 M Wh 48,171 53,673 70,194 10,701 182,739 2010 M Wh 49,944 45,270 78,789 11,194 185,197 0.30 2011 M Wh 44,647 37,429 75,917 8,220 166,213 2007 2008 2010 2011 Electricity Electricity (in kWh/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.45 2007 M Wh 22,732 131,848 28,077 15,759 198,416 0.40 2008 M Wh 25,696 124,619 26,472 14,946 191,733 2010 M Wh 24,330 128,950 28,575 16,743 198,598 0.35 2011 MWh 24,613 135,281 30,949 17,011 207,854 2007 2008 2010 2011 Emissions The CO2 emissions of ALTANA can be calculated from the electrical power with a renewable share of at least 50 percent energy consumption shown above. They are compiled in in Germany, which would reduce our CO2 emissions by apaccordance with the international “Greenhouse Gas Protoprox. 45,000 metric tons. We clearly exceeded our reduction col standard and the provisions of the “Carbon Disclosure goal of 10 percent in the period 2007 to 2012 with a total Project.” Accordingly, we always use the values published for reduction of 18 percent in 2011. national grids (International Energy Agency), although we use Total CO2 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) Total CO2 (in kWh/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.3 2007 t 18,429 75,867 33,153 9,751 137,200 0.2 2008 t 21,269 69,135 28,619 8,915 127,938 2010 t 21,328 71,828 32,963 9,782 135,901 0.1 2011 t 20,364 69,933 33,983 9,069 133,348 2007 2008 2010 2011 The orange line indicates the goal set for 2012. Key performance indicators 61 CO2 (Scope 1) CO2 (Scope 1 in kWh/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.3 2007 t 7,729 17,767 17,441 2,498 45,435 0.2 2008 t 9,774 17,915 15,329 2,456 45,475 2010 t 10,741 19,377 18,364 2,711 51,192 0.1 2011 t 9,593 15,019 17,835 2,030 44,477 2007 2008 2010 2011 CO2 (Scope 2) CO2 (Scope 2 in kWh/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 0.3 2007 t 10,701 58,099 15,712 7,253 91,764 0.2 2008 t 11,495 51,220 13,289 6,458 82,462 2010 t 10,587 52,451 14,599 7,071 84,709 0.1 2011 t 10,770 54,914 16,148 7,039 88,871 2007 2008 2010 2011 Water Absolute drinking water consumption was particularly ceeded our goal for the year 2012 with a reduction of reduced by measures taken at our Finnish site. We far ex37 percent. Drinking water (not including use of raw materials) Drinking water (in liter/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2.25 3 2007 m 46,082 514,824 152,570 23,649 737,126 1.50 2008 m3 47,007 534,856 95,838 32,038 709,739 2010 m3 65,199 384,613 85,134 24,739 559,685 0.75 3 2011 m 76,512 295,121 155,006 36,231 562,870 2007 2008 2010 2011 Surface/groundwater Surface/groundwater (in liter/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2.25 3 2007 m 30,486 358,382 30,937 0 419,805 1.50 2008 m3 27,024 349,712 42,523 0 419,259 2010 m3 26,017 593,361 25,307 0 644,685 0.75 3 2011 m 32,340 630,987 28,233 0 691,560 2007 2008 2010 2011 62 Sustainability Report 2011 Waste Absolute waste volumes are of course heavily dependent on provolumes for disposal. We far exceeded our goal for the year 2012 duced quantities, but we were able to signiﬁcantly reduce waste for data related to gross value added. Hazardous waste Hazardous waste (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 t 5,114 4,481 5,967 2,426 17,988 30 2008 t 5,229 3,999 4,961 2,426 16,615 2010 t 6,193 4,274 4,945 2,911 18,323 15 2011 t 6,073 4,924 6,118 3,303 20,418 2007 2008 2010 2011 Non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 30 2007 t 595 5,330 1,254 1,539 8,717 2008 t 1,034 4,455 1,549 1,517 8,555 2010 t 573 3,202 1,048 1,234 6,057 10 2011 t 1,053 3,662 1,159 1,682 7,556 2007 2008 2010 2011 Hazardous waste for disposal Hazardous waste for disposal (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 15 2007 t 453 1,141 4,752 134 6,480 10 2008 t 201 1,100 3,462 250 5,012 2010 t 134 540 3,274 328 4,275 5 2011 t 407 795 3,564 440 5,206 2007 2008 2010 2011 Non-hazardous waste for disposal Non-hazardous waste for disposal (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 15 2007 t 31 3,601 561 742 4,935 2008 t 21 3,353 617 747 4,738 2010 t 9 2,132 375 844 3,361 5 2011 t 127 2,435 603 1,099 4,265 2007 2008 2010 2011 Key performance indicators 63 Recyclable hazardous waste Recyclable hazardous waste (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 9 2007 t 132 4 1,060 2,052 3,248 6 2008 t 208 6 1,159 2,065 3,437 2010 t 428 625 945 867 2,865 3 2011 t 419 809 1,572 1,074 3,874 2007 2008 2010 2011 Recyclable non-hazardous waste Recyclable non-hazardous waste (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 9 2007 t 262 1,224 693 754 2,934 6 2008 t 829 982 932 737 3,480 2010 t 113 1,043 662 247 2,064 3 2011 t 596 1,189 556 504 2,846 2007 2008 2010 2011 Hazardous waste for thermal processing Hazardous waste for thermal processing (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 30 2007 t 4,530 3,335 155 240 8,260 20 2008 t 4,820 2,893 341 112 8,166 2010 t 5,631 3,110 726 1,716 11,183 10 2011 t 5,248 3,320 983 1,789 11,339 2007 2008 2010 2011 Non-hazardous waste for thermal processing Non-hazardous waste for thermal processing (in g/Euro) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2.0 2007 t 301 504 0 43 848 1.5 2008 t 184 120 0 33 337 2010 t 450 27 12 143 632 1.0 2011 t 330 37 0 78 446 2007 2008 2010 2011 64 Sustainability Report 2011 On the economic performance indicators Gross value added is calculated from the cost of labor and the EBITDA. Gross value added Gross value added (in € millions ) Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 600 2007 thsd € 175,659 158,630 86,988 60,537 481,814 400 2008 thsd € 165,812 149,064 83,431 57,314 455,621 2010 thsd € 218,179 156,599 109,689 82,223 566,690 200 2011 thsd € 236,316 170,264 101,136 85,097 592,813 2007 2008 2010 2011 Finished products Year* BYK ECKART ELANTAS ACTEGA ALTANA 2007 t 88,075 43,059 126,847 92,817 350,797 2008 t 81,703 41,499 101,201 83,187 307,590 2010 t 105,851 36,277 139,694 92,770 374,591 2011 t 118,238 38,424 164,230 101,558 422,450 Transport The increase of air transports (highest CO2 emissions of all transport channels) is undesirable and was related to the urgency of deliveries. We have deﬁnite plans to again reduce this ﬁgure. ALTANA distribution channels for ﬁnished products Year* Water Road Air Rail 2007 t 83,742 291,193 9,687 2,723 2008 t 77,491 227,594 1,477 2,773 2010 t 98,404 323,883 2,405 1,422 2011 t 109,682 320,293 7,052 1,236 Key performance indicators 65 On the safety performance indicators Thanks to the measures discussed in Section 3 and earlier initia(number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per miltives, we were able to reduce WAI 1 (number of occupational lion working hours) from 185 (2006) to 68 (2011) and exceeded accidents with lost work time of more than 1 day per million our goal of bringing WAI 3 to 80. This is a particularly positive working hours) from 15.2 (2006) to 7.4 (2011). We did not reach development because the number of severe accidents declined, our goal of WAI 1 below 4.5. On the other hand, reduced WAI 3 resulting in ﬁnancial savings in occupational safety. WAI 3 WAI 1 (Number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million working (Number of occupational accidents with lost work time of more than 1 day per million hours) working hours) 147.83 6.07 150.60 7.83 BYK 57.14 BYK 5.33 86.10 5.08 33.01 3.43 236.32 18.67 101.18 13.23 ECKART 313.16 ECKART 17.73 104.23 8.66 106.87 11.21 94.33 8.98 142.28 12.29 ELANTAS 89.74 ELANTAS 10.12 63.23 5.75 74.05 7.47 233.78 27.99 476.74 18.25 ACTEGA 89.19 ACTEGA 12.24 155.21 12.93 47.31 5.65 185.68 14.92 176.29 12.26 ALTANA 158.81 ALTANA 11.68 98.56 7.73 68.83 7.43 0 100 200 300 400 500 0 10 20 30 2011 2010 2008 2007 2006 2011 2010 2008 2007 2006 On the human resource performance indicators situation during the reporting period. Compared to the previous year, the number of apprentices and interns in the As of the closing date of this report (Dec 31, 2011), the ALTANA Group has also increased. The share of female employees payroll included 5,313 employees. This represents an increase of at ALTANA declined by 0.2 percentage points to 26.5 percent 7.6 percent compared to 2010, and is due to the positive economic in 2011 compared to 2010. Share of employees with access to company retirement plans or company-funded pension Share of part-time employees (in %) Share of women in management positions (in %) plans (in %) 7.2 16.5 81.7 8.1 18 81.8 20 60 80 100 20 40 60 80 100 20 40 60 80 100 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 68 Sustainability Report 2011 Programs/Objectives Core management tools for increasing performance include time. Because of this switch and for better comparability with the measurement of performance indicators, the deﬁnition of previous years, the data for 2011 were projected for one year goals, the development and implementation of action plans, on the basis of nine months. and the review of target attainment. The latter is part of the target evaluation that determines the variable income comThe list below shows our objectives for performance indicators ponents of executive managers. We switched the reporting and various measures. The individual ALTANA companies also year from the calendar year to the period from October 1st to have detailed action plans in the context of their respective September 30th to have the necessary data available at the right management systems. Management Certiﬁcation according to ISO 14001 or similar standards of a few companies that are not yet certiﬁed End of 2012 Certiﬁcation according to ISO 14001 or similar standards of additional non-certiﬁed companies End of 2013 Certiﬁcation of the energy management system at ECKART GmbH according to ISO 50001 End of 2012 Implementation of an energy management system at BYK-Chemie according to ISO 50001 End of 2013 Certiﬁcation of the safety management system at BYK-Chemie: by professional trade association (corresponds to ISO 18001) End of 2012 Implementation of an emergency management system at BYK-Chemie End of 2012 Open House event at all German companies Sept. 2014 Global Product Strategy: Safety summaries for the substances to be registered in 2013 End of 2013 Continued communication of ALTANA requirements for suppliers in the context of supplier visits and audits Ongoing Products Expanded development of water-based coatings, especially at ACTEGA Ongoing Use of renewable resources (without quantiﬁcation) Ongoing Additional lifecycle assessments Ongoing Development of further additives and pigments for water-based coatings Ongoing Development of products for resource efﬁciency Ongoing Development of products for energy efﬁciency Ongoing Additional products with FoodSafe seal Ongoing Safety WAI 1: below 3 or WAI 2 below 2.1 occupational accidents By 2013 WAI 3: below 50 days of lost work By 2013 Programs and objectives 69 Reduction of signiﬁcant incidents; no signiﬁcant incident in any Division Ongoing Safety improvement measures from the Best Practice project End of 2013 Training to avoid and communicate signiﬁcant incidents End of 2013 Environment Reduction of speciﬁc environmental contamination (in terms of gross value added): CO2 emissions 2007 2012 10 % CO2 emissions 2007 2020 30 % Drinking water 2007 2012 -5% Hazardous waste 2007 2012 -5% Non-hazardous waste 2007 2012 -5% Hazardous waste for disposal 2007 2012 10 % Non-hazardous waste for disposal 2007 2012 10 % Speciﬁcation of environmental goals (except CO2) until 2017 End of 2012 Rainwater collection and utilization at ELANTAS Beck India End of 2012 Start-up of a new energy-efﬁcient administrative building at ELANTAS Beck India End of 2012 Various measures to conserve water Ongoing Various measures to reduce waste Ongoing Switch from fuel oil to natural gas for heating and process heat at ECKART in Güntersthal End of 2013 Various measures for energy efﬁciency and renewable energies from individual action plans Ongoing Energy generation with a co-generation plant at ELANTAS Italia in Ascoli Piceno: regular operation End of 2013 Energy generation with a co-generation plant at BYK-Chemie End of 2013 Result of the ﬁnished-product logistics project in Germany End of 2013 Revised cooling water supply at BYK-Chemie End of 2012 New warehouse at ACTEGA Rhenacoat End of 2012 HR Implementation of a global e-recruiting system End of 2012 Plans for systematic recording of illnesses with details about focus areas and functions for occupational health End of 2012 Implementation of new Guiding Principles Early 2012 70 Sustainability Report 2011 GRI index The ALTANA Sustainability Report 2011 follows the G3 guideand their status, i.e. the extent to which ALTANA covered lines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The index below these indicators in this report. provides an overview of all GRI indicators that were applied GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Preface of the CEO 4 4.6 Mechanisms to avoid conﬂicts of interest n. r. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, 4.7 Qualiﬁcation of executive bodies for and opportunities 9 -11 sustainability 10 4.8 Guiding principles, company values and 2 Organizational Profile codes of conduct 7, 8 4.9 Procedures of the executive/supervisory 2.1 Name of the organization C, 8 board level for overseeing the organization's 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services C, 8 sustainability performance 10 2.3 Divisions and operational structure C, 1, 8, 10 4.10 Process for evaluating the sustainability 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters C, 8 performance of the executive board 10 2.5 Countries with major operations AR 4.11 Implementation of precautionary approach 10, 11, 15 27 2.6 Ownership structure C 4.12 Support for external initiatives 4, 12, 13, 26, 31, 43 2.7 Markets served 1, 8, 9 2.8 Scale of the organization C, AR 4.13 Memberships in associations and interest groups 13 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period 9, 10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 12 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 13 4.15 Stakeholder selection 12 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 12, 13 3 Report parameters 4.17 Key topics of stakeholders 9 3.1 Reporting period C, 59 3.2 Date of last report October 2011 5 Performance indicators 3.3 Reporting cycle C Economic 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Management approach 10 -12 the report 73 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1, AR 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content 10, 12, 13 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 11 3.6 Boundary of the report C, 59 EC3 Beneﬁt plan obligations n. r. 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report 59 EC4 Financial assistance received from government n. r. 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourcing 10, 45 EC6 Spending on local suppliers n. r. 3.9 Data measurement 59 EC7 Proportion of managers hired from the 3.10 Changes to the statement of information local community n. r. provided in earlier reports 1, 59 EC8 Investments in infrastructure and services 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods provided for public beneﬁt 43, 44, 53 57 in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 1, 59 Environmental 3.12 GRI Content Index 70, 71 Management approach 10, 11 3.13 External assurance of the report n. r. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 43 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled n. r. 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 59 61 4.1 Governance structure 8, AR EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary 4.2 Independence of supervisory board chairman 8, AR energy source 60, 61 4.3 Supervisory board or independent members of EN5 Energy savings 39 41, 59 61 the executive board 8, AR EN6 Energy-efﬁcient products and services 19, 20 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 42, 61 executive/supervisory board 8 EN11 Use of protected areas N/A 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation EN12 Impact of company activity on biodiversity and company performance AR in protected areas N/A GRI index 71 Status Legend Completely covered C = Cover Partly covered N/A = Not applicable Not reported (n. r.) AR = ALTANA Annual Report 2011 Internet = www.altana.com/sustainability/indicators GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status EN14 Strategies for protecting biodiversity 10, 14 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 11 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 60, 61 HR5 Operations in which the right to exercise EN17 Additional relevant greenhouse gas emissions freedom of association and collective bargain(e.g. due to business travel) 45 ing may be at risk n. r. EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 37 43, 60, 61 HR6 Operations at risk of incidents of child labor 10 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances HR7 Operations at risk of incidents of forced by weight N/A or compulsory labor N/A EN20 NOX, SOX and other signiﬁcant air emissions Society by weight 22, 23, 42, Management approach 11, 12 Internet SO1 Impacts of operations on communities EN21 Water discharges 42, Internet and society n. r. EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 43, 62, 63 SO2 Business units screened for risk related EN23 Number and volume of signiﬁcant spills N/A to corruption 12 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental SO3 Percentage of employee trained in impacts of products and services 15 27 anti-corruption policies 11 EN27 Percentage of products and their packaging SO4 Actions taken after incidents of corruption 12 materials that were reclaimed by category n. r. SO5 Policy positions and participation in public EN28 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with policy development and lobbying 13, 24 27 environmental laws and regulations 67 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior N/A Social SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations N/A Labor practices and decent work Management approach 3135 Product responsibility LA1 Workforce by employment type and region n. r. Management approach 23 27 LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender, PR1 Lifecycle stages of products in which safety and region n. r. and health effects were assessed 24 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by PR3 Principles/processes for product identiﬁcation 24, 26 collective bargaining agreements n. r. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws and voluntary LA5 Notice periods regarding signiﬁcant codes in advertising n. r. operational changes n. r. PR9 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with LA7 Injuries, absenteeism, and fatalities 29 35, 65, 66 laws and regulations concerning the use of products and services N/A LA8 Risk-control and programs regarding serious diseases 23, 24, 26, 3133, 48 LA10 Average hours of training by employee category n. r. LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning 51 LA12 Performance and career development reviews 51 LA13 Composition of senior management and employee structure (e.g. age/gender/culture) 51, 65 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category n. r. Human rights Management approach 11, 12 HR1 Investment agreements with review or human rights clauses n. r. HR2 Percentage of suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 12 72 Sustainability Report 2011 Progress Notes on the Global Compact By participating in the U.N. Global Compact, we commit to respecting human rights, creating socially compatible working conditions, promoting environmental protection, and ﬁghting corruption. Principle Page Measure taken Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protec13, 29 35, 65 Corporate management, occupational tion of internationally proclaimed human rights health management, occupational safety Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human 12 Supplier management, supply chain rights abuses management Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa12 Self-obligations, employee representations tion and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulN/A sory labor Principle 5 The abolition of child labor 5, 10, 12 Selection of raw materials; support for education initiatives Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of 11, 12 Compliance management system, employment and occupation Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach 10, 11, 26, 27, Environmental management systems to environmental challenges 68, 69 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environ13, 3745, 68, 69 Changed production, technical updates, mental responsibility programs and goals Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 15 27 Management, product innovations, environmentally friendly technologies use of renewable resources Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its 11, 12 Compliance management system, Code forms, including extortion and bribery of Conduct, legal compliance Imprint Published by ALTANA AG Abelstr. 43 46483 Wesel Germany Tel + 49 281 670 -10900 Fax + 49 281 670 -10999 info@altana.com www.altana.com Responsible for the content: ALTANA AG Contact Environment, Health & Safety Dr. Andreas Diez Tel + 49 281 670 -10600 Fax + 49 281 670 -10649 Andreas.Diez@altana.com Corporate Communications Sven Kremser Tel + 49 281 670 -10303 Fax + 49 281 670 -10999 Sven.Kremser@altana.com Design, editing and layout: crossrelations GmbH, Düsseldorf Heike Dimkos, ALTANA AG Images ALTANA AG gettyimages Corbis Artwork Peter Forsthoff, art-88 Print Gebrüder Kopp, Köln Printed with products manufactured by ALTANA TerraGreen® matt coating, G5 /100 silky matt by ACTEGA Terra/formulated with BYK additives Date of publication: October 2012
