KSB Group Annual Report 2011 KSB Group Annual Report 2011 The cover of our Annual Report 2011 shows rotor laminations of the energy-saving, high-efficiency SuPremE ® motor. G RO U P F I N A NC IA L HIGHLIGHTS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EARNINGS S I N G L E S TAG E P U M P S 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Standardised pumps, process pumps, circulator Sales revenue €m 2,091.0 1,939.3 1,892.8 1,991.7 1,770.9 pumps, service water pumps, slurry pumps Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) €m 133.4 148.9 185.7 208.2 137.1 Earnings before taxes (EBT ) €m 120.5 135.8 172.8 200.1 128.7 Earnings after taxes €m 83.3 90.0 122.4 139.5 89.9 Cash flow €m 137.0 148.5 172.4 183.9 138.5 M U LT I S TAG E P U M P S Boiler feed pumps, boiler circulating pumps, booster pumps, pressure booster pumps, high-pressure pumps BALANCE SHEET for reverse osmosis applications, water transport pumps 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 P E R F O R M A N C E / P R O D U C T S A N D S E RV I C E S Balance sheet total €m 1,974.1 1,861.3 1,645.4 1,421.4 1,258.0 Fixed assets €m 560.5 515.3 469.3 417.6 340.8 Capital expenditure €m 93.5 72.8 86.6 103.6 62.7 SUBMERSIBLE PUMPS Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 51.0 48.1 43.4 35.0 34.6 Well pumps, waste water, sewage and drainage pumps, Current assets €m 1,389.2 1,329.2 1,158.6 990.1 904.9 mixers, tubular casing pumps, condensate pumps Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) €m 869.1 825.6 720.6 605.8 505.9 Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interest) % 44.0 44.4 43.8 42.6 40.2 AU TO M AT I O N A N D D R I V E S Control systems, energy-efficient pump drives, pressure PROF ITABILITY booster systems, fire-fighting systems, lifting units 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Return on sales % 5.8 7.0 9.1 10.0 7.3 Return on equity % 14.2 17.6 26.1 36.0 27.6 Return on capital employed % 7.4 8.9 12.4 16.1 12.1 VA LV E S Butterfly valves, globe valves, gate valves, control valves, EM P LOYEES diaphragm valves, ball valves, actuators and control systems 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 15,674 14,697 14,249 14,345 13,927 Staff costs €m 698.0 649.8 618.3 614.6 581.6 S E RV I C E SHARES Installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servic2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 ing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 741.0 1,051.2 707.6 574.3 774.7 and valves; modular service concepts and system analyses Earnings per ordinary share (EPS ) € 40.95 44.09 61.32 70.17 43.73 for entire systems Earnings per preference share (EPS ) € 41.21 44.35 61.58 70.43 43.99 Dividend per ordinary share € 12.00 12.00 12.00 12.50 9.00 Dividend per preference share € 12.26 12.26 12.26 12.76 9.26 Promoting efﬁciency. Energy consumption is rising across the globe. As one of the world’s leading suppliers of pumps, valves and related systems, we do not just play a role in the development of power supply facilities. We also offer a comprehensive energy efﬁciency concept, which incorporates analysis and advisory services as well as energy-saving technology, helping to reduce electricity consumption in ﬂuid transport systems signiﬁcantly. We also believe that efﬁciency comes down to using our internal resources in a way that makes good ﬁnancial sense, harnessing synergies and adopting a spot-on strategy for tapping into attractive market potential in a sustainable manner. Our aim is: KSB finds the best and most economical solutions for its customers – and implements them! 2 CON T E NT S 14 “140 years on the move” – was the motto of a number of anniversary 18The deployment of high-efﬁciency components makes for more celebrations that took place at many KSB locations in 2011. economical pump operation in process engineering plants. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT 4 Chairman‘s Letter 24 Group Structure and Focus of Business 6 Board of Management 26 Economic Environment 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 28 Business Development and Events 14 2011 – An Overview 31 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations 16 KSB Shares 38 Research and Development 40 Employees 42 Corporate Social Responsibility 45 Risk Management 48 Report on Expected Developments 3 54 Proper insulation of valves used in building services contributes to 118System Efﬁciency Services can help identify ways of reducing operating costs saving costly heating energy. and preventing pump damage, for example in waste water treatment plants. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GENERAL INFORMATION 60 Balance Sheet 124 Responsibility Statement 61 Income Statement Including 125 Auditor‘s Report Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 127 Corporate Governance Report / Remuneration Report 62 Statement of Changes in Equity 134 Corporate Governance: Statement of Compliance 64 Cash Flow Statement 135 Glossary 65 Notes 136 Contacts 113 List of Shareholdings 116 Supervisory Board and Board of Management 117 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG COVER Group Financial Highlights Products and Services Global Presence Financial Calendar LEGEND Glossary 4 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management In 2011 a series of unexpected events resulted in the economy taking a different course to that predicted by many. While at the start of the year most experts expected the economic revival to continue, it quickly became apparent that there could be no “stabilisation of growth” in the face of the disaster in Japan, political upheavals in North Africa and a worsening debt crisis in Europe. B ENEFI TI NG FR OM C U RRENT MARKET OPPORTUNITIES Nevertheless, our basic assumptions for the year were confirmed. As a result, we succeeded in continuing to grow our business based on the expected strong demand for our standard pumps and valves. In 2011, we manufactured more standardised and close-coupled pumps for industrial applications than ever before in our Frankenthal plant, and once again increased our production of standard valves for industry and building services. This shows that we have been able to take advantage of the market recovery in the general business as planned. The demand situation in project business was quite different. Investors remained hesitant to realise large-scale plants, particularly in the energy industry, where many plans were halted in view of new considerations concerning the right energy mix, for example in China. Several water and waste water projects in Arab countries too were put on hold, while in Southern Europe companies simply lacked the money to undertake any major projects. In consequence, we were only able to increase our order intake in 2011 by a moderate 2.8 %. Due to our strong order book, however, we were able to increase consolidated sales revenue by 7.8 % to € 2,091 million and thus achieve earnings before taxes of € 120.5 million. TAKI NG ADVANTAGE OF GLOBAL GROWTH POTENTIAL We are currently seeking to increase both our sales revenue and profit margins. This involves continuing to implement our strategy projects and analysing our cost structure for possible improvements, particularly within KSB AG. We believe we can increase our earnings in 2012, even if the project business market is unlikely to revive before 2013. In the current year we particularly aim to boost sales by taking advantage of opportunities in the general business with standard pumps and valves in as well as in service. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 5 C ha i r m an ’s L et t er LONGTER M THI NKING, STRATEGIC ACTION In the general business in particular, there is a need for strategic action in a number of growth markets outside Europe. In these countries many customers have been impressed by our success in resolving extremely challenging technical tasks – in the fields of power generation, water transport and waste water treatment, and in realising large-scale building services projects. Our product range for standard applications is also based on this expertise, but is not as well-known in some countries. For this reason we plan to promote it in those countries and simultaneously intensify our client relationships via new local sales offices and use of our e-business portal. As part of our strategy, we also intend to strengthen our mediumand long-term valve business, the potential market for which is even larger than that for pumps. With this in mind, in 2011 we opened our valve factory in Changzhou, China, and acquired the South Korean valve specialist Seil Seres based in Busan. In the current year we will be opening a new plant in Brazil, which initially will exclusively produce valves. As Europe’s number one company for pump and valve servicing, we can see that there is great potential for growing outside our home market in the area of services, including a rapid spare parts service. This so-called after-market is another way of strengthening our global business. Corporate strength is essentially based on employee performance, innovativeness, and the willingness to expand. Also important is having the tenacity – including the financial tenacity – to bring new ideas to fruition and strength. KSB has this “staying power”, not least thanks to its ownership structure, with a principal shareholder for whom the future of the company is a high priority. Everyone ultimately benefits from this: our investors, who receive adequate dividends from us and also enjoy high security as regards their invested capital; customers, who remain loyal to us thanks to our reliable, high-quality products; and employees, who enjoy long-term employment and career prospects at KSB. Of course the saying that you can’t please everyone also applies to companies, but we can try! Yours, Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft 6 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 B OA R D O F MA NAGEMENT P ROF. DR.-ING. JAN S TO O P DR . WOLFGA NG SC H MIT T DR.-ING. P ETER BUTHMANN DIETER-HEINZ HELLMANN was a member of the Board of Managejoined the Board of Management on has been on the Board of Management joined the Board of Management on ment from 1 October 2007 to 31 March 7 April 2006, and has been Chairman of since 1 January 2007. His main responsibi1 January 2007 and is responsible for 2012. He was responsible for Sales and the Board since 15 December 2006. He lities include Operations, Human Resources, Technology, which includes Research, Marketing, Internal Audits and the Busiis primarily responsible for Finance and Central Purchasing, Programme CoordiDevelopment and Business Processes ness Unit Valves. Accounting, Controlling, Legal & Complination and the Business Unit Submersible (Technology). In addition, he is in charge ance, Communications, Strategy and the Pumps. He is also Human Resources of the Business Units Single-stage Pumps, Business Unit Service. From 1 April 2012, Director and will take charge of Sales Multistage Pumps, and Automation and he will also be in charge of the Business and Marketing on 1 April 2012. Drives. From 1 April 2012, he will also be Unit Valves. responsible for Internal Audits. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 7 B oa r d o f Man ag em en t Valve production in Frankenthal, Germany 8 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 R E P O RT O F T H E SU PERVISORY B OA R D Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board performed its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the rules of procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us about the position of the company, including but not limited to its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as corporate planning and strategic and organisational development issues via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis in a comprehensive and timely manner. We continued to meet on a regular basis to discuss selected issues, both with and in the absence of the Board of Management. We discussed key KSB business transactions in detail on the basis of reports drawn up by the Board of Management. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. After thorough examination and discussion, we adopted our resolutions on reports and proposals by the Board of Management. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, both the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and other Supervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management to discuss the current business development and significant transactions. No conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board that would have been required to be reported to the Supervisory Board or the Annual General Meeting in the period under review. M AI N FOC US OF WORK IN THE SUPERVISORY BOARD PLENARY SESSIONS AND I N THE C OM M I TTEES Key topics of discussion with the Board of Management were the monitoring of measures for implementing our strategy and the further development of the organisational structure that was introduced in 2010. The analysis of the history and impact of the European debt crisis was another focus, as was the possible response to developments in some countries, such as the upheavals in the Arab world and the German decision to rapidly phase out the use of nuclear energy. Four regular Supervisory Board meetings were held in 2011. The performance of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, the Group and the individual units was the subject of regular discussions in plenary sessions, primarily with regard to the performance of order intake, sales revenue, earnings, assets and employment levels as well as the current economic situation, the strategy and investment and acquisition decisions. We focused several times on the latter topic during the past financial year, in particular in connection with projects for implementing our corporate strategy. Once again we discussed the strengthening of our German and international service activities. Given the large number of acquisitions in recent years, an ongoing priority is the structured integration and management of these companies. The Board of Management explained to us in detail the ways in which KSB intends to achieve its overall growth targets over the next few years, including the underlying methodological and strategic considerations. All investments required to pursue these objectives were subjected to critical analysis and subsequently overseen by us. For instance, the status of modernisation and expansion work at our sites in Brazil, Russia, China and India was a topic that was discussed several times. The purpose of this work is to exploit the current potential and secure further business opportunities in these important MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 9 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob, Chairman of the Supervisory Board future markets. In China in particular we need to comprehensively expand our production facilities in order to meet the high requirements to be met by nuclear products in terms of reliability and safety. We discussed the opportunities and risks associated with such upfront outlays extensively with the Board of Management, taking into account the long-term business development. Another subject of discussion in light of our experiences to date with regard to the global financial and economic crisis was the potential effects of the worsening European debt problem on our business. We subjected the deliberations of the Board of Management on this subject to critical scrutiny, focusing in particular on the development of reliable instruments for detecting market movements at an early stage, which in turn would enable a rapid response. Repeatedly on the agenda were the implementation status and the continued development of the corporate organisation introduced in 2010. We devoted particular attention in this respect to the structuring of our sales activities. We expect the innovations implemented in selected countries this year to provide us with sufficient insight regarding optimisation potential, on the basis of which we will need to decide on the possibility of a broader introduction of the revised structures. Another focus of our discussions was the progress of the ongoing development of our corporate culture based on established values, on which the Board of Management reported regularly. In September the Supervisory Board convened for a meeting at the Châteauroux site in France, where it was able to assess how business was developing there and visit the high-performance production facilities. In addition, we received additional in-depth information on the situation of selected products and markets as well as individual regions. In December, we discussed and endorsed the purchase of a small manufacturer of compact pumps, a transaction that has now been successfully completed. We also looked at business performance during the year and planning for 2012. During the past financial year, the Supervisory Board worked through six committees and two sub-committees to ensure that its tasks were performed efficiently. These prepared the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also made their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. At the plenary meetings, the Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively reported on the content and results of the work in the committees; the relevant committees were informed of the topics discussed in the sub-committees. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board also serves as the Chair of the Personnel Committee, the Planning and Finance Committee and the Mediation Committee. 10 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 The Nomination Committee looked at the shareholder representative nominations prior to the Supervisory Board elections at the Annual General Meeting. To do so, this committee met twice during the year under review. The Planning and Finance Committee met four times in the year under review. It focuses on corporate and investment planning and the financial situation of the company. In light of our strategic objectives, the discussion of longer-term liquidity needs and management was one focus of examination. The committee also took an in-depth look at the current and anticipated cost situation. In addition, the committee members discussed in detail the quality of planning and the underlying planning assumptions. The Corporate Development Committee met eight times during the year under review. It focused in particular on strategy controlling, production management and innovation, and the development of the nuclear business in Asia. Considerable attention was paid to ways of ensuring and optimising the provision of castings to our manufacturing facilities, with the possibility of expanding our own foundry facilities in Germany also being discussed. The proposals of the committee also resulted in the acquisition of the expertise of a small but innovative German manufacturer of mechanical seals. The heads of the relevant specialist departments often took part in the committee meetings, along with the responsible members of the Board of Management. The Controlling Sub-Committee met twice. It advises the Board of Management on concrete tasks related to this corporate area, including the relevant interdisciplinary interfaces. In 2011 the focus was on determining the basic conceptual design of this important corporate function. The Sales Management Sub-committee is looking at ways in which to systematically develop corresponding structures. In 2011, it oversaw the implementation of the above-mentioned business-type-focused new sales organisation in several pilot countries, and met twice for this purpose. The Personnel Committee held eleven meetings in the year under review. It primarily addresses issues relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, including the terms of the service contracts for the individual Board of Management members as well as other Board of Management issues. Decisions on the Board of Management’s remuneration are made in plenary session with the committee acting in a preparatory capacity. Personnel development issues were also discussed with the aim of recruiting candidates for the Board of Management and other management positions from within the company’s own ranks. Particular emphasis was placed on the development and implementation of an internal selection process for identifying and promoting potential Board of Management candidates within the upper levels of management. In 2011, the committee members again participated in events with potential candidates for all management levels in an effort to foster a direct exchange of ideas. In addition, the committee discussed in detail the early retirement by mutual consent of Mr. Stoop from the Board of Management with effect from the end of March 2012 and the resulting succession planning issues. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 11 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd The four meetings of the Audit Committee were always attended by the Member of the Board of Management responsible for Finance and, on several occasions, by the auditors. The committee primarily examined the annual and consolidated financial statements, the audit reports submitted by the auditors and the internal auditors as well as the further development of the risk management system and compliance organisation. The half-year financial report was also discussed with the Board of Management. Furthermore, the committee defined key audit areas for the independent auditing of the Supervisory Board in accordance with section 171 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and for the external auditing of the financial statements. It submitted a proposal to the plenary session for the appointment of auditors to be voted on by the Annual General Meeting, and subsequently commissioned the auditors with the task of auditing the annual and consolidated financial statements. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with section 7.2.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code and the auditors’ continued independence was monitored. There was no requirement during the year under review to convene the Mediation Committee required by section 27(3) MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-determination Act]. C OR P OR ATE GOVE RNANCE AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Supervisory Board continuously monitored the ongoing development of corporate governance standards. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report on corporate governance at KSB in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code on pages 127 to 133 of this annual report. On 7 December 2011 they issued a joint updated statement of compliance in accordance with Section 161 AktG and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. With two exceptions, KSB Aktiengesellschaft complies with the recommendations contained in the 26 May 2010 version of the Code which was published by the Federal Ministry of Justice on 2 July 2010. AUD I T OF THE ANN UAL AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accounting documentation, in addition to the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings and the audit reports submitted by the auditors, was provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. The documents were dealt with in detail by the Audit Committee on 20 March 2012 as well as by the Supervisory Board plenary session on 27 March 2012 and explained in depth in both cases by the Board of Management. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2011, which were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch [HGB – German Commercial Code], as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2011, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings. 12 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 The Frankfurt am Main offices of BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft based in Hamburg audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2011, as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2011, and issued an unqualified opinion. The Audit Committee defined key audit areas for the year under review: review of the activities of selected companies as part of impairment tests for financial investments and goodwill, examination of the investigative process and the validity of individual disclosures in the Notes, and review of the accounting treatment of corporate acquisitions and related purchase price allocations (including information in the Notes and the treatment of contingent consideration payments). The auditors reported their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Based on its own final examination results, the Supervisory Board plenary session did not raise any objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee the Supervisory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the Board of Management; the annual financial statements are thus adopted. After its own examination, the Supervisory Board deems the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings of KSB Aktiengesellschaft to be appropriate and concurs with it. D EP END ENT C OM PAN Y REPORT The auditors also audited the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with section 312 AktG and issued the following unqualified opinion on this report: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that: 1. the actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct; 2. the consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not inappropriately high.” The reports by the Board of Management and the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and at plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management and to the statement by the Board of Management at the end of the dependent company report. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 13 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd C HANGES ON THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AND BOARD OF MANAGEMENT The composition of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board remained unchanged during the year. Dr. Jacob and Mr. Lederer were re-elected to the Supervisory Board at the Annual General Meeting of KSB Aktiengesellschaft on 18 May 2011; Dr Jacob was re-elected as Chairman of the Supervisory Board on the same day. The change on the Board of Management has been described above. In this context, the Supervisory Board wishes to thank Mr. Stoop for many years of cooperation in an atmosphere of mutual trust. The Supervisory Board would like to acknowledge and thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their good work in the year under review. Frankenthal, 27 March 2012 For the Supervisory Board Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) 14 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 2011 – AN OV E RV I E W S O U T H KO R E A NEW COMPANY 01 05 KSB acquires the South ESTABLISHED IN PERU Korean company Seil Seres KSB establishes the subsidiCo. Ltd. in order to expand ary KSB Perú S.A. in Lima. its portfolio of valves for Some of the key sales markets marine applications. This for pumps and valves in strengthens KSB’s position this South American country as supplier of package and are the mining industry, the system solutions. water sector and the waste water sector. AWA R D EUROPUMP KSB receives the “EnvironDr. Sönke Brodersen, head 50 YEARS OF KSB AUSTR I A mental Contribution of of Research at KSB, is elected KSB Österreich Gesellschaft the Year” award by the British President of the European mbH based in Vienna celePump Manufacturers’ Association of Pump Manubrates a special anniversary. Association at the “Pump facturers in Amsterdam. It has around 100 members Industry Awards” in Coventry Europump represents 18 of staff, who are reaching in recognition of its national associations from beyond the Austrian market PumpMeter monitoring unit the EU, Russia, Turkey by also developing the E XPA N S I O N O F T H E GR OUP and PumpDrive variable and Switzerland. southeast European market. KSB integrates Standard speed system. Alloys Incorporated Port NEW COMPANY Arthur/Texas, USA, and IN SLOVENIA REEL s.r.l., Vicenza, Italy, The first KSB company to (both of which it acquired be based in Slovenia starts the previous year) into the operations on 24 May. Group, along with another The company, which trades seven companies. under the style KSB rpalke in armature d.o.o. and is based in Ljubljana, has got its sights set primarily on the 06 areas of water transport, 03 water treatment and energy conversion, but also on process engineering and building services. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 15 O v er v i ew 2 0 1 1 1 4 0 Y EAR S OF KSB STAINLESS STEEL G I A N TS 07 11 18 September 1871 was the The first of a total of seven date on which KSB was tubular casing pumps desfounded. Staff members celetined for one of the world’s brate the history of their largest seawater cooling company under the motto systems in Qatar leaves the “140 years on the move – Frankenthal factory. Each Technology that sets standof the 18-metre tall, 70-tonne ards”, a success story that pump sets is driven by a began when the organisation 4000 kW, 6000 V highwas founded by Johannes voltage motor. Klein, Friedrich Schanzlin and August Becker. 09 12 R E G I O N A L C E N T RE NEW VALVE PLANT IN DU BA I KSB opens a new valve KSB opens a new regional factory in the Chinese induscentre in the free trade zone trial city of Changzhou, of Jebel Ali (Dubai). From which is situated 165 km here, KSB Middle East FZE from Shanghai. Around 100 manages all sales and marmembers of staff are busy keting activities in the United manufacturing low-pressure Arab Emirates and neighvalves for the local and bouring Oman, Bahrain, global markets. Kuwait, Qatar and Yemen. 16 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 KSB S HARE S High volatility in stock markets at home and abroad KSB shares drop in price Planned dividend payment to equal that of the prior year After recovering from the financial crisis to a significant extent In this market environment, the German DAX fell by 15 % in in 2009 and 2010, stock markets experienced a more turbulent the year under review. The EURO STOXX 50 and the Nikkei year in 2011. 225 Index suffered similar losses, falling by 17 % and 18 % respectively. Only the Dow Jones managed to end the year The natural and nuclear disaster in Fukushima in March higher, increasing by 6 %. unsettled the financial markets with its uncertain consequences for the Japanese market and the future direction of global DAX LOWER IN THE SECOND HALF OF THE YEAR energy supplies, while the debate on the US budget deficit The DAX was firm and relatively stable in the first half of the similarly darkened the mood of the markets in the summer. year. The stock market recovered relatively quickly from the price falls induced by the nuclear disaster in Fukushima, and The capital markets also came under pressure due to the inuntil July was able to maintain a level just under the year’s tensifying debt crisis in the euro zone, especially in the high recorded in May. From August onwards, however, the peripheral European countries. The risks of an impact on the DAX came under pressure, reaching its lowest point in real economy and a worsening economic outlook reinforced September at almost 30 % below its value at the start of the the level of caution among investors. year. In the final months of 2011 the German blue-chip index traded slightly more firmly and recovered some of its losses. DIVIDEND DEVELOPMENT 2011 (proposed) 2010 Ordinary share Dividend € 12.00 € 12.00 Dividend yield 2.6 % 1.9 % Preference share Dividend € 12.26 € 12.26 Dividend yield 3.1 % 2.1 % Ordinary share Preference share ISIN DE0006292006 DE0006292030 Reuters symbol KSBG KSBG _p Bloomberg symbol KSB KSB 3 Share capital € 22.7 million € 22.1 million Shares in free float Approx. 20 % 100 % Year-end closing price 30 Dec. 2011 € 453.00 € 392.50 Market capitalisation 30 Dec. 2011 € 741.0 million MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 17 K S B Sh ar es KS B S H A R E S A L S O D R OP I N P R I C E The market capitalisation of both share types at year end After a steady period at the start of the year, the KSB share totalled € 741 million. price also plummeted in March as part of the stock market reaction to the Japanese nuclear accident. Within just a few DIVIDEND UNCHANGED FROM THE PREVIOUS YEA R days, both the ordinary share price and the preference share By paying out a stable dividend, we want the shareholders price had fallen by more than 10 %. of KSB Aktiengesellschaft to share in the growth of the company. For this reason, we will propose to the Annual Both share types had recovered from these losses by early General Meeting on 16 May 2012 the payment of an April, and were once again trading at close to their previous unchanged dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and year-highs. € 12.26 per preference share. The shares could not escape from the subsequent downward EARNINGS PER SHARE BELOW PRIOR-YEAR LEVEL trend in stock markets, however, and by the end of the year, Earnings per share are lower as a result of weaker consolithe share prices had fallen, with the ordinary shares slightly dated earnings. Earnings per ordinary share were € 40.95 firmer than the preference shares. On 30 December 2011, compared with € 44.09 last year, while earnings for preference the ordinary share price stood at € 453.00, while preference shares were € 41.21 compared with € 44.35 in 2010. shares were trading at € 392.50. K S B S H A R E P R I C E D EVELOPMENT IN € KSB ordinary share KSB preference share 700 600 500 400 January 2011 December 2011 23 March 2012 PUMPS 70 Energy savings of up to 70 percent can be achieved if pumps are equipped with optimised hydraulic systems, demand-based control % systems and high-efﬁciency motors, for example in process engineering lower power consumption plants. Chemical pump | MegaCPK Flow rate | up to 1 400 m3 / h Head | up to 233 m The new MegaCPK standardised chemical pump, the highlight of KSB’s attendance at ACHEMA 2012, embodies all the features of modern pump technology. It features a highly efﬁcient hydraulic system with an impeller that is perfectly matched to the operating point. The PumpDrive variable speed system automatically adjusts the SuPremE® motor’s speed in line with varying ﬂuid requirements of a plant. The PumpMeter analysing and display unit enables users to see at a glance whether the pump is operating efﬁciently and economically. »Pumps can save energy. In Germany alone, the widespread use of innovative pump technology could eliminate the need for two entire power plant units, each with a capacity of 800 MW. What is required are properly designed pump sets that feature impellers individually matched to actual requirements, continuously variable speed systems and energy-efficient motors. KSB is streets ahead in terms of its technology – now the market has to catch up.« Daniel Müller-Pettenpohl, Sales Plant and Process Engineering 22 In 2011, the KSB Group’s sales revenue increased by 7.8 percent to € 2,091 million, exceeding the two billion euro mark for the first time. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT MANAGEM E NT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 23 GR OUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT 24 Group Structure and Focus of Business 26 Economic Environment 28 Business Development and Events 31 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations 38 Research and Development 40 Employees 42 Corporate Social Responsibility 45 Risk Management 48 Report on Expected Developments 24 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT GR OUP S T RU C TU R E A N D F O C U S OF BU SINESS Ten KSB companies consolidated for the first time 61 operating companies worldwide Sales in more than 100 countries The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the MARKETS AND LOCATIONS world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for systems. We also provide a wide range of services to users of approximately 70 % of sales revenue. These pumps, as well these products. as valves, are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, in some cases, distributed via dealers. The same In the year under review, 61 operating companies in 35 counapplies to control and monitoring systems, and to package tries were dedicated to achieving this mission. Eight Group units with pumps and valves. companies exercised a holding company function. The best developed sales market for these products is Europe, KSB AG , Frankenthal, Germany, as the parent company, where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies beGermany and France. KSB AG’s main plant in Frankenthal is longing to the Group. Besides KSB AG itself, the companies its largest in Europe, ahead of those in Pegnitz (Bavaria) in the KSB Group with the highest sales revenue are and Halle (Saxony-Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-Chalais in France. KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany The second-largest market for KSB products is currently the KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil Region Asia / Pacific, followed by the Region Americas and KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India the Region Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China manufacturing facilities are in Brazil, China, India and the GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia (USA) USA . OR GA N I S AT I O N, M A NAGEM ENT AND C ONTR OL KSB manufactures products and components in a total of KSB AG ’s Board of Management manages and controls the 20 countries; they are sold through the Group’s own compaKSB Group. The strategy and instructions formulated by the nies or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their Board of Management are implemented within an organisation products, the Group companies serve customers in the manuthat is structured into three areas of responsibility: pumps, facturing sector (industry), the chemical and petrochemical valves and service. At the centre of this organisation are the industries, the energy industry and building services, transport Business Units with their areas of focus, which act as interequipment manufacturers and operators (e. g. ships, rail faces between Sales and Operations. vehicles), water supply and waste water utilities and mining companies. The top-selling markets for our products in 2011 All organisational units base their activities on the Group were the manufacturing and energy supply sectors. strategy. It aims to ensure sustainable, profitable growth that will secure both KSB’s future and financial independence in In terms of sales revenue, the KSB Group is one of the world’s the medium and long term, in order to achieve and defend a leading suppliers of centrifugal pumps, and ranks among the leading competitive position in attractive markets. world’s top-ten valve manufacturers. We succeed in maintaining this market position through our good, long-term relationManagement is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting ships with our customers and suppliers. Our highly trained of twelve members. The Annual General Meeting of shareand motivated employees as well as the high quality of our holders appoints six members of the Supervisory Board, with products have also helped cement our reputation. the remaining six being delegated by the employees under the terms of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination Act]. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 25 Group S tructure and Focus of B u si n e ss MA N AG E M E N T PAR AM ETER S WI THI N THE KSB GROUP The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the The current target variables for managing the Group are the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 to purchase comdevelopment of order intake and sales revenue as well as pany shares totalling up to € 4,477,196 of the registered profitability, which we primarily measure on the basis of share capital by 18 May 2015. The Board of Management pre-tax return on sales. shall be entitled to: (1) Sell company shares purchased on the basis of this authorisation either on the stock exchange When setting our targets, we are guided on the one hand or by another means that safeguards the rule of equal treatby developments in the market, and on the other by the ment of all shareholders; (2) Sell the shares with the consent performance of our key competitors. of the Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, if the shares are sold for cash and at a price that D I S C L O S U R E S P U R SUANT TO SEC TI ON 3 1 5 (4 ) OF THE HGB is not materially lower than the market price for company AN D E X P L A N ATO RY R EP ORT shares of the same type and with the same features at the time A summary of the disclosures required by section 315(4) of of the sale. This authorisation is limited to the sale of shares the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] which overall represent no more than 10 % of the existing is given below and explanatory information is provided share capital at the date on which such authorisation becomes pursuant to sections 175(2) and 176(1) of the AktG [Aktieneffective or, if the amount is lower, the date this authorisation gesetz – German Public Companies Act]. Information is is used. The 10 % limit shall include the proportional amount disclosed only to the extent that it applies to KSB AG. for shares issued within the scope of a capital increase during the term of the authorisation excluding subscription rights or KSB AG ’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which for the maximum number of shares that can be issued for the € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par value purpose of servicing warrants and convertible bonds; (3) Sell ordinary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par value the shares with the consent of the Supervisory Board, excludpreference shares. Each no-par value share represents an ing shareholders’ subscription rights, to third parties for the equal notional amount of the share capital. All shares are purpose of acquiring companies, parts thereof and / or finanbearer shares. They are listed for trading on the regulated cial interests in companies as well as within the scope of market and are traded in the General Standard segment of corporate mergers or (4) Redeem the shares. KSB AG has not the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. yet made use of this authorisation to purchase treasury shares. Each ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at There are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting KSB AG’s Annual General Meeting. Klein Pumpen GmbH, authorising the company’s Board of Management to increase Frankenthal, holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary the share capital (authorised capital). shares; the KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds the majority of the shares of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The KSB AG is managed by a Board of Management that, in preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred diviaccordance with its Articles of Association, must consist of at dend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. least two persons and in the year under review comprised Detailed information on the share capital and shareholders four persons. The Supervisory Board decides on the appointholding an interest of more than 10 % is provided in the ment and termination of the mandate of members of the Notes. Holders of preference shares are entitled to voting Board of Management in accordance with the statutory prorights only in the cases prescribed by law. The issue of visions. additional ordinary shares does not require the consent of the preference shareholders. Similarly, the issue of additional Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are preference shares does not require the consent of the preferresolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments ence shareholders provided that the subscription rights only affect the wording of the Articles, they can be approved do not exclude newly issued senior or pari passu preference by the Supervisory Board. shares. 26 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT EC ONOM I C E N V I R O N M E N T Economic slowdown Reorientation of the energy industries Strategic acquisitions in the pump industry During the course of 2011, global growth slowed down conIn the Region Americas, there was no sign of a sustained siderably. Attempts by the United States and some European economic recovery in the USA in 2011. Domestic demand in countries to limit their budget deficits, as well as the introthe United States remained weak, weighed down by persistduction by several emerging countries of regulatory measures ently high unemployment. Economic development in South to protect their national markets against possible overheating America, in contrast, was encouraging, with countries benefitand high inflation all went against the strong recovery ing from the high commodity prices. During the year, experienced in 2010. The lack of recovery in the US economy, however, economic growth slowed in Brazil as a result of the political turmoil in North Africa and the natural and monetary policy measures implemented to combat rising nuclear disaster in Japan also dampened investor willingness inflation. in various sectors and regions. SUSTAINED GROWTH IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING In Europe, economic development manifested itself in two Although the pace of global economic growth declined, busiways as expected: The countries of Northern and Central ness development in the mechanical engineering industry Europe generally enjoyed stable growth, while demand in continued unabated, expanding by 13 % in real terms globalSouthern Europe and in some Eastern European countries ly. However, growth rates varied considerably according to was impacted more strongly by the effects of the debt crisis. sector. The performance of the export-oriented countries in the EU was relatively good, especially that of Germany, which China’s importance as a supplier of mechanical engineering took advantage of the export opportunities to emerging products has increased even further: Around a quarter of markets. In Eastern Europe, Poland, thanks to stable domestic all machines produced worldwide now originate in China. demand, and Russia, thanks to high commodity prices, Germany’s mechanical engineering sector increased its output both recorded above-average economic growth. by 14 % in real terms in the year under review, making it one of the key drivers of German economic growth. Its most The Region Middle East / Africa benefited from strong important export market continued to be China. demand for energy sources and commodities. The high prices generated high revenues, which were used to finance a WORLD MARK ET OF CENTRIFUGAL P UMP S AND VALV ES number of investment projects. The political and social unrest in several countries, however, impeded economic development. Middle East / Africa 9 % In North Africa especially there was little investment in infrastructure, industry or tourism. Asia / Pacific 34 % Asia remained by far the fastest growing region in the world. Europe 30 % Some countries, however, introduced measures to prevent their economies from overheating, which dampened growth. Americas 27 % This applied in particular to China, whose government sought to counteract inflationary tendencies and credit risks. Nevertheless, demand in the Chinese market and in some Source: DIW Berlin other Asian countries remained high. In India, the second largest emerging economy in Asia, investment in infrastructure fell due to financing problems and the difficult political situation. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 27 Economic Environme nt People need to maintain or modernise their systems. So the types of service that KSB provides at an international level were again very much in demand in 2011. PU M P A N D VA LV E M AR KET WI TH OR D ER EM P HAS IS ON MANUFACTURERS ACQUIRE AND EXPAND OU R G E N E R A L BU SI NESS IN THE GLOBAL MARKET Demand for pumps and valves developed positively overall in Competition among suppliers of pumps and valves to partici2011. This applied mainly to our general business with pate in newly awarded major projects was intense in the year standard products required particularly by industry and the under review and the fall in the number of such projects construction sector. In project business, however, the order meant that all producers found it harder to obtain fair prices situation recovered in only a few areas, including the mining for their products. industry, which benefited from high commodity prices, and the oil and gas industry, for whose products there was an In 2011 several pump manufacturers made major acquisiincreased demand. tions. The aim of these acquisitions was either to increase the size of existing portfolios of products and services, to expand As the future of energy supplies remains uncertain in some into new regions, or to develop additional sales channels. Some countries, the number of new power plant projects was were also aimed at establishing additional business lines. significantly lower than before the financial and economic crisis. In particular, the construction of planned nuclear To take advantage of the opportunities offered by the emerging power stations came to a halt after the disaster in Fukushima, markets, pump manufacturers increased their presence in the with future operators urgently examining locationand BRIC countries. In Brazil in particular, several competing technology-related safety issues. Construction of conventional companies began to build up production capacity in order to power plants was also delayed, resulting in a reduction in strengthen their market position through local value creation. the overall number of high-pressure pumps and valves required. An increased level of competition was also observable in India. The second half of the year also witnessed growing scepticism concerning future economic development, which led to The valve industry is much more fragmented than the pump a number of major industrial and infrastructure projects not manufacturing industry, although acquisitions and mergers being awarded. are leading to continuous changes on the supply side. This remained the case in 2011. Opportunities remained good for service providers in the pump and valve market to participate in maintenance and The concentration process has also continued in the service modernisation projects. Of the operators who put new market and particularly affected the industrial all-rounders, investments on hold, some had higher servicing needs as they several of which were involved in takeovers. Some service attempted to extend the service lives of existing industrial, specialists looked for new business areas, for example, the water and waste water systems. At the same time, Germany’s maintenance and repair of renewable-energy power generaenergy transition policies reduced the demand for inspection, tion plants. maintenance and repair services from operators of nuclear power plants. The demand for services in the area of renewable energies in contrast increased. 28 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT BUS I NE S S D E V E L O P M E N T A N D EVENT S Improved order situation for valves and services Sales revenue rises to more than two billion euro New sales, manufacturing and service locations In 2011, our business was influenced by many different REGIONAL VARIATIONS IN THE ORDER SITUATION factors. In the first half of the year in particular there was The European Group companies posted a consolidated order robust demand and a strong order intake for our general intake of € 1,310.2 million, up 2.7 %. KSB AG’s order book in business products. Quantities sold of industrial standard the same period increased by a significantly higher percentage, pumps reached a new record. At the same time, however, growing by 4.5 % to € 818.9 million, primarily attributable there was a palpable reluctance among many customers in to strong demand for standard pumps and a large Chinese project business to make large new investments. Inhibiting power plant order. The order intake of several companies in factors included political conditions, not least the modified Central, Eastern and Northern Europe also grew well, while or in some cases still unclear energy policy of some countries the production and sales companies in Spain and Italy following the Fukushima disaster. recorded significant declines in orders received. These market-related restrictions meant that the increase in In the Region Middle East / Africa the order intake of our our order intake overall was only moderate. Sales revenue on four consolidated operating companies fell by 5.8 %, totalling the other hand grew more strongly, based on a continuously € 105.6 million. Our Turkish company, however, posted high level of orders on hand. excellent growth, mainly due to strong sales of pumps for the water supply, industrial and construction sectors. MOR E O R DE R S F O R VALVES AND SERVI C ES The Group’s order intake increased by 2.8 % to € 2,132.3 In the Region Asia / Pacific, the order boom seen in previous million in the year under review, with the ten newly consoliyears did not continue in 2011. While several smaller Asian dated companies accounting for € 66.3 million of this order companies and KSB Australia Pty. Ltd. recorded exceptionally volume. strong growth rates, the order volumes of the two large manufacturing companies in China and India were lower in Orders received for our main product, pumps, totalled 2011 than in 2010. Reasons for the decline included the € 1,445.7 million. This represented a slight decline compared overall business development and the devaluation of the Indian with the previous year (– 0.4 %). Reasons included the rupee against the euro. Total order intake measured in euro difficult market environment for power plant products. Order (the Group currency) fell by 3.4 % year on year to € 359.0 volumes for submersible pumps grew strongly, partly due million. to several major orders for water and waste water systems. SALES REV ENUE BY SEGMENT Order intake for valves rose by 5.1 % during the year to reach € 360.0 million. As with pumps, demand was strongest for the standard products. Our Asian business made good Service 16 % progress, aided in particular by marine valve sales. Valves 16 % Pumps 68 % Our service activities increased by 15.9 % to € 326.6 million, and remain primarily focused in Europe. Progress was hampered here, however, by Germany’s decision to turn its back on nuclear energy, as the service needs of the operators of existing nuclear power plants decreased drastically as a result. In contrast, growth outside Europe was very dynamic, with double-digit growth rates. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 29 Busine ss D e ve lopme nt a nd Ev e n ts In November 2011, a celebratory opening marked the start of activities at the new valve plant in Changzhou (China). The strongest growth in order intake was recorded by Group Code). Several Southern European companies suffered declincompanies in the Region Americas, up 13.4 % and totalling ing sales due to the difficult economic situation in those € 357.5 million. The increase achieved by GIW Industries, Inc., countries. was outstanding. With its range of slurry pumps, our US subsidiary benefited from higher demand from the mining The companies in the Region Middle East / Africa managed to sector, including from the oil sands industry in Canada. The increase their sales revenue by 2.7 % to € 98.5 million. An KSB Group companies in Argentina and Chile too reported outstanding achievement was the high double-digit percentage significant double-digit percentage increases. sales revenue growth of KSB Middle East FZE, Dubai, which resulted from the completion of part of its good level of orders S A L E S R E V E N U E VOLUM E GR OWS B Y 7 .8 % on hand. KSB’s consolidated sales revenue as expected grew more strongly than order intake due to the processing of ongoing The Region Asia / Pacific recorded the highest percentage and orders from previous years. Increasing by 7.8 %, it totalled absolute growth as a result of the invoicing of several major € 2,091.0 million for the Group. Thus, in 2011 sales revenue orders in China and India. The Group companies in Asia and for the first time exceeded the two billion euro mark. The Australia increased their aggregate sales revenue by 26.0 % newly consolidated companies accounted for € 64.7 million to € 342.9 million. of this figure. Group sales revenue grew for pumps, valves and service. In the Region Americas, Group company sales revenue rose by 12.0 % to € 335.4 million, primarily thanks to KSB Bombas Pump sales revenue totalled € 1,408.8 million, up 5.6 % on Hidráulicas S.A. in Brazil and the US subsidiary GIW the previous year. Just as for order intake, sales revenue Industries, Inc. growth was highest for submersible pumps. GROUP STRATEGY BEING IMPLEMENTED FLEXIBLY Despite declining in Europe, total valve sales revenue grew In addition to serving clients in our day-to-day business, we by 1.3 % to € 335.6 million. The strong growth in the Asian focused our attention on the implementation of our Group market offset the volume loss in Europe. strategy in all four Regions. We have implemented a number of strategic measures since the start of 2010; additional Our service sales revenue rose by 16.8 % to reach € 323.1 projects, which we plan to complete by 2018, are still in the million. process of being prepared or implemented. These involve measures for accessing and penetrating key markets, developG R OW T H I N A L L REGI ONS ing new products and services, and improving the structures Consolidated sales revenue increased – unlike in the previous and processes in sales and production. In realising our strategy year – in all four Regions. The European Group companies we will continue to remain flexible, and regularly check improved their sales revenue by 1.0 % to € 1,290.7 million, whether our approach is in keeping with market and technowith the strongest nominal growth being recorded by KSB AG logical developments. Doing so will also allow us to alter in Germany. It succeeded in increasing its sales revenue by the priority status of individual projects in line with current 4.2 % to € 811.3 million (under HGB – German Commercial trends and other factors of importance. 30 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Our strategic measures include highly targeted promotion of In 2011 we also established new sales companies in Peru, our general business with standard pumps and valves. This as well as in Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia. Our aim is to take includes setting up and expanding dealer networks, as well as advantage of the growing opportunities in these markets, continuously improving our offerings for the electronic which offer interesting development opportunities. selection and ordering of standard products. By the end of 2011 we were able to offer customers almost 200 type In mid-2011 we inaugurated a new regional centre in Dubai series via electronic selection systems in 19 languages. Some that includes storage, assembly and service facilities. KSB Mid30 % of all orders for pumps and valves worldwide were dle East FZE now manages all sales and marketing activities placed using such programs. in the United Arab Emirates and neighbouring Oman, Bahrain, Kuwait, Yemen and Qatar. In early 2011 we split our general business sales from project business sales in three countries. This split took place in SPOTLIGHT ON ENERGY EFFICIENCY markets where the majority of our sales consisted of engineered The discussion on the future of energy supplies is linked to products. The aim of the restructuring was to put the focus the question of how consumption of electricity by industry, on the less developed business segment. After a two-year trial households and public institutions can be further reduced. In period, we will evaluate the success of this measure and take this context, the energy-saving potential of fluid transport further organisational steps if necessary. plants has also come under the spotlight. NE W S I T E S F O R P R O DUC TI ON, SALES AND SERVI C E At trade fairs at home and abroad, we presented a comprehenWith the acquisition of the South Korean company Seil Seres sive energy efficiency concept under the brand name “Fluid Co. Ltd. in March 2011, we have strengthened our position Future®”. Our offering, including the selection of optimum in the market for marine valves. The product range of the pumps to match system conditions, automation options, solucompany, which now trades as KSB Seil Co., Ltd., complements tions for demand-based operation and use of high-efficiency the cryogenic valves of our French subsidiary KSB S.A.S. for motors , was in line with customers’ desire to reduce their applications in shipbuilding / marine engineering. The remote operating costs in a sustainable manner. At the same time, we monitoring and control systems from South Korea allow showed ways of saving valuable resources and reducing CO2 us to offer shipyards in East Asia all-in valve packages for emissions. equipping new tankers. The construction of tankers for transporting liquefied natural gas to consuming countries in particular is set to increase in 2012. To expand our valve business, we opened a new production plant in Changzhou, China, at the start of November. Around 100 employees are now engaged in manufacturing ANSI standard valves, primarily for industrial use. We have also built a warehouse and logistics centre at the new site, which is situated between Shanghai and Nanjing, and we aim to expand this in the future. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 31 Busine ss D e ve lopme nt a nd Ev e n ts Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s NE T AS S E T S, F I N A N C I A L P O S IT ION A ND R ESU LT S OF OPER AT IONS Consolidated earnings (EBT) of € 120 million Dividend at prior-year levels Stable high equity ratio The trend in order intake and sales revenue basically conforces of our companies in Brazil, Chile and China. The KSB firmed the forecasts we made in last year’s report. We were Group employed on average 887 more people during the not quite able to achieve our earnings targets due to an year under review. Compared with the previous financial above-average rise in material costs and continuing price year, average output per employee improved from € 134 pressure. thousand to € 139 thousand. RES U LT S O F O P E R ATI ONS Measured against total output of operations, other operating The structure of our income statement changed on a value expenses changed only slightly (17.8 % compared with basis in the financial year under review. In this context, the 17.4 %). In absolute terms, they increased by € 44.4 million effects of the above-mentioned first-time consolidations to € 383.9 million. Higher administration costs in the described in more detail in the Notes need to be taken into context of our strategy projects were one of the factors that account. led to this development. Earnings before taxes Financial income / expense changed by € + 7.4 million overall, The KSB Group generated earnings before taxes of € 120.5 mainly due to higher interest income and lower depreciation / million, compared with € 135.8 million in 2010, achieving a amortisation of financial assets. return on sales of 5.8 % (previous year: 7.0 %). Earnings after taxes Increase in output of operations The income tax rate fell by 2.9 percentage points, down from Total sales revenue increased by 7.8 % thanks to improved 33.8 % in 2010 to 30.9 %. Earnings after taxes of € 83.3 milbusiness development. Work in progress and inventories of lion (previous year: € 90.0 million) therefore decreased less finished goods totalled € 58.9 million, € 46.7 million higher markedly (– 7.4 %) than earnings before taxes (– 11.3 %). than in the previous year. Thus, total output of operations grew faster than sales revenue, totalling € 2,151.4 million, or Earnings attributable to non-controlling interest fell from 10.1 % above the 2010 figure (€ 1,953.8 million). € 12.5 million to € 11.3 million, but remained virtually unchanged relative to earnings after income taxes (13.6 % Change in cost structure compared with 13.9 % in the previous year). The cost of materials increased by 15.4 % due to factors such as rising purchase prices in the supply markets. The increase At € 72.0 million, earnings attributable to shareholders of was therefore greater than the change in total output of operaKSG AG were thus 7.1 % lower than in the previous year tions (+ 10.1 %). The figure of € 913.0 million is equivalent (€ 77.4 million). to 42.4 % of the total output of operations (previous year: 40.5 %). Earnings per share Earnings per ordinary share were € 40.95, compared with Staff costs rose by 7.4 % to € 698.0 million in absolute terms. € 44.09 in the previous year, and € 41.21 per preference In relation to total output of operations, this meant a decrease share, compared with € 44.35 in 2010. of 0.9 percentage points to 32.4 %. Reasons for the absolute increase included collectively agreed salary increases and the Profit situation at parent company KSB AG higher number of employees, especially following the first-time KSB AG generated pre-tax earnings (under HGB ) of consolidations. However, the workforce of KSB AG also € 36.5 million, around 8 % less than the prior-year figure increased in size as part of strategy projects, as did the work(€ 39.8 million). Taking into account the taxes to be paid, the net profit for the year amounted to € 29.4 million after 32 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT € 27.9 million in 2010. Sales revenue was up by 4.2 %, and The Business Unit Valves reported 5.1 % more orders and total output of operations by 6.3 %. Higher costs, especially a 1.3 % increase in sales revenue. EBIT, at € 2.5 million, was material costs, and the high pressure on prices impacted well below the figure for the previous financial year of on earnings in the annual financial statements of the parent € 10.1 million. Price pressure in the project business has company, as in the consolidated financial statements. increased in this segment too. Stable dividend The Business Unit Service posted strong growth, with order With earnings after taxes at prior-year levels, we will be intake up 15.9 % and sales revenue up 16.8 %. EBIT grew proposing to the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012 from € 30.5 million to € 42.8 million. It should be noted that the distribution of a dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share special charges had a negative impact on prior-year earnings. and € 12.26 per preference share (including a preference dividend right of € 0.26), as in the previous year. FINANCIAL POSITION Principles and objectives of financial management Segment results Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its In line with our management and reporting structures, our duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by segment reporting format is by business unit. the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of In the Business Unit Pumps, orders were down 0.4 % year on our business. The aim of our financial management is to ensure year. Sales revenue rose by 5.6 %. We generated EBIT of liquidity at all times and to finance our activities at optimum € 81.9 million (compared with € 121.6 million in 2010) due conditions. In financing our export business, we hedge foreign to the significant price pressure on project orders. exchange and credit risks to the greatest extent possible. COS T S TRU C TU R E I N I N C OME STAT EMENT (in %) 2011 18.8 2.5 34.1 44.6 2010 18.6 2.6 35.5 43.3 Other operating expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense Staff costs Cost of materials BAL AN C E S H E E T S T RU C TU R E Assets (in %) 1.2 2011 4.6 21.8 2.0 21.5 33.4 15.5 2010 2.6 21.5 3.6 17.4 32.1 21.9 0.9 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Equity and liabilities (in %) 2011 44.0 20.1 35.9 2010 44.4 23.0 32.6 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 33 Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s We continuously improve our receivables management Equity methods with the goal of settling our outstanding amounts The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 869.1 million by their due dates. (€ 825.6 million). This includes KSB AG’s subscribed capital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. The capital reserve Hedging financial risks remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves total Our primary tool for minimising the foreign exchange risks € 642.0 million (previous year: € 602.5 million), including inherent in our export business are currency forwards. This the proportion of earnings after taxes attributable to shareapplies both to transactions already recognised and to future holders of KSB AG of € 72.0 million (previous year: € 77.4 cash flows from orders on hand that are still being processed. million). € 115.6 million (previous year: € 111.6 million) are We transact most of our foreign currency business in US dolattributable to non-controlling interest. Due to the significant lars. There is only a relatively low level of foreign currency € 112.8 million (6.1 %) rise in total equity and liabilities, the liabilities. equity ratio declined slightly (44.0 %; previous year: 44.4 %). We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the Non-controlling interest mainly relates to KSB Pumps Limited, procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by India (€ 37.0 million), PAB GmbH, Germany (€ 18.1 million), agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price GIW Industries, Inc., USA (€ 12.2 million), KSB Shanghai contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in Pump Co. Ltd., China (€ 11.8 million), KSB America Corporaour sales price. tion, USA (€ 11.6 million) and SISTO Armaturen S.A., Luxembourg (€ 5.6 million). We limit the risk of default by taking out credit insurance, arranging advance and partial payments, and agreeing bank Liabilities guarantees. To ensure long-term liquidity, we agree on payThe largest item under liabilities are provisions for employee ment terms and conditions with our customers in the project benefits, including, also as the largest item, pension provibusiness that reflect the cost trend curves of order completion sions. These were increased by 5.0 % to € 257.7 million as at as far as possible. the reporting date. A large number of the pension plans currently in use in the KSB Group are defined benefit models. We take account of the risks from short-term fluctuations in We will be reducing the associated risks, such as democash flows by agreeing sufficient lines of credit with our banks. graphic changes, inflation and salary increases, for example In order to be able to provide the necessary collateral in the by introducing defined contribution plans for new employees. project business, corresponding guarantee volumes are also made available. Adequate proportions are confirmed for a Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of period of more than one year. Our credit and guarantee lines employees who have left the company account for just over are around € 959 million (previous year: around € 888 half of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest million). relates to defined benefit obligations for our current employees, who have an average remaining working life of about 13 years. Unless explicitly stated otherwise, the following comments on the financial situation relate to the published prior-year The remaining provisions for employee benefits, which, in figures. contrast to pension provisions, are predominantly current, fell slightly from € 134.9 million to € 133.6 million. 34 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Other provisions include non-current components of € 16.9 milLiquidity lion (previous year: € 15.6 million) for warranty obligations. The KSB Group’s net financial position, i. e. the difference The excess relates to provisions for mainly current uncertain between interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand and liabilities. financial liabilities on the other, declined from € 293.0 million to € 187.0 million. Contributing factors were increased Non-current liabilities fell significantly from € 109.6 million to spending on financial assets and the funds provided to finance € 61.7 million. The reason for this was in particular the early working capital following the increase in business volume. redemption of part of a loan against borrower’s note that we had taken out in 2009 in order to secure the liquidity of the Sources and application of funds Group in the event of a prolonged financial crisis. Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 36.3 million, a year-on-year decrease of € 125.8 million. Cash Current liabilities increased significantly. The growing business flows were impacted by the reduction in earnings and a larger volume resulted in an increase in trade payables (€ + 24.9 milamount of funds tied up in inventories. Resources were lion) and advance payments received (€ + 29.3 million). Finanfreed up primarily through an increase both in liabilities and cial liabilities were € 46.1 million higher than in the previous advances received from customers. year. This is attributable to the current tranche (€ 12.5 million) of the remaining loan against borrower’s note and the The volume of our investment activity increased compared financing of the acquisition of the South Korean valve company. with the previous year, primarily due to the acquisition in As the increase is greater than the increase in total equity South Korea, leading to total cash flows of € – 102.7 million and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in total equity (previous year: € – 91.6 million). increased to 25.8 % (previous year: 21.8 %). Cash flows from financing activities changed from € – 88.3 Contingencies and commitments million to € – 35.9 million due to the repayment of bank loans. The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities In 2010 the repayment of bank loans had a significantly greattotalled € 10.9 million as at the reporting date (previous year: er effect than in 2011. € 13.3 million). These arise mainly from collateral and performance guarantees. The KSB Group’s cash and cash equivalents from all cash flows together fell from € 407.6 million to € 305.7 million There are no other extraordinary obligations and commit(including € 16.6 million of cash used to secure credit balances ments beyond the reporting date. Other obligations and comfor partial retirement obligations, which is available for mitments fall within the scope of what is needed to continue immediate use at any time, after € 18.9 million the previous business operations, such as obligations from long-term year), although this includes changes in exchange rates. rental, lease and services agreements (in particular information technology and telecommunications) and from purchase We assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to meet commitments. our outgoing payments largely from operating cash flow. From today’s perspective, we are therefore not planning any additional external financing measures. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 35 Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s NE T A S S E T S The investments in financial assets amounting to € 11.9 million Unless explicitly stated otherwise, the following comments on related primarily to small start-ups in Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia, net assets relate to the published prior-year figures. Peru and Saudi Arabia. In addition, we carried out a cash capital increase with our local partner in a company in China Our total assets rose by 6.1 % to € 1,974.1 million. This is where we hold a minority share. Taking into account the mainly due to an increase in non-current assets, higher invenopposing effects of the first-time consolidation, the carrying tories as well as an increase in receivables and other assets. amount of financial assets fell by € 25.8 million to € 40.1 milIn contrast, cash and cash equivalents decreased. The abovelion. mentioned first-time consolidations also have to be taken into account (these resulted in an effect of € 53.5 million). Due to the increased business volume, also reflected in the higher total output of operations, and the first-time consoliAround 28 % is attributable to fixed assets, as in the previous dations, inventories increased by 31.0 % to € 425.1 million. year. However, the first-time consolidations caused shifts They tied up around 22 % of our resources. This is a signifibetween the goodwill reported under intangible assets and cant increase year on year (17 %), due to the fact there was the financial assets. relatively little change in total assets. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with a As a result of the increased sales revenue, in particular in the historical cost of € 1,076.7 million (previous year: € 968.5 millast quarter, trade receivables were € 34.4 million above the lion) have carrying amounts of € 520.5 million (previous figure at the end of the previous year. Along with an increase year: € 449.4 million). The acquisition of our new South in orders on hand of around € 40 million (€ 1.2 billion at Korean valve company and the first-time consolidations of the end of 2011), the value of customer orders in progress, older KSB companies in the year under review resulted in measured according to the percentage-of-completion method goodwill increasing by € 38.3 million. but not including PoC advance payments, increased by € 13.5 million. As a result, receivables and other current assets Investments in property, plant and equipment in 2011 amountmade up around 33 % of total assets (previous year: around ed to € 62.3 million, slightly below the prior-year figure of 32 %), taking into account the change in the total assets. € 67.8 million, but still in excess of depreciation (€ 45.7 million after € 44.7 million in 2010). The highest additions at € 19.5 Cash and cash equivalents account for around 16 % of assets million (previous year: € 21.0 million) again relate to other (previous year: approx 22 %). This was attributable to the equipment, operating and office equipment. The focus of our early redemption of a part of the loan against borrower’s note, investment activities remained the Region Europe, predomiexpenditure for acquisitions and the provision of funds to nantly Germany and France. Outside Europe, the highest finance working capital following the increase in business additions were made at our plants in Brazil, China, India and volume. the USA. We maintained our policies for measuring depreciation and amortisation in the year under review. 36 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Inflation and exchange rate effects A bonus of no more than three months’ salary per financial There are no consolidated companies within the Group year may also be paid at the discretion of the Supervisory whose financial statements were required to be adjusted for Board in recognition of special performance by individual the effects of inflation. members of the Board of Management. Such decisions will be made on an irregular, i. e. not necessarily annual, basis. The translation of financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a difference DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT of € – 15.2 million (previous year: € + 39.1 million). This was Transactions made and measures taken in 2011 were mainly taken directly to equity. attributable to goods and services supplied to affiliated companies. KSB AG billed a total of € 289.7 million (previous year: S UMM A RY O F T H E E C ONOM I C SI TUATI ON OF THE GROUP € 247.1 million) for these goods and services, and purchased At the end of 2011, the economic situation of the KSB Group goods and services from affiliated companies for a total value was stable at a high level. We consider this a good basis for of € 99.8 million (previous year: € 92.3 million). achieving continued business success in the coming years. The Board of Management has submitted the dependent PR INC I P L E S O F R E M U NER ATI ON SYSTEM FOR THE company report to the Supervisory Board. This concludes with ME MB E R S O F T H E B OAR D OF M ANAGEM ENT the following declaration: “In accordance with section 312(3) The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], of fixed and variable components. The amount of the fixed we declare that our company – on the basis of the circumremuneration is governed primarily by the function and stances known to us at the time when the transactions were responsibility assigned to the member of the Board of Manmade or the measures were either taken or not taken – received agement. The fixed remuneration component consists of a adequate compensation and was not disadvantaged by the fixed sum plus benefits as well as pension commitments fact that the measures were either taken or not taken. No (retirement, occupational disability and widow’s and orphan’s measures were taken or omitted at the instigation or in the pension). The fixed basic salary is paid monthly; the benefits interest of the controlling enterprise or a company affiliated include the private use of a company car, coverage of insurwith the controlling enterprise.” ance premiums and any payments for a post-contractual restraint on competition. The variable remuneration compoINTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (DISCLOSURES PURSUA N T TO nent is linked to the return on sales for the financial year in SECTION 315(2), NO. 5 OF THE HGB) question. The Board members also receive variable remuneraOur internal control system (ICS) serves to ensure that regular tion components which serve as a long-term incentive. These financial reports and consolidated financial statements are depend on a consideration of the growth in earnings over properly prepared. Key elements of the ICS are – in addition a period of three years based on the economic added value to the risk management system that is described in detail method. elsewhere in this management report – guidelines and regulations which include, among other things, standard accountThe total amount of the variable components is limited, to ing and valuation policies. They must be applied to the full take account of extraordinary, unforeseeable developments. extent by all Group companies. There is a clear separation of No stock options or other share-based payment arrangements functions and the four-eye principle is applied. Reviews of our are granted to members of the Board of Management. Internal Audits departments ensure that this happens. Our M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 37 Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s accounting practices also include regular analytical plausibility checks using time series analyses and actual / budget variance analyses. These reviews enable us to identify significant changes early on, which we then examine for accounting and valuation discrepancies. The results are discussed at management level. Our ICS is subject to a continuous development and improvement process, and we are in regular contact with our auditors. We analyse current financial reporting issues together, such as, for example, announced changes to the accounting regulations. If it becomes necessary to adapt existing codes, guidelines or regulations or issue new ones, this is done promptly and communicated to the entire Group. Corporate Governance Declaration We will make our updated Corporate Governance Declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the HGB accessible to the public from 30 March 2012 at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance Declaration. In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 of the German Public Companies Act), the Corporate Governance Declaration includes relevant information on corporate governance practices applied at KSB AG that go beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the working methods of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the composition and working methods of the committees of the Supervisory Board. REP O RT O N P O S T-BALANC E SHEET DATE EVENTS No significant events occurred after the balance sheet date that would have a material effect on the company’s net assets, financial position and results of operations. 38 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT RESE ARCH A N D D E V E L O P M E N T New generation of standardised chemical pumps for the global market Higher levels of efficiency for flue gas desulphurisation pumps Energy-efficient solar and wind power applications Innovations are one of the key driving forces behind the POLYMER INSTEAD OF METAL growth of our company. We used 2011 as a further opporCoal is still one of the most important primary energy sources tunity to apply our expertise in the fields of hydraulics, across the world. However, today’s power plant operators are materials technology and automation so that we could develop increasingly having to rely on coal that contains higher levels new pumps, valves and control systems while also making of impurities. As a result, there is a higher proportion of improvements to our existing products. 462 members of staff problematic pollutants in the flue gases produced during burnfrom across the Group were involved in research and develing, particularly sulphur dioxide. What this means for both opment activities (previous year: 422), and we spent € 42 milnew power stations and older facilities alike is that they need lion (previous year: € 41 million) on R&D. Our development efficient flue gas desulphurisation systems that feature special staff also worked on customised designs, which are geared to pumps for pumping the lime milk suspensions. the specific requirements of our customers. To remain successful within the extremely competitive flue S TA NDA R DI S E D C H E M I C AL P UM P S gas scrubber pump market, we have to stay one step ahead in F OR T H E G L O BA L M A R KET terms of technology. It was for this reason that we developed At ACHEMA 2012, the world’s largest process industry trade our highly wear-resistant impellers for the KWP® type series fair, we will be presenting a new generation of standardised during the year under review. Apart from one metallic turned chemical pumps. By the end of 2011, the development phase for part, these are made entirely from a ceramic / polymer comthese pumps had largely been completed. The new MegaCPK posite. To ensure the necessary strength, this material requires is the natural progression from our internationally successful that the shrouds and vanes be considerably more substantial. CPK ®, CPKN and Megachem® type series. Thanks to the Our flow dynamics experts and designers took up the chaltechnical innovations we have introduced, this new pump lenge and used computer-based simulations to create impellers generation achieves what we consider to be exemplary levels that demonstrated an efficiency level of more than 91 % durof energy efficiency and operating reliability. These enhanceing hydraulic testing. The first 24 pumps featuring these new ments were largely down to improvements in terms of the components are destined for a power plant in South Africa. hydraulic and structural design. In part, these were achieved by applying finite element analysis , a modern calculation MATERIALS KNOWLEDGE FOR DEVELOPERS method for structural simulation. AND DESIGNERS The composition of materials for pumps and valves is stipuPR OT EC T I N G I M P E L L ER S AGAI NST C AVI TATI ON lated at both a regional and national level in the form of variEvery year, the physical effect of cavitation causes considerous codes and standards. As a manufacturer with a global able damage to pumps all around the world. Although casing presence, we are required to take account of whichever of and impeller design measures can be used to reduce this cause these are applicable. To ensure that our designers and develof wear, they cannot eliminate it completely. That is why we opers are kept constantly up to date, we have put together a are working hard to explore metallic coatings that will make database during the year under review. In addition to the apour impellers cope even better with the destructive forces of plicable codes, regulations and standards, this contains all the vapour bubble implosion. In the year under review, we have details concerning the chemical, physical and mechanical extended our cavitation research facilities by adding an properties of our pump and valve materials. This means that ultrasonic test stand. The new testing facility allows us to we can make the materials knowledge we have accumulated expose specimens made from various materials to extremely over decades available to KSB staff all around the world. high levels of stress. In this way, we can quickly determine They can use it to develop pumps or valves that are suitable whether it would make sense to subject a material to further for the specific application concerned or to provide their tests, thereby speeding up the process of selecting materials customers with the best advice about materials when the for new developments. products are put to practical use. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 39 Re se arch and D e ve lopme nt The first pumps to feature extremely hard-wearing polymer impellers were produced for a flue gas desulphurisation system in South Africa. NE W P N E U M AT I C AC TUATOR FOR VALVES to expand our specialist knowledge and to turn our business In various sectors of industry, there is growing demand for ideas into successful products on the basis of new technologies. an automatic control valve that is both robust and easy to maintain. We are able to accommodate these requirements with CONTROL SYSTEMS FOR SOLAR AND WIND POWER P L A N TS our renowned BOA-CVE type series, which we expanded In 2011, we dedicated some of our development activities in in 2011 by introducing a pneumatic actuator variant plus the field of automation technology to finding ways of making associated accessories. Nowadays, operators of modern plants solar and wind energy applications more efficient. We are tend to use automation options even for valves that used to introducing special switching and control systems to supplebe actuated manually. Given that most industrial plants have ment our range of technical pump and valve components access to an extensive supply of compressed air, it makes for plants that convert regenerative energy into electricity. sense to use this for actuation. The new unit rounds off our range of control valves and is primarily intended for shutting This means that we can now offer our customers control elecoff pipes that carry water and steam. tronics for solar power plants that are able to increase the electrical energy yield by at least 5 %. The automation equipS TA RTU P P R O J E CTS AND C OOP ER ATI ON ment solves the problem of electricity generation being WI T H U N I V E R S I T I ES impeded by the fact that some parts of a solar panel are in To cater to conventional applications, we focus on the further the shade and the control system always has to set the pace development of existing type series or bring new products to according to these “weakest links in the chain”. By using market. Alongside these activities, we work on forward-looking appropriate electronics, it is now possible to control each solar solutions that allow us to open up new market sectors. To panel group separately. As a result, each individual group is do so, we sometimes go beyond our core areas of pump and always able to function at the optimum operating point indevalve technology. The work is done by small start-up teams pendently of all the others. In this way, the negative effects made up of various nationalities. We are constantly adding new of being in the shade can be minimised and the energy yield blood to these teams by recruiting from universities. The of the entire plant can be increased. project teams are tasked with taking innovative products and services from the initial idea right through to the point where A similar problem is encountered in wind power applications. they are ready to be launched on the market. We currently The power electronics of many plants have to shut down if the have 6 of our employees and 20 external members from grid voltage fluctuates so as to avoid damage. This is primarily universities working in these teams. The main focus of their the case at locations where there is no powerful and stable work is on renewable energies as well as water treatment power grid to serve as the basic supply. Consequently, even if and process engineering. the wind conditions are adequate, entire wind farms may have to shut down in the event of grid stability problems. That is Aside from these start-up projects, we are also committed why we have started to develop some control software and to cooperating with leading universities, public research instiswitching circuitry that will allow wind power plant operators tutions and partner companies. Within this context, we are to feed their electricity even into weak grids. Using these involved in joint projects focusing on hydraulics, materials products should lead to a significant reduction in the payback technology and automation. The 100 or so of these cooperaperiod for wind power plants in the near future. We have tive projects that are running across the globe are helping us scheduled initial tests to take place in China in 2012. 40 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT EMP L OYE E S First-time consolidations increase Group headcount KSB internal pump technology course Communication on corporate values expanded To remain a global technology leader, we rely on the comAs a result of demographic changes and our own high demitment and the performance of our employees. We create mand for skilled workers, we have in recent years continuspace for their ideas, team spirit and desire for continuous ally increased the number of commercial and technical improvement. Our collaboration is based on the values of trainee positions that we offer. In Germany, we are currently trust, honesty, responsibility, professionalism and appreciapreparing 406 young people for later employment in the tion. company. Together with vocational colleges, we provide our trainees with technical, methodological and social skills S TA F F N U M B E R S I N C REASED B Y 6 .6 % and abilities. We continually invest in our training workshop The number of employees in the Group as at 31 December machinery so that apprentices train on state-of-the-art 2011 increased by 977 year on year to 15,674. This 6.6 % machining equipment. In the year under review we spent a increase was primarily due to companies consolidated total of € 8.4 million on vocational training in Germany. for the first time in 2011. These new Group companies employed 532 individuals at year-end. KSB AG in Germany To cover our own future engineering needs, we take on gradutoo increased its headcount by 91, partly in order to be able ates from universities or universities of applied sciences, as to implement ongoing and planned strategic projects. well as trainee engineers on combined vocational training and degree programmes. In Germany, 63 young people are curNE W H R P L A N N I N G METHOD OLOGY I NTR OD UC ED rently completing a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineerTo be able to implement our Group strategy and achieve ing or business administration while working for KSB. our corporate goals, we need to work out our future staffing needs as precisely as possible and ensure that these are met If permitted by the local training system, we also offer this in good time. For this reason, we have developed a strategic dual work / study system at sites outside Germany. In 2011 human resources planning method and applied it for the first for the first time, Luxembourg-based SISTO Armaturen S.A., time in the year under review. We use it to determine current the Trier University of Applied Sciences, the Education staff numbers for all KSB’s areas of activities, and compare Ministry of Luxembourg and the local Chamber of Commerce these numbers with anticipated requirements for the coming signed a cooperation agreement for a dual work / study years. Significant planning factors include the area-specific programme. This five-year degree course combines production growth targets, the age range and skills and qualifications of technology studies with a vocational training in mechatronics our workforce, and the staff numbers needed to lead our at SISTO Armaturen S.A. planned strategic projects for the years up to 2018 to success. Based on the collected data, we develop HR management GLOBAL E-LEARNING SUPPORTS TRAINING measures early on, ranging from education and training to AND DEVELOPMENT refilling and creating new positions. We aim to continuously develop the skills of our staff, and thereby prepare them for new and challenging tasks. At the E NH A N C I N G O U R P R O FI LE AS AN same time we need to ensure that they keep their knowledge INT E R N AT I O N A L E M P LOY ER up to date and adapt to the changes in their daily work. Competition for the best skilled staff and executives has The range of courses offered by our TrainingCenter and indiintensified, especially in our home market of Europe. We have vidual KSB companies provides broad coverage for our therefore also started to look for experienced professionals requirements and is supplemented with external seminars and specialists in other regions, to be deployed at our European where necessary. sites. In order to be globally attractive to potential applicants, we are raising our profile as an international employer with Our internal training programme includes foreign language global deployment capabilities. and IT courses, business and technical training courses, as well as personal development and health management events. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 41 Employe e s The corporate culture at KSB is shaped by the organisation’s clearly defined values. Staff also have an opportunity to discuss what these values mean within the context of day-to-day business with Board of Management members such as Dr. Peter Buthmann (right). E-learning is playing an ever-increasing role in our training KSB values and were conducted by external facilitators. At portfolio. It allows employees to receive training via their Halle, Pegnitz and Shanghai events were also held at which workplace computers or even at home. “Electronic learning” a member of the Board of Management spoke with employees is particularly suitable for KSB because our global organisaabout the importance of these values for KSB’s success, tional structure prohibits us from offering all events in a classand how employees experience them in their everyday work. room training format for mobility and cost reasons. Since October 2011, all e-learning courses have been available Strong leadership is important for our corporate culture. The throughout the Group on the “KSB E-Academy” Internet “Value-based Leadership – Leading Professionally with the platform. KSB Values” training course has therefore been integrated into our series of seminars entitled “Leadership and Management”. In the year under review we included for the first time the At this seminar, which is mandatory for managers of all levinternally developed course entitled “Pump Applications els and regions, participants learn how to perform their manProfessional”. This is a one-year course for engineers and agement duties based on our values in line with our technicians on pump technology and its applications. In corporate culture. 2011, 22 employees enrolled for this KSB course. OUR EMPLOYEES ARE HIGHLY MOTIVATED We use various IT systems to serve our customers quickly In 2011, our employees introduced new processes and sysand individually. These help us collect the necessary data tems at many KSB sites. They initiated and implemented and process and coordinate all customer-oriented processes. strategic projects and set up manufacturing and sales faciliAt the end of 2010 we launched our Customer Relationship ties, often taking on these tasks in addition to their daily Management (CRM) system. This tool supports Marketing, work. At the same time, they succeeded in retaining the conSales and Service in creating and updating all the information fidence of our customers in KSB through their work in their needed for working and maintaining contact with our core activities, thereby ensuring the continued success of the customers. In the year under review we trained around 1,800 company. employees in 13 countries in the CRM system. The Board recognises this achievement and is proud of CO R P O R AT E C U LT UR E AND LEAD ER SHI P SKI LLS the commitment shown. A special thanks also goes to the STRENGTHENED members of the employee representative committees, including To further shape and develop our corporate culture, both the Executives’ Committee, for their constructive cooperation employees and managers need to focus on what is required to based on mutual trust. act in accordance with the values. Various training courses and communication forums are available for this purpose. Around 100 managers and 900 employees participated in our international value dialogues, which focused on core 42 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT COR PORAT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B ILIT Y Environmental protection strengthened in Brazil, China and India Continued focus on energy consumption Continuing involvement in academic education KSB feels a special responsibility towards its employees, the the entire roof runoff of the buildings. This system will allow environment and society. We take this responsibility seriously, us to harvest more than 16 million gallons of rainwater annuand make every effort to contribute to a functional social ally, with the water being used for sanitary facilities, etc. and economic environment. One particular focus for us is the improvement of the education of children and adolescents, In 2011 we also implemented a measure to reduce water but we also act wherever necessary in response to humanitarconsumption at our pump factory in Shanghai. We have ian emergencies in other regions of the world. redesigned the cooling system of the test facilities so that the water is now reused in a closed cycle, as in other locations. In 2010 KSB committed itself to the ten principles of the Global Compact . This UN pact with companies around the In 2011 we completed construction of our new valve factory world aims to bring about a higher level of social and in Changzhou, China, reducing production noise to a minieconomic justice. By endorsing these principles, we also mum by using a range of suitable materials and disposing of undertake to protect human rights, comply with mandatory all pollutant-containing production waste, such as that generlabour standards, actively implement environmental protecated during product painting, in an environmentally respontion measures and conduct our business with integrity at all sible manner. our company sites. Our standards and behaviour go beyond the minimum requirements laid down in the Global Compact We want our new manufacturing facility in Jundiaí in Brazil, and, when it comes to the application of ethical standards, which we began building in 2011, to be another model our sights are set even higher. plant in terms of its ecological objectives. Here we are working with an external partner to implement high environmental NO NE U R O P E A N P L A NTS SET ENVI R ONM ENTAL and occupational health and safety standards. These will S TA NDA R DS include keeping the emissions from our manufacturing facility As a manufacturing company, KSB considers environmental as low as possible and creating a pleasant and healthy enviprotection to be of particular importance. This applies to the ronment for employees. Once construction work is complete, consumption of raw materials and energy, as well as to we will seek environmental certification. production conditions and the environmental compatibility of our products. ENERGY MANAGEMENT FOR PERMANENT SAVINGS In Europe too, we see a great deal of potential for operating Wherever we modernise or build new plants, we design our in a more environmentally friendly and efficient manner, and production facilities to prevent emissions, to use fresh water are therefore also seeking improvements here. In the year sparingly, and to protect employees and residents from noise under review, for example, we introduced an energy manageand pollution. In 2011 this applied primarily to plants in ment system in Germany and France with the aim of permaIndia, China and Brazil. In the interests of economic sustainnently and systematically reducing energy consumption at ability, we also use renewable energies at several sites. our sites. Measures include improving the energy efficiency of buildings, replacing inefficient equipment, and critically Our manufacturing facility in Nashik, India, serves as a model reviewing IT systems to reduce their power consumption. for other KSB plants. In 2011 we built a biogas plant that is used to generate some of the electricity required by the facility, We have for the first time prepared a comprehensive internal and later on this year, the facility will also be supplied with report for our German sites, listing areas besides energy electricity generated by the wind turbines and solar plants we consumption where significant environmental progress has began constructing last year. In addition, we have installed a been achieved. Continuing this reporting will enable us to local rainwater harvesting system, which now collects almost evaluate and interpret our environmental activities more M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 43 Corporate S ocia l Re sponsibil i ty In 2011, we were awarded the “Green Globe” certificate in recognition of our trade fair stand. Among other things, this demonstrates our commitment to the responsible use of resources. systematically in the future. The latest report is already SOCIAL COMMITMENT AIMS AT BETTER EDUCATIO N helping us selectively improve our environmental management As a company we see it as our duty to play an active role in and identify weak points which need to be addressed. The our regional environment, which includes activities such as document allows us for the first time to make reliable involvement in initiatives and associations that pursue social statements about all the carbon dioxide emissions generated concerns. The focus of our social commitment is the educaby our manufacturing processes, which means that we tion of children and adolescents, who we see as our employcan use this information to create carbon footprints for our ees of the future. products, something which is increasingly of interest to customers. As a founding member of the “Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland e.V.” (Knowledge Factory – Companies for “G R E E N ” E X H I B I TI ON STAND I N USE WOR LDWI D E Germany), we help schools and kindergartens awaken young We don’t just demonstrate environmental awareness at our people’s interest in science and technology at an early stage. own sites. We also set standards at the national and internaWe provide learning materials for experiments and practical tional trade fairs we attend to promote our company. KSB is exercises, and help educators and teachers put these into use. the first mechanical engineering company to be awarded We also support early-childhood language development with the “Green Globe” certificate for its trade fair stand. It aca story-telling project. We are delighted that not only current knowledges that we reduced waste to a minimum, mainly employees, but former employees too are involved in such used recyclable materials, and passed on any unconsumed activities. foodstuffs to the needy. Our stand in 2011 therefore symbolised the responsible use of consumer goods. In Brazil we have been supporting a programme for more than a decade that prepares young people for the job market. CO M M I T M E N T TO ENER GYEFFI C I ENT SYSTEM S At four locations, we are supporting more than 40 young The demand for products that consume as little energy as people who have had very little or no education due to their possible and that therefore have lower operating costs is origin. Participants in this programme gain work experience growing both for economic and ecological reasons. We also in our company and also attend school. Our goal is to enable visit operators of hydraulic pump systems to highlight these young people to take up a job and earn their own ways in which their energy consumption could be reduced. livelihood. Our experts look at the entire system, provide technical advice, and adjust individual components so that no energy is In Asia, we help educate children with the KSB CARE aid wasted. Since pumps are among the largest electricity confund, providing financial support to schools in China, India, sumers around, such measures not only help customers cut Thailand and Vietnam. In Myanmar we provide scholarships costs, but also contribute significantly to reducing overall to children from poor families to attend school. energy consumption in society. 44 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Our charitable activities primarily involve initiatives and ACTING RESPONSIBLY, REQUIRING RESPONSIBILITY facilities for children, young people and socially disadvantaged In our relations with our suppliers and service providers or groups. However, we also respond wherever necessary to our customers, we tolerate no misconduct of any kind – for disaster situations in which victims require immediate help. example, in the form of personal benefits or undue influence. In such cases we provide funds or material goods, generally Before they can comply with the rules, however, our employconveyed to those in need by our local subsidiaries. ees need to know what these are. For this reason, we have developed an e-learning programme for use this year that will We are especially proud of our employees who also support make employees aware of the relevant legal issues at the those in need in a personal capacity. This includes those workplace and will also cover compliance issues such as preworking for the company in the affected countries and elseventing corruption and anti-trust / anti-cartel legislation. where. KSB employees, for example, donated money and gifts in kind to the victims of the natural and nuclear disaster We also believe our business partners carry a responsibility in Fukushima, to the flood victims in Thailand, and to those for meeting social, economic and environmental standards. threatened by starvation in East Africa. As a signatory to the Global Compact, KSB is committed to ensuring that its business partners also comply with the HE A LT H P R OT E C T I O N R EQUI R ES P R EVENTI ON ten principles formulated therein. Our buyers therefore make The health of our employees is important to us. As well as sure that they only commission suppliers and service prooccupational medical check-ups, we also use specific prevenviders who adhere to these basic standards. We have adapted tion programmes and sports to maintain the health and our purchasing terms and conditions to reflect this and vitality of our workforce. We also provide counselling services prepared a guide that explains our expectations of our partto assist employees in difficult situations, for example with ners in the supply chain. problems such as addictions. The health-promoting measures – which range from flu shots to subsidised memberships By encouraging our partners to observe ethical and legal of sports clubs – vary by location, reflecting local needs and standards, we can promote socially acceptable and sustainpossibilities. able economic activities beyond our own corporate confines, with the aim of setting a positive example. Prevention measures call for continuity. In Germany around 400 employees are currently participating in an ongoing programme set up in 2010 to prevent disorders of the musculoskeletal system among office workers. Each day participants receive short tutorials via the Internet containing physical exercises they can perform at their desks to prevent such disorders. In 2011 we expanded this programme to include eye-muscle training exercises. Prevention is also the aim of a health programme for trainees that in 2011 we made even more practical. It aims at increasing awareness of health issues among young employees by teaching them ways of ensuring that the mental or physical strains to which they are exposed at work do not impair their health. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 45 Corporate S ocia l Re sponsibil i ty Risk Ma na ge me nt RI S K M ANAG E M E N T Continued price pressure in project business Intensified competition in emerging countries Adaptation to changes in the energy market As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the Controlling and Finance and Accounting also perform imKSB Group is exposed to both global and regional risks. We portant monitoring tasks when it comes to the management need to be aware of these risks before we can responsibly of opportunities and risks. Accounting is responsible for pursue the opportunities present in our markets. In our Risk preparing the annual and consolidated financial statements, Management Manual we defined the task of management according to subprocesses clearly defined in advance. as being the continual identification and assessment of risks, and the reporting of these to Group headquarters. Managers We describe, assess and communicate risks which adversely are also encouraged to take timely measures to prevent or limit affect our net assets, financial position or results of operathe damage that can result from the occurrence of risk events. tions and our reputation in line with the following categories: Our risk policy reflects our declared ambition to grow sustainMARKET / COMPETITION ably and profitably. We want to recognise the dangers that Now that the global financial and economic crisis has subsided, threaten the success of the company or its continued existence at our markets have largely recovered. In our general business, an early stage. For this we use various risk management and production output has already returned to pre-crisis levels. In control systems. Our strategic corporate planning, analysis project business, however, we are dependent on sectors with of early warning indicators and our internal reporting system long investment cycles, where there is currently still a reluctance all provide us with vital information. to award contracts. Because of the overcapacity that continues to exist on the supply side and the resulting intense competiIn line with the organisational and accountability structure at tion, the pressure on our products’ selling prices is ongoing, a KSB, the managers of individual units – such as the Business situation that could worsen due to the current uncertainty in Units, Corporate Functions and Group companies – are all the market and in particular the European financial crisis. It is involved with risk management. They are under the obligaalso conceivable that future economic developments will again tion, among other things, to supply the business and financial affect our general business. There is a risk that demand will indicators for which they are responsible on a monthly basis. fall and our sales revenue will grow more slowly than expectEach quarter they also provide an assessment of the anticied. We will counter possible negative impacts on our earnings pated business development for the following 18 months, and with measures to improve our margins. twice a year report all recognised risks to Group headquarters. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board receive The demand for pumps and valves for power plants, as well a risk report based on this information at least twice a year. as for related services, is determined by the global demand for energy and by environmental policy decisions. Especially in The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk Germany, the power plant market will be altered by the energy management system as part of our control system. It regularly transition policies ushered in by the federal government. We checks whether all operating units are complying with the are set to lose business volume in terms of the products and guidelines and are actively contributing to the identification services supplied to operators of nuclear power plants, and and assessment of impending risks. To allow them to study will need to compensate for this loss by increasing our sales the highest risk units, auditors are granted access to Group of pumps and valves in other areas, such as that of renewable headquarters data. As part of their audit, they ensure that energies. Where this substitution is associated with higher costs, the operating unit managers observe the defined rules and take it may have a negative effect on earnings. part in risk management. In addition, there are delays in China and India in the conInformation obtained by Internal Audits on both the recogstruction of new nuclear power plants. Because of the nuclear nised risks and the countermeasures introduced in response disaster in Fukushima, the authorities in China in particular forms an integral part of the reporting to the Board of have introduced additional safety checks. Management and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. 46 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT In the markets of the Middle East and North Africa, the Arab FINANCES / LIQUIDITY Spring has led to delays in the awarding of contracts, in Our strategic development encompasses acquisitions and the particular for major projects. While we believe that individual formation of joint ventures. The resulting integration of emprojects may be implemented this year, there is also the risk ployees, processes, technologies and products also harbours a of continued or widening conflict. Should demand continue to number of risks. If the harmonisation of structures and prostagnate, the development in the sub-Sahara region could to grammes does not take place within the planned time frames, some extent help us achieve our regional growth targets. this may result in financial burdens. Competition continues to grow in the BRIC countries, where, Project business can generate risks with regard to our liquidity. in some sectors, our competitors have more financial and As well as the continued pressure on our selling prices, technical resources. There are also local suppliers of pumps and which reduces our profit margins, these risks include more valves, some of which have more favourable cost structures. stringent contractual terms and conditions, such as lower We have implemented a number of strategic measures to open advances or down-payments and tougher contractual penalties. up these markets yet further and defend our existing market We counter this risk by carefully monitoring the approval share. Awareness of our brand is helping us in these countries, processes in the quotation phase and constantly keeping an in which we have been active for decades. The changing eye on our net financial position, which enables us to avoid competitive situation may however still delay our planned liquidity shortages. If necessary, we ensure sufficient liquidity growth and reduce our market share. by agreeing lines of credit for the affected companies in good time. PR OJ E C T S / P R O DU C T S The fact that our staff are trained in project management We use foreign exchange hedges to reduce the risks from means that they are able to recognise the risks associated with transactions involving different currencies. These are generally our strategic projects at an early stage. This applies equally currency forwards, which we use both for transactions that to risks arising from the acquisition of major orders from our have already been recognised and for future cash flows from customers. We want to identify these risks before submitting orders still to be processed. We have concluded currency our quotation, and reduce them through targeted measures. forward contracts with external partners to cover foreign exOur project managers are supplied with the appropriate change risks from trade payables and receivables. Their management tools and all projects undergo clearly structured notional volume was € 148.0 million. approval processes. To prevent customer payment defaults, we have established a New designs involve both technical and financial risks. strict receivables management system and also take out trade We limit technical uncertainties by defining intermediate steps credit insurance. and subjecting partial solutions to close scrutiny. This also applies to the pumps which we will be supplying for a new type PROCUREMENT of power plant as part of a major Chinese order. We have recently been subjected to strong commodity price and procurement time fluctuations due to market volatility. We minimise the financial risks associated with the developWhere we are unable to compensate for cost increases or ment of user-specific products by drawing up appropriate pass them on to our customers, this could have a negative contracts with our customers. effect on our earnings. We are therefore actively seeking new, better value suppliers, especially in Asia, and are taking There are no known significant risks that could result from advantage of the larger purchase volumes that arise when we any technical problems with our products. pool the requirements of the various KSB plants. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 47 Risk Ma na ge me nt T E C H N O L O G Y / R ESEAR C H AND D EVELOP M ENT We counter this risk with demand-oriented measures, systemIt is essential to our future success that we have a product atic human resources planning and international recruitment and service range that is suited to the market in terms of processes. Where possible, we are training our own young technology, price and delivery time. The changing needs of talent, as well as contacting potential candidates at universiour customers and new standards and regulations make it ties and universities of applied sciences. necessary to continuously develop and improve our products and services. One of the areas that we are currently focusing on Our aim is to enable staff to reconcile the needs of family in this regard is the development of extremely energy-efficient and professional life, and this means that employees with products. children or family members requiring care should be able to continue working for us even when faced with onerous It is important to identify the market-related or technical personal commitments. For more senior staff we create conrisks early on in order to deploy the resources required for ditions that enable them to work for longer than in the innovations effectively. To this end, we have created and past. documented a development process that includes various levels of control. As sales employees are regularly included in this OTHER RISKS process, risks arising from intermittent changes in the markets The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to or application areas are incorporated into the assessment at serious commercial disadvantages. We minimise this risk an early stage. through secure access procedures and data backup systems. By centralising the IT systems of our various operating units, ENVIRONMENT we are able to achieve high security standards and reduce the Our production activities in particular are subject to numerous risk of data loss and corruption. Other possible risks associenvironmental protection laws and regulations. At all the ated with the work carried out by our staff include violations company’s sites specially assigned employees monitor compliof the law and dishonest behaviour that cause KSB finanance with laws and regulations as well as with KSB’s own cial loss and damage our reputation. We counter these risks internal rules, which in some cases exceed the prescribed enviby means of the aforementioned compliance training and by ronmental standards. When acquiring companies, we always ensuring compliance with the KSB Code of Conduct . examine existing sites prior to purchase for possible contamination. If we discover any contamination, we set aside proviOVERALL ASSESSMENT sions to pay for the necessary clean-up work. Overall, we did not identify any risks in the 2011 financial year that could significantly or permanently impair the net S TA F F assets, financial position, or results of operations. We need qualified personnel at all our sites if we are to achieve our ambitious growth and profitability targets, including technical specialists. Due to the demographic changes in some countries, the competition for highly qualified professionals is increasing and will intensify when the economy recovers. 48 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT REP ORT ON E X P E C T E D D E V E L OPMENT S Overall state of the economy holds many uncertainties Growth opportunities for order intake and sales revenue in all segments Consolidated earnings in 2012 expected to exceed prior-year levels MAR K E T DE V E L O P M ENT AND SALES OP P ORTUNI TI ES In the current year and in 2013 we expect to see generally The outlook for the global economy deteriorated in the second moderate growth in the market, with regional variations. A half of last year. Leading forecasters expect growth in the relapse into recession is possible, particularly in Europe. world economy to be significantly lower in 2012 than in the previous year. Pumps Should no economic downturn take place in 2012, we foresee The debt crisis has increased economic risks in the European a further increase in orders for standard pumps, based on countries in particular. Should the public finances in these industrial investment and construction activities. The growth countries worsen, this trend will also indirectly affect exportrate, however, is unlikely to be as high as in the previous oriented non-European countries such as China. year due to current economic developments. However, our general business sales initiatives could provide an additional The restrictive monetary policies introduced by most emerging boost to standard pump business in selected countries. In adeconomies to combat inflation will render them unable to dition, we will begin introducing an improved standardised maintain the same growth momentum as in 2011. In addition, chemical pump in the current year. It will initially be manubudgetary problems mean that comprehensive programmes to factured at two sites in 2012, and from 2013 at three sites stimulate economic growth in weaker economies are unlikely on different continents. to be implemented. The order situation for high-pressure pumps, chiefly used in power plant processes, is expected to remain difficult. It is unclear whether the growing worldwide demand for electrical GROS S D O M E S T I C P R O D U C T GR OW T H (WOR LD ) power can overcome the investment backlog. Countries World such as China and India will have no choice but to build ad2012 3.3 % (Forecast) ditional power generation capacity. However, the prices of 2011 3.8 % power plant pumps have fallen due to many manufacturers North America having overcapacity. As a result, we need to measure the 2012 1.8 % (Forecast) attractiveness of each order against our return expectations. 2011 1.8 % Latin America We expect demand to remain high in mining, where our 2012 3.6 % (Forecast) pumps are used for the hydraulic transport of solids, among 2011 4.6 % other things. In this market sector, mine operators are investEuropean Union ing in new plants and modernising existing open-cast and 2012 –0.1 % (Forecast) underground mines. The focus of these investments is in 2011 1.6 % South America and southern Africa, as well as in Canada’s Asia oil sands areas. But the mining industries in Australia, China 2012 7.3 % (Forecast) and Indonesia also offer interesting business prospects. 2011 7.9 % Source: International Monetary Fund M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 49 Re port on E xpe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts In 2012, we will be unveiling our new chemical pump series to a wider customer base at the ACHEMA trade fair. The growth in orders for submersible pumps, primarily used Valves by our customers for wells, sewage systems and building We also expect sales of globe valves, gate and butterfly valves drainage, looks set to continue. However, new water supply as well as related control and monitoring systems to increase. and waste water disposal projects generally depend on This applies in particular to our general business with standpublic-sector entities being willing to invest, who are currently ard valves for industrial and building services applications. In experiencing some financial difficulties. It remains uncertain the coming years we plan to continuously improve our marhow demand will develop in the countries of North Africa. ket presence in this business by developing and delivering Once the political situation there stabilises, deferred water new products. supply and agricultural irrigation projects could result in new orders, for instance orders for submersible borehole pumps Our new Chinese factory in Changzhou will help us tap the used in well fields. global valve market even better. The low-pressure valves manufactured there are supplied to customers in China, and We will increase the marketing of such pump sets, which are are also used to supply foreign markets with products at also needed for caverns, mines and domestic water supply competitive prices. systems, by means of special sales initiatives in promising markets. A new field of application for our pumps is in the We foresee good growth prospects for the marine market cooling systems of generators and transformers used in the in Asia and expect to receive more orders again for equipment construction of offshore wind energy plants. for tankers transporting liquefied natural gas. We are also using the contacts and range of our new South Korean comPump energy consumption will remain an important purpany KSB Seil Co., Ltd. to supply shipyards in South Korea, chasing criterion for cost-conscious customers. As part of our Japan and China with suitable cryogenic valves, actuators campaign for greater energy efficiency, we aim to convince and control systems. more and more users to take advantage of the demonstrably high savings potential in pump operation. Accordingly, we In our domestic market of Europe, we plan to focus our anticipate growing interest from customers in automation activities in those countries in which demand is growing or in products such as variable speed systems, diagnostic devices which our share of the valve market is still comparatively and high-efficiency motors . low. The intensification of our general business with standard globe, gate and butterfly valves in Europe is designed to Overall, we expect orders for pumps and related automation help offset the continued weak demand for power plant valves. equipment to grow in 2012 and 2013. 50 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Both this year and next we will be launching a range of Current business development is marked by the uncertainties application-specific products to achieve our growth targets described at the beginning of this section and in the Risk for the valves business. For instance, we are expanding our Management Report. If economic events significantly alter product range to include new valves for fire protection equipconditions in the regional markets, we may need to adapt ment, stainless steel gate valves for power stations, gate our planned activities as described below at short notice. valves, globe valves and check valves for liquefied gas plants, and heat transfer valves for solar thermal systems. In Europe addition, we are introducing improved electronic positioners We anticipate a moderate increase in European order intake for valves. for standard pumps and valves this year. In 2012, our general business with these products is expected to grow more Service than project business, backed up by targeted sales initiatives. We will continue to expand our service centres outside Project business is more dependent on financing possibilities Europe. We are creating new structures that will provide our and investor confidence in continued economic growth. We customers with fast, expert services and will focus this year are confident that the project business too will recover on the Region Asia / Pacific. The growing Chinese market in in 2013. particular offers good prospects when it comes to increasing the volume of our maintenance and repair service business. In Southern Europe in particular, it is unlikely that state and municipal authorities will be able to allocate major financial We will also strengthen our activities in the mining industry, resources to new water supply and waste water treatment particularly in Australia and Indonesia, where the demand facilities over the next two years. A reluctance to invest in for maintenance of slurry pumps is always high. Overall, we energy generation is likely throughout the whole of Western want to continue to improve our services in countries with Europe. It is not only financial considerations that are holding intensive mining activity. back investment but also the ongoing uncertainties about the energy mix that policy makers are seeking. A deterioration in economic conditions does not necessarily entail a decline in orders in the service market. This also applies to services relating to pumps and valves. Putting off GROSS DOMESTIC P RODUCT GROWTH (BRIC) investments in new plants can in fact result in an increase Brazil in the budgets for the maintenance of existing plants. Overall, 2012 3.0 % (Forecast) we anticipate the growth in our service business in 2012 to 2011 2.9 % be roughly equal to that of 2011. The 2013 financial year too Russia is expected to see growth. 2012 3.3 % (Forecast) 2011 4.1 % OU T L O O K F O R T H E G R OUP AND THE R EGI ONS India In 2012 and 2013, in line with our Group strategy, which 2012 7.0 % (Forecast) extends right up to 2018, we will expand our business in the 2011 7.4 % BRIC countries and other interesting markets. The relevant China Group companies will focus intensively on this task in addi2012 8.2 % (Forecast) tion to carrying out their daily business. A key element of our 2011 9.2 % strategic business development is strengthening our general business with standard pumps and valves, which we plan to achieve by targeting promising markets. Source: International Monetary Fund M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 51 Re port on E xpe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts KSB pumps with propellers (shown here during processing) are used around the globe for flood control and transporting waste water. By contrast we see good opportunities in project business in Asia / Pacific Eastern Europe, where we intend to establish a new company Despite the projected slowdown in the economy, the markets in Ukraine. Aiming to exploit the opportunities of the growing of the Region Asia / Pacific offer comparatively good prospects Russian market, we are opening two new service centres in for the sale of pumps, valves and services. In China, India Moscow and St. Petersburg. These will enable us to offer our and Indonesia we anticipate investment in water and waste Russian customers higher quality service for power plant water infrastructure, in which we will be able to participate. and water pumps. The same applies to new power plants in the large emerging economies and to the construction of new liquefied gas Middle East / Africa tankers in East Asian shipyards. In the Chinese market interThere is continued uncertainty concerning future political national orders for local power plant construction companies developments in North Africa and the Middle East. In the could open up indirect export opportunities. Moreover, we absence of dramatic new events it is to be expected, however, expect that more nuclear power plants will be built in both that the economic situation in the Region will at least stabilise China and India. to some degree, hence the previously mentioned hope that deferred projects in North Africa will enter the procurement New projects for the extraction of raw materials will create phase. Major contracts are set to be awarded in Saudi Araopportunities for using our slurry and process pumps. bia, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq too, which could in Australia and Indonesia are two countries in which we are turn benefit our pumps and valves business. strengthening our business with these pumps and related services. South of the Sahara, some countries will be able to continue enjoying extraordinary economic growth thanks to their With a view to servicing the Asian / Pacific market largely reserves of oil and raw materials. We mainly tap into this marfrom the Region itself, we will use the manufacturing facilities ket using our South African production and sales company we expanded in 2011 in Pimpri (Pune) in India, and in in Germiston (Johannesburg), which has two sales offices in Shanghai and Changzhou in China. In the current year we Ghana and Kenya. We also see good opportunities for driving will also expand our facilities in South Korea, Malaysia, forward our business in the Republic of South Africa, and, Thailand and Taiwan and found a new company in Vietnam. with this in mind, are planning to launch more locally manuThe latter will be involved with sales and assembly in factured products onto the market. At the same time we will addition to providing services to our customers. We are also facilitate access to products produced by our global manubroadening our sales and distribution network, especially facturing network. in China, to increase sales of standard pumps and valves in the general business. In Bangladesh too we are planning to increase our sales activities. 52 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Americas FINANCIAL OUTLOOK In the American markets, demand for our products in some Despite the many economic uncertainties, we anticipate, as key industries could well increase. In several South American already stated, moderate growth in order intake for all three countries and Canada major water supply and waste water segments (pumps, valves and service). We expect our general disposal projects are set to be awarded. Significant investments business in particular to develop positively both this year and in mining and oil and gas production are also planned, next, while we believe the market for project business will which will result in corresponding orders for pumps and valves. remain difficult. We do not expect to see recovery in this sector Realisation of these projects will depend on the prices of raw until 2013. Overall, we forecast a single-digit percentage rise materials and energy sources remaining attractive. in order intake this year and in 2013. However, any significant economic downturn or a return to recession would have a Demand for pumps and valves for power plants is expected negative impact on our business volumes. to be rather subdued. Investors, in the US for instance, are waiting for political decisions to be taken on the future of We anticipate that sales revenue will increase in all three segenergy supplies. Overall, due to a rapidly changing competitive ments in 2012, with growth higher than the increase in the environment, particularly in Brazil, prices are expected to fall volume of new orders; in 2013 we expect growth to be similar in the project business. to the growth in order volumes. We will promote our general business, focusing on the Based on this growth in business, we expect an increase in Brazilian market and on strengthening our local distributor our profit in all three segments this year and next, despite network. At the same time, we plan to expand our service cost increases. For 2012 we aim for earnings on a par with facilities. Overall we expect order intake to grow again. those in 2010. In 2013, absolute growth is expected to exceed that of the previous year. However, if spending in our We are modernising and expanding our production capacity markets were to decline due to an economic slowdown or to allow us to supply the American markets quickly with the if profit quality were to deteriorate, earnings would likely products they require. In 2012 this will apply both to our US stagnate or fall. Should this turn out to be the case, it is possible slurry pump plant and our Brazilian valve production facilities. that we would intensify our efforts to secure a reasonable A new basis for the latter will be created with the construclevel of revenue. tion of a new plant in Jundiaí, around 60 km from the city of São Paulo. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 53 Re port on E xpe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts Our expenditure on property, plant and equipment is likely to rise in 2012 and 2013. Thanks to our continuing sound financial situation and restrictive liquidity management, we expect to be able to fully finance these investments from equity capital. Employee teams are currently implementing the aforementioned strategic projects in all four Regions in order to ensure sustainable and profitable growth in the pumps, valves and service businesses. We will continue to provide the necessary financial resources and capacities for this in future, thus creating the conditions for achieving the goals laid down in our Group strategy. We will only consider acquisitions if they fit with our key strategic projects and are likely to prove highly advantageous from a financial and strategic point of view. F O R WA R DL O O K I NG STATEM ENTS This report contains forward-looking statements. We wish to point out that actual events may differ materially from our expectations of developments if one of the uncertainties described, or other risks and uncertainties, should materialise, or if the assumptions underlying the statements prove to be inaccurate. VA LV E S 50 In building services applications, energy-optimised KSB valves play an important role in air-conditioning, heating and ventilation solutions. By % using easy-to-insulate valves in heat transmission systems, it is possible to lower heating costs save 50 percent of the heating costs. Shut-off valve | BOA®-H (insulated) Nominal size | DN 15 to 350 Nominal pressure | PN 16 / 25 The BOA®-H shut-off valve is used in heat transfer systems. It can be supplied with either an on / off disc or a throttling plug and features a position indicator as a standard. The KSB-speciﬁc body design enables highly efﬁcient thermal insulation of all parts. The handwheel comes with an integrated colour coding system which tells the user which model is installed even when the valve is insulated. »Heat will always find a way, whether it goes to the consumer installations as intended or ends up being released into the environment. To ensure that as much of the heat energy as possible arrives at the point of use, we wrap our BOA®-H valve in tight-fitting insulation so that practically the entire component is covered. Only the actuating elements remain exposed and accessible. That may not sound particularly spectacular, but it can help to save around half the heating costs associated with a system.« Grit Traudt, Head of Integrated Management Valves 58 The total output of operations of the KSB Group rose by 10.1 percent in 2011 to € 2,151.4 million. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N NSS O L IDAT IDATE D FIN AN ED A N CI CIAA L S TATE M EN E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 59 CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS C ONSOLI DATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60 Balance Sheet 61 Income Statement Including Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 62 Statement of Changes in Equity 64 Cash Flow Statement 65 Notes 113 List of Shareholdings 116 Supervisory Board and Board of Management 117 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 60 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BA L ANCE S H E E T AS S E T S 31 Dec. 2010 (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2011 (adjusted) 31 Dec. 2010 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 91,697 65,012 48,584 Property, plant and equipment 1 428,756 412,476 400,860 Non-current financial assets 1 40,073 30,598 65,845 Deferred tax assets 2 24,433 17,722 16,824 584,959 525,808 532,113 Current assets Inventories 3 425,056 332,680 324,518 Receivables and other current assets 4 658,394 605,088 596,545 Current financial instruments 5 11 500 500 Cash and cash equivalents 5 305,707 412,471 407,621 1,389,168 1,350,739 1,329,184 1,974,127 1,876,547 1,861,297 E QUI T Y A N D L I A B I L I T I E S 31 Dec. 2010 (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2011 (adjusted) 31 Dec. 2010 Equity 6 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 642,075 604,405 602,561 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 753,510 715,840 713,996 Non-controlling interest 115,614 111,596 111,570 869,124 827,436 825,566 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 37,877 34,529 33,704 Provisions for employee benefits 8 279,345 269,744 269,547 Other provisions 8 17,409 16,167 16,098 Liabilities 9 61,743 112,493 109,644 396,374 432,933 428,993 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 8 111,932 112,557 110,784 Other provisions 8 87,180 90,956 90,119 Liabilities 9 509,517 412,665 405,835 708,629 616,178 606,738 1,974,127 1,876,547 1,861,297 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 61 B al an c e S h e e t I n c o m e S tate m e n t I n c l u di n g S tate m e n t o f R e c o gn i se d I n c o m e an d Ex pe n se I NCOM E S TATE M E N T I N C L U D ING S TAT E M E N T O F R E C O G N I S E D INC OME A ND EXPENSE I N C O M E S TATE M E N T (€ thousands) Notes 2011 2010 Sales revenue 10 2,091,046 1,939,254 Changes in inventories 58,922 12,260 Work performed and capitalised 1,400 2,271 Total output of operations 2,151,368 1,953,785 Other operating income 11 33,397 35,921 Cost of materials 12 – 912,991 – 790,855 Staff costs 13 – 697,981 – 649,844 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1 – 50,995 – 48,148 Other operating expenses 14 – 383,879 – 339,507 Other taxes – 8,572 – 8,304 130,347 153,048 Financial income 15 14,533 11,410 Financial expense 15 – 24,403 – 28,662 – 9,870 – 17,252 Earnings before income taxes 120,477 135,796 Taxes on income 16 – 37,184 – 45,836 Earnings after income taxes 83,293 89,960 Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 17 11,343 12,525 Shareholders of KSB AG 71,950 77,435 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 40.95 44.09 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 41.21 44.35 S TATE M E N T O F R E C OGNISED INC OME A ND EXPENSE (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Earnings after income taxes 83,293 89,960 Measurement of financial instruments – 3,137 – 380 Currency translation differences – 15,215 39,099 Other income and expense recognised directly in equity – 29 507 Taxes on items recognised directly in equity 937 – 220 Total earnings recognised directly in equity – 17,444 39,006 Total recognised income and expense 65,849 128,966 Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 6,939 21,004 Shareholders of KSB AG 58,910 107,962 62 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STAT E M E NT O F C H A N G E S I N E Q U IT Y Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2010 44,772 66,663 Income and expense recognised directly in equity – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total recognised income and expense – – Dividends paid – – Capital increases / decreases – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2010 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2011 44,772 66,663 Income and expense recognised directly in equity – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total recognised income and expense – – Dividends paid – – Capital increases / decreases – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2011 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) of KSB AG interest equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2010 – 45,113 – 21,414 – 66,527 Change in 2010 30,626 8,473 39,099 Balance at 31 Dec. 2010 / 1 Jan. 2011 – 14,487 – 12,941 – 27,428 Change in 2011 – 11,067 – 4,148 – 15,215 Balance at 31 Dec. 2011 – 25,554 – 17,089 – 42,643 The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the equity items; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 63 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty Earnings recognised directly in equity Equity Currency Measurement attributable Revenue translation of financial to shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments of KSB AG interest equity 561,174 – 45,113 – 389 627,107 93,455 720,562 116 30,626 – 215 30,527 8,479 39,006 77,435 – – 77,435 12,525 89,960 77,551 30,626 – 215 107,962 21,004 128,966 – 21,240 – – – 21,240 – 2,926 – 24,166 – – – – – – 167 – – 167 – 167 – – – – 37 37 617,652 – 14,487 – 604 713,996 111,570 825,566 Earnings recognised directly in equity Equity Currency Measurement attributable Revenue translation of financial to shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments of KSB AG interest equity 617,652 – 14,487 – 604 713,996 111,570 825,566 –3 – 11,067 – 1,970 – 13,040 – 4,404 – 17,444 71,950 – – 71,950 11,343 83,293 71,947 – 11,067 – 1,970 58,910 6,939 65,849 – 21,240 – – – 21,240 – 2,905 – 24,145 – – – – – – 1,844 – – 1,844 26 1,870 – – – – – 16 – 16 670,203 – 25,554 – 2,574 753,510 115,614 869,124 64 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASH F L OW S TATE M E N T (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Earnings after income taxes 83,293 89,960 Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 53,102 55,481 Increase in non-current provisions 4,366 3,459 Gain / loss on disposal of fixed assets – 1,520 – 562 Other non-cash expenses / income – 2,229 178 Cash flow 137,012 148,516 Increase in inventories – 91,211 – 83 Increase in trade receivables and other assets – 50,905 – 59,752 Increase / decrease in current provisions 124 – 5,438 Increase in advances received from customers 16,855 41,470 Increase in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) 24,390 37,347 Other non-cash expenses / income (operating) – – – 100,747 13,544 Cash flows from operating activities 36,265 162,060 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 92 – Payments to acquire intangible assets – 6,941 – 5,026 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,205 4,173 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 60,361 – 69,837 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 294 455 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 11,869 – 21,313 Net cash flows from the acquisition and sale of consolidated companies and other business operations – 28,083 – Other non-cash expenses / income (investing) – – Cash flows from investing activities – 102,663 – 91,548 Proceeds from additions to equity / Payments related to capital decreases – – Dividends paid for prior year (including non-controlling interest) – 24,145 – 24,166 Payments for financial liabilities – 7,908 – 62,373 Payments resulting from financial receivables – 3,846 – 1,777 Other non-cash expenses / income (financing) – – Cash flows from financing activities – 35,899 – 88,316 Net change in cash and cash equivalents – 102,297 – 17,804 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – 3,253 10,472 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 3,636 5,113 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 407,621 409,840 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 305,707 407,621 Thereof term deposits to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements included at the closing date 16,600 18,900 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 65 C ash F l o w S tate m e n t No te s N OT E S GENER AL Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal, Germany (KSB AG), were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the Framework, as well as all Standards and the Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) in force at the reporting date. For the purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable International Accounting Standards (IASs). KSB AG is a public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] under Germany law. The company is registered with the Handelsregister [Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HR B 21016, and has its registered office in Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. The accompanying consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Management on 9 March 2012 and are expected to be approved by the Supervisory Board on 27 March 2012. The consolidated financial statements are published in the electronic Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar year. All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement are presented separately and explained in these Notes. The income statement has been prepared using the nature of expense method. The main accounting policies used to prepare these consolidated financial statements are stated below. The policies described were applied consistently for the reporting periods presented unless stated otherwise. The consolidated financial statements of KSB AG therefore meet the requirements of IFRS. They were prepared using the historic cost convention, with the exception of measurement at market value for available-for-sale financial assets and measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives). 66 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS First-time application of new and revised standards The following new Interpretations and revised Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to be applied for the first time in financial year 2011: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures in conjunction with IFRS 8 Operating Segments IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in conjunction with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and Their Interaction IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments in conjunction with IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Annual Improvements 2010 As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations prior to their effective dates: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (from 1 January 2012) The changes relate to the mandatory breakdown of the income statement into profit or loss and other comprehensive income (OCI), as well as the presentation of the latter. IAS 12 Income Taxes (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012) The changes relate to the treatment of temporary tax differences arising from the use of the fair value model in IAS 40. IAS 19 Employee Benefits (from 1 January 2013) The changes relate to the presentation of company pension funds. IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011) The changes apply to first-time adopters of IFRS and companies facing hyperinflation. IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011) The changes relate to duties to provide enhanced disclosures about transfers of financial assets. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The additions relate to the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial assets and liabilities. IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The standard provides definitions for determining the scope of consolidation. IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The standard applies to companies that share management of a joint venture or activity. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 67 No te s IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The standard deals with disclosures to be made in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements on involvements with other entities and joint arrangements. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The standard deals with the measurement of fair value and the associated disclosures in the Notes. IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The interpretation relates to the accounting treatment of stripping costs incurred in the production phase of a surface mine. Based on our current state of knowledge, application of the above Standards and Interpretations would not have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements with the exception of the changes in accordance with IAS 19. As a result of the elimination of the corridor method with effect from 1 January 2013, we will in future recognise actuarial gains and losses directly in equity. We expect this to entail increased volatility of the pension obligations and equity shown in the balance sheet. BASI S OF C ONSOL IDATION Consolidated Group In addition to KSB AG, 9 German and 59 foreign companies (previous year: 6 German and 52 foreign companies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest in the voting power of these companies, either directly or indirectly, or we have the power to appoint the majority of the members of the companies’ management. No companies are currently accounted for using the equity method or proportionately consolidated. We included the following companies for the first time in the consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2011: Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr, Germany Elektro Berchem GmbH, Cologne, Germany B&C Pumpenvertrieb Köln GmbH, Cologne, Germany PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna, Sweden REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto, Italy KSB Taiwan Co. Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul, South Korea KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas, USA 68 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On 24 March 2011 we acquired 100 % of the shares (= voting rights) of the South Korean company Seil Seres Co., Ltd., Busan, which merged with the newly established KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan. The company’s products particularly complement our range of valves for liquefied gas tankers. The difference between the carrying amount of the assets acquired and the cash purchase price was mainly attributable to goodwill (€ 22 million), as well as real estate assets (€ 2 million), customer base and orders on hand (€ 1 million each). The company’s balance sheet has been included in the consolidated balance sheet at the following fair values: Previous Fair value on carrying (€ thousands) acquisition amount Non-current assets Intangible assets 1,923 38 Property, plant and equipment 9,935 7,604 Non-current financial assets 3 3 Deferred tax assets 211 211 12,072 7,856 Current assets Inventories 4,110 4,110 Receivables and other current assets 2,599 2,599 Cash and cash equivalents 2,284 2,284 8,993 8,993 21,065 16,849 Equity 8,090 4,289 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 415 – Provisions for employee benefits – – Other provisions – – Liabilities 2,016 2,016 2,431 2,016 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits – – Other provisions – – Liabilities 10,544 10,544 10,544 10,544 21,065 16,849 It is assumed that the receivables and other assets will be settled in full. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 69 No te s From the date of acquisition in March 2011, KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan contributed € 16.4 million of sales revenue to the Group’s sales revenue reported in the consolidated income statement. For the full financial year KSB Seil Co., Ltd. would have reported € 21.3 million of sales revenue. The contribution to consolidated earnings for the period of consolidation was € – 0.8 million; for the full financial year it would have been € – 1.1 million. The other companies consolidated for the first time were acquired or established in previous years. The carrying amounts of the companies acquired in previous years almost completely matched their fair value. The only difference of note (€ 2 million) between carrying amount and fair value was at REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto, Italy, and was due to real estate assets. Otherwise the main differences arose from the measurement of the customer base and orders on hand. Purchase price allocation based on the data at the time of acquisition had a total impact on the difference between carrying amount and fair value amounting to € 4,404 thousand (previous year: € 239 thousand). Effective 1 January and 1 April 2011, KSB took over selected individual economic assets of becker Elektromaschinenbau GmbH, Wiehl, Germany. In this way, we added solids separation systems and the associated services to our product portfolio. In addition, three smaller companies that had not previously been consolidated were merged with consolidated companies. The above changes to the consolidated Group contributed around 2 % or € 2.8 million to consolidated earnings, of which € – 0.8 million was attributable to KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan. Further effects on the consolidated financial statements are presented in the relevant tables (for example, in the additional column titled “31 Dec. 2010 (adjusted)” included in the balance sheet) and explained in the information provided on individual items. Over the year under review, as in the previous year, there were no step acquisitions of companies already consolidated. € 11,714 thousand (previous year: € 12,906 thousand) was spent on companies that have not yet been consolidated because this would not have had a material impact. This mainly resulted from the creation of a production facility in China, the capital increase in an investee company in China and the foundation of several smaller companies in Peru, Saudi Arabia, Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia. In light of our Group strategy which, among other things, involves merging the numerous small companies to form larger legal entities, in 2009 we began initiating appropriate corporate changes. In this context, further companies that have not yet been consolidated will be included in the consolidated Group over the course of the next few years. 70 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS On 16 February 2012, KSB acquired 80 %, i.e. the majority of voting shares, in the Danish company T. Smedegaard A/S based in Glostrup (Copenhagen) against payment in cash. The company has three subsidiaries in Taunton / Bridgwater, UK (Smedegaard Pumps Limited), Västra Frölunda, Sweden (VM Pumpar AB) and Beinwil am See, Switzerland (Smedegaard AG , Pumpen und Motorenbau). With this acquisition, KSB intends to secure its building services project business in the areas of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning. Consolidation methods Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting, under which the acquisition cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the equity attributable to the parent at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill arising from initial consolidation is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 in conjunction with IASs 36 and 38. It is measured at the relevant current closing rate, presented in intangible assets and tested for impairment at least once a year. An impairment loss is recognised if any impairment is identified. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost remaining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss. Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB AG are reported as non-controlling interest. All intercompany receivables, liabilities, provisions and contingent liabilities, as well as sales revenue, other income and expenses, are eliminated. Intercompany profits contained in inventories and fixed assets are also eliminated. The financial statements of all material companies or those required to be audited under local law have been audited, and independent auditors’ reports have been issued. This audit also extended to the correct reconciliation of the financial statements prepared under local GAAP to the uniform Group IFRS accounting policies. Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, economically and organisationally independent entity. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 71 No te s Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Currency translation gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. When translating financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euros assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts are translated at average exchange rates for the year. The resulting effects are presented directly in equity. Gains and losses from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to equity. The exchange rates of our most important currencies to one euro are: Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 2011 2010 US dollar 1.2939 1.3362 1.3917 1.3321 Brazilian real 2.4159 2.2177 2.3260 2.3377 Indian rupee 68.7130 59.7580 64.8646 60.9563 Chinese yuan 8.1588 8.8220 8.9958 9.0167 72 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AC C OUNTI NG P OLI C I E S The accounting policies have generally not changed as against the previous year and apply to all companies included in the consolidated financial statements. Acquisition cost In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes attributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purchase price reductions are deducted from cost. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Production cost In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost includes production-related administrative expenses. General administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a party to a financial instrument and when at least one party has fulfilled the agreement. When the contractual right to payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to so-called primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial liabilities (from or to third parties as well as intergroup and associate companies). Derivatives, which we use to hedge against foreign currency and interest rate risks, are also financial instruments. Classification in measurement categories: Financial Assets Held for Trading (FAHfT) / Financial Liabilities Held for Trading (FLHfT): Financial assets and liabilities held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (derivatives not included in hedging relationships) Loans and Receivables (LaR): Loans and receivables (loans and primary financial instruments not quoted in an active market) Available for Sale (AfS): Available-for-sale financial instruments (non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to any other measurement category, such as investments in non-consolidated affiliates or securities) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost (FLAC): Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method (liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables) M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 73 No te s None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-maturity investments”. Financial instruments are measured at fair value on initial recognition. Subsequent measurement is generally based on fair value. Subsequent measurement of loans and receivables is based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments are based on prices quoted in active markets on the reporting date. The fair values of derivates included and not included in hedging relationships is determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). All our information is obtained from recognised external sources. Changes in the fair value of “available-for-sale financial instruments” are recognised directly in equity. They are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are sold or determined to be impaired. As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications between the individual measurement categories. Intangible assets Intangible assets are generally carried at cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. The underlying useful lives are two to five years. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. We amortised goodwill originating between 1 January 1995 and 30 March 2004 over a maximum of 15 years. In accordance with IFRS 3, the resulting cumulative amortisation was eliminated against historical cost effective 1 January 2005. Goodwill has been tested for impairment at least once a year since 2005; it is not amortised any longer. This impairment test relates to the “cash-generating units”, which at KSB are the legal entities. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. Goodwill originating up to and including 1994 has been deducted from revenue reserves. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost originating until 30 March 2004 was eliminated against revenue reserves directly in equity. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost arising after 30 March 2004 is, after reassessment, immediately recognised in profit or loss. When calculating goodwill we apply purchase price allocations and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related aspects (primarily brands and trademarks, competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, customer relations, orders on hand), contract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous 74 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS service, work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as technology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and databases). To determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. Development costs are capitalised as intangible assets at cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation where the criteria described in IAS 38 are met. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation. No tax-motivated depreciation is recognised. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. We have applied the component approach under IAS 16. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect that these periods will be complied with. Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. The following useful lives are applied: U SEFU L LIVES Buildings 10 – 50 years Plant and machinery 5 – 25 years Operating and office equipment 3 – 25 years Leases Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liability is recognised in the same amount for the future lease payment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation over its useful life or the shorter lease term. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 75 No te s Non-current financial assets Investments in non-consolidated affiliates and associates are carried at fair value. Interestbearing loans are recognised at amortised cost. Non-current financial assets are measured at cost if their fair value cannot be reliably determined because they are not traded in an active market. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is measured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also applies to write-downs to fair value if the selling price is lower than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed. Advances received from customers are recognised as current liabilities. Construction contracts under IAS 11 The percentage of completion (PoC) method is applied for construction contracts defined under IAS 11. The stage of completion of contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) at the reporting date. The percentage contract revenue less the related advances received from customers is reported – depending on the balance – in receivables and other current assets or in current liabilities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income statement as part of sales revenue. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. Receivables and other current assets For subsequent measurement, receivables and other current assets that are classified as loans and receivables (LaR) are recognised at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs and experience-based write-downs using allowance accounts. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed. We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (for further explanations, refer to the Financial Risks – Credit Risk section). The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an expense after the reporting date. 76 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial instruments Financial instruments are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents (cash, bank balances, short-term deposits and other highly liquid financial assets) are recognised at amortised cost. Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. The reports are prepared using the projected unit credit method. We apply the 10 % corridor rule, under which actuarial gains and losses that are 10 % greater or lower than the present value of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) are recognised over the average remaining working lives. The actuarial demographic assumptions and the definition of compensation and pension trends, as well as interest rate trends, are best estimates. The interest component is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recognised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff costs. These companies have no obligations other than the obligation to pay premiums. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 77 No te s Other provisions A provision is recognised only if a past event results in a present legal or constructive external obligation that the company has no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. No provisions are recognised for future internal expenses. The amount recognised as a provision is our best estimate. Any recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised separately and are not deducted from the provisions concerned. Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are material. Liabilities Liabilities classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Derivative financial instruments We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both existing recognised underlyings and future cash flows (cash flow hedges) against foreign currency and interest rate risks. The hedging instruments used are exclusively highly effective currency forwards, currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for items in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised through long-term borrowings at variable rates of interest. Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. Fair value changes of currency derivatives used to hedge an existing recognised underlying are recognised in profit or loss, as are changes in the fair value of the related hedged items. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of currency derivatives are taken directly to equity until the related hedged item is recognised. Fair value changes of interest rate derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised directly in equity. The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. 78 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS There was no material hedge ineffectiveness that would have been required to be reported. Derivatives are reported under other receivables and other current assets, and under miscellaneous other liabilities. The maturities of the currency derivatives used are mostly between one and two years, and those of interest rate derivatives are between six and ten years. The maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period in which the forecasted transactions are expected to occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecasted transactions occurred as expected. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be present obligations that arise from past events where it is possible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. Income and expenses Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers, and licence income. Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. Sales revenue is recognised when the deliveries have been effected or the services have been rendered and the significant risks of ownership have been transferred to the buyer. Effects resulting from application of the percentage of completion method in accordance with IAS 11 are also recognised in the sales revenue. Expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 79 No te s Estimates and assumptions Preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continuously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If more recent information and additional knowledge are available, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material differences are explained separately. Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as well as liabilities that only become due after more than 12 months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. 80 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANC E SHEET D I SCLOSURES 1 Fixed assets S TAT E ME N T O F C H A N G E S IN INTA NGIB LE A SSET S Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in such Intangible assets (€ thousands) rights and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 40,365 34,588 41,517 37,142 1,303 1,326 83,185 73,056 Change in consolidated Group / Other 3,925 347 14,971 3,632 – – 18,896 3,979 Currency translation adjustments 161 484 371 743 – – 532 1,227 Additions 7,383 3,714 23,310 – 462 1,278 31,155 4,992 Disposals 788 194 192 – – – 980 194 Reclassifications 968 1,426 – – – 730 – 1,301 238 125 Balance at 31 December 52,014 40,365 79,977 41,517 1,035 1,303 133,026 83,185 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 31,269 27,550 3,332 3,332 – – 34,601 30,882 Change in consolidated Group / Other 2,429 185 – – – – 2,429 185 Currency translation adjustments – 101 241 – – – – – 101 241 Additions 4,985 3,423 303 – – – 5,288 3,423 Disposals 788 194 100 – – – 888 194 Reclassifications – 64 – – – – – 64 Balance at 31 December 37,794 31,269 3,535 3,332 – – 41,329 34,601 Carrying amount at 31 December 14,220 9,096 76,442 38,185 1,035 1,303 91,697 48,584 As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development costs in the year under review because not all of the comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. We conduct our impairment tests once a year. If an additional impairment test is deemed to be required because there is an indication that an asset may be impaired (trigger event), the test is performed promptly. As in the previous year, this proved unnecessary in the year under review. We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the recoverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRSs) applied were taken from a four-year plan, the basis of which was approved in December. We carried out this planning based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from external sources, e.g. current German Engineering Federation (VDMA) publications, and our own knowledge of markets and competitors. For the first year we anticipated figures to be moderately above those of the year under review. Over the subsequent years we again expect a positive economic trend. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 81 No te s In our calculations we consistently extrapolated the result of the fourth plan year as a constant; we did not apply any growth rates. The reconciliation to cash flow is performed to adjust for the effects of scheduled investments for expansion. If the planned depreciation and amortisation amounts deviate significantly from planned replacement investments, the cash flows recognised are also adjusted. The carrying amounts of cash-generating units do not contain any items related to taxes or financing activities. To determine the discount rate, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in accordance with the capital structure. The interest rate for risk-free ten-year Bunds was used as a base rate. As in the previous year, the market risk premium was 4 % and a beta factor of 1.0 was used. The individual discount rate before taxes which was derived for each cash-generating unit ranges – depending on each country’s individual tax rates – between 6.51 % and 8.02 % (previous year: between 7.40 % and 9.11 %). As in the previous year, impairment testing at Group level revealed no need for any write-downs. A 10 % increase in the discount rate would not result in any write-downs (previous year: € 648 thousand). Impairment testing at single-entity level revealed the need for write-downs of € 303 thousand (previous year: no need for write-downs). Of the carrying amount of all goodwill totalling € 76,442 thousand (previous year: € 38,185 thousand), € 18,285 thousand (previous year: € 18,285 thousand) was attributable to the Dutch Group company DP industries B.V.; € 3,710 thousand (previous year: € 3,710 thousand) to the Italian company KSB Italia S.p.A.; € 2,980 thousand (previous year: € 2,980 thousand) to the German company Uder Elektromechanik GmbH; € 2,839 thousand (previous year: € 3,358 thousand) to the South African company KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd.; € 1,764 thousand (previous year: € 1,764 thousand) to KSB Finland Oy; € 1,281 (previous year: € 1,280 thousand) to KSB Lindflaten AS of Norway and € 1,077 thousand (previous year: € 1,077 thousand) to KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH of Germany. € 37,531 thousand relates to companies consolidated for the first time (of which € 3,150 thousand to Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, € 207 thousand to Elektro Berchem GmbH, € 123 thousand to B&C Pumpenvertrieb Köln GmbH, € 390 thousand to PUMPHUSET Sverige AB, € 9,681 thousand to REEL s.r.l., € 745 thousand to Standard Alloys Incorporated and € 23,235 thousand to KSB Seil Co., Ltd.). The remaining € 6,975 thousand (previous year: € 5,731 thousand) is attributable to another 12 (previous year: 11) companies. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on other intangible assets in the year under review. 82 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS S TAT E ME N T O F C H A N G E S IN PR OPERT Y, PLA NT A ND EQU IPMENT Other equipment, Advance payments Property, plant Plant and operating and and assets under and equipment (€ thousands) Land and buildings machinery office equipment construction Total Historical cost 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 254,217 232,824 447,734 394,531 165,503 149,483 17,841 32,528 885,295 809,366 Change in consolidated Group / Other 13,965 908 3,922 1,444 5,612 1,876 58 – 23,557 4,228 Currency translation adjustments – 492 6,631 – 5,128 11,355 – 2,091 5,524 – 408 1,405 – 8,119 24,915 Additions 10,248 9,999 15,351 20,234 19,547 20,968 17,200 16,606 62,346 67,807 Disposals 1,206 314 10,265 10,525 7,711 8,361 13 1,696 19,195 20,896 Reclassifications 6,614 4,169 6,723 30,695 1,480 – 3,987 – 15,055 – 31,002 – 238 – 125 Balance at 31 December 283,346 254,217 458,337 447,734 182,340 165,503 19,623 17,841 943,646 885,295 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 107,394 99,564 268,272 244,126 108,769 100,158 – – 484,435 443,848 Change in consolidated Group / Other 754 249 1,085 849 2,496 975 – – 4,335 2,073 Currency translation adjustments 237 2,280 – 1,944 6,301 – 1,370 3,470 – – – 3,077 12,051 Additions 6,504 6,444 22,439 24,366 16,764 13,915 – – 45,707 44,725 Disposals 628 230 9,169 9,582 6,713 7,473 – – 16,510 17,285 Reclassifications – – – 317 2,212 317 – 2,276 – – – – 64 Reversal (write-up) – 913 – – – – – – – 913 Balance at 31 December 114,261 107,394 280,366 268,272 120,263 108,769 – – 514,890 484,435 Carrying amount at 31 December 169,085 146,823 177,971 179,462 62,077 56,734 19,623 17,841 428,756 400,860 Assets resulting from finance leases (almost exclusively land and buildings, as well as other equipment, operating and office equipment) are recognised as fixed assets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these recognised assets amounts to € 3,263 thousand (previous year: € 7,076 thousand), of which € 2,011 thousand (previous year: € 6,004 thousand) relate to land and buildings. Disposals of items of property, plant and equipment resulted in book gains of € 3,027 thousand (previous year: € 1,781 thousand) and book losses of € 1,507 thousand (previous year: € 1,219 thousand). The book gains and losses are reported in the income statement under other operating income and other operating expenses. Impairment losses of € 521 thousand were recognised on property, plant and equipment in the year under review (previous year: none). M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 83 No te s S TATE M E N T O F C H A NGES IN NON-C U R R ENT FINA NC IA L ASSETS Non-current Investments Non-current ﬁnancial assets (€ thousands) in affiliates Other investments financial instruments Loans Total Acquisition cost 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 55,056 50,572 13,077 14,617 754 718 11,039 2,876 79,926 68,783 Change in consolidated Group / Other – 27,539 – 8,649 – – – – – 8,089 – – 35,628 – 8,649 Currency translation adjustments 20 300 – – 2 5 1 – 24 23 281 Additions 7,214 12,906 4,500 – 13 31 147 8,376 11,874 21,313 Disposals 10 1,613 1,659 – 5 – 1,001 189 2,675 1,802 Reclassifications – 1,540 – – 1,540 – – – – – – Balance at 31 December 34,741 55,056 15,918 13,077 764 754 2,097 11,039 53,520 79,926 Accumulated impairment losses 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance at 1 January 10,599 5,615 1,840 461 94 86 1,548 1,000 14,081 7,162 Change in consolidated Group / Other – 379 – – – – – – – – 379 – Currency translation adjustments 19 19 – – – – – – 19 19 Additions 2,139 6,312 – 1,379 6 8 – 548 2,145 8,247 Disposals – 1,347 1,381 – – – 1,000 – 2,381 1,347 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – – – Reversal (write-up) – – – – – – 38 – 38 – Balance at 31 December 12,378 10,599 459 1,840 100 94 510 1,548 13,447 14,081 Carrying amount at 31 December 22,363 44,457 15,459 11,237 664 660 1,587 9,491 40,073 65,845 Investments in affiliates and other equity investments reported under non-current financial assets declined considerably. Additions, mainly from the formation of smaller companies in China, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Croatia, Serbia and Slovenia and the capital increase at an investee company in China, were more than offset by effects resulting from first-time consolidation. The planned first-time consolidation of further companies is expected to result in another decline in this balance sheet item in financial year 2012. The considerable decline in loans is the result of the first-time consolidation of Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas. We currently have no plans for the sale of investments in affiliates and other equity investments. € 1,521 thousand (previous year: € 9,434 thousand) of the loans are loans to affiliates. The effect of currency translation adjustments taken directly to equity on fixed assets was a loss of € 4,405 thousand (previous year: gain of € 14,112 thousand). The list of shareholdings is included at the end of these Notes. 84 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Deferred tax assets Explanations on deferred tax assets are presented under “Taxes on income”. 3 Inventories (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 Raw materials and production supplies 149,616 129,718 Work in progress 147,031 85,710 Finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale 102,107 91,853 Advance payments 26,302 17,237 425,056 324,518 € 47,771 thousand (previous year: € 31,711 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment losses recognised as an expense in the period under review amount to € 1,460 thousand (previous year: € 2,147 thousand). We reversed write-downs totalling € 1,839 thousand (previous year: € 3,431 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Inventories amounting to € 854,069 thousand (previous year: € 778,595 thousand) were recognised as expenses in the period under review. 4 Receivables and other current assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 Trade receivables 461,348 428,694 Intragroup and associate receivables 23,591 19,313 Receivables recognised by PoC 122,147 99,311 Receivables recognised by PoC (excl. advances received from customers PoC) 235,194 221,721 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 113,047 – 122,410 Other receivables and other current assets 51,308 49,227 658,394 596,545 Intragroup and associate receivables include loans to non-consolidated KSB companies amounting to € 8,400 thousand (previous year: € 5,823 thousand). Associate receivables totalled € 7,566 thousand (previous year: € 4,565 thousand). Construction contracts under IAS 11 include recognised profits of € 44,257 thousand (previous year: € 26,539 thousand) and costs of € 190,937 thousand (previous year: € 195,182 thousand). Sales revenue in accordance with IAS 11 amounted to € 328,575 thousand (previous year: € 328,716 thousand). The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 85 No te s The other receivables and other current assets include receivables from employees and deferred interest. They also include recoverable taxes (primarily from VAT) in the amount of € 16,951 thousand (previous year: € 11,294 thousand) and other financial assets from currency forwards in accordance with IAS 39 in the amount of € 1,207 thousand (previous year: € 1,519 thousand). As in the previous year, there are no receivables relating to interest rate derivatives. At the balance sheet date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 147,964 thousand (previous year: € 139,105 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives was € 5,052 thousand (previous year: € 5,532 thousand). The contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards are as follows: (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Notional volume 2011 147,964 93,008 54,456 500 Notional volume 2010 139,105 108,383 30,236 486 € 25,134 thousand (previous year: € 21,638 thousand) of all receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. 5 Current financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents Current financial instruments amount to € 11 thousand (previous year: € 500 thousand). Cash and cash equivalents are primarily term deposits with short maturities and call deposits. German Group companies use € 16,600 thousand of cash and cash equivalents (previous year: € 18,900 thousand) to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements as required by law. They are available to us at any time due to the underlying contractual structure. 6 Equity There was no change in the share capital of KSB AG as against the previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and is composed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par value share represents an equal notional amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par value bearer shares. The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums from capital increases in previous years. 86 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves primarily include currency translation adjustments and consolidation effects taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax assets in the amount of € 1,025 thousand (previous year: € 230 thousand) and no deferred tax liabilities (previous year: € 20 thousand). A total of € 21,241 thousand (dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and € 12.26 per preference share) was paid from equity by a resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent company KSB AG, Frankenthal, on 18 May 2011. Equity also includes changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge future cash flows amounting to € – 3,882 thousand (previous year: € – 750 thousand). They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2011 Opening balance at 1 January – 750 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 19 Disposals 296 Additions – 3,447 Closing balance at 31 December – 3,882 Non-controlling interest relates primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India and China. KSB AG holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interest are contained in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG calculated in accordance with HGB is shown at the end of these Notes. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 87 No te s C APITAL DIS C L O S U R E S Adequate capital resources and sufficient financial independence are key requirements for sustainably increasing KSB’s enterprise value and safeguarding the company’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also extremely important for us. In addition to order intake and sales revenue, our key performance indicators are the return on sales and our net financial position (the difference between interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the other). The changes in the equity ratio are also relevant for us. We regularly monitor the development of these indicators and manage them through active working capital management and by constantly optimising our financial structure, among other things. We present the development of these indicators in the management report. 2011 2010 Order intake € million 2,132.3 2,075.0 Sales revenue € million 2,091.0 1,939.3 Return on sales % 5.8 7.0 Net financial position € million 187.0 293.0 Equity ratio % 44.0 44.4 7 Deferred tax liabilities Explanations on deferred tax liabilities are presented under “Taxes on income”. 88 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 Provisions Change in consolidated Group / Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2011 CTA* / Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2011 Employee benefits 380,331 1,283 – 94,316 – 4,126 108,105 391,277 Pensions and similar obligations 245,442 – 23 – 11,577 – 61 23,936 257,717 Other employee benefits 134,889 1,306 – 82,739 – 4,065 84,169 133,560 Taxes 23,496 161 – 23,844 – 209 12,506 12,110 Taxes on income 22,539 147 – 23,387 – 147 11,768 10,920 Other taxes 957 14 – 457 – 62 738 1,190 Other provisions 82,721 – 400 – 43,870 – 8,156 62,184 92,479 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 46,702 1,703 – 27,103 – 6,109 35,507 50,700 Miscellaneous other provisions 36,019 – 2,103 – 16,767 – 2,047 26,677 41,779 486,548 1,044 – 162,030 – 12,491 182,795 495,866 Change in consolidated Group / Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2010 CTA */ Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2010 Employee benefits 379,581 3,663 – 106,598 – 2,713 106,398 380,331 Pensions and similar obligations 235,814 – 719 – 12,913 – 306 23,566 245,442 Other employee benefits 143,767 4,382 – 93,685 – 2,407 82,832 134,889 Taxes 17,559 789 – 15,579 – 406 21,133 23,496 Taxes on income 16,613 657 – 14,923 – 387 20,579 22,539 Other taxes 946 132 – 656 – 19 554 957 Other provisions 80,559 2,655 – 43,030 – 9,775 52,312 82,721 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 44,625 1,287 – 26,179 – 2,759 29,728 46,702 Miscellaneous other provisions 35,934 1,368 – 16,851 – 7,016 22,584 36,019 477,699 7,107 – 165,207 – 12,894 179,843 486,548 *CTA = currency translation adjustments M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 89 No te s PR OV IS IO N S F O R PE N SI O N S A N D SI M I LA R O B LI G ATI O N S More than 90 % of the provisions for pensions result from defined benefit plans of the German Group companies. These relate to direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The commitments are based on salary and length of service. Contributions from employees themselves are also included. There are smaller benefit plans at certain foreign Group companies. At the US companies, there are post-employment medical care obligations for employees. These are measured using comparable principles. The amounts provided for these defined benefit obligations and the annual expense for pension benefits are measured and calculated each year on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method (IAS 19). The actuarial assumptions used at German Group companies are as follows: The discount rate applied to the obligations was increased from 5.3 % to 5.4 %. As in the previous year, the assumed rate of future salary increases is 2.7 %, and the assumed growth rate for the pension trend is 2.0 % per annum. The biometric assumptions are again based on the 2005G mortality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck. A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continued to be applied to staff turnover. The retirement age used for the calculations is based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. In some cases, the measurement parameters used for non-material benefit plans at foreign companies differ from those used in Germany. Discount rates used vary between 4.3 % and 8.2 %; the assumed rate of future salary increases is between 2.5 % and 8.0 % and the assumed growth rate for the pension trend is 1.0 % to 2.5 %. Other measurement parameters (e.g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not material. Actuarial gains and losses outside the 10 % corridor around the present value of the DBO are recognised. Where the cumulative gain or loss exceeds the 10 % corridor, the excess amount is spread over the average remaining working lives of the employees and recognised in the profit or loss of future periods. 90 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C H A NGES IN DB O (PR ESENT VALUE OF THE OBLIGATION) (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Opening balance at 1 January 262,093 248,337 Current service cost financed by employer 7,387 7,909 Current service cost financed by employees 3,780 3,726 Interest cost 13,867 12,561 Benefit payments – 11,711 – 12,274 Actuarial gains / losses (– / +) – 1,928 4,256 Currency translation adjustments 293 443 Change in consolidated Group / Other 408 – 2,865 Closing balance at 31 December 274,189 262,093 The present value of pension commitments amounted to € 248 million for 2009, € 217 million for 2008 and € 215 million for 2007. R EC ONC ILIAT ION TO C A RRYING AMOUNTS (€ thousands) 2011 2010 DBO at 31 December 274,189 262,093 Unrecognised gains / losses (– / +) – 16,459 – 16,651 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 13 – Carrying amount at 31 December 257,717 245,442 A LLOC AT ION OF T H E AC TUARIAL GAINS / LOSSES IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Changes in balance 245 456 Changes in measurement parameters – 2,173 3,800 Total gains / losses (–/+) at 31 December – 1,928 4,256 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 91 No te s EFFEC T S IN T H E INC OME STATEMENT (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Current service cost 11,167 11,635 Actuarial gains / losses 379 234 Interest cost 13,867 12,561 Other – 415 – 24,998 24,430 The current service cost as well as actuarial gains and losses are recognised in staff costs under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses. Contributions totalling € 26,899 thousand (previous year: € 25,849 thousand) were paid to state pension insurance funds in the year under review. OT HER PR OV IS IO N S Provisions for taxes contain amounts of tax still payable for the year under review and for previous years for which no final tax assessment has yet been received. Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-sharing, jubilee payments, compensated absence, partial retirement and severance payments. The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers. The provisions for miscellaneous other obligations include provisions for expected losses from uncompleted transactions and onerous contracts (primarily from construction contracts with gross amounts due to customers in accordance with IAS 11 in the amount of € 2,665 thousand for 2011 and € 840 thousand for 2010), customer bonuses, accrued costs and environmental measures. € 39,037 thousand of the other provisions is non-current (previous year: € 40,203 thousand). This relates mainly to provisions for jubilee payments, partial retirement and warranty obligations. As far as the uncertainty with regard to the amount and timing of the outflow of resources in connection with provisions is concerned, we refer to our comments on estimates and assumptions. 92 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 Liabilities NON-C U R R ENT LIA B ILIT IES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 Financial liabilities Liabilities on bonds issued 50,000 100,000 Bank loans and overdrafts 9,072 6,186 Finance lease liabilities 1,190 1,041 Other 1,481 2,417 61,743 109,644 Total non-current liabilities 61,743 109,644 C U R R ENT LIA B ILIT IES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 Financial liabilities Liabilities on bonds issued 12,500 – Bank loans and overdrafts 53,164 16,759 Finance lease liabilities 588 2,866 Other 1,294 1,795 67,546 21,420 Trade payables Trade payables to third parties 201,578 174,401 Intragroup trade payables 4,689 6,990 206,267 181,391 Other liabilities Advances received from customers 84,030 60,650 Advances received from customers (PoC) 61,148 55,188 Taxes 19,947 16,656 Social security and liabilities towards employees 17,504 19,543 Miscellaneous other liabilities and deferred income 53,075 50,987 235,704 203,024 Total current liabilities 509,517 405,835 NON-C U R R ENT A ND C U R RENT LIABILITIES (€ thousands) Total liabilities 571,260 515,479 To safeguard liquidity in the medium term, in 2009 KSB AG took the precaution of placing a loan against borrower’s note worth € 100 million with a 3-year and 5-year maturity. This originally served to ensure the solvency of the company even in a protracted crisis situation. € 37.5 million was repaid before maturity in 2011, so the residual obligation at year end 2011 was € 62.5 million. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 93 No te s Assets amounting to € 16,805 thousand (previous year: € 5,242 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Of these, € 5,771 thousand (previous year: € 124 thousand) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 9,191 thousand (previous year: € 3,674 thousand) to inventories, € 622 thousand (previous year: € 506 thousand) to receivables and € 1,221 thousand (previous year € 938 thousand) to cash and cash equivalents, as well as other securities. € 10,545 thousand (previous year: € 9,389 thousand) of the liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the year under review. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against borrower’s note) was 4.49 % (previous year: 3.70 %). Interest rate risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s note mentioned above. There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review, as was the case in the previous year too. Taxes classified as other liabilities also relate to taxes that Group companies must remit for third-party account. Miscellaneous other liabilities include changes in the fair value of hedging instruments amounting to € 6,379 thousand (previous year: € 3,008 thousand). € 253 thousand (previous year: € 350 thousand) of this amount relates to interest rate derivatives. Deferred income amounts to € 1,371 thousand (previous year: € 2,030 thousand). This also includes investment grants totalling € 3,003 thousand (previous year: € 3,171 thousand) received for new buildings in Germany. I NC OM E STATEM ENT DISCLOSURES 10 Sales revenue KSB Group sales revenue amounted to € 2,091,046 thousand (previous year € 1,939,254 thousand), of which € 1,897,193 thousand were from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale (previous year € 1,773,346 thousand) and € 193,853 thousand from services (previous year € 165,908 thousand). The breakdown of sales revenue by product group as well as by country of origin and third country is presented in the segment reporting. The change in the consolidated Group to include KSB Seil Co., Ltd. had an impact of € 16,387 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 48,275 thousand; in the prior-year consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 39,634 thousand. The sales revenue of smaller non-consolidated companies are not material. 94 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 Other operating income (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Gains from asset disposals and reversals of impairment losses (write-ups) 3,027 2,694 Income from current assets 2,904 2,614 Currency translation gains 388 2,165 Income from the reversal of provisions 12,344 12,507 Miscellaneous other income 14,734 15,941 33,397 35,921 Miscellaneous other income relates primarily to services income, commission income, rental and lease income, insurance compensation, grants and subsidies. Income from government grants for individual projects (for example, for research activities) amounted to € 529 thousand (previous year: € 470 thousand). The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on other operating income; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 12 Cost of materials (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Cost of raw materials and production supplies consumed and of goods purchased and held for resale 849,411 722,275 Cost of purchased services 63,580 68,580 912,991 790,855 The change in the consolidated Group to include KSB Seil Co., Ltd. had an impact of € 8,034 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 21,643 thousand; in the prior-year consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 19,414 thousand. 13 Staff costs (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Wages and salaries 557,804 517,980 Social security contributions and employee assistance costs 121,254 113,485 Pension costs 18,923 18,379 697,981 649,844 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 95 No te s Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. € 2,985 thousand was spent on defined contribution pension plans in the year under review. The change in the consolidated Group to include KSB Seil Co., Ltd. had an impact of € 3,697 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 17,673 thousand; in the prior-year consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 12,459 thousand. AVER AGE NU MB ER O F EMP LOYEES 2011 2010 Wage earners 6,808 6,689 Salaried employees 8,130 7,414 Trainees and apprentices 566 514 15,504 14,617 The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review led to the addition of 574 people, of which 146 are attributable to KSB Seil Co., Ltd. 14 Other operating expenses (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Losses from asset disposals 1,507 1,219 Losses from current assets 9,512 6,666 Currency translation losses 502 807 Other staff costs 21,248 19,666 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 97,732 84,978 Selling expenses 89,926 87,706 Administrative expenses 92,321 75,680 Rents and leases 23,506 22,187 Miscellaneous other expenses 47,625 40,598 383,879 339,507 Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties, contractual penalties and additions to provisions. The change in the consolidated Group to include KSB Seil Co., Ltd. had an impact of € 5,731 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 7,873 thousand; in the prior-year consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 4,629 thousand. 96 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Financial income / expense (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Financial income 14,533 11,410 Income from investments 3,693 4,201 thereof from affiliates (2,265) (3,346) Interest and similar income 9,288 7,159 thereof from affiliates (467) (445) Write-ups of financial assets 38 – Income from the remeasurement of financial instruments – – Other financial income 1,514 50 Financial expense – 24,403 – 28,662 Interest and similar expenses – 22,193 – 20,221 thereof to affiliates (– 1) (– 3) Write-downs of financial assets – 2,139 – 8,238 Expenses from the remeasurement of financial instruments – – Other financial expenses – 71 – 203 – 9,870 – 17,252 Interest and similar expenses include the interest cost on pension provisions amounting to € 13,867 thousand (previous year: € 12,561 thousand). The improvement in financial income / expense is mainly attributable to a decline in write-downs of financial assets. In the year under review, two small service companies in Belgium and France were affected by impairment because of the difficult economic situation. The previous year saw impairments on five small companies in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands. The changes in the consolidated Group did not fundamentally have any material impact on the financial income / expense; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. It should be noted, however, that the first-time consolidation of KSB Seil Co., Ltd. affected interest expense by € 1,397 thousand. This was mainly the result of the funding structure chosen for the acquisition. 16 Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported in the income statement after other operating expenses. TA XES ON INC OME (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Effective taxes 39,093 43,550 Deferred taxes – 1,909 2,286 37,184 45,836 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 97 No te s € 150 thousand (previous year: € 7 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax refunds and € 631 thousand (previous year: € 803 thousand) to tax arrears. R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF DEFERRED TAX ES (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Change in deferred tax assets – 7,609 623 Change in deferred tax liabilities 4,173 1,722 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet – 3,436 2,345 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity 909 102 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 618 – 161 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement – 1,909 2,286 A LLOC AT ION OF DEFERRED TAX ES Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities (€ thousands) 2011 2010 2011 2010 Non-current assets 1,046 1,286 32,105 28,612 Current assets 55,124 49,194 66,444 63,117 Non-current liabilities 16,903 18,243 164 290 Current liabilities 18,164 16,007 9,758 9,703 Tax loss carryforwards 3,790 112 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 95,027 84,842 108,471 101,722 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 70,594 – 68,018 – 70,594 – 68,018 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 24,433 16,824 37,877 33,704 At the reporting date, deferred tax assets amounting to € 6,884 thousand (previous year: € 1,293 thousand) were recognised, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we expect realisation to take place. As in the previous year, the introduction of new local taxes had no significant material effects in the year under review. Equally, changes in foreign tax rates did not have any significant impact on the total tax expense (€ 118 thousand), as was the case in the previous year. In the case of net income from affiliates and other equity investments, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting them in the long term. 98 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We did not recognise deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards amounting to € 29,626 thousand (previous year: € 41,841 thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. The same applies to minor deductible temporary differences. R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF INC O ME TAX ES (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Earnings before income taxes 120,477 135,796 Calculated income taxes on the basis of applicable tax rate (29 %) 34,938 39,381 Differences in tax rates 2,410 – 101 Change in write-downs on deferred taxes on loss carryforwards and unused tax loss carryforwards – 2,705 7,438 Tax-exempt income / non-deductible expenses 979 – 4,367 Prior-period taxes – 1,189 796 Non-deductible foreign income tax 1,785 1,419 Other 966 1,270 Current taxes on income 37,184 45,836 Current tax rate 31 % 34 % The applicable tax rate of 29 % is a composite rate resulting from the current German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade income tax rates. The tax effects in the amount of € 937 thousand recognised in the statement on recognised income and expense relate, among other things, to the measurement of financial instruments. The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the taxes on income; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 17 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interest The non-controlling interest in net profit amounts to € 11,753 thousand (previous year: € 12,767 thousand), and the non-controlling interest in net loss amounts to € 410 thousand (previous year: € 242 thousand). These relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds. The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the earnings after income taxes attributable to non-controlling interest; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 99 No te s 18 Research and development costs Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 42,302 thousand (previous year: € 41,120 thousand). The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any impact on the research and development costs; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 19 Earnings per share 2011 2010 Earnings after income taxes – Attributable to KSB AG shareholders (€ thousands) 71,950 77,435 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ thousands) – 225 – 225 (€ thousands) 71,725 77,210 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 40.95 44.09 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 41.21 44.35 The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the earnings per share; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 100 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AD D ITI O N A L DI S C L O SUR ES ON FI NANC I AL I NSTRUMENTS The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the below disclosures on financial instruments; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: AS S E T S Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) Category measurement 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2010 Non-current assets Non-current financial assets Investments in affiliates and Fair value / other investments AfS historic cost 37,822 37,822 55,694 55,694 Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 664 664 660 660 Fair value / Loans LaR Amortised cost 1,587 1,587 9,491 9,491 Current assets Receivables and other current assets Fair value / Trade receivables LaR Amortised cost 461,348 461,348 428,694 428,694 Intragroup and associate Fair value / receivables LaR Amortised cost 23,591 23,591 19,313 19,313 Fair value / Receivables recognised by PoC – net – LaR Amortised cost 122,147 122,147 99,311 99,311 Other receivables and Fair value / other current assets LaR Amortised cost 28,797 28,797 32,068 32,068 Derivatives included in hedging relationships n/a Fair value 671 671 959 959 Derivatives not included in hedging relationships FAHfT Fair value 536 536 560 560 Current financial instruments AfS Fair value 11 11 500 500 Fair value / Cash and cash equivalents LaR Amortised cost 305,707 305,707 407,621 407,621 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 101 No te s E Q U I TY A N D L I A B I L I T IES Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) Category measurement 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2010 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 60,553 57,570 108,603 102,507 Finance lease liabilities n/a in accordance with IAS 17 1,190 1,190 1,041 1,041 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 66,958 66,958 18,554 18,554 Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 588 588 2,866 2,866 Fair value / Trade payables FLAC Amortised cost 206,267 206,267 181,391 181,391 Fair value / Advances received from customers (PoC) LaR Amortised cost 61,148 61,148 55,188 55,188 Fair value / Other liabilities – Miscellaneous FLAC Amortised cost 42,322 42,322 42,777 42,777 Derivatives included in hedging relationships n/a Fair value 4,553 4,553 1,709 1,709 Derivatives not included in hedging relationships FLHfT Fair value 1,826 1,826 1,299 1,299 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Fair value / Loans and receivables LaR Amortised cost 882,029 882,029 941,310 941,310 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 675 675 1,160 1,160 Available-for-sale Fair value / financial instruments AfS Amortised cost 37,822 37,822 55,694 55,694 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT Fair value 536 536 560 560 Financial liabilities measured Fair value / at amortised cost FLAC Amortised cost 376,100 373,117 351,325 345,229 Financial liabilities held for trading FLHfT Fair value 1,826 1,826 1,299 1,299 102 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amounts and fair values of all financial assets measured at amortised cost are identical. This also applies to finance lease liabilities, trade payables and other liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. In the case of financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities, the fair values are determined as the present value of the cash flows associated with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted in active markets. The fair values of derivates included and not included in hedging relationships is determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). NE T RES U LTS B Y M E A S U REMENT C AT EGORY IN 2 0 1 1 From subsequent measurement From interest At fair Currency Impairment (€ thousands) and dividends value translation losses From disposal Net results LaR 9,229 – 549 – 3,004 – 6,774 AfS 3,753 –6 – – 2,139 1,394 3,002 FAH f T / FLH f T – – 543 – – – – 543 FLAC – 7,108 – – 280 – – – 7,388 5,874 – 549 269 – 5,143 1,394 1,845 NE T RES U LTS B Y M E A S U REMENT C AT EGORY IN 2 0 1 0 From subsequent measurement From interest At fair Currency Impairment (€ thousands) and dividends value translation losses From disposal Net results LaR 7,159 – – 53 – 5,133 – 1,973 AfS 4,221 –8 – – 7,690 – – 3,477 FAH f T / FLH f T – – 1,202 – – – – 1,202 FLAC – 6,299 – 62 – – – 6,237 5,081 – 1,210 9 – 12,823 – – 8,943 The interest presented above is a component of financial income / expense; the other gains and losses are partly reported in other operating income and other operating expenses. The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement loss of € 6 thousand (previous year: loss of € 8 thousand), which was recognised directly in equity. As in the previous year, no withdrawals were made from equity and realised in the year under review. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 103 No te s Financial risks We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in securities prices are not material for us. We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk management system. We define how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. You will also find additional information in the Group management report, in particular in the Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations and Risk Management sections. C R EDIT R IS K The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled in part or in full. We minimise this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check are positive. In addition, we take out trade credit insurance policies primarily through our European companies. In exceptional cases we accept other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, cover is also taken out against political and commercial risks in the case of certain customers in certain countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables management system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, perform maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the residual risk remaining in trade receivables. We examine regularly the extent to which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss experience. Receivables are derecognised if it is reasonably certain that receipt of payment cannot be expected (for example, after completion of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings). 104 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impairment losses on “Trade receivables” are the only material impairment losses in the KSB Group. They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Opening balance at 1 January 29,966 26,349 Additions 7,071 6,074 Utilised – 1,758 – 1,699 Reversals – 2,798 – 2,960 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 1,032 2,202 Closing balance at 31 December 33,513 29,966 The maturity structure of trade receivables is as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 Receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired 353,069 331,168 Receivables that are past due but not individually impaired 1 to 30 days 41,546 36,308 31 to 90 days 30,150 27,609 91 to 180 days 14,367 11,978 > 180 days 8,938 4,905 Total 95,001 80,800 Receivables individually determined to be impaired 13,278 16,726 Receivables individually determined to be impaired at their principal amount 46,791 46,692 Specific write-downs 33,513 29,966 Carrying amount (net) 461,348 428,694 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. The same applies to all other financial instruments. The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our business means that we supply a considerable number of customers in different sectors. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 105 No te s L IQ U IDIT Y R IS K Our liquidity management ensures that this risk is minimised in the Group, and that solvency is ensured at all times. There are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict creditworthiness requirements. We generate our financial resources primarily from our operating business. We use them to finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital requirements. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a standardised Group reporting system. In response to the extraordinary situation that arose in the wake of the global financial and economic crisis, and to provide for the risk of the crisis being of a prolonged nature, in 2009 we successfully placed a loan against borrower’s note with a 3-year and 5-year maturity as an added precaution. € 37.5 million was repaid before maturity in 2011, so the residual obligation at year end 2011 was € 62.5 million. The reporting system additionally ensures that the Group’s centralised financial management is continuously informed about liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimally meet the needs of the Group as a whole and the individual companies. For our German companies, for example, we use a cash pooling system. We are also in the process of rolling out our receivables netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity plans. The following tables present the contractual undiscounted cash flows of primary and derivative financial liabilities. Interest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Net payments on derivatives result both from derivatives with negative fair values and from derivatives with positive fair values. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is neither expected that the cash flows will take place significantly earlier, nor that the amounts will deviate significantly. 106 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NC IAL LIABILITIES 2011 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 years 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 138,687 71,384 62,513 4,790 Trade payables 206,267 206,090 177 – Other liabilities 42,322 41,561 761 – Derivative financial instruments – 5,152 – 4,476 – 657 – 19 382,124 314,559 62,794 4,771 C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NC IAL LIABILITIES 2010 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 years 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 144,158 25,670 113,871 4,617 Trade payables 181,391 181,286 105 – Other liabilities 42,777 37,656 4,782 339 Derivative financial instruments – 1,569 – 1,101 – 467 –1 366,757 243,511 118,291 4,955 M AR K ET R IS K Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices here can affect fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctuations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currencies that are not their functional currency. We minimise this risk using currency forwards and options. You will find further information on this in the “Derivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. As a rule, we do not hedge foreign exchange risks from the translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (€). The most significant foreign currency in the KSB Group is the USD. The volume of trade receivables denominated in USD amounts to around € 41 million (previous year: approximately € 29 million). The volume of trade payables denominated in USD amounts to around € 13 million (previous year: approximately € 7 million). For the currency sensitivity analysis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analysis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. At the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 7.6 million lower (higher); € 4.4 million results from USD and € 3.2 million from the other currencies. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 107 No te s At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 7.2 million lower (higher); € 3.6 million would have resulted from USD and € 3.6 million from the other currencies. The hypothetical impact on earnings in the year under review would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 1.5 million; the impact on the dollar would have been very small. Accordingly, the effect would have been attributable to the remaining currencies. The hypothetical impact on earnings in the previous year would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 0.2 million. € 0.7 million would have been attributable to USD and € – 0.9 million to the other currencies. Floating rate financial instruments are exposed to interest rate risk. In the case of long-term loans, we hedge against this risk using interest rate derivatives on a case-by-case basis. Fixed rate financial instruments are not exposed to this risk. As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 100 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates and analyse the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2011, the net interest balance would have been € 2.2 million (previous year: € 3.2 million) higher (lower). Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate liabilities increase (decrease) equity by € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.1 million). C ASH FLOW STATEMENT The cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect method. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes and changes in the consolidated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operating components of assets (including current financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating activities. Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets; property, plant and equipment; and non-current financial assets. In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities comprise cash flows arising from changes in financial receivables and liabilities. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reported separately. 108 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 9,288 thousand (previous year: € 7,159 thousand) and cash flows from income taxes totalling € – 50,712 thousand (previous year € – 37,894 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities include cash flows from dividends received of € 3,693 thousand (previous year € 4,201 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include interest expense of € – 8,326 thousand (previous year: € – 7,660 thousand). € 2.8 million of the cash flows from operating activities is attributable to the first-time consolidation of companies (not including KSB Seil Co., Ltd.); the prior-year figure would have been € 4.0 million. € – 1.0 million of the cash flows from investing activities is attributable to the first-time consolidation of companies; the prior-year figure would have been € – 11.2 million. € – 1.7 million of the cash flows from financing activities is attributable to the first-time consolidation of companies; the prior-year figure would have been € +8.5 million. SEGM ENT R EP ORTI NG Order intake External sales revenue EBIT (€ thousands) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Business Unit Pumps 1,445,697 1,450,920 1,408,842 1,333,824 81,889 121,561 Business Unit Valves 359,961 342,393 335,586 331,270 2,466 10,146 Business Unit Service 326,631 281,714 323,088 276,513 42,824 30,452 Reconciliation – – 23,530 – 2,353 6,203 – 13,301 Total 2,132,289 2,075,027 2,091,046 1,939,254 133,382 148,858 € 696,286 thousand (previous year: € 668,367 thousand) of the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany and € 1,394,760 thousand (previous year: € 1,270,887 thousand) by the other Group companies. At the balance sheet date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 444,011 thousand (year-end figure in 2010: € 411,259 thousand), with € 187,135 thousand (year-end figure in 2010: € 188,167 thousand) being attributable to the companies based in Germany and € 256,876 thousand (year-end figure in 2010: € 223,092 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. The non-current assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Goodwill, non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. Our new South Korean company KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan, which was founded in March 2011 and is assigned to the Business Unit Valves, accounted for € 17.9 million of order intake; € 16.4 million of external sales revenue and € – 1.1 million of EBIT. The other companies consolidated for the first time impacted order intake by € 15.1 million in the Business Unit Pumps (the previous year it would have been € 14.5 million), € 8.8 million in the Business Unit Valves M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 109 No te s (the previous year it would have been € 7.7 million) and € 24.5 million in the Business Unit Service (the previous year it would have been € 17.6 million). The impact on external sales was € 15.0 million in the Business Unit Pumps (the previous year it would have been € 14.5 million), € 8.8 million in the Business Unit Valves (the previous year it would have been € 7.7 million) and € 24.5 million in the Business Unit Service (the previous year it would have been € 17.5 million). The impact on EBIT was € 2.5 million in the Business Unit Pumps (the previous year it would have been € 2.8 million), € 0.9 million in the Business Unit Valves (the previous year it would have been € 0.2 million) and € 1.7 million in the Business Unit Service (the previous year it would have been € 0.7 million). Segment reporting corresponds to our internal organisational and management structure, as well as the reporting lines to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. In our matrix organisation management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – order intake, external sales revenue and earnings before income taxes (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service Business Units. Reporting the relevant assets (including depreciation and amortisation, impairment losses / write-downs), number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these Business Units is not part of our internal reporting. The managers in charge of the Business Units, which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on current and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. The Pumps product group covers singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The Valves product group covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. Applications primarily include process engineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. The Service product group covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems and valves; as well as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete systems. The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying consolidated financial statements. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. 110 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS There were no discontinued operations in the year under review, as in the comparable period of the previous year. The order intake of the Business Units by segment presents order intake generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. The external sales revenue of the Business Units by segment presents sales revenue generated with third parties and non-consolidated Group companies. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. The segment results show earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), including non-controlling interests. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are also presented separately as reconciliation effects. OTHER D I SC LOSUR ES The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the other disclosures; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) C ONT INGENT LIA B ILIT IES AND SECURITY GRANTED (€ thousands) 2011 2010 Liabilities from guarantees 874 2,738 Liabilities from warranties 7,824 7,400 Liabilities from the granting of other security for third-party liabilities and other contingent liabilities 2,191 3,151 10,889 13,289 At present, there are no indications that any claims will be asserted under these obligations. Other financial obligations from rental agreements and other operating leases (minimum lease payments) amount to a total of € 30,978 thousand (previous year: € 25,724 thousand). Of these, € 13,783 thousand (previous year: € 11,012 thousand) is due within one year and € 15,399 thousand (previous year: € 12,203 thousand) due between one and five years. In the year under review, € 11,012 thousand was spent on these agreements. Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. There are extension options within the ususal scope. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 111 No te s FINA NC E LEA SES Minimum lease payments Present values (€ thousands) 2011 2010 2011 2010 Due within one year 686 2,990 633 2,866 Due between one and five years 1,043 862 936 789 Due after more than five years 223 252 209 252 1,952 4,104 1,778 3,907 Finance leases relate almost entirely to real property. The term of the contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to € 51,317 thousand (previous year: € 28,498 thousand) over a term of one to five years. As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations from capitalisation measures at Group companies. The aggregate purchase obligation for investments (primarily in property, plant and equipment) amounts to € 11,703 thousand (previous year: € 6,905 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2012. Other covenant agreements In the year under review, as in the previous year, there are two guarantee credit facilities for € 9 million (previous year € 10 million) for which covenant agreements defined by the lender must be observed. Both agreements relate to defined equity limits and to a dynamic debt level. There are currently no risks that the agreed covenants will not be honoured. Related party disclosures Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB Stiftung and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributed to KSB Stiftung pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB Stiftung were held by Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. A rental and services agreement has been entered into between KSB AG and Klein Pumpen GmbH. In the year under review, this resulted in the recognition of expenses of € 33 thousand (previous year: € 77 thousand) and income of € 8 thousand as in the previous year at KSB AG. As in the previous year, no interest was paid on short-term cash deposits by Klein Pumpen GmbH with KSB AG. Short-term deposits by KSB AG with Klein Pumpen GmbH and by Klein Pumpen GmbH with KSB companies carry appropriate rates of interest. Liabilities to Klein Pumpen GmbH as at 31 December 2011 amounted to € 19 thousand (previous year: € 7 thousand). 112 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All transactions are entered into on an arm’s length basis. This is also demonstrated by the dependent company report prepared in accordance with section 312 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. The total remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board amounts to € 1,332 thousand for financial year 2011 (previous year: € 1,310 thousand), and the total remuneration of the Board of Management amounts to € 3,327 thousand (previous year: € 4,027 thousand). € 22,195 thousand (previous year: € 19,580 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 1,714 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 1,436 thousand). Additions of € 2,361 thousand (previous year € 1,770 thousand) were made to the pension provisions for active and former members of the Board of Management. Based on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 resolved not to disclose the remuneration of the Board of Management separately for each member and classified by components. The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are listed before the presentation of the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. Auditors On 18 May 2011, BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Hamburg with an office in Frankfurt am Main, were appointed as auditors and group auditors for the financial year 2011 by the Annual General Meeting of KSB AG. The financial statements include € 275 thousand (previous year € 250 thousand) for audit fees and an additional € 90 thousand (previous year € 45 thousand) for auditing German subsidiaries. A further € 34 thousand (previous year € 217 thousand) was paid for other services, € 159 thousand (previous year none) for other confirmation services and € 43 thousand (previous year none) for tax advisory services. Use of exemption option KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal and KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt have made partial use of the exemption option under section 264 (3) of the HGB [German Commercial Code]. Events after the reporting period There were no reportable events after the balance sheet date. German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG issued the current statement of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. The statement of compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made permanently accessible. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 113 No te s S h are h o l di n gs LI S T OF S H A R E H O L D I N G S Capital Net proﬁt / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany C 100.00 1,534 PPA PMS Pumpen & Motoren Service GmbH, Neuss Germany N 100.00 737 378 KSB Atlantic Pump & Valve Service S.L., Las Palmas de Gran Canaria Spain N 47.00 512 – 72 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany C 100.00 1,686 PPA Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany C 100.00 26 PPA Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany N 100.00 1,058 419 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany C 100.00 902 492 B&C Pumpenvertrieb Köln GmbH, Cologne Germany C 100.00 905 246 Elektro Berchem GmbH, Cologne Germany C 100.00 653 163 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Bruchköbel Germany N 50.00 4,362 206 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany C 100.00 2,179 349 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany N 51.00 1,133 10 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany C 100.00 530 67 KSB OOO , Moscow Russia C 100.00 1,119 117 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany C 51.00 37,024 114 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA C 51.00 31,514 4,326 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA C 51.00 36,339 4,923 AMRI , Inc., Houston / Texas USA C 55.91 9,023 952 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA C 51.00 8,409 1,346 Precision Pump and Machine-KSB , Inc., Bakersfield / California USA C 51.00 2,360 58 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA C 51.00 1,869 82 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland C 100.00 4,099 689 Mäntän Pumppauspalvelu Oy, Mänttä-Vilppula Finland N 100.00 1,054 353 Kiinteistö Oy Keravan Savirunninkatu 4, Kerava Finland N 100.00 1,253 – KSB Mörck AB , Askim (Gothenburg) Sweden C 55.00 3,633 568 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden C 55.00 869 223 KSB Lindflaten AS , Lysaker Norway C 89.83 2,265 159 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland C 100.00 6,802 1,144 KSB -Pumpy + Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic C 100.00 3,118 11 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovak Republic N 100.00 99 – 13 KSB Szivattyú és Armatúra Kft., Budapest Hungary C 100.00 1,114 120 KSB črpalke in armature d.o.o., Ljubljana Slovenia N 100.00 • • KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Zagreb Croatia N 100.00 • • KSB SRB d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade Serbia N 100.00 40 4 KSB Zürich AG , Zurich Switzerland C 100.00 1,745 16 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy C 80.00 455 – 15 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy N 25.00 6,137 1,637 KSB Bombas e Válvulas S.A., Rio de Mouro (Lisbon) Portugal N 95.00 930 255 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures C Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG’s consolidated financial statements • No data available, as company has been recently established / acquired N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG’s consolidated financial statements * Included 114 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Capital Net proﬁt / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece C 100.00 1,613 – 15 KSB TESMA AG , Amaroussion (Athens) Greece N 59.74 1,402 13 KSB Viosen AG , Patras Greece N 60.28 396 – 72 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. N 49.00 1,787 610 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan C 58.89 6,042 – 884 MIL Controls Limited, Mala India C 70.86 10,021 2,780 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India N 100.00 1,030 747 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China C 100.00 2,095 841 KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai China C 100.00 5,694 656 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China N 100.00 3,951 – Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai China N 45.00 9,198 – 6,609 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei Taiwan C 100.00 1,922 903 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea C 100.00 929 579 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea C 100.00 4,000 – 4,479 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan N 100.00 – 1,535 – 465 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand C 40.00 3,012 451 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Singapore C 100.00 7,302 1,068 * KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya Malaysia (C) 100.00 – 127 – 13 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada C 100.00 5,574 1,048 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India C 40.54 59,107 6,762 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico C 100.00 2,945 486 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile C 100.00 11,636 1,699 KSB Perú S.A., San Isidro-Lima Peru N 100.00 • • KSB Pars Co. (P.J.S.), Shiraz Iran N 100.00 543 146 KSB Services Ltd. Co., Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia N 70.00 • • KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach Luxembourg C 100.00 122,437 15,361 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom C 100.00 3,592 270 RES Rotary Equipment Services Ltd., Loughborough United Kingdom C 100.00 588 92 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg Netherlands C 100.00 25,732 3,980 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn Netherlands C 100.00 27,937 9,817 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg Netherlands C 100.00 4,995 1,093 Nederlandse Pompservice (N.P.S.) B.V., Velsen-Noord Netherlands N 100.00 – 548 – 389 VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., Vierpolders Netherlands N 100.00 85 – 384 KSB Belgium S.A., Wavre Belgium C 100.00 505 – 987 KSB Service Belgium S.A./N.V., Wavre Belgium C 100.00 939 8,492 KSB On Site Machining BVBA , Wilrijk Belgium N 100.00 50 – 86 VRS Industries SA , Feluy Belgium N 100.00 – 175 – 407 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg C 52.86 11,389 1,006 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria C 100.00 1,866 – 182 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures C Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG’s consolidated financial statements • No data available, as company has been recently established / acquired N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG’s consolidated financial statements * Included M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 115 No te s S h are h o l di n gs Capital Net proﬁt / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France C 100.00 101,275 10,222 KSB Techni Pompe Service S.A.S., Hoerdt France C 100.00 1,479 46 KSB -Hydraulor Services, Algrange France C 100.00 1,157 57 KSB Service EITB SITELEC , Montfavet France N 100.00 – 1,049 163 SBCM S.à r.l., Gennevilliers (Paris) France N 100.00 220 4 KSB Service Robinetterie, Rambervillers France N 100.00 982 436 KSB Service ETC , Montcenis France N 100.00 822 175 KSB Service MEDIATEC S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône France N 100.00 390 136 SPI Energie S.A.S., La Ravoire France N 100.00 1,235 140 Metis Levage S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France N 100.00 611 – 48 KSB Artru Services S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France N 100.00 3,415 –4 KSB Artru Services Rhône Alpes S.A.S., Villefr.s. Saône France N 100.00 707 – 159 KSB Artru Services Auvergne S.A.S., Thiers France N 100.00 736 59 KSB Artru Services Bourgogne S.A.S., Châten. le Royal France N 100.00 944 –9 Vibra Services S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France N 100.00 211 –2 KSB Export Afrique S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France N 100.00 – 227 – 47 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco N 50.00 – 212 – 144 KSB Pompes et Robinetteries S.à r.l., Casablanca Morocco N 100.00 136 99 KSB Italia S.p.A., Concorezzo (Milan) Italy C 100.00 25,033 1,103 KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè Italy C 100.00 2,035 446 KSB AMVI , S.A., Madrid Spain C 100.00 3,967 672 AMVI Aplica. Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A., Burgos Spain C 100.00 11,711 811 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain C 100.00 15,555 – 2,413 KSB Service Suciba S.L.U., Sondika Spain N 100.00 567 166 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey C 99.00 7,368 1,735 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. C 100.00 5,395 599 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Ryadh Saudi Arabia N 50.00 6,595 3,085 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai China C 80.00 56,321 2,154 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China N 100.00 1,107 – 256 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung, Jawa Barat Indonesia C 100.00 7,921 2,652 KSB Australia Pty. Ltd., Tottenham (Melbourne) Australia C 100.00 15,537 – 613 * KSB New Zealand Limited, Penrose / Auckland New Zealand (C) 100.00 833 139 KSB Algérie Eurl, Algiers Algeria N 100.00 534 – 55 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa C 100.00 7,645 53 * Forty-Four Activia Park (Pty) Ltd. South Africa (C) 100.00 90 22 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa C 74.99 15,728 5,880 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada C 100.00 1,627 370 KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista Brazil C 100.00 64,127 10,337 KSB Válvulas Ltda., Barueri Brazil C 100.00 3,064 19 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay Argentina C 100.00 4,112 927 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures C Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG’s consolidated financial statements • No data available, as company has been recently established / acquired N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG’s consolidated financial statements * Included 116 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SU PE RVI S ORY B OA R D B OA R D OF MA NAGEMENT Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal Dr. rer. pol. Wolfgang Schmitt, Bad Dürkheim ² (Honorary Chairman) (Chairman) Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Munich Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann, Frankenthal ³ Auditor, Management Consultant (Human Resources Director) (Chairman) Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dieter-Heinz Hellmann, Frankenthal 4 Karlheinz Leitgeb, Industrial Foreman, Pegnitz Deputy Chairman of the General Works Council and Jan Stoop, Bad Dürkheim 5 Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council, (Deputy Chairman) Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim ¹ Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members in the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies Head of Corporate Legal / Compliance and Materials Management ¹ Palatina Versicherungsvermittlungsgesellschaft mbH, Frankenthal, Germany MVV Energie AG MVV Energie CZ a.s., Prague, Czech Republic Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt, Germany Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Erpolzheim Mandates of KSB AG‘s Board of Management members in the Senior Vice President Business Unit Service Board of Directors of KSB companies ² KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Reiner Euler, Engineering Technician, Grünstadt KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston, South Africa KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston, South Africa Member of the European Works Council, Canadian Kay Pump Ltd., Mississauga / Ontario, Canada Chairman of the General Works KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA Council and the Frankenthal Works Council KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India ³ SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtschaftsing., Frankenthal DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn, Netherlands Managing Director of Klein Pumpen GmbH 4 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Lingang, China Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council 5 KSB Bombas e Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Richard Lederer, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Frankenthal KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Former Member of the Management of the KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya, Malaysia Energy Pumps Division of KSB AG KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz, Spain KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand Sigrid Maurer, Insurance Trader, Neustadt / Weinstraße Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Ludwigshafen / Frankenthal Dr.-Ing. Hermann Nestler, Regensburg Former Managing Director of BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Werner Stegmüller, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Mering Partner at Horváth & Partner GmbH M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPO RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 117 No te s S u pe rv i so ry B o ard an d B o ard o f Man age m e n t Pro po sal o n th e Appro pri ati o n o f th e Ne t R e tai n e d Earn i n gs P R O P O S A L ON T H E A PPR OPR IAT ION OF T H E NET R E TA I N E D EA R NINGS OF KSB AG We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012 to appropriate the net retained earnings of € 29,563,877.28 of KSB AG containing retained earnings brought forward of € 133,949.34, as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary no-par-value share = € 10,639,380.00 and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 12.26 per preference no-par-value share = € 10,601,369.12 Appropriation to revenue reserves € 8,000,000.00 Total € 29,240,749.12 Carried forward to new account € 323,128.16 € 29,563,877.28 Frankenthal, 9 March 2012 The Board of Management The annual financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with German accounting principles. They are published in the electronic Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. S E RV I C E 30 Pumps that have not been optimised for the system they are installed in consume a lot of energy – not least in water engineering applications. The System Efﬁciency % Services approach helps identify potential savings and achieve a 30 percent increase higher system efﬁciency in efﬁciency. Type | SES System Efﬁciency Services Pressure | up to 400 bar Power | < 4 MW A data logger is used to record the process and vibration data for a pump over an extended period. This provides a clear picture of its current load proﬁle, which can then be compared with the speciﬁcations. The aim is to identify potential savings and causes of failure with a view to devising recommended courses of action. »After pump systems have been in operation for a considerable period of time, they tend not to run with optimum energy efficiency. It is the job of our System Efficiency Services to analyse how the system deviates from the optimum values. Using our data logger, we measure changes in operating conditions and then suggest how the pump could be operated more efficiently. Rather than being the exception, electricity savings of 30 percent are actually the norm in terms of what can be achieved in existing systems on average.« Dr. Falk Schäfer, Head of System Efficiency Services 122 The Group’s equity ratio is 44.0 percent, still well above the average for a German mechanical engineering company. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS RA G E N EER ALL IN FO R RMM ATIO N 123 GENER AL I NFOR MATION 124 Responsibility Statement 125 Auditor‘s Report 127 Corporate Governance Report / Remuneration Report 134 Corporate Governance: Statement of Compliance 135 Glossary 136 Contacts 124 GENER A L INFORMATION R E S P O N S I B I LIT Y STAT EMENT To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the Group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the group. Frankenthal, 9 March 2012 The Board of Management MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 125 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t Au di to r’s R e po rt AU D I TO R ’ S R EPORT We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal (Pfalz), comprising the balance sheet, the statement of recognised income and expense, the income statement, the statement of changes in equity, the cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the Group management report for the business year from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] are the responsibility of the parent company`s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the Group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [IDW – Institute of Public Auditors]. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the Group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the financial reporting information of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and Group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 126 GENER A L INFORMATION Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) of the HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The Group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt am Main, 21 March 2012 BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dyckerhoff ppa. Erbe Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 127 Au di to r’s R e po rt C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R e po rt / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt CORPORATE G OV E R N A N C E R EPORT / R EMU NER AT ION R EPORT The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report as follows on corporate governance at KSB as well as on the remuneration principles for the Board of Management in accordance with sections 3.10 and 4.2.5 of the German Corporate Governance Code: The term “corporate governance” covers the legal and factual regulatory framework for the management and supervision of companies; it is geared towards responsible management and control with the ultimate goal of sustainable value creation. The principles of corporate governance at KSB are based on the German Corporate Governance Code. This Code provides the basic framework for the management and supervision of listed companies and formulates nationally and internationally recognised standards of good and responsible corporate governance. We welcome the work of the Government Commission of the German Corporate Governance Code as well as the ideas and recommendations contained in the Code. These were last revised on 26 May 2010 and published on 2 July 2010 in the electronic Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. We are convinced that good, responsible corporate governance will contribute greatly to the company’s long-term success. This is why it has always ranked highly at KSB. Even before the Code was introduced, we implemented the core corporate governance and control processes in such a way that they complied with the current key requirements of the Code. We were traditionally guided in this by nationally and internationally recognised standards of transparent, comprehensible corporate governance. During the past financial year, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB Aktiengesellschaft discussed compliance with the Code’s guidelines as well as the relevant legal requirements in detail on several occasions. Our objective is to continue developing the principles of corporate governance in all parts of our company. STATEM ENT OF C O MPLIANCE UPDATED Pursuant to section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of listed German public companies are under the obligation to declare once per year whether the German Corporate Governance Code “was complied with and will continue to be complied with or which recommendations were not or will not be applied and why”. The majority of the recommendations added to the Code in 2010 were implemented, i.e. they were integrated into internal company workflows and pending decisions. The new recommendation which states that the Supervisory Board should specify concrete objectives for its composition was not complied with, however, although, in principle, we are guided by the criteria specified in the Code in this context, and an age limit is in place. Members of the Supervisory Board shall as a rule step down at the Annual General Meeting held after they reach the age of 75, and not later than upon reaching the age of 80. The appointment of Members of the Board of Management should as a rule not extend beyond their 65th birthday, and shall end not later than upon their reaching the age of 75. These requirements are currently met without exception, although the terms of office of the Supervisory Board members Dr. Jacob and Dr. Lederer, and Board of Management member Prof. Dr. Hellmann exceed, by way of exception, the age limits recommended in the Rules of Procedure, but in each case will end well before they reach the age of 80 / 75 respectively. 128 GENER A L INFORMATION The Board of Management and Supervisory Board once again submitted a Statement of Compliance on 7 December 2011 in accordance with section 161 of the AktG and made this accessible to shareholders on the company’s web site together with statements from previous years. The Company complies with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code apart from two exceptions. The statement will be updated as required. Going forward, we will continue to monitor and respond quickly to further developments in the German Corporate Governance Code to ensure that suggestions and recommendations that are applicable to KSB are implemented in the interests of sustained transparency and growth in our enterprise value. At the same time we want to foster the trust which investors, financial markets, employees, the public and our customers, in particular, have placed in us. SHAR EHOLD ER S AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING KSB AG issued both no-par value ordinary shares and no-par value preference shares. The holders of these shares, our shareholders, exercise their co-determination and control rights at the Annual General Meeting which is held at least once a year. Each shareholder is entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the requirements as stipulated in the Articles of Association and the law. If shareholders cannot or choose not to attend in person, they can opt to appoint a proxy who will exercise their voting rights on their behalf. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Chair of the Supervisory Board presides over the Annual General Meeting. The Chair determines the order in which proceedings are conducted as well as the type and form of voting. The Chair may reasonably restrict the time allocated to questions and speeches by shareholders and, at the start of or during the course of the Annual General Meeting, set time limits for the entire proceedings of the Meeting, the discussion of the various items on the agenda as well as on individual questions and speeches. The Annual General Meeting reaches decisions pertaining to all of the duties and responsibilities assigned to it by law (e.g. appropriation of net retained earnings, amendments to the Articles of Association, election of Supervisory Board members). Each ordinary share authorises the holder to one vote. The preference shares only entitle holders to voting rights as prescribed by law but carry progressive additional dividend rights. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares; the KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds a majority stake in Klein Pumpen GmbH. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 129 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R e po rt / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt R ESP ONSI B LE C OOPERATION BETWEEN THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT AND THE SUP ERVI SORY B OA RD Good corporate governance requires an ongoing development of the dual management system prescribed for German public limited companies in all sections of the business. This begins with independent management by the Board of Management which is monitored and advised by the Supervisory Board. To promote effective management, the Rules of Procedure for both bodies specifically state that business shall be conducted in accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code, with any departure from compliance with the recommendations in justifiable, individual instances being disclosed by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Continuous dialogue based on mutual trust between the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board provides an important foundation for the success of the company. Their common goal is to generate appropriate, sustainable returns through the systematic pursuit and implementation of these principles. Both bodies thus collaborate closely for the benefit of the company. The Supervisory Board receives regular, timely, comprehensive updates from the Board of Management regarding all planning, business development, risk position and compliance issues which are relevant to the company. Decisions of fundamental importance must be approved by the Supervisory Board. Any departure in business performance from the formulated plans and objectives is discussed in depth and openly; particular importance is attached to maintaining strict confidentiality towards other persons. The principles of the company’s strategic and organisational alignment are defined in close cooperation between the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board and are reviewed constantly. At times the Supervisory Board also convened without the Board of Management in order to intensify the exchange of ideas within the Board. TR ANSPAR ENC Y KSB considers it extremely important to provide capital market participants with regular, comprehensive, consistent and prompt information on the Group’s economic situation. Reporting takes place via annual reports, half-year financial reports and interim reports. All publications are published within the time frames specified. In addition, we provide information by means of press releases and ad hoc statements whenever necessary. All information can be accessed online (www.ksb.com). At the web site, you will also find our financial calendar which contains the scheduled dates for major recurring events and publications. In the event that any directors’ dealings take place which are subject to reporting requirements, you will find the relevant information at Investor Relations / Corporate Governance / Directors’ Dealings. 130 GENER A L INFORMATION KSB AG created an insider directory as required by section 15b of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trading Act]. Those persons affected are informed of their current legal obligations and potential sanctions. At the end of the financial year, the aggregate of all shares in KSB AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, either directly or indirectly, did not exceed a total of 1 % of the shares issued. Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are under the obligation to act in the company’s interests. When making their decisions, they must neither pursue personal interests nor use for their own purposes any business opportunities that present themselves for the company. Any conflicts of interest must be disclosed to the Supervisory Board immediately. Should the need arise, the Annual General Meeting must be informed of any conflicts of interest and how they were dealt with. AC C OUNTI NG AND AU DIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements and interim financial statements of KSB are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. After the consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Board of Management, they are audited by the auditors elected by the Annual General Meeting (BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft) and approved by the Supervisory Board. Prior to the publication of interim reports and the half-year financial report, these are discussed with the Audit Committee. An agreement has been reached with the auditors that the Chair of the Supervisory Board or the Chair of the Audit Committee shall be notified immediately of any substantial findings or issues which emerge during the audit or of any grounds for exclusion or exemption. M ANAGEM ENT PAR AMETERS AND CONTROL SYSTEM In addition to order intake and sales revenue, our key performance indicators for the management of the KSB Group are the return on sales and our net financial position (i.e. the difference between cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing investments on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the other). We also attach great importance to managing our activities in accordance with the economic value added (EVA) concept. Our internal control system is based both on guidelines and regulations that specify standard procedures as well as our Group-wide risk management system. The organisation and implementation of this risk management system are documented in a manual. All Group units are responsible for identifying and assessing risks and reporting these to Group headquarters. They must also initiate countermeasures to avert or limit any damage. Reporting on identified risks and the countermeasures initiated is an integral part of the planning and controlling process. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee also looks at the reported risks on a regular basis. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 131 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R e po rt / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt KSB identifies and communicates the risks based on the following categories: Market / Competition Products / Projects Finances / Liquidity Purchasing Technology / Research and Development Environment Other risks The Internal Audits department performs regular reviews to establish to what extent the specified guidelines and regulations are observed and whether the operating units are appropriately involved in risk management. C OM P LI ANC E AS A KEY TASK OF CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Compliance in the sense of implementing measures to ensure observance of applicable law and internal guidelines by Group units is one of the Board of Management’s key management tasks. The Board of Management expressed its requirement of professional, honest conduct within our Group-wide Code of Conduct. As well as talking to designated people within the company, employees can call a whistleblower hotline or contact an ombudsman if they are or become aware of any violations of anti-trust, cartel or penal laws or guidelines. An external law firm is on hand which will promptly forward any information to the Group Compliance Officer. Some fundamental statements contained in the Code of Conduct are addressed in more detail in other, separate guidelines. This particularly applies to the areas of anti-trust or cartel law and anti-corruption measures. The applicable laws and regulations are explained in greater detail and useful information on proper conduct in concrete situations is provided. The latter is similarly applicable to the guidelines prohibiting insider trading. One major focus of compliance activities in 2011 was the start of work on aligning and further developing our compliance management system in accordance with the new auditing standards introduced by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors] in Germany (IDW), which describe the basic elements to be included in a proper compliance system and the necessary framework conditions. To this end, the probability of occurrence of basic compliance risks were first of all re-recorded and re-evaluated across the Group. In the current financial year we will continue with this work and focus in particular on selected operative organisational structures and processes to identify any potential for optimisation. In 2011, to ensure a uniform, international quality standard, the training offering was revised, with the focus on tightening administrative expenditure and introducing more flexibility for participants. These requirements will in future be realised through the use of e-learning, which will largely replace the classroom training conducted up until now. Once again, international projects were randomly audited for compliance with specific compliance issues within the scope of correlated control measures aimed at securing the targeted preventive effects. 132 GENER A L INFORMATION R EM UNER ATI ON OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The Supervisory Board’s remuneration system is set out in our Articles of Association. According to this, Supervisory Board members shall receive lump sum remuneration in the amount of € 6,000 for the financial year. The chair is entitled to twice this amount and the deputy chair is entitled to one and a half times the amount. In addition, the members of the Supervisory Board receive an attendance fee of € 2,000 per meeting of the Supervisory Board and its committees they attend; the attendance fee for committee chairpersons is € 3,000 per committee meeting attended. No attendance fees are paid for meetings of the Committee pursuant to section 27(3) of the MitbestG [German Co-determination Act]. The members of the Supervisory Board are also covered by directors’ and officers’ liability insurance taken out by the company on behalf of the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board at standard market conditions. Finally, Supervisory Board members receive dividend-dependent remuneration for the financial year. For every 25 cents by which the dividend distributed to ordinary shareholders exceeds the amount of € 1.0, the remuneration paid out to Supervisory Board members amounts to € 1,200 for the chair, € 900 for the deputy chair and € 600 for the remaining members. Any additional remuneration is reserved for determination by the Annual General Meeting. The total remuneration paid to members of the Supervisory Board in 2011 amounted to € 1,332 thousand (previous year: € 1,310 thousand). R EM UNER ATI ON OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT (REMUNERATION REPORT) The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied when determining the remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft. It is geared towards the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (section 4.2.5) and explains the remuneration system in place for Board of Management members. This system is geared towards sustainable corporate development. It is adopted by the Supervisory Board plenary session based on the recommendation of the Personnel Committee and reviewed at regular intervals. The same applies to individual Board of Management compensation amounts. The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management are structured as clearly and transparently as possible. The total amount of remuneration for the individual Board of Management members is determined based on various parameters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsibilities of the individual Board of Management members, their personal performance, the economic situation, the company’s results and prospects as well as customary remuneration amounts when taking peer companies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within the company into consideration. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 133 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R e po rt / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of fixed and variable components. Fixed components are granted regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus benefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, widow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % of the maximum annual salary and is paid out as a monthly basic remuneration. All Board of Management members are equally entitled to the accompanying fringe benefits which include the private use of a company car, payment of insurance premiums and any payments associated with a post-contractual non-competition clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Board of Management in the year under review. The variable component of remuneration is linked to the return on sales achieved during the financial year in question, with a weighting factor of 15 % of the maximum annual salary. Board of Management members also receive variable remuneration components which serve as a long-term incentive. These are determined based on an economic value added approach over a three-year period; a weighting factor of 25 % of the member’s maximum annual salary is applied. Any negative developments during this period are also taken into consideration when calculating payments for the third year. The total amount of the variable remuneration components is limited in order to take extraordinary, unforeseen developments into account. The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional possibility of a premium, to be paid out in individual cases at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than three monthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of any special performance of individual members of the Board of Management. Decisions in this respect are only considered on an irregular basis meaning that they are not necessarily made annually. Furthermore, when entering into any Board of Management contract it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Management member in the event that his or her Board of Management tenure is terminated prematurely without good reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration including fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with section 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). No other payments have been promised to any Board of Management members in the event of termination of service; similarly no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. On 19 May 2010 – using a legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting once again resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for individual members of the Board of Management for a period of five years. The total remuneration paid to Board of Management members for services provided during the past financial year amounted to € 3,327 thousand. During this period of time, additions of € 2,361 thousand were made to the pension provisions for active and retired members of the Board of Management. No stock options or other sharebased payment arrangements are granted to members of the Board of Management. Further disclosures on the remuneration of the Board of Management are to be found on pages 111 to 112 of the annual report. 134 GENER A L INFORMATION COR PORAT E G OV E R N A N C E / S TAT EMENT OF C OMPLIA NC E Statement by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of KSB Aktiengesellschaft on Compliance with the Recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to section 161 AktG (German Public Companies Act) Since the publication of last statement of compliance on 2. The total amount of the remuneration paid to the members 8 December 2010 KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal (Pfalz), of the Supervisory Board for their service on the Board, as has complied and continues to comply with the recommendawell as of remuneration or advantages extended for services tions of the Government Commission on the German Corpoprovided individually, in particular advisory or agency services, rate Governance Code as set out in the version dated 26 May is disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial State2010, with the exception of the following: ments, but in the Corporate Governance Report the remuneration is disclosed neither separately for each member nor 1. With the exception of an age limit, the Supervisory Board classified by components (subsection 5.4.6, paragraph 3). does not specify concrete objectives regarding its composition (subsection 5.4.1, paragraphs 2 and 3). Reason: The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is described in detail in the Articles of Association; they can Reason: We appreciate the diversity in the composition of the be referred to for information on the individual remuneration Supervisory Board aimed at by the Code, which will generally components in relation to the functions assumed on the Superbe conducive to the interests of the company. To date, we have visory Board. Beyond that, we prefer to provide summarised always followed this principle. However, we take a critical information about the remuneration of the members of the view of detailed specifications, in particular of quota systems, Supervisory Board rather than breaking it down into the comas we believe that this would make it more difficult to ensure pensation paid to the individual members and the components an appropriate and adequately flexible composition of this it contains, as we do not believe that the latter would provide body. any additional benefits for shareholders or the development of the company. Frankenthal, 7 December 2011 For the Supervisory Board For the Board of Management Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2011 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 135 S tate m e n t o f C o m pl i an c e Gl o ssary GL OS S ARY KE Y C O R P O R AT E A ND TEC HNI C AL TER M S ABBREVIATIONS Global Compact Cavitation ANSI Global initiative for businesses If the static pressure of a ﬂuid falls American National Standards launched by the United Nations below the vapour pressure, vapour Institute with the aim of shaping social and bubbles will develop. These are ecological globalisation. carried into higher pressure zones BRIC by the ﬂuid ﬂow. When the static Collective abbreviation for the High-efficiency motor pressure rises above the vapour emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, Extremely efﬁcient electric drive pressure again, the cavities will India and China ® like the new SuPremE motor, implode, resulting in extreme preswhich does not contain rare earths. sure and temperature peaks. KSB CARE KSB Code of Conduct Aid fund of Asian KSB companies The Code describes the legal and that support educational institutions. business policy principles that govern the relationship between Finite element method customers, suppliers and emploComputer-aided method of yees and is intended to provide structural simulation. guidance to employees in their day-to-day work. CRM Customer Relationship Management 136 GENER A L INFORMATION CON TACT S E D I TOR As a signatory to the United Nations Global ComKSB Aktiengesellschaft pact, KSB is committed to endorsing the ten princiJohann-Klein-Straße 9 ples of the international community in the areas of 67227 Frankenthal human rights, labour standards, environmental Phone +49 6233 86-0 protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 ONL I NE N E W S You will ﬁnd the latest news on the KSB Group at www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, please contact: I NVE S TO R R E L ATI O N S Ralf Pfundmaier Phone + 49 6233 86-2053 Fax + 49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com COM MU N I C ATI O N S Ullrich Bingenheimer Phone + 49 6233 86-2138 Fax + 49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com CONCE P T A N D D E S I G N KSB Communications (A-CC), Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz PHOTO S Robert Kwiatek (A-CC), Frankenthal Shutterstock (p. 18 / 19, 54 / 55) Getty Images (p. 118 / 119) PRI NT I N G Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH Ottweiler, Germany G L O BA L P R E SSENCE ENCE KSB manufactures its products on all five continents. With production sites in 21 countries and a tightly knit global sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand when customers need to pump or reliably shut off fluids. KSB production sites KSB sales / service sites EUROPE Austria | Vienna Belgium | Wavre G L O BA L P R E S E N C E Croatia | Zagreb Czech Republic | Prague Denmark | Glostrup Finland | Mänttä France | Châteauroux | Gennevilliers (Paris) | La Roche-Chalais | Lille Germany | Frankenthal | Halle | Pattensen | Pegnitz Greece | Amaroussion (Athens) Hungary | Budapest Italy | Concorezzo (Milan) | Vicenza Luxembourg | Echternach Netherlands | Alphen | Zwanenburg ASIA / PACIFIC Norway | Lysaker Australia | Tottenham (Melbourne) Poland | Warsaw China | Dalian | Lingang | Shanghai | Changzhou Portugal | Rio de Mouro (Lisbon) India | Chinchwad | Coimbatore | Nashik | Russia | Moscow Pimpri | Vambori Serbia | Belgrade Indonesia | Jakarta Slovak Republic | Bratislava Japan | Tokyo Slovenia | Ljubljana Malaysia | Kuala Lumpur Spain | Burgos | Madrid | Zarautz New Zealand | Auckland Sweden | Gothenburg | Västra Frölunda Pakistan | Hassanabdal | Lahore Switzerland | Zurich | Beinwil am See Philippines | Manila Turkey | Ankara Singapore | Singapore Ukraine | Kiev South Korea | Seoul | Busan United Kingdom | Loughborough Taiwan | Taipei Thailand | Bangkok MIDDLE EAST / AFRICA Vietnam | Ho Chi Minh City Algeria | Hydra (Algiers) Egypt | Cairo AMERICAS Ghana | Accra Argentina | Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Kenya | Nairobi Brazil | Barueri | Várzea Paulista / São Paulo Libya | Tripoli Canada | Mississauga / Ontario Morocco | Casablanca Chile | Santiago Qatar | Doha Mexico | Querétaro Saudi Arabia | Riyadh | Al Khobar Peru | Lima South Africa | Germiston (Johannesburg) USA | Bakersfield / California | Grovetown / Georgia | United Arab Emirates | Abu Dhabi | Dubai Houston / Texas | Port Arthur / Texas | Richmond / Virginia F I N A N CIA L C A LENDA R 30 MARCH 2012 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal 3 APRIL 2012 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 26 APRIL 2012 Interim report January – March 2012 16 MAY 2012 Annual General Meeting 15:00, Frankenthal 14 AUGUST 2012 Half-year ﬁnancial report January – June 2012 13 NOVEMBER 2012 Interim report January – September 2012 KSB Aktiengesellschaft 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
