Sustainability Report 2011 This document is a PDF version of the online BG Group Sustainability Performance Report, including all information provided within the 2011 performance section of the sustainability website, www.bg-group.com/ sustainability as at 4 April 2012. Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 1 Contents About this report 02 This document is a PDF People 02 About this Report version of the online BG Group Sustainability Performance Chief Executive’s statement 04 Report. It includes all 05 Unconventional gas: case study information provided within the 2011 performance People 06 Ethical Conduct 06 Summary section of the sustainability 06 Building an international business website. Information on 06 Leadership, succession and long-term management BG Group’s policies and 08 Protecting and safeguarding people management systems in this area can be found in the Ethical Conduct 10 10 Summary management approach section Safety, Health and Security 10 Readiness for the UK Bribery Act of the sustainability website, 11 Speak Up (BG Group’s whistleblowing policy) or downloaded from the 11 Audit and assurance 11 Revenue transparency Reporting tools section of the website. Safety, Health and Security 12 12 Summary Society 12 Personal safety and health 15 Process safety and major accident hazards 16 Contractor safety 17 Crisis management Society 18 18 Summary Environment 18 Responding to change in North Africa 20 Working with communities 20 Creating benefit 23 Our Social Performance Standard 26 Human Rights Environment 24 24 Summary Climate Change 24 Water management plan implementation 26 Oil spill response 28 Biodiversity 28 Environmental performance Climate Change 31 31 Summary Principles, policies and 31 The role of gas in carbon reduction strategies 32 Research, technology and innovation governance 32 Reducing our own emissions 34 Scope 1 emissions 35 Scope 2 emissions 35 Scope 3 emissions Management Systems More online www.bg-group.com/sustainabilty Targets 36 36 Targets Performance data 38 38 2011 Performance data Our approach to Independent Assurance 43 43 Independent Assurance Report 45 Learning from our assurance 2011 Management sustainability reporting Systems 47 Learning from our assurance 2010 BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 2 About this Report People Management Approach 2011 Performance This section sets out our arrangements for governance, including the This part of the report includes an introduction from our Chief Ethical Conduct Business Principles, policies and standards that provide the basis for Executive, Sir Frank Chapman, a case study on unconventional implementing the Group’s approach to sustainability. It describes the gas and our performance in six key areas of activity. framework within which we run our business. In these Performance sections, we report, as in previous years, in six key areas: ●● Review our approach to developing our people and nurturing leaders in a growing business. Safety, Health and Security ●● Learn about actions we have taken to reinforce an ethical and responsible culture. ●● See how we have performed in preserving the health, safety and security of the people who work for us. ●● Find out how we have responded to developments and invested in the societies where we operate. ●● See how we have managed our operations to minimise their Society environmental impact. ●● Examine our actions to address the global challenge of climate change. These sections report on: Environment ●● how we respond to key external events, including political, social and regulatory changes that had implications for our people, the environment or communities where we work; ●● actions we took to strengthen the business for the future, such as new policies or structures; and ●● our progress against our targets. Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 3 Chief Executive’s statement People This tragic incident, and the environmental damage and disruption to local communities which came in its aftermath, was another reminder to us all that for an oil and gas company sustainability is, in the first instance, about safe operations. That is the expectation of our employees, of the communities affected by our operations, of the governments who are Ethical Conduct our partners, and of civil society more broadly. Water management There is an increasing interest in how we – and many other sectors of industry – are managing water resources. For us, the development of our unconventional Safety, Health and Security gas portfolio – shale gas activities in the USA and the coal seam gas business in Australia – has highlighted the importance of managing responsibly the large volumes of water used and produced by these operations, not just Sir Frank Chapman Chief Executive today but for the long term. “ For BG Group, sustainability is a prerequisite for long-term performance and value creation for our shareholders.” In this report you can read about our water Society management plans in action. We are building reverse osmosis plants to treat the brackish water we produce in Queensland, so that it can be used in local industry and agriculture. We’re making good progress with delivering In March, in Kazakhstan, an unplanned gas In Louisiana, we continue to use waste water our growth plans. We are a growth company, release during vessel entry resulted in a single from a local paper mill for our operations, rather in the middle of the heaviest investment phase fatality. In May, an amine flash tank ruptured at than sourcing freshwater. And in Texas, we have in our history. Over the next few years, we need one of our sites in Louisiana, and the resulting started a project to look at using deep saline Environment to invest significantly to achieve our ambition. pressure release killed one of the operators groundwater sources for drilling and fracturing, We want to be a truly great company, sustained standing nearby. In June, in our QGC operations instead of local freshwater systems. through powerful organic growth, and meeting in Australia, a tugboat sank with four persons high standards of ethical conduct. on board, resulting in a fatality. Climate change We also explain that we are on track to achieve Our approach – how we do our work We have undertaken a number of initiatives the emission reduction goals we set ourselves We understand that we are defined not so in response to this unacceptable situation. They in 2007, and are now looking ahead. We carried much by what we are and the assets we own are detailed in this report. During 2011, we took out greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction projects Climate Change but by who we are and how we do our work. action to reinforce our safety culture, particularly achieving approximately 221 000 tonnes of among our contractors, in a concerted effort sustainable annualised GHG reductions in Our commitment to sustainability, and the to improve on our performance. And we ran 2011 and are on target to meet our goal of a protection of our licence to operate, is based a Global Safety Week across the Group in sustainable reduction in our GHG emissions on the application of our Business Principles December 2011, during which every employee of 1 million tonnes by 2012 (compared with – safety, environmental stewardship, ethical was stood down from normal activities and a no action base case). We had achieved a conduct, the development of our employees engaged in a Group-wide process to reinforce sustainable GHG reduction of approximately and the long-term future of the communities our safety culture and make personal 985 000 tonnes by 31 December 2011. Principles, policies and where we operate. That commitment is also commitments based on the watchwords based on a strong belief that business success Observation, Intervention, Compliance and During the year, we debated how to set must be rooted in partnerships with our Contractor Management (OICC). governance meaningful targets for the future, given stakeholders in governments, societies our rising production profile. We have made and communities. Reducing the risk of oil spills good progress with research into carbon In 2011 we completed our full internal review management, including plans for our Carbon For BG Group, sustainability is a prerequisite of well risk, set up following the BP Macondo Institute which will research ways to reduce for long-term performance and value creation Deepwater Horizon incident of April 2010. carbon emissions, and are working on plans Management Systems for our shareholders. We participated also in the global oil industry for future GHG emission reductions in our working group which aims to prevent incidents business. We have identified 67 700 tonnes Relentless focus on safety of this kind. of reductions to be delivered in 2012 from To my great concern and regret our safety projects including the continuing replacement performance deteriorated in 2011. Three people We have now updated and enhanced our oil of cast iron pipe in our Comgás gas distribution sadly lost their lives working for BG Group. spill response plans, developing new Group business in Brazil and the use of a liquid Our total recordable case frequency also guidance on preparing oil spill contingency recovery system in well operations in deteriorated from a previously improving plans and on minimising blow-out risk. Kazakhstan. Together, these are expected Our approach to trend, for the most part due to the ramp-up to cut over 41 000 tonnes of GHG emissions. in onshore unconventional gas activity. sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 4 Chief Executive’s Statement Conclusion People The progress we have made in reducing our GHG emissions was recognised by our inclusion BG Group’s commitment to sustainability is in the Carbon Performance Leadership Index part of our commitment to being a truly great in 2011. Climate change will continue to be a company. Our dialogue with our stakeholders key consideration for BG Group strategy in is an essential part of our work – so that we the future. During 2011, we strenghtened our can understand the context in which we organisation further by appointing a senior operate and the expectations of stakeholders climate change specialist, who joined the with whom we interface. I hope this report Ethical Conduct Group in 2012. will help reinforce that dialogue and build the partnerships that will help us make good Working in partnership with our commitment. stakeholders In 2011, despite the upheaval in Egypt Sir Frank Chapman and Tunisia and floods in Australia, we kept Chief Executive our operations running safely and worked closely with local fence-line communities Safety, Health and Security through this difficult time. The social and political revolutions in North Africa created a volatile operating environment, with calls for institutional change, economic opportunity and social justice. During the year, we made renewed efforts to strengthen our relationships with a number of the communities where we work through open Society and participatory consultation. These events remind us that no institution, public or private sector, can take its franchise for granted. Our licence to operate depends on the support not just of host governments, but also of broader society and, in particular, Environment of the communities where we operate. Stakeholder unconventional gas concerns Consultation with stakeholders was particularly important in Australia and the USA, where the development of unconventional gas resources has become an issue of public concern. Climate Change Given our engagement with stakeholders and the general public about the industry and the potential risks associated with these operations, we have now publicly outlined how we aim to develop unconventional gas with minimal impact on the environment. Principles, policies and In view of the importance of these issues, this report contains a case study setting out governance in more detail how we are addressing them. GRI and UN Global Compact For the third year, this report complies with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Management Systems International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) reporting guidelines. BG Group is also a signatory to the UN Global Compact and we remain committed to its 10 Principles. We detail how we fulfil this commitment throughout this report but particularly in the Management Approach section. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 5 Unconventional gas People Case study: unconventional gas BG Group is developing unconventional gas – an important source about coal seam gas equipment and processes. A business forum we of energy – in the USA and Australia. held attracted 130 people representing 95 Queensland businesses, Ethical Conduct who networked with 20 of our main contractors. The rapid expansion of this industry and some of the technologies involved have raised important questions about safety, the environment We expanded our public consultation and disclosure work around a and relationships with communities. We recognise these concerns and seismic survey that took place in the Wieambilla Estates and opened have sought to address them here and more widely in this report. up access to our operations, conducting more than 20 site tours over the year for schoolchildren and environmental groups, among others. How we manage the technical environmental aspects of unconventional gas, such as water use, is described in the Overall, BG Group will invest A$150m in Queensland communities by 2014. Safety, Health and Security Performance: Environment section of this report. In 2011, we spent A$4.4 million on social projects, including A$1.4 million Here we explain more broadly how we dealt with a range through the QGC Sustainable Communities Fund. We also contributed of concerns that arose particularly during 2011. more than A$600 000 in flood-related funding and invested A$1 250 000 in Gladstone hospital as part of a A$3.5 million commitment. Other The challenge investments focused on education and skills development and In the USA, we are among a number of companies exploring for and capacity-building programmes for small and medium-sized businesses. producing shale gas: in Texas, Louisiana, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. In our USA operations, we reviewed and reflected on the report by the US Society During 2011, public concern about safety and environmental issues Secretary of Energy Advisory Board Shale Gas Production Subcommittee associated with shale gas intensified. Questions were raised: What into the shale industry, and consulted a range of stakeholders, including is the role of shale gas in energy security? How should the industry local communities, state and federal policy makers, regulators, nonbe regulated? What information should be publicly available? governmental organisations (NGOs) and investors to improve our understanding of their expectations and concerns. In response to this concern, US President Obama requested an urgent report on the industry, which was issued in November 2011. It made a We continued to support local communities, through investment Environment series of recommendations on safety and environmental management. in local skills and training. We worked with regulators on key issues such as the disclosure of chemicals used in our operations. We started Meanwhile, in Queensland, Australia we faced some similar issues. work to develop additional standards and processes specifically for Operating as QGC (www.qgc.com.au), we are developing one of Australia’s unconventional gas operations and also to look at emerging best largest capital infrastructure projects, developing and producing natural practices in the industry, for example reviewing new services that gas in the Surat Basin and building a pipeline to take it to a new liquefied aim to reduce the toxicity of fracturing chemicals. natural gas (LNG) plant on Curtis Island, near Gladstone. The project will create more than 5 000 jobs during construction and about 700 permanent This work culminated in BG Group developing in 2011 a public position Climate Change positions during operations, as well as providing other economic benefits. statement on unconventional gas, published in February 2012. It explains how we work and how we address environmental, social This project’s scale and impact has opened up a debate about how and other issues, and identifies areas that require further attention. it will affect society, the economy and the Queensland environment. It discusses how we manage operational risk in key areas including well During 2011, our project and the coal seam gas industry as a whole faced and site design, monitoring and testing and water management and widespread scrutiny, from grass roots protests to a formal Senate inquiry. how we engage and communicate with stakeholders. It includes commitments to do more on certain issues. There was also public debate over the rights of landholders – who, Principles, policies and unlike in the USA, do not own mineral rights – to prevent industry One aspect of our work that attracts special interest from access to their properties and demand greater compensation. stakeholders is safety, particularly the safety of our assets. In 2011, governance we dealt with the risk of gas leaks in our Queensland production by These developments brought into focus the need not only to work in launching an investigation of more than 700 wells, triple checking a responsible way but also to engage more fully with an increasingly the wells and putting new safety measures in place. broad and diverse range of stakeholders. In both Australia and the USA we took action to make our workforce Our response and businesses safer, including developing new training facilities. Management Systems In both Australia and the USA in 2011, responding to the heightened public In Queensland, where we are currently drilling and plan to drill several interest in our work, we engaged more actively with key stakeholders. thousand wells, we set up a training room at an abandoned well site and developed a suite of materials that we are using to train new drilling crews In Queensland, we took a range of actions, some of which we set out here. to meet our safety standards. This training pad is the first such facility in Australia and is being replicated within the industry in Queensland. We expanded our team of land and community liaison officers and held several community events, including a water workshop involving Looking ahead environmental and community groups, as well as a public forum on The shale and coal seam gas industries are still developing and we Our approach to water hosted by the Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration know that we need to continue to build confidence in our reliability Association. We also held an open day – attended by approximately as an operator with our stakeholders in both Australia and the USA. sustainability reporting 1 000 local people – to highlight the importance of health, safety and environmental protection in the gas industry. At our environmental In 2012, we will continue to engage openly with stakeholders, to review and, field day in Tara, the community was invited to view and ask questions where practical adopt new ways of minimising our environmental impact. BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 6 People People 2011: key developments During 2011, we: ●● announced three key leadership appointments which will form the foundation for BG Group’s future; Ethical Conduct ●● created and launched a new Contractor Personnel Standard to improve the quality of management of individual contractor personnel; ●● launched Emerging Leaders and Managing Essentials programmes; and ●● developed global Strategic Resource Plans which look Safety, Health and Security forward a minimum of five years. Building an international business Robert Booker, BG Group Executive Vice President, In recent years, BG Group has grown fast. From our traditional base Human Resources in Europe, the Middle East and North Africa, we have expanded “ Sustainability, in the context of Human Resources, means with major developments in Australia, Brazil and the USA. Once encouraging our people to think about the longer term rather than a UK-centred organisation, today we are a genuinely global Group. Society just focusing on immediate goals. This applies in all contexts, from succession planning and talent management in BG Group to the Locating closer to our operations way we work with people and communities outside the Group.” During 2011, we put in place a new strategy to locate experts closer to our operations in key areas. Our Houston office, which is already the headquarters for BG Group’s Americas and Global LNG region, has become the international office base for BG Advance, the part Summary of BG Group responsible for specialist or technical skills. As a global Environment centre for the oil and gas industry, Houston has the international BG Group has seen rapid growth over the last decade, expanding from skills and human resource base that we need. 1 541 employees in 2001 to a total of 6 625 as at 31 December 2011. We introduced more measures to globalise our culture. Examples Looking ahead, we want to maintain the commercial flexibility include e-learning language training and initiatives to encourage and energy that drove this growth, but also meet new challenges, people to work collaboratively across different regions. We retain including developing, training and retaining professionals in an external consultant to help individual employees anywhere in new areas. the world develop their language skills and will continue to invest Climate Change in technology to facilitate this kind of learning. During 2011, we took steps to strengthen our management team and prepare for the future. Leadership, succession and long-term management Building an international business We located more people, particularly those with specialist and Strong senior team technical expertise, close to our operations, especially in the USA. We took steps to secure our future stability and strategic direction. Principles, policies and Fabio Barbosa was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Leadership, succession and management for the long term Financial Officer on 31 March 2011, following his recruitment at the We made changes to ensure continuity at the very top of the Group, end of 2010. His appointment brought to the Board not just his governance identifying candidates to take over as Chief Executive in the future, financial and sector knowledge but also his global perspective as well as developing talent for the demanding years ahead. and experience. Safeguarding and developing people We have put in place a structured process to identify a successor We responded to the political change that swept Tunisia and to our Chief Executive, Sir Frank Chapman, who has indicated his Egypt and the floods in Queensland, Australia. These events Management Systems intention to retire during 2013. Three internal candidates have tested our people and our ability to support the communities been identified and their roles expanded to provide development in which we work. opportunities as part of the succession process but also to ensure we continue to deliver our growth plans: We continued to address the long-term issues for our industry: finding, training, developing and retaining people to keep pace ●● Fabio Barbosa, who was appointed Chief Financial Officer in March with the swift rate of technical, regulatory and other change in 2011, took on additional responsibility for the Group’s strategy and our markets around the world. portfolio development; Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 7 People People ●● Chris Finlayson became an Executive Director and Managing in the medium business category and was also judged as the overall Director for BG Advance and is responsible for ensuring we have winner of this prestigious award, which recognised the percentage Ethical Conduct the right technology and technical capabilities as well as for our of women and policies designed to support women. exploration strategy and projects programme and assumed Board-level responsibility for the evolution of the Group’s Leadership development organisation; and The 2010 employee survey underscored the need to focus on improving leadership. During 2011, we completed a review of our ●● Martin Houston, formerly Executive Vice President, Americas, Leadership Development Framework, piloted Managing Essentials, took on the new role of Chief Operating Officer, has Board-level a programme for first-level leaders, and began to develop leadership responsibility for all regions and assets and Group-wide business programmes at all levels in the Group: we plan to roll these out Safety, Health and Security development, and will focus on driving operational performance in 2012. and project delivery. We also introduced an Emerging Leaders programme for a group Recruiting, retaining and developing the people we need of senior executives. This programme, designed in collaboration with As a large energy group with a portfolio of major international Duke Corporate Education in the USA, aims to prepare BG Group’s projects, we need a pipeline of highly skilled people – from front-line future leaders early on in their careers. The first module of the geologists, engineers and technicians to vital functional support. programme, which we ran in the UK last November, looked at sharing best practice, encouraging organisational collaboration, Prospective employees look not just at remuneration but also at exploring strategies for growth and building self-awareness. Further Society other factors, including values, career opportunities and culture, modules, including critical business skills and leadership capability, when choosing where they work. will be held in 2012 in Australia and Brazil. As well as a competitive package we aim to offer: ●● a wide range of learning and development programmes; “We have been working with BG Group to accelerate their pipeline of ‘high potential’ individuals towards the most senior roles in the ●● global recruitment opportunities; and organisation. Having identified this population, the Group knew that Environment ●● a workplace that motivates and engages employees and is free focused development would be needed to help these individuals from bullying, discrimination and harassment. become global leaders. The first of three modules was held recently and received excellent Diversity feedback. As well as working on leadership style, managing a We take the issues of equality and diversity seriously and encourage business through a computer-based simulation and hearing about our partners to do likewise. We believe that by using the talent and the market view of BG Group from an analyst, the participants skills available in all groups and communities in the countries where interacted with the Group’s Chief Executive and several members Climate Change we operate, we can build a strong foundation for lasting success. of the leadership team. By the end of the one-year programme, We recognise the importance of diversity on boards. It provides a participants will be better equipped to meet the challenges facing range of perspectives which undoubtedly has a positive effect on BG Group. They will have explored how to meet the needs of corporate performance. For us, achieving a balance on the Board stakeholders, customers and employees. is particularly important given the increased size, complexity and international reach of our operations and the need for experience In addition, the programme is intended to minimise turnover and across a wide range of fields. Gender is an important aspect of the increase the chances of these talented people fulfilling their career overall diversity of the Board; however we believe it should not take aims at BG Group”. Principles, policies and precedence over diversity of relevant skills and experience and should not become a selection criterion in its own right. The appointment of Chelsea Ramage Project Director, Duke Corporate Education Vivienne Cox to the Board in February 2012 helps to reduce our gender governance imbalance as well as adding to our sector experience. Planning for the long term BG Group funds and supports a global women’s network, which During 2011, we developed and implemented human resources was set up in 2009. In addition to supporting members, the network (HR) systems and initiatives to support the Group’s future business acts as a think-tank for the Group to learn about diversity issues and needs, including: Management Systems particularly gender diversity. During 2011, there were some good ●● developing an integrated planning system which will be examples of businesses taking action at local level to foster diversity implemented in 2012; in ways that were most relevant to them. BG India set up a working group to review what diversity meant to the business, developed a ●● drawing up strategic, long-term resource plans for 15 BG Group local statement on diversity and rolled out an action plan to foster functions. These set out the skills and competencies needed for the diversity. The team prepared a range of materials, held discussions future, looking forward a minimum of five years; and developed a plan which was reviewed and approved by the ●● identifying critical roles across the Group and drawing up succession management team. Outcomes were shared with all employees plans for these; and Our approach to at a town hall and milestones to measure progress set. ●● running four intensive training and development programmes In January 2011, BG Trinidad and Tobago was invited to participate in a to prepare people to take on these roles. sustainability reporting research project conducted by the Association of Female Executives of Trinidad & Tobago to survey the country for the top five companies for female executives. BG Trinidad and Tobago was awarded top prize BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 8 People People Protecting and safeguarding people Responding to employee views Managing through political crisis We use a variety of approaches to stay in touch with employees, The safety of BG Group employees, contractors and their families Ethical Conduct both to confirm work is progressing well and to identify concerns. was paramount throughout the uprisings in Egypt and Tunisia in These approaches include employee surveys, town and village hall January and February 2011. Our crisis management structures and meetings and smaller group meetings. processes proved sound and our emergency response systems operated well. All our people in these areas were protected from We survey employees regularly, with the last survey having taken harm and approximately 380 people, including our employees, place in 2010. Our employees gave views on issues including safety, contractors and their families, were evacuated when we judged performance, communications, leadership and management. this to be the best course of action. We continue to analyse this feedback, and the ways in which we Safety, Health and Security have responded include setting up task forces and action plans Throughout the unrest, we continued to produce gas safely from our across the Group to analyse and respond to issues raised. facilities at Idku in Egypt and Sfax in Tunisia. This was a tribute to the dedication and professionalism of our local people. Key operators ●● In our Americas and Global LNG business, for example, we created and managers remained on site and worked effectively despite a task force with representatives throughout the region, which significant personal and professional challenges. analysed the issues raised in depth and developed a scorecard, focusing on the issues that were of the greatest concern to employees. Actions included requiring all managers to undergo “Events in our country were moving very fast. It was impossible Annual Development Review training and supervisors to undertake to anticipate what would happen next. This made things very Society a 360-degree appraisal after six months in post as well as the difficult on a personal level for many of our people, and at work. creation of a quarterly regional announcement to publicise The changing conditions around us really put people to the test, people moving into new positions. but the core of essential staff that made sure our operations continued safely acted with dedication and professionalism. And ●● In Singapore, Employee Champions have been appointed and actions they did so while working long hours in circumstances that were taken in key areas, such as improving employees’ understanding of often quite stressful. We knew it was important for us, and the the various elements of their remuneration packages by producing country, to keep production going. There were lessons for us all Environment Total Reward Statements and introducing quarterly town hall about how to keep operations running at a time of real crisis, but communication meetings. all those involved can very proud of what we achieved.” ●● In India, employees wanted greater visibility of the management Faouzi Hadiji Administrative Site Manager, BG Tunisia team so a programme of regular face-to-face communications was set up and is proving to be very successful. In response to concerns raised by employees relating to individual performance targets, When evacuating expatriate personnel, we supported other oil HR is working with line managers to improve the quality of and gas companies in the region whose employees faced similar objective-setting and ensure position descriptions set out problems. For example, we provided transport for Shell employees Climate Change clear accountabilities. as well as our own, sharing aircraft to ensure everyone who needed to be was safely evacuated. ●● In Thailand and the Philippines, where stress and workload were raised, we held workshops and measured resilience to stress. Lessons learnt Although we were able to respond effectively, we identified areas These are some of a wide range of examples from across BG Group’s where we could improve our approach. For example, as a result of our regions and functions. We have also introduced Group initiatives, experiences in 2011, we are investigating more sophisticated means for example the leadership programmes described above, which of locating personnel – both on and off operating sites – to ensure Principles, policies and respond to employee calls for more leadership development and we can readily locate, contact or gather people in an emergency. talent management. governance Managing through flooding in Queensland Going forward, we expect to do more frequent ‘spot’ or targeted The flooding that resulted in the devastation and evacuation of surveys as well as Group-wide surveys. The next employee surveys entire towns in Western Queensland, Australia was another test are expected to be conducted around the third quarter of 2012 of our ability to deal with an emergency. The Incident Management and will be smaller-scale surveys, targeted in particular at those Team made sure that our people and assets were safe. We also functions and operations that have been working on plans since worked to help the community through this difficult time. QGC Management Systems the last survey, allowing us to monitor progress. We then expect joined the Queensland Murray Darling Committee and volunteer to conduct a full Group survey in 2013. We remain committed to groups to help farmers from the Western Downs with the cleanup regular surveying of employees. and restoration of their properties, donating A$50 000 to help landowners in flood-affected areas. Employees are informed about significant business issues and BG Group’s performance using electronic mail, webcasts, the Group’s intranet and in-house publications, as well as DVDs and briefing meetings at each business location. In businesses where we have Our approach to elected employee representatives, or union representatives, we consult with employee and union representatives appropriately. sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 9 People People Contractor personnel management Finding and retaining people has always been a challenge for the Ethical Conduct oil and gas industry as we require a flexible and highly skilled global workforce to deliver in often very demanding environments. Individual contractors account for approximately three quarters of the hours worked by our workforce. It is therefore especially important that these individual contractor personnel understand and reflect our values and are aligned with our culture. Safety, Health and Security The industry is experiencing a shortage of skilled and experienced contractors in technical disciplines and it is expected that this trend will continue. Therefore we are conscious of the need to ensure that individual contractors working for us meet and maintain our standards. During 2011, we developed and launched a new Contractor Personnel Management Standard, which is being implemented across the Group. This strengthens BG Group’s previous standard, raising Society awareness of potential risks, clarifying roles and responsibilities and providing a more robust framework for managing individual contractor personnel. The Standard sets out how we classify and select individual contractor personnel, ensure they are accountable, monitor and audit them and report on their performance. Across these areas, Environment we have introduced new requirements focused on improving the quality of individual contractor personnel and the way we manage them. In Management Systems: Our People we provide more background on our approach to contractor management. Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 10 Ethical Conduct People Readiness for the UK Bribery Act In July 2011, the UK Bribery Act came into force. It introduces new provisions relating to bribery, extends the crime of bribery covering Ethical Conduct bribery in the private and public sectors, and creates the criminal corporate offence of failing to prevent bribery. We have been closely involved in the consultation process for the legislation and the guidance that accompanies the Act. Working through the Energy & Extractive Sectors Working Group, we helped develop anti-bribery guidance for our industry. This guidance was endorsed by the director of the UK Serious Fraud Office and launched Safety, Health and Security by the Institute of Business Ethics. Our involvement in this work has enabled us to ensure we are well prepared for the introduction of the UK Bribery Act. Ethical conduct training Daniel Silver, BG Group Head of Ethical Conduct To manage ethical conduct risk, our policy of zero tolerance for “ BG Group works on major projects across the world, often in corruption and the requirements of our Ethical Conduct Standards environments where there is a high risk of corruption. It is critical must be well understood. This is the focus of the Ethical Conduct Society that we ensure high ethical standards and transparency among Compliance Unit (ECCU), established in 2010. all our people – our own employees, individual contractors and anyone else carrying out work for us.” During 2011, we ran an ethical conduct training programme to prepare for the new UK Bribery Act and more generally to protect BG Group against fraud. Endorsed by senior management, it was led by our General Counsel and had both face-to-face and e-learning elements. By the end of 2011, nearly 7 000 employees and individual contractors Summary – over 65% of our employees – had completed the Fraud and Bribery Environment e-learning training. This mandatory training, which is available in eight languages, encourages individuals to be alert to risks and possible During 2011, we continued to work to manage ethical conduct risk and instances of fraud and bribery, and to report concerns. ensure our Business Principles, which underpin everything we do, are understood and applied. During 2011, we held our second annual global workshop for Local Compliance Officers to provide them with further support and training. Readiness for the UK Bribery Act We worked with the UK government and our industry to develop We worked with a law firm to develop a further training module: Climate Change guidance for companies in our sector on how to respond to the UK Bribery Advanced Anti-Bribery and Corruption e-learning. It is aimed at Act which became enforced in law in July 2011 and is still very much a live people who are at higher risk of exposure by virtue of the work they issue for businesses. As well, we ensured BG Group was well prepared, for do and provides a more detailed understanding of the UK Bribery instance investing in a major ethical conduct training programme that Act and the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act. focused on the Act as well as on the prevention of fraud. With GoodCorporation – an organisation that conducts Audit and assurance independent assessments of ethical management practices, we We continued our programme of internal audits, which review also developed an ‘adequate procedures toolkit’ that can be used Principles, policies and the controls around the implementation of our Business Principles. by different parts of the business to verify the effectiveness of This is an important part of how we reinforce the Principles. procedures to prevent bribery. We tested the toolkit in Egypt, governance Norway and Tanzania and we will be using it more widely next year. Revenue transparency We monitored key trends and emerging regulation on revenue Refreshing our Standards transparency which can be seen as part of a wider shift towards In 2011, we developed a BG Group Leaders Ethical Conduct Checklist greater openness and better communication from public and to guide our senior people on how to provide leadership on ethical private sector organisations. conduct and bribery prevention. Management Systems We re-launched the suite of Ethical Conduct Standards following 2011: key developments their revision to reflect the requirements of the UK Bribery Act During 2011, we: and associated guidance. ●● worked with the UK government and developed guidance for companies in our sector on responding to the UK Bribery Act; To support this re-launch and communicate the enforcement date of the Act, we ran an internal communications campaign, featuring ●● continued a major ethical conduct training programme across an announcement by the Chief Executive. We expect to reinforce Our approach to BG Group’s businesses around the world; this work with more publicity in 2012. ●● commissioned an independent assessment of our approach to addressing the UK Bribery Act requirements; and ●● issued updated Ethical Conduct Standards. sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 11 Ethical Conduct People Speak Up (BG Group’s whistleblowing policy) has strong anti-corruption policies and procedures which are examples Employees and contractors have a duty to alert us (in confidence of best practice in many areas” and that “the benchmarking shows that and, if preferred, anonymously) to any actual or potential breach of BG Group is significantly better prepared than many peer organisations our Business Principles, Policies, Standards or legislation, using Speak and has many elements of best practice.” Ethical Conduct Up – an independent telephone and online reporting service. This facility is available to anyone who wishes to make a report. GoodCorporation’s review made recommendations to improve BG Group’s anti-corruption programme. Their recommendations During 2011, 134 cases were reported under the Speak Up facility (2010: were addressed before the UK Bribery Act came into force by the 151 cases). Each reported case is investigated or overseen by the ECCU. update, re-launch and ongoing implementation of the Group’s suite of Ethical Conduct Standards. More detail about the cases is given below: ●● 38% related to reported malpractice (including allegations of Safety, Health and Security breaches of the Group’s Ethical Conduct Policy and Standards, Revenue transparency including corruption); Revenue transparency is an increasingly important issue for our ●● 33% related to general workplace concerns (including allegations of stakeholders. Energy companies are increasingly asked to provide harassment, discrimination, unfair hiring practices and unfair treatment); information on the revenues they generate in a particular country. Publishing this information ensures governments are accountable ●● 19% related to fraud (including allegations of theft or misuse to citizens for how they use income from vital national resources. of funds); and We support transparency of this kind and follow regulatory and 10% related to health, safety, security and the environment. other developments closely. Society ●● During 2011, we continued to monitor efforts to improve revenue We take any breaches of our Business Principles very seriously. transparency in our sector – such as section 1504 of the USA Wall Investigations into 28 cases in the year resulted in actions against Street Reform Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) and draft legislation individuals, employees or contractors, ranging from training or published by the European Commission in October 2011. We are disciplinary action (from formal warnings up to and including monitoring the similar draft European legislation and have sought dismissal) to contract termination or other appropriate action. stakeholder views on this. 37 other cases resulted in actions such as changes to procedures Environment and to organisational controls. The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is an international standard that asks companies and governments to disclose oil and gas revenues. During 2011, BG Group had interests Audit and assurance in the following EITI countries: Kazakhstan, Madagascar, Nigeria, Our Group Audit team carries out a programme of internal Norway, Tanzania and Trinidad and Tobago1. Of these countries, audits to review the processes to promote local awareness and Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Norway and Tanzania produced reports under implementation of our Business Principles. In 2011, the team focused EITI. The reports from Nigeria (for 2006-08) and Norway (for 2009) on the Human Resources Business Principles and concluded that the include details of BG Group payments to governments. We have Climate Change processes that underpin them were satisfactory. The audit further summarised these in the table below. concluded that we were prepared for the requirements of the UK Bribery Act and have adequate controls in the areas reviewed. During 2011, we also supported EITI at a corporate level, making a financial contribution to the EITI Secretariat in Oslo and attending In advance of the UK Bribery Act coming into force, GoodCorporation the 2011 EITI biennial global conference in Paris and selected board also conducted a high-level review of BG Group’s policies and processes meetings as an observer. relevant to the UK Bribery Act. It concluded that “overall the company Reported by BG Group Reported by host government Difference Explanation Principles, policies and governance Nigeria (2006-2008) 2006 Signature bonus $106 500 000 $106 500 000 0 n/a Total $106 500 000 $106 500 000 0 n/a Management Systems Norway (2009) Petroleum tax NOK (936 421) NOK (936 421) 0 n/a Difference resolved. Details of one NOx tax NOK 1 206 NOK 1 492 NOK 286 payment omitted in initial reporting Difference resolved. Details of some Area fee NOK 34 996 NOK 41 967 NOK 6 971 amounts omitted in initial reporting Total NOK (900 219) NOK (892 962) NOK 7 257 See above Our approach to Source: Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 2006-2008 Reconciliation Final Report, 3 February 2011. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Reconciliation of Cash Flows from the Petroleum Industry in Norway 2009, 9 November 2010. Trinidad and Tobago was accepted as an EITI candidate country on 1 March 2011 and it has 1 sustainability reporting until 28 August 2013 to complete EITI validation. BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 12 Safety, Health and Security People 2011: key developments During 2011: ●● we suffered three fatalities. Performance against our headline personal safety indicator, total recordable case frequency, Ethical Conduct deteriorated to 1.92 per million work hours in 2011, from 0.94 in 2010; ●● our Chief Executive led a Global Safety Week to reinforce BG Group’s safety culture and remind all our people of their safety responsibilities; ●● we completed our full internal review of well risk, set up following the Deepwater Horizon incident of April 2010. We also participated Safety, Health and Security in the major industry initiative that aims to prevent incidents of this kind; ●● we ran dedicated training courses on major accident hazard awareness and developed an accompanying e-learning module; and Pat Cook, BG Group Head of Safety ●● we took further steps to promote the health of our workforce, “ At BG Group, we feel deeply distressed when we fall short of our encouraging reporting of health concerns and taking action in own safety expectations. During 2011, we failed to achieve our goal key areas including: exposure to chemicals, fatigue, extreme Society of zero injuries and we are now taking far-reaching action to make heat, and mental health sure we improve our performance – like ensuring contractors are 100% engaged and part of our team.” Personal safety and health We suffered three fatalities in 2011. In March, in Kazakhstan, an unplanned gas release during vessel entry resulted in a single Summary Environment fatality. In May, an amine flash tank ruptured at one of our sites in Louisiana, and the resulting pressure release killed one of the During 2011, we took action to reinforce our safety culture, operators standing nearby. In June, in our QGC operations in particularly among our contractors, in a concerted effort Australia, a tugboat sank with four persons on board, resulting to improve on our disappointing performance. in one fatality. Personal safety performance We deeply regret these fatalities. Any loss of life is wholly The need to improve the safety of our work environment and our unacceptable, and our aim, as always, is to ensure that lessons Climate Change safety culture was brought home by the tragic death of three people are learnt and our operations made safer. We carried out a detailed working on behalf of BG Group in 2011. We profoundly regret these investigation into each fatality to understand the underlying causes. losses of life. Our overall performance in relation to personal safety At the time of this report, for the first and second fatality, lessons deteriorated in 2011. We are deeply disappointed by this and are learnt had been circulated and corrective action taken (including renewing efforts to make sure everyone who works for or on redesign of plant, processes and procedures). The investigation behalf of BG Group is safe at all times. into the third fatality is ongoing. Process safety and major accident hazards During 2011, we also revised our approach to disseminating the Principles, policies and We continued to collaborate with others in the industry to act on lessons learnt from safety incidents, to ensure useful information the lessons learnt from the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf gets to the right people in a timely way. of Mexico in April 2010. We examined and responded to lessons that governance emerged from the incident relating to engineering, legal, commercial and insurance risks and continued our training to raise awareness of process safety and major accident hazards. Crisis management Management Systems Our crisis management procedures were put to the test in 2011 by flooding in Queensland and Thailand, political upheaval in North Africa leading to the evacuation of BG Group personnel from Tunisia and Egypt, and anti-piracy planning during the exploration phase of our new activities in Tanzania. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 13 Safety, Health and Security People Total recordable case frequency2 In Australia, we focused on three key areas: improving contractor management, developing an HSSE Management System and Chart showing total recordable case frequency effective Risk Management Systems. Working with our contractors, (per million work hours) we ran a major project to minimise driving risk, a key risk on our Ethical Conduct pipeline project. We planned to set up a logistics hub which we expect to be established in 2012, to maximise transportation of 2.0 1.92 freight by rail and minimise road kilometres travelled, and initiated 1.74 another 18-month project to improve contractor safety in fabrication 1.58 1.59 yards. We also focused on training and raising awareness, launching 1.5 a video for our employees and contractors, introducing a core skills training programme for frontline people and setting up a dedicated well pad training facility for contractors, the first such in Australia. Safety, Health and Security 1.0 0.94 In 2012, we will focus on increasing visible safety leadership, improving the capability, competence and alignment of the HSSE 0.5 function, and improving collaboration in the emerging industry sector in Queensland to maximise cross industry opportunities to improve contractor and general safety performance. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Other safety performance indicators Society In 2011, BG Group’s total recordable case frequency (TRCF), the standard industry measure of occupational safety, was 1.92. This TRCF is a ‘lagging’ safety performance indicator in that it is used to was roughly double our target of 1.0. This disappointing performance analyse past performance and trends. We also capture information was largely due to a higher number of incidents occurring in our on ‘leading’ indicators. These indicators test the strength of businesses in Australia and the USA. We believe a number of factors our controls and can be used to influence future behaviour and contributed to this, including the rapid growth of our operations performance. They are particularly important as they can signal in those countries and resulting dependence on a contractor potential future deterioration in safety performance, and give the Environment workforce where skills and experience have been in short supply. opportunity to prevent this from happening. The table below shows We are working to develop expertise and skills in the local workforce. this year’s indicators, compared with the previous year. We also carry In the rest of the business, TRCF performance across the Group out root cause analysis: reviews aimed at identifying the underlying was 0.93 which was marginally improved against 0.943 in 2010. cause of unsafe behaviours. A total of 462 root cause analyses were carried out in 2011, compared with 484 in the previous year. Our TRCF target for 2012 is 1.35, an increase against last year’s target. Achieving this target will require significant safety performance We also review high-potential incidents (HPIs) to ensure that we improvements, particularly in our operations in Australia and the understand why they occurred and learn lessons, so that we can Climate Change USA. To achieve our target, a number of actions are being taken prevent repeat incidents. In 2010 there were 101 HPIs, while in 2011 to improve our safety performance. there were 94. In the USA, we took further steps to implement a uniform health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) plan in our joint venture HSSE leading indicators with EXCO Resources, which was set up in June 2010, bringing together two different safety cultures. Actions included extending 2010 2011 involvement of employees in HSSE management and performance Principles, policies and OBSERVATION and introducing a Safe Work Permit Standard and Incident Reporting Standard to good effect. An external consultancy Site tours 2 224 3 270 governance team also reviewed safety culture to identify remaining areas for Self-audits 801 1 111 improvement; these will be addressed through 2012. We also worked Competency assessment – operations closely with our main contractors to ensure understanding of our implementing CAMS(1) 4 10 ‘one team’ approach and safety expectations. INTERVENTION Hazard reports 47 307 80 941 Management Systems Behaviour-based safety observations 131 811 113 141 (1) Competence Assurance Management System: BG Group’s system for assessing and recording the safety of personnel performing safety critical tasks Our approach to 2 TRCF, the accepted industry-standard safety metric for personal safety, measures the 3 The 2010 TRCF number quoted includes all businesses in the Group in 2010. sustainability reporting number of injuries per million hours worked. It is the headline indicator of the success of the Group’s personal safety programmes. Personal safety statistics (such as TRCF) do not measure the integrity of our major processes and facilities: for that we use a variety of process safety and asset integrity performance indicators. BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 14 Safety, Health and Security People We reinforced our personal commitment to safety Promoting health and well-being During 2011, we took steps to provide strong safety leadership Ethical Conduct and to strengthen the BG Group safety culture. Illness reporting The reporting of occupational illness cases continued in 2011 with In December, our Chief Executive launched a Global Safety Week 26 cases of occupational illness (involving 54 individuals) reported to encourage ownership of personal safety behaviour and remind compared with 40 cases (involving 65 individuals) reported in 2010 people of their safety responsibilities. Employees and contractors and 14 cases (involving 24 individuals) in 2009. stood down from normal activities and identified activities they should stop, start or continue. We will monitor progress against the Whilst the number of cases reported is lower than in 2010, key themes that emerged from this work, right across the Group. overall there has been an upward trend in reporting in recent Safety, Health and Security years. We believe this reflects the efforts we have made to One team initiative encourage occupational illness reporting. We worked with Early in 2012, our Chief Operating Officer, Martin Houston, sent a external advisers in 2011 to develop an e-learning training letter headed “One team with a single purpose” to all employees. He module in occupational illness awareness. asked everyone in BG Group to reinforce their personal commitment to safety, and for all, whether employee or contractor personnel, to Our analysis of our occupational illness data has highlighted two work together as a collective to deliver the BG Group safety agenda. key concerns: food safety and working in extreme temperatures. As a result, we are developing a food safety e-learning module, while Our goal is that, in the context of safety, there should be no the Group Health team has worked with the business (notably in Society distinction between employees and contractor personnel. Australia and the USA) to respond to any heat-related illnesses. Martin Houston also announced a new recognition programme Exposure to chemicals is a potentially significant risk in our industry. to be known as the Gold Hard Hat Awards, which will recognise During 2011, we started work on developing a chemicals database to ambassadors for safety, providing examples of good practice or give our businesses clear information about the particular chemicals outstanding individual contributions. It will be peer-nominated, they use, and enable them to identify relevant risks. open to all and will complement the Chairman’s Awards. Environment Incident data this year reveals that fatigue was one of the root Across BG Group, we remain committed to improving safety causes in 20% of our total reported incidents. We are working to performance through vigilance, rigorous operational discipline, raise awareness and provide tools to assess and manage fatigue. getting basic safety requirements right and improved contractor management. Well-being and stress management During 2011, we worked to reinforce awareness of day-to-day Campaigns to promote our Life Savers and Pictogram safety tools health challenges. Climate Change Life Savers Good mental health and resilience were especially important in We use BG Group’s Life Savers to remind people working on site of crisis situations during the year, such as the civil unrest in Egypt safety basics in key areas. Each of the nine Life Savers addresses an area and Tunisia and the aftermath of serious incidents or fatalities. where safety can be compromised (such as lifting, driving, and working We provided support to those involved and more generally in confined spaces) and provides guidance on how to work safely. promoted stress management and work-life balance. During the year, we carried out quarterly awareness campaigns focusing on the Working at Heights, Electrical Safety, Hydrogen Principles, policies and Sulphide and Excavation Safety Life Savers. We developed new computer-based learning modules for each of these topics, with governance more than 12 000 training sessions completed by employees and contractor personnel. Pictograms We continued to embed the pictograms that highlight the Life Savers to employees and contractor personnel on site. Management Systems The pictogram icons depict the safe way of working for each Life Saver, in a way that we have found to be understood and welcomed across diverse cultures and working environments. “The roll out materials were very useful and the pictograms help frontline workers better understand the risks.” Kishor Bhojawala, Gujarat Gas Company Limited, India Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 15 Safety, Health and Security People BG Bolivia: Taking the stress out In 2011, the GWRMT completed its review and we began to Since 2005, BG Bolivia’s Human Resources department has implement its recommendations, taking action in a number Ethical Conduct conducted an annual work-related stress survey to identify of areas including: employees who may be affected by high levels of stress. ●● disseminating lessons learnt from the incident around the Group; From 2007 to 2009, employee-reported stress levels rose by 12%. ●● amending our key drilling contracts to ensure that our contractors are required to stop work if they have concerns and escalate these Contributing factors were understood to be both external (for to the highest level; example, the socio-political and economic context) and internal (for example, the perceived pressure of new operations or investments). ●● supporting and participating in a management system audit of one of our drilling contractors to assure they were working Safety, Health and Security We found that the reported heightened stress levels affected three to our requirements; key areas: teamwork, leadership and group cohesion. ●● working with the International Association of Drilling Contractors to influence industry well control standards; Using the theme ‘Ten Years of BG Bolivia Operations’, in 2011 we launched a programme to help people manage and mitigate ●● working to embed our Blow-Out Risk Assessment (BORA) tool – stress and build their resilience. Activities included team workshops, developed in 2010 – to improve how we assess and control the risk regular and informal meetings with the area general manager, of well blow-outs in our operations; and and a range of team-building and communications efforts. Our Society ●● reviewing commercial, legal and insurance implications of the main objectives were to motivate, inform and promote teamwork, Deepwater Horizon incident. to recognise individual efforts and to incorporate and reinforce BG Group’s new behaviours. In 2012, the GWRMT will continue to implement recommendations and manage our input to the next phase of the Sub-Sea Well The results were very positive in all three areas, with lower reported Response Project. levels of high or serious stress and increases in those reporting very low levels of stress. Industry involvement Environment In 2011, members of the GWRMT also participated in the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (OGP) Global Process safety and major accident hazards Industry Response Group (GIRG) which has been working on well incident prevention, capping, sub-sea dispersant and containment, During 2011, we took a number of steps to review and strengthen and oil spill response. our approach to process safety – or ensuring our assets, operating systems and processes are robust. Process safety is a vital In May 2011, GIRG’s work led to the launch of the Sub-Sea Well complement to managing personal safety – as the oil industry Response Project (SSSWRP), an initiative involving nine major oil Climate Change has learnt from incidents such as the Texas City refinery explosion and gas companies including BG Group and set up specifically to and fire and the Deepwater Horizon blow-out. design equipment to control a major well blow-out. Response to the Deepwater Horizon incident This design work was completed in 2011. It is anticipated that Oil In 2010, in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon incident, we set Spill Response Limited will procure this equipment in 2012-2013, up a dedicated, internal cross-functional task force, the Group Well with assistance from SSWRP, and then maintain the equipment Risk Management Team (GWRMT), to review our Group standards, in various storage locations around the globe. procedures, equipment, emergency systems and behaviours. Principles, policies and We were also involved in OGP’s Wells Expert Committee which The GWRMT reviewed well design, safety procedures, oil spill made recommendations on rig crew training, well design and governance preparedness, financial and legal responsibilities, containment operational best practice, and incident information sharing. equipment and procedures and environmental issues. It analysed official investigation reports and took on board the lessons from We are part of the OGP joint industry project on oil spill response, these as well as working with regulators and contractors. which is being undertaken with the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and others such Management Systems as oil spill response organisations. In 2012, the GWRMT will continue to implement recommendations and manage our input to the next phase of SSWRP. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 16 Safety, Health and Security People Contractor safety CAMS Managing contractor risk We have taken steps to strengthen the systems we have in Our workforce comprises approximately 6 000 BG Group employees Ethical Conduct place to ensure that we minimise the risk of major accidents, or, and over 24 000 other workers, including contractors working on our in the event of a major accident, can limit its impact. In mid 2010, behalf and employees and contractors working for our subsidiaries we introduced our Global Operations Competency Assurance or in joint ventures in which we have an interest. Our employee and Management System (CAMS) which enables all BG Group and contractor workforces have different risk profiles. contractor personnel performing safety critical tasks at operating facilities to demonstrate their competence. It requires our operations Contractors typically do work that involves inherently higher risk to assess, develop and maintain competence against Standards, by than that carried out by most BG Group employees. In 2011, over assessing frontline personnel (such as Operations and Maintenance 90% of recordable injuries in BG Group involved contractors. Safety, Health and Security Technicians) in the main aspects of their job and on their ability This gives us deep cause for concern. During the year we reviewed to demonstrate their capability to perform the task. Appropriate the most serious incidents from recent years and identified the training and monitoring is provided to address any shortfall. following root causes: Since its introduction, we have been implementing CAMS across ●● lack of compliance with Policies, procedures and systems of BG Group operations in a phased programme, with the majority work, including the BG Life Savers and risk identification and of our operations being included in the programme by the end management; and of 2013 and new operations added as the Group grows. We made Society ●● gaps in leadership and supervision of the activity and contract/ good progress with the programme and by the end of 2011 some contractor management. 31 000 out of 100 000 assessments or 31% of the total number of assessments were completed. As assessment of competence We have taken a range of steps to address contractor safety, will continue on all safety critical tasks for as long as a facility is and this remains a key focus for 2012. Our approach includes in operation, we have set targets for monitoring implementation dedicated training on the ground in key operations, notably in and ensuring all our businesses comply. Australia and in the USA as described above. More broadly, we continue to address contractor quality and management. As Major accident hazard training described in the People section, we developed and launched Environment During 2011, we ran a series of major accident training sessions, a new Contractor Personnel Management Standard, which raises building on the success of similar sessions in 2009 and 2010. awareness of potential risks, clarifies roles and responsibilities Ninety senior managers attended these courses, which involve and provides a more robust framework for managing individual creating explosions, fires and full accident scenarios under contractor personnel. controlled conditions. We also revised our Contracting and Procurement Standard, We also started development of an e-learning module of the with the new Standard implemented from 1 January 2012. This programme to support these awareness sessions. We aim revised Standard introduces more rigorous criteria for selecting Climate Change to complete this early in 2012 and include it in our Learning and monitoring contractors and places new responsibility on Management System so that it is accessible across the Group. BG Group people responsible for contracts to communicate our safety expectations to contractor companies, working with them Making the case for safety to ensure they can meet them. In 2012, we will develop an HSSE Safety cases are a key tool for understanding and managing the training programme for supervisors, helping them to ensure risks of major incident hazards. effective supervision of our workforce, particularly contractors. Following an internal audit in 2010, which examined safety cases Auditing contractor management Principles, policies and across a sample of six BG Group locations, the Safety Case Standard We carried out an audit of contractor management in 2011 in our was revised and re-launched in October 2011. We completed reviews businesses in Australia, Tunisia and the UK. The audit found good governance of 10 safety cases, assessing how they conformed with the practices which should be promulgated across the organisation but requirements of the Standard and providing feedback. recommendations for improvement were made. For example, it was noted that there was scope for improvement in the application of contractor management controls. We are addressing the issues raised, taking actions including simplifying processes, clarifying the roles involved in contract delivery and developing a programme to Management Systems strengthen the skills of frontline supervisors. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 17 Safety, Health and Security People Crisis management QGC: Focus on contractor safety in 2011 During the year, we worked to ensure all our operations were In 2011, work on our Queensland Curtis Liquefied Natural Gas prepared for crisis. We made significant progress in ensuring that our Ethical Conduct (QCLNG) operation accelerated, putting pressure on our workforce businesses complied with the Group Crisis Management Standard; and presenting significant safety challenges. The business failed at the end of 2011, 18 of the 19 operations complied. We still have to meet its internal safety target. more work to do, particularly in joint ventures where we are not the operator. Programmes are underway in Brazil and North America We believe the management of contractors was a particular factor to identify and tackle areas for improvement. underlying this. Contractors represent approximately 70% of the QGC workforce but account for 98% of the recordable injuries A number of incident management teams were mobilised during to date. 2011, for various incidents including flooding in Australia and Safety, Health and Security Thailand and political instability in North Africa, where we During 2011, we made it a priority to analyse and tackle the root evacuated BG Group expatriates in Tunisia and Egypt. Further causes of contractor injuries, developing a number of initiatives information is provided in the People section of this report. to drive down the unacceptable injury rate. During 2011, we focused on integrating crisis communications into These included: wider business processes. We formalised and enhanced the role of ●● working closely with underperforming contractors; the Group Executive Committee (GEC) in the Crisis Management System. The position of Chair of the Group Crisis Management Team Society ●● tightening contractors’ site inspection programmes; is now filled by a specially trained member of the GEC. ●● introducing safety awareness and training initiatives; and ●● standardising performance reporting and tackling driving safety by improving vehicle equipment and journey management. We are also supplementing these safety programmes in three important ways: Environment ●● collaboration across the coal seam gas industry in Queensland to improve contractor safety capability, competency and performance; ●● developing a “One QCG” HSE management framework that will encompass minimum standards, rules and guidelines; and ●● sharper focus on contractor selection, training and induction across the QCLNG project. Climate Change We believe that these initiatives will reduce occupational safety risk and deliver improved safety performance in future. Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 18 Society People Our Standards and human rights We updated our Social Performance (SP) Standard, acknowledging the changes made in the revised International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards. We also reviewed our Group Human Ethical Conduct Rights Policy against the new UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which are designed to encourage businesses to take a more proactive and integrated approach to human rights. 2011: key developments During 2011, we: Safety, H ealth and Security ●● increased our voluntary SI to $11.5 million, compared with $6.3 million in 2010, an increase of 82%; ●● joined forces with our partners and joint venture companies in Idku, Egypt, to respond to community needs in the aftermath of unrest – including agreeing to set up a community liaison office; Ramanie Kunanayagam, BG Group Head of Social Performance “ Natural resources like gas are vital assets for the countries where ●● expanded our community investment in Tunisia, with emphasis they arise – and developing them has a major impact on the on training and livelihoods; economy, society and particularly on local people. We must always ●● continued to address community concerns near our unconventional Society remember it is a privilege to be invited to develop these resources gas developments in Australia and the USA; and work with our partners in a respectful and collaborative way.” ●● assessed the potential impact of our entry into Tanzania; ●● developed a new Group-wide theme for SI: education, skills development and livelihoods enhancement focused on STEM education and launched new initiatives in this area; Summary Environment ●● began the second phase of implementing our SP Standard and updated it to reflect changes to the IFC Performance Standards Responding to change on Environmental and Social Sustainability; and In 2011, stakeholders in many parts of the world became increasingly vocal and empowered. This was particularly ●● reviewed our Group Human Rights Policy against the new UN true in BG Group’s operations in Tunisia and Egypt, which Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. found themselves at the heart of the changes that swept North Africa in 2011. Climate Change These events remind us that no institution, public or private Responding to change in North Africa sector, can take its franchise for granted. Our licence to operate depends on the support not just of host governments, but also In 2011, the social and political revolutions in North Africa created a of the people and particularly local the community on the ground. volatile operating environment, with calls for institutional change, economic opportunity, and social justice. Working with communities During the year, we made renewed efforts to strengthen our BG Group’s businesses faced – and still face – a challenging Principles, policies and relationships with a number of the communities where we operating environment with intensified community distrust, work through open and participatory consultation. general social unrest and heightened expectations about the governance benefits our presence can bring. This was particularly important in Australia and the USA where we are developing unconventional gas resources. In the USA, Social Impact Assessments helped us identify and respond to the likely impact of our work on communities. You can read a case study on these operations here. Management Systems Similarly, when we prepared to enter new markets or explore in new countries – such as Kenya and Tanzania – we conducted early assessments and consultations to address local concerns. Creating benefit with a focus on STEM We increased our global social investment (SI) spend in the year, launching a new theme for investment: education focused on Our approach to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), skills development and livelihoods enhancement. We launched programmes to develop technical and other skills in Brazil and sustainability reporting supported STEM education in Australia and the UK. BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 19 Society People Case study: BG Egypt Case study: BG Tunisia During 2011, we sought to adapt to changing political and social BG Group is the largest producer of gas in Tunisia, supplying more circumstances in and around our operations at Idku in Egypt. than 60% of Tunisia’s domestic gas production. We operate the Ethical Conduct Hannibal plant, which supplies gas into the Tunisian gas system, as With partners, BG Group has a major investment in Egypt’s largest well as the adjacent Hasdrubal onshore gas processing and liquefied liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facilities at the port of Idku petroleum gas (LPG) facility. Unemployment in the area is high, with on Egypt’s Mediterranean coast. We also supply gas for export near-subsistence agriculture and fishing providing few opportunities to this facility. for young people. Employment is an important issue in Idku, where traditional During 2011, the political and social events of the ‘Arab Spring’ livelihoods such as fishing are becoming less viable and a growing presented new and important community challenges for our Safety, Health and Security young population is in search of work. Around 68% of the population business. During the height of the crisis, we faced picketing and is under 25 and there is a poor school retention rate due to the costs protests relating to labour and community concerns. Our investment of education, with nearly half the population illiterate. in the community helped us maintain local relationships and work through the crisis but, as the immediate crisis subsided, we had to In 2009, we undertook a socio-economic baseline assessment respond to a new, emerging society and continuing instability. to understand the characteristics of the area and identify issues arising from our operations. This work highlighted the community’s We set up our Sustainable Livelihood Programme (SLP) in 2009 vulnerability and the pressures affecting livelihoods. to help local people find new ways of supporting themselves – this responded to the fact that local demand far outstripped the Society We responded by approaching the Alexandria Business Association number of jobs we could offer at Hasdrubal. In particular, the SLP – to set up two programmes on our behalf in Idku: the Towards Self in partnership with the Tunisian Solidarity Bank and regional Employment project which began to give out grants from mid 2010, vocational training institutions – provides micro-finance loans and an adult literacy programme. These programmes recruited local and vocational training for local people. grant officers who identified suitable recipients for grants designed, for example, to build skills or enable people to set up businesses. Working with the community in 2011, we put together a package By mid 2011, more than 500 grants had been disbursed, with many of measures to build on this and go further in addressing long-term Environment success stories. The programmes continue to run. issues. It involves: ●● providing job opportunities for community members (50 positions In 2011, in the aftermath of unrest, we had to take action to respond through BG Tunisia contractors for closest neighbours and 70 to a more vocal and mobilised population. Alongside our partners positions for the wider community); and joint venture companies we set up the Social Performance ●● increasing the number of micro-finance loans distributed to the Collaboration Forum (SPCF), to develop a joint approach to working community (from $150 000 to $1.3 million in 2011); with local people. ●● implementing a new component of the SLP that provides financing Climate Change This led to agreement to establish a Community Liaison Office in for local graduates to establish new business enterprises; Idku, to be staffed by local people, and a new programme, Gas Hub ●● continuing the vocational training component of the SLP, with Sustainable Livelihoods. The SPCF has also agreed to start other some 60 young people from the local community continuing their projects such as cleaning up local areas and improving local facilities. on-the-job training in fields such as welding, metal work, mechanics The aim of the Forum is to manage social performance risks and and sewing; identify opportunities in collaboration with Idku Gas Hub partners and joint venture companies. ●● committing to invest up to $550 000 in social infrastructure projects identified in consultation with community groups; and Principles, policies and ●● having discussions with donors, seeking their financial support to tackle the challenge of youth unemployment. governance We continue to experience occasional picketing and protests in front of the Group’s Hannibal/Hasdrubal operating facilities, largely relating to ongoing labour and community relations concerns. Early in 2012, we reopened the Community Liaison Office, enabling local Management Systems people to raise concerns with us in a managed, safe and secure way. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 20 Society People Working with communities Social issues in new developments As we started to explore in Tanzania for the first time, we Our Social Impact Assessments (SIAs) help us understand and conducted a macro-level economic assessment with Oxford Policy Ethical Conduct manage the impact of our work on local communities. For more Management, to help us understand how development of the detail on SIAs please see Management Systems: Social Performance. hydrocarbon sector could affect the country. We are discussing the findings with the government and others. SIAs in US unconventional gas projects In Mtwara, we operate the port that handles the logistics for offshore activities in Tanzania. We learned that the coastal region Pennsylvania has high biodiversity and coastal communities depend on the fragile In 2011, we carried out an SIA in Lycoming County in Pennsylvania, natural environment for livelihoods. There are also wider stakeholder Safety, Health and Security where we are producing gas from the local shale formation known concerns about offshore oil and gas activities. Our analysis will help as the Marcellus. We understand that this SIA was the first of its kind us minimise our environmental impact, and take action such as conducted in this area. working with contractors to create jobs for local people. The study found that local people did not differentiate between the In Kenya, we signed Production Sharing Contracts with the various operators working in the area and had a general impression government in May 2011 for two offshore exploration blocks and are of the industry rather than specific views about BG Group or EXCO carrying out seismic work. We have set up grievance mechanisms Resources. However, they did raise some issues, including concerns and conducted an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment. about funding from lease payments and royalties, donations and We also developed a training and awareness programme BG for Society communications between operators and the community. our private security contractors in Kenya. Although people in Lycoming were positive about job opportunities and business growth, they were generally distrustful of the industry. Creating benefit They highlighted poor communication, the influx of migrant workers, perceived impacts to the environment and damage to roads from heavy In 2011, our total Social Investment (SI) spend (mandatory and vehicle traffic. EXCO has been putting measures in place to address these voluntary) was $15 million, compared with $17 million in 2010. Environment issues. In late 2011, we recruited a community liaison officer, who is tasked Our voluntary SI spend increased to approximately $11.5 million, with scoping and implementing the recommendations in the SIA. compared with $6.3 million in the previous year, an increase of 82%. Louisiana SI refers to contributions made by BG Group to impacted and In our 2010 Sustainability Report, we reported on our Louisiana SIA. neighbouring communities and/or disadvantaged groups in wider society. We report on two types of SI spend: It revealed that the most important concerns among consulted ●● mandatory: SI spend that is a requirement or obligation under a communities were heavy vehicle traffic and road deterioration. licence, production sharing contract or other commercial agreement Climate Change Local people saw new jobs as the main benefit from our operations. with a host government; During 2011, we held regular progress meetings on the SIA as we ●● voluntary: SI spend that BG Group makes on a voluntary basis. continued to work to respond to the recommendations in it. Our joint venture partner, EXCO appointed a community liaison officer Voluntary social investment spend by category (a long time resident of the community), and we are funding road ($m) maintenance and repair activities. We are also moving water via pipeline where possible, instead of by road. 12.5 Click here to read more about how we manage community issues Principles, policies and governance 10.0 in unconventional gas developments. 7.5 Communities are also concerned about the potential impact of our operations on the environment. Our environmental work 5.0 miscellaneous is discussed in the Environment section of this report. Management Systems regional development Addressing potential impacts when entering a new country 2.5 local community investment As an international energy group we often work in developing charitable donations/ countries with acute social and economic problems. 0 philanthropy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In Tanzania, for instance, there are high expectations of the benefit that development of natural resources will bring in building the As illustrated, we continue to focus on local community investment country’s future. In this new market, which we entered in 2010, we aim Our approach to and regional development, which grew by 37% and 154% respectively. to make a positive contribution while managing local expectations. sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 21 Society People Supporting science, technology, engineering and mathematics In 2011, we launched three new themes for our SI investment Ethical Conduct which will focus it on education, developing skills and enhancing livelihoods. Within education, we will focus on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). These are not only critical skills for our industry, but a priority for many governments. STEM education has also been linked to social development and increased social mobility. Focusing investment in STEM education, vocational training and Safety, Health and Security livelihood development can therefore help build a local workforce with the skills needed for our industry while furthering a country’s wider development objectives. As well as the STEM initiatives and the North African investments Alan West MBE, Chief Executive, Exscitec described overleaf, key areas for ongoing SI spend in 2011 were “ Working with BG Group’s social investment programme Australia and the USA. Our work in these areas is also described has been inspirational. The BG Group STEM Inspiration Bursary in the Unconventional gas: case study section of this report. Programme focusing its attention on STEM education is seeking Society to make a tangible contribution to the pipeline of next-generation Local content scientists and engineers needed by UK plc. The work Exscitec Across BG Group, we spent approximately $5.7 billion on local has undertaken supported by BG group has enabled a pilot suppliers in 2011, compared with an estimated $2.2 billion in 2010. programme to be implemented for 50 high-ability students The graph below shows a breakdown of this expenditure. from disadvantaged backgrounds. We believe it will provide the motivation for them to participate in STEM in higher education 2011 spend with local suppliers in BG Group and influence more young people to consider STEM career operated businesses Environment pathways. The initiative provides a series of focused interventions at Imperial College London locations that will raise awareness of (US$m) STEM opportunities in higher education and support learning in 4 000 mathematics and key science disciplines. Work is also in hand to develop programmes and activities that will represent the 3 500 excitement of the STEM challenge to younger students.” 3 000 2 500 Climate Change 2 000 Case study: supporting STEM education in the UK 1 500 In 2011, as part of our commitment to supporting STEM subjects in the UK, we: 1 000 ●● provided funding to the Royal Academy of Engineering to support 500 a national STEM teacher network. The network aims to support STEM teachers and enhance the quality of STEM teaching for pupils 0 Principles, policies and Trinidad & India aged 11-14; Australia UK Norway Tunisia Tobago Upstream Other ●● supported the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering, newly governance launched in November 2011, which aims to identify and celebrate In many countries where we work, we have strategies designed to outstanding advances in engineering that have created significant ensure we use local suppliers, recruit or train local people, incubate local benefits to humanity. The Royal Academy of Engineering will be businesses or take other actions to ensure ‘local content’ to our work. delivering this award on behalf of the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering Foundation; and In Brazil during 2011, for example, we worked on initiatives to develop Management Systems ●● took action to provide STEM education to students from underlocal capacity, including a technical cooperation agreement with represented or disadvantaged backgrounds, notably launching the Petrobras to develop drilling technology, including locally manufactured BG Group STEM Inspiration Bursary Programme, which targets rigs. Working with SENAI, the National Service for Industrial Training, students from less advantaged and under-represented backgrounds we are piloting a training programme for welders in Rio Grande do Sul. in the London area. This is delivered in partnership with Exscitec, a company that runs STEM programmes at Imperial College London. The programme offers targeted mathematics, chemistry, physics, and biology sessions over two years, helping students to prepare Our approach to for university admission. The 50 students selected to participate in the programme are from 35 schools from more than half of London’s boroughs. sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 22 Society People Case study: STEM provides a focus for BG Group in Brazil Since 1994, BG Group has established a sizeable business in with universities to build ‘BG Institutes’ which will conduct Brazil, investing more than $5 billion in the country. In June 2011, research on key themes relevant to our industry. A cornerstone Ethical Conduct we announced the doubling of our previous best estimate of our of this strategy is the development of a Global Technology Centre reserves, confirming that we expect our Brazil operations to (GTC) in Rio de Janeiro, which we aim to open in 2013 and develop as deliver one third of Group production by 2020. a world-leading centre for oil and gas research. We will also set up progressive technology institutes throughout Brazil in collaboration In 2011, we took important steps to ensure this investment delivers with Brazilian universities. These initiatives will help both BG Brasil value not just for BG Group and its shareholders but also for our and wider society gain access to the world’s best technologies and partners in Brazil, the Brazilian government and the communities talent. BG Brasil expects to invest approximately $1.5 billion in where we work. research and development alone by 2025. Safety, Health and Security During the year, we launched our sustainability strategy in Brazil. Ten BG Group Institutes, which will augment research capacity and Our strategy supports the Brazilian government’s priorities in four increase technical capabilities, are planned by 2016. Through these key areas: Institutes and our university partnerships, we can deliver STEM ●● research and development; outreach activities. ●● local content and skilled labour development; The first institute, which will focus on carbonate reservoirs, is ●● environment and safety; and planned in Brazil at Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ); to date, a two-year secondment agreement for a visiting professor Society ●● social investment. between UFRJ and Heriot Watt University in Scotland is in place. A focus on STEM We have begun to discuss with key Brazilian ministries and research We also announced how, in particular, we would meet these agencies to promote the BG Group Institute model and will also strategic goals through investment in STEM education. be funding up to 450 Brazilian PhD students to take up positions in leading universities around the world. Building these skills is a priority for Brazil, as it aims to develop Environment a high-technology economy and maximise local content in the See also the Climate Change section of this report for more on development of its oil and gas resources. BG Group’s work on carbon management. We will be supporting programmes to improve the quality Beyond STEM of vocational training and STEM education in Brazil. In 2011, As well as the STEM work described here, BG Group has a range we consulted with Brazilian education institutions and nonof other social and environmental initiatives underway in Brazil. governmental organisations about where to target investment in education, and set up partnerships with five leading institutions. During 2011, we invested in important social and community Climate Change Our partners include WorldFund Brasil and the Sangari Institute, initiatives through our gas distribution business in Brazil, Comgás. two not-for-profit organisations that provide support for During 2011, Comgás invested more than $300 000 in social and STEM programmes. educational projects. We are in the process of committing to fund up to 450 international BG Group has also been working with other oil companies and the fellowships for Brazilian students to study at leading universities Brazilian industry organisation, the Instituto Brasileiro de Petróleo and research centres around the world, investing a total of around (IBP) to improve safety in the country. We report on our biodiversity $17.5 million. initiatives in the Environment section of this report. Our STEM work in Brazil is closely related to BG Group’s broader We continue to test concepts and ideas through feasibility studies, Principles, policies and governance technology strategy, which, among other initiatives, is partnering pilots, and quick-win projects and aim to expand our activity in 2013. Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 23 Society People Our Social Performance Standard Human Rights 2011 marked the start of the second phase of implementing our Social BG Group is a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Performance (SP) Standard, a process that will run from 2011 to 2013. Human Rights (VPSHR), and our commitment to respect human Ethical Conduct In 2011, we focused on ensuring our businesses had the capacity and rights is laid out in our Human Rights Policy. expertise to deliver their SP objectives and evaluate performance. Twice a year, we conduct due diligence across our functions (such as At the end of 2010, we commissioned an independent review of Human Resources, Contracts and Procurement, Security, Environment, the implementation of SP. As we reported last year, the review found Social Performance and our in-house Legal team) to ensure that we that we had rolled out the SP framework to high-priority businesses comply with the Policy and identify any risks of breach. This work successfully. It also concluded the framework was consistent with continued in 2011 and no incidents of alleged or actual human rights good practice, and that we had made significant improvements to breaches raised through a formal complaint or legal or regulatory Safety, Health and Security SP approaches on the ground in our businesses. process were reported by BG Group businesses. However, functional representatives agreed to enhance the due diligence process in 2012 The review also recommended that we: by standardising internal reporting procedures, clarifying what ●● extend training in SP, including with senior management; constitutes a human rights ‘risk’ or ‘incident’, and ensuring that functional Policies and Standards specifically refer to relevant ●● do more to encourage application of the SP Standard, including human rights risks. with non-operated joint ventures; ●● look at our community emergency response preparedness; and We also revised our approach to be consistent with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, which were endorsed by Society ●● review our approach to setting budgets for social investment (SI). the UN Human Rights Council in June 2011. We invited Professor John Ruggie, former Special Representative to the UN Secretary General for In 2011, in response to these recommendations we: Business and Human Rights, to address senior BG Group leaders on the ●● developed training programmes, including a Partnering Capacity UN Guiding Principles. Building Programme in partnership with the International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF); We played an active role in IPIECA’s Human Rights Task Force. IPIECA is developing an industry approach to human rights due diligence, Environment ●● commissioned external consultants to review our requirements for aiming in particular to ensure that grievance mechanisms are integrating community aspects into emergency response planning. effective and minimise the risk of human rights incidents. This resulted in changes to our SP Standard in this area and we also produced a draft guideline on Community Emergency Response We updated our VPSHR risk assessments in Egypt and Tunisia in 2011, Planning and held a workshop on this topic; to reflect the changed socio-political and security context in those ●● worked with our joint ventures in Egypt, Kazakhstan and the USA locations. We conducted new VPSHR assessments in Tanzania, where and encouraged them to conduct SP and SI in line with the aims of armed security forces are required to secure offshore activities in our Standard; coastal East Africa, particularly against the risk of pirate attacks. Climate Change ●● we also reviewed our SI spend, benchmarking it against our peers, We are planning to provide training to security providers in the course and set out a strategic approach to future SI spending. This resulted of 2012, even though we consider the risk of human rights violations to in approval to increase our SI spend nearly five-fold by 2014 (from be low. This is consistent with our commitments to the VPSHR. 2010 figures) and the introduction of a new strategic focus on education, skills development and livelihoods enhancement; and ●● updated our SP Standard in line with the revised IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability and developed Principles, policies and our quality control processes for assessing compliance with the requirements of the SP Standard. governance Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 24 Environment People 2011: key developments During 2011, we: ●● continued work to fulfil the water management plan introduced in 2011, taking action in operations around the world. We advanced Ethical Conduct plans for treating water produced from our operations in areas including Australia, Egypt, Trinidad and Tobago, and the USA; ●● developed a public position on how we manage risks in our unconventional (shale and coal seam gas) operations; ●● took steps to minimise the risk of major incidents or spills including: ●● participating in the next phase of the industry response to the Deepwater Horizon incident, making good progress with our Safety, Health and Security own review of BG Group well risk; ●● revising and updating oil spill response plans and developing new Group guidance on preparing oil spill contingency plans; and ●● working with a number of our operations worldwide to Don Lloyd, BG Group Senior Vice President, Health, Safety, strengthen their approach to minimising blow-out risk; Security and the Environment “ Gas will be a key fuel for the future because it is plentiful ●● won recognition for our leading approach to managing biodiversity Society and flexible – but only if we can produce it cleanly and in an independent benchmarking survey; and safely, showing how we manage risks to air, water ●● on emissions performance: and the wider environment.” ●● we reduced the total volume of oil spilled from 659 barrels in 2010 to 285 barrels, a reduction of 57%; ●● we decreased our sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions from 23 000 tonnes to 21 000 tonnes, a reduction of 8%; however Summary Environment ●● nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions increased from 21 000 tonnes to 29 000 tonnes, an increase of 36%. In 2011, we took action to demonstrate our responsible approach to protecting the environment in four areas of our business that are of particular public interest. Water management plan implementation Water management There was increasing interest in how we – and many other sectors In early 2011, our Sustainability Committee confirmed a goal for Climate Change of industry – are managing water resources. For us, the development BG Group of achieving excellence in water management. This of our unconventional gas portfolio – shale gas activities in the followed the 2010 review of water-related issues across our business USA and coal seam gas business in Australia – has highlighted the (see 2010 report). To deliver against this goal, we drew up a water importance of managing responsibly the large volumes of water management plan with three key areas of focus: used and produced by these operations, not just today but for the long term. ●● People: investing in our people and skills and improving accountability; Oil spill response ●● Improve: improving our water management framework including Principles, policies and We also continued our work to respond to the major Deepwater risk management and reporting; and Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2011. In partnership with others in the oil and gas industry, we took action to improve ●● Engage: engaging and partnering with stakeholders and governance our oil spill prevention and response capability. communicating proactively. Biodiversity During 2011, we began implementing this plan in our operations We continued our work on biodiversity, participating in a number around the world and made progress in all three areas. of initiatives including the ongoing E&P Sound and Marine Life Joint Management Systems Industry Programme and our cetacean monitoring programme with We focused in particular on Australia and the USA, where we have Chevron, both in Brazil. In November, we were recognised by the operations that use and/or produce large volumes of water, looking Natural Value Initiative (NVI), the international conservation body, at solutions both to minimise our use of fresh water and to manage for our approach to biodiversity. responsibly the water we produce. We developed a Public Position on unconventional gas, which sets out our water management Emissions performance approach for these operations. The Public Position was published in At the same time, we pursued our long-term efforts to reduce February 2012. The case study of our unconventional gas operations air emissions and minimise waste, measuring our performance in this report provides more context. Our approach to against our targets. Data is provided at the end of this section. sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 25 Environment People We also took action elsewhere in the world where we have identified Managing the water we produce important water risks. In Egypt, we started work to determine the We continued to look at ways of managing the water produced by best method to deal with large quantities of water produced offshore. our operations responsibly and appropriately, aiming for re-use and In Trinidad and Tobago, we are working with the Upstream Operators recycling options where possible. Ethical Conduct Association to prepare a white paper for discussion with the regulator. This paper will look at the development of regulation governing the The total water disposed of by BG Group’s operations increased to 12.1 management of water from offshore operations. In February 2012, our million tonnes in 2011, from 9.4 million tonnes in 2010 (see graph below). business in Trinidad and Tobago won an award for work carried out during 2011 to help a contractor, which treats and manages produced This was mainly due to an increase in ‘produced’ water (water water from our operations, to achieve industry best practice. associated with coal seam gas production) from our conventional hydrocarbon operations as well as the growth of our coal seam gas We appointed a Water Strategy Manager and set up a water business in Queensland. Large volumes of water are a by-product of Safety, Health and Security working group, while strengthening our risk management, standards coal seam gas production and as this business grows, the volume of and guidance for water management. We updated our reporting water produced will grow. QGC’s peak water production is expected requirements, responding to stakeholder demand for more detail. to total just under 200 megalitres (or 200 million litres) per day. Our 2011 water reporting now contains more information on water withdrawal and water disposal than in previous reports. See Water disposal the Performance data section of this report for water reporting (million tonnes) data against relevant topics. We also expanded our external communications and engagement in key areas, for example, reporting 14 Society on water to the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time in 2011. 12 During 2012, we will continue work to deliver against the water 10 management plan and will update on progress in next year’s report. 08 Water sourcing During the year, we continued to seek ways to reduce our freshwater 06 consumption where possible. Environment ●● In Louisiana, we continued to use waste water from a local paper 04 mill for our operations, rather than sourcing freshwater1. A water 02 services company manages this process and also markets the water to other shale gas operators in the area. In 2011, 24.5% of the water 0 we used in our operations in the Haynesville shale (23 million barrels 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 of water) came from the paper mill. ●● In Texas, we started a project to look at using deep saline In 2011, we advanced major plans to see this produced water – which groundwater sources for drilling and fracturing, instead of local is naturally too brackish to be used – treated to a standard where Climate Change freshwater systems. We are also working with the local river it can provide a valuable new source of water in the area. We are authority to source water where it is plentiful, avoiding water developing major reverse osmosis water treatment plants in the sources that are in demand from local communities. Queensland gas fields. These plants remove salt so the water can be used in agriculture, industry and local town supply. Overall, as shown below, BG Group’s global reported freshwater withdrawal in 2011 was 1.9 million cubic metres, the same level Salt produced by the reverse osmosis process will initially be as in 2010. The majority of our power business, which uses large contained in ponds at two central storage facilities. QGC and other amounts of water, was sold during 2010 but this was offset by gas companies are researching options for commercial applications Principles, policies and the growth of shale gas activities in the USA, which also use large for this salt, for example, in manufacturing glass and chemicals. quantities of water. Together with our partners, we are funding four pilot studies of governance commercial uses for salt, which we expect to be completed in 2012. Freshwater withdrawal (million cubic metres) We are also looking at alternative options for water treatment such as local irrigation and re-injection of coal seam gas water. Overall, 3 BG Group plans to spend approximately A$1 billion on treating water from our current operations in Australia. Management Systems 2.5 Cutting the road transport of water 2 During 2011, we commissioned a pipeline to take waste water from the shale gas development area in Louisiana to suitable deep water well injection disposal sites in Texas. Through our joint venture this 1.5 initiative has involved a total investment of more than $21 million over the past three years. The pipeline currently takes up to 19 000 1 Shale Gas barrels of waste water per day, which was previously being Our approach to T&D transported by road to disposal sites. 0.5 Power E&P sustainability reporting 0 Corporate 2009 2010 2011 1 We operate via a joint venture, which is operated in Texas and Louisiana by our joint venture partner EXCO and in Pennsylvania by BG Group and Exco jointly BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 26 Environment People This initiative has removed approximately 190 tanker loads of waste Oil spill response water per day from the road system. After some initial operational Ethical Conduct challenges, the system is now working well and is being assessed for During 2011, we made progress in our response to the Deepwater use by other shale gas development operators in the area. The water Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010. volume transported could exceed an estimated 20 000 barrels of water per day if others adopt this approach. In 2010, in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon spill, we set up a dedicated, cross-functional internal task force, the Group Well Risk Management Team (GWRMT), to review and assimilate lessons A key issue for 2011: unconventional gas from the disaster which included a review of our Group standards, procedures, equipment, emergency systems and behaviours. and the environment Safety, Health and Security In 2011, the GWRMT completed its review and we began to In recent years, the development of new resources of unconventional implement its recommendations, taking action in a number of gas – for example, gas produced from shale rocks and coal seams areas including disseminating lessons around the Group, working – has had a significant impact on estimates of gas reserves with drilling contractors to strengthen standards and procedures worldwide. During 2011, public and private research institutes and and embedding our own blow-out risk assessment tool. other bodies such as the US Energy Information Administration (EIA) and the International Energy Agency issued reports We also participated in the global oil industry group working on Society highlighting the extent of unconventional reserves, made accessible well incident prevention and containment, and on oil spill response. by new technology. In many media reports, conferences and In May 2011, this group launched the Sub-Sea Well Response Project academic papers, shale gas in particular has been seen as a ‘game (SSWRP), an initiative involving nine major oil and gas companies changer’ because its scale and wide dispersal around the world including BG Group and set up specifically to design equipment could transform gas markets. to control a similar well blow-out. While shale and other unconventional gases have been welcomed More information on this and on other industry initiatives in which by many as offering a substantial, new and secure supply of energy, BG Group participates is given in the Safety, Health and Security Environment there has also been strong public resistance to their development section of this report. in many quarters. During 2011, there were intensifying public campaigns against shale and coal seam gas around the world, In 2012, the GWRMT will continue to implement recommendations including where we work in parts of the USA and Australia. and manage our input to the next phase of SSWRP. The environmental concerns about how unconventional gas BG Group oil spill response plans is produced are diverse but the main questions asked are: In 2010, international experts Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) ●● Could nearby water sources, particularly drinking water, be reviewed the spill response plans in six of our businesses: in Bolivia, Climate Change contaminated by the chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing China, Egypt, India, Trinidad and Tobago, and Tunisia. Their report (a technique sometimes used to extract unconventional gas)? contained prioritised recommendations for improvements for all six ●● Could local water sources be depleted? of the businesses reviewed. Since the report’s release in Sept 2010, the Group has taken steps to strengthen its oil spill response ●● Will waste water be disposed of safely and without harm to the procedures, taking into account the recommendations from OSRL environment? (see an example on the following page). We have produced new ●● Could hydraulic fracturing, or the disposal of waste water from internal guidance on preparing oil spill contingency plans to fracturing operations, cause minor earthquakes or seismic events? enhance their quality and consistency across the Group. Principles, policies and ●● Will there be long-term impacts on the natural environment around operations, such as on flora and fauna? governance During 2011, we made it a priority to understand and address these specific concerns. We also saw that an important aspect of working sustainably was to communicate more effectively about how we manage risks in these high profile operations. Management Systems As a result, we developed a public position statement of our approach, including a range of commitments about the way we work to develop resources of unconventional gas responsibly and with minimal impact on the environment. A key aspect of our approach is quality, not only of our site and well design but also of our processes and working approach. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 27 Environment People BG Trinidad & Tobago We reviewed and further developed our oil spill response capability by: “Companies demonstrating a leading approach included Anglo ●● conducting a capability review of existing arrangements to address American plc, Rio Tinto plc, Xstrata plc, BG Group plc, Eni Spa, Ethical Conduct oil spill response contingency planning and preparedness at each and Royal Dutch Shell plc. Such approaches were characterised operating facility; by strong publicly stated policy commitments on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, comprehensive (although not always yet fully ●● highlighting areas where improvements in response capability employed) risk and opportunity evaluations conducted at a site are needed; and corporate level, and well developed management and ●● updating the oil spill risk profile at each site. This took into account monitoring systems.” potential oil spill scenarios, oil types, properties, volumes and the impact of potential spills on the receiving environment including Areas for improvement were also highlighted. These included Safety, Health and Security any sensitive environmental receptors; and piloting tools for incorporating ecosystem services analysis into the business (see below) and making more comprehensive disclosures ●● revising oil spill plans based on the updated risk profile and other on the nature and location of ecologically sensitive sites and areas recommendations from the capability review. of water scarcity. The full NVI report can be read at http://www.naturalvalueinitiative.org In 2011, we undertook Group-level management training exercises for oil spill incidents to enhance our oil spill response arrangements. Underwater sound and marine life These included an exercise based on a shipping oil spill scenario. We continue to participate in the International Association of Oil & Society We are working to prepare an oil spill response framework to Gas Producers’ (OGP’s) joint industry programme (JIP) on underwater manage the oil spill risk associated with our shipping activities. sound and marine life, which aims to advance and communicate scientific research on sound and its effect on marine life. Biodiversity 2011 was the second year of the JIP three-year study on the behavioural response of humpback whales to seismic exploration Biodiversity is an environmental priority for us and we have sound, with fieldwork now underway. The study, through Environment specific requirements on biodiversity in our Environmental Standard. monitoring migrating humpbacks on Australia’s east and west At Group level, we continued to engage with several biodiversity coasts, seeks to improve understanding of the potential impact stakeholder groups (such as IPIECA Biodiversity Working Group, BSR of seismic surveys on humpback whales. Ecosystem Services Working Group) to monitor evolving biodiversity issues and stakeholder expectations and exchange best practice Ecosystem services knowledge with our sector peers. Ecosystem services – the beneficial and diverse resources and processes supplied by natural ecosystems – are becoming Natural Value Initiative increasingly important in environmental policy making, for Climate Change We were recognised by the Natural Value Initiative (NVI), led industry and for BG Group. by Fauna & Flora International (FFI), the world’s first established international conservation body, supported by a number of NGOs We participated in the Business for Sustainability Ecosystem and universities, and the United Nations Environment Programme Services Working Group (ESWG) and the Biodiversity Working as well as major financial institutions. Group (BWG) convened by IPIECA. In November, the NVI produced a detailed report on the extractive In 2011, we initiated a programme of work to build our understanding sector and biodiversity ecosystem services, which noted our of ecosystem services and how they can be applied to our business. Principles, policies and progressive approach. It compared 30 companies in the oil and gas and mining industries on behalf of a range of major investment firms. governance BG Group was identified as one of the companies in the oil and gas sector that demonstrated a leading approach to managing biodiversity issues. The review concluded that BG Group has strong management systems in place for corporate biodiversity policy, risk and management: Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 28 Environment People Biodiversity in BG Brasil The joint industry programme (JIP) on biodiversity in Brazil, in which In 2011, the total amount of oil spilled fell by 57% from 659 barrels BG Brasil participates along with other oil and gas companies and to 285 barrels. There were 164 hydrocarbon spill incidents reported Ethical Conduct other stakeholders active in the Santos basin, continued in 2011. during the year compared with 54 in the previous year. Of those, 24 were spills to sea, totalling 82 barrels of oil. The JIP will carry out biodiversity research, co-ordinate a calendar of biodiversity initiatives and share data and knowledge among The largest spill was the loss of 142 barrels of condensate from our the participants. US gas infrastructure USA operations, which are jointly owned and operated with EXCO Resources. The incident occurred when a 2-inch BG Brasil’s cetacean monitoring programme, sponsored with valve failed, releasing 142 barrels of condensate and 14 barrels of Chevron, also continued successfully in 2011. The research is water. The spill was contained on site and remediation work was Safety, Health and Security determining areas of whale and dolphin concentration, using carried out. Future actions to be taken include enhanced integrity satellite and radio telemetry to investigate movements, habitat inspection, possible heat tracing during winter months to prevent use and behaviour, and collecting biological data. freezing pipes and the minimisation of inventories held on site. We also made progress with our project to model the winds The largest spill to sea involved the loss of 45 barrels of diesel from our and currents in Guanabara Bay – with a view to helping clean UK offshore operations and occurred during maintenance activities. up of the bay before the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. The spill was monitored and found to be dispersing effectively. The project also involves an NGO working with teenagers from poor communities. Number of hydrocarbon spills Society (of one barrel or more) 20 Habitat and species plans in Queensland, Australia BG Group has developed detailed habitat and species management 15 plans, covering terrestrial and marine areas, as part of the QCLNG project, in order to mitigate the project’s ecological impacts. These Environment plans were agreed with the Australian State and Commonwealth 10 governments in 2010 as part of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) process. Residual impacts on biodiversity are to be offset in accordance with plans to be agreed with the State and Commonwealth governments. 5 Sea Land Climate Change Environmental performance 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 This section summarises our 2011 environmental performance in the areas where we measure and supply particular data. Further Total volume of hydrocarbon spills to sea (barrels) information is also available in the performance data section of this report and in the GRI index disclosures. 700 Environmental Management Systems 600 Principles, policies and We are committed to ensuring that the Environmental Management 500 Systems (EMSs) at all our major operated businesses are certified to the international environmental management system standard governance 400 ISO 14001. 300 At the end of 2011, nine out of 13 (2010 69%) of our major operated interests were certified to ISO 14001. This includes instances where 200 BG Group is sole operator (80% of operated interests or 8 out of 10 of Management Systems our operated interests) and joint operator (33% of operating interests 100 or one out of three5). BG Group continues to work towards full 0 certification for all its operating businesses. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Spills Water spills Our business requires us to use, store and transport liquids including While we aim to contain the water produced by our operations so that it oil, diesel, drilling muds and chemicals. Our equipment, policies and is safely stored, transported and disposed of, there have been incidents of training aim to prevent any unplanned release of solid or liquid uncontrolled release of saline and desalinated water. It should be noted, Our approach to material to land or water. however, that the water produced from coal seam gas typically has a salt concentration of 2 000-6 000 parts per million (ppm). By way of comparison, In the Management Approach section of the report, we describe our sustainability reporting seawater has an average salt concentration of around 35 000 ppm. Environmental Standard, which contains provisions relating to spills 5 The number stated in the BG Group Annual Report and Accounts for 2011 is incorrect and and response. this number has been revised from 25% to 33.33% after the close of the Annual Report and Accounts 2011 for publication and printing. and Exco jointly. BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 29 Environment People The total number of water spills was 36, with a total of 1 030 cubic Sulphur dioxide atmospheric emissions metres water spilled. This compared with 40 spills in 2010 totalling (‘000 tonnes) Ethical Conduct 774 cubic metres. 40 The biggest single incident involved the spill of 556 cubic metres of produced water when a construction pond overflowed at our QGC operations in Australia. The overflow was contained on QGC 30 property and it is QGC’s assessment that no environmental harm was caused by the spill. The incident was caused by the failure of an automatic level sensor that detects high water levels in the pond Safety, Health and Security 20 and triggers the transfer of water to a second pond. An additional monitoring device has now been added, along with additional high-level alarms. 10 Non-greenhouse gas air emissions Our activities generate air emissions including nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) from the burning of fuel and from 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 flaring. Smaller volumes of carbon monoxide and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are also emitted. Society During 2011, SO2 emissions totalled 21 000 tonnes, a decrease of 8% Nitrogen oxides atmospheric emissions compared with 2010, due largely to decreased emissions from drilling (‘000 tonnes) and from BG Tunisia. Total emissions per unit of throughput fell by 40 3% between 2010 and 2011. New legislation in Tunisia will impose tighter restrictions on SO2 emissions from 2013. In response, we are developing a project to Environment 30 modify our plant to significantly reduce the amount of SO2 discharged and ensure compliance with these new regulatory measures. 20 In 2011, SO2 emissions from Tunisia accounted for 53% of the Group total. 10 Waste Waste represents an environmental burden, financial cost and Climate Change potential reputational liability. Conversely, waste minimisation 0 provides opportunities to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 To this end, we commit to minimising resource use and reducing the volume and hazardous nature of wastes by applying the During 2011, NOx emissions totalled 29 000 tonnes, an increase waste hierarchy and adopting best available techniques, of 36% compared with 2010. Total NOx emissions per unit of wherever practicable. throughput increased by 42% between 2010 and 2011. This increase arose primarily in our global shipping business where we reported Our activities generate waste streams including metals, hazardous Principles, policies and the impact of a full year of running six dual fuel diesel electric ships. waste, cuttings, and other material classified as general waste. While these ships result in lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, Information about the total weight of waste disposed, by waste governance they also result in higher NOx emissions. Excluding the shipping type, is shown in the graph overleaf. business, the figure for 2011 was 17 000 compared with 14 500 the previous year. Other reasons for the increase were increased The disposal method is determined by the BG Group Environmental drilling emissions and the inclusion of data (at 50%) from our gas Standard and the BG Group HSSE Performance Monitoring and infrastructure USA operations, jointly owned and operated with Reporting Standard. Management Systems EXCO Resources. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 30 Environment People Waste disposal (‘000 tonnes) Ethical Conduct 80 60 Safety, Health and Security 40 20 Metals Hazardous General 0 Cuttings 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Society BG Group reported a decrease of 2% in total waste disposal from 40 000 tonnes in 2010 to 39 000 tonnes in 2011. Our operational waste (routinely produced from operations) decreased from 27 000 tonnes to 14 000 tonnes. One of the reasons for the decrease was that during 2010 in Egypt condensate tanks were cleaned and large amounts of sludge were removed for disposal during 2010. This activity was not repeated in 2011. However, one-time or project waste increased from Environment 1 000 tonnes to 9 000 tonnes, due to construction waste disposed from our Kazakhstan operations. Cuttings waste increased from 7 000 to 10 000 tonnes, primarily due to the nature of onshore drilling activity during the year: different geologies will result in different waste levels. In 2011, 33% of our total waste was sent for re-use or recycling; this Climate Change includes 70% of our hazardous waste. The majority of general waste was sent to authorised landfill. Offshore controlled discharges Our offshore gas exploration and production processes also result in water discharges that contain oil – known as ‘controlled discharges’. In 2011, the amount of oil in process water discharged from BG Group operations increased by approximately 18 tonnes from 101.5 tonnes Principles, policies and in 2010 to 119.8 tonnes. The total quantity of oil in drill cuttings discharged offshore in 2011 decreased by 99 tonnes to 75 tonnes, governance compared with 174 tonnes in 2010. The primary reason for this change was a changed geographical pattern of drilling activity. Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 31 Climate Change People Climate change will continue to be a key consideration for BG Group strategy in the future. During 2011, we took the decision to appoint a senior climate change specialist, who joined the Group in 2012. Ethical Conduct 2011: key developments During 2011, we: ●● carried out GHG reduction projects achieving approximately 221 000 tonnes of sustainable annualised GHG reductions in 2011, helping us move closer to our target of 1 million tonnes of sustainable emissions reductions by 2012; made substantial progress in developing plans for a Carbon Institute, Safety, Health and Security ●● an initiative that will research ways to reduce carbon emissions; ●● examined, through a series of workshops, technology gaps and approaches for future GHG emissions reduction in our business; ●● undertook research into technologies for reducing the carbon Keith Johnson, BG Group Strategy Director intensity of gas production; and “ Natural gas is the only widely available fuel that generates electricity flexibly – responding to peaks and troughs in demand ●● were included for the first time in the CPLI, which is produced by the Society – while emitting significantly less carbon than oil or coal. It will Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). therefore play an essential role in the energy strategies of the next decades.” The role of gas in carbon reduction strategies We believe gas has an important role to play in helping to reduce carbon emissions and using gas can form part of a climate change strategy. Summary Environment Like all fossil fuels when burned, natural gas emits GHGs. However, In 2011, we were on track to achieve our target, published in 2007, in a world where energy is fundamental to development and nuclear of 1 million tonnes of sustainable greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions power is currently the only large-scale alternative to fossil fuels, gas reductions by 2012. We reviewed this target and looked ahead at has clear advantages: the coming years. Leveraging our skills and innovating to produce ●● natural gas, when burned, produces 40% lower carbon dioxide (CO2) gas ever more efficiently and cleanly will be vital as we see gas emissions than coal use and 22% lower than oil. In transport, using continuing to play a key part in meeting world energy demand. natural gas instead of petrol or diesel can reduce CO2 emissions by Climate Change 15-25% for an equivalent amount of energy; See the Management Approach section of this report for more ●● as the world’s fastest growing economies – including China – on our emissions target. typically burn coal rather than gas, the impact of substituting gas for coal can be very significant; The role of gas in carbon reduction strategies We pursued our strategy of producing gas efficiently and cost●● gas-fired power stations can be built quickly and cheaply relative effectively and transporting it to the markets where it is needed. to other types of power generation – and in many markets, the gas Natural gas offers advantages that have led a wide range of experts, infrastructure is largely in place; Principles, policies and including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), to ●● gas can provide a constant supply of energy as and when required, consider it an important component in global strategies to mitigate while energy sources like wind or solar are intermittent and cannot climate change. governance be switched on and off as needed to meet peaks and troughs in daily demand. Gas can complement renewable sources; We explain this view in more detail in the box ‘The role of gas in carbon reduction strategies’. ●● liquefied natural gas (LNG) can be shipped around the world, providing a secure and flexible source of supply and mitigating Research, technology and innovation the potential operational, commercial or political risks of Management Systems We invested in new solutions and approaches to producing gas regional pipelines; in a clean and efficient way. Some details are shown below, ●● natural gas is relatively abundant, particularly following the including our plans for developing a Carbon Institute to look emergence of new unconventional gas reserves, such as shale, at low-carbon solutions. coal seam and tight gas. This makes gas a key element of the energy strategies in major markets like the USA; and Reducing our own emissions We also pursued a number of projects that helped reduce our own ●● LNG, as a fuel for shipping, provides a potential opportunity GHG emissions. We are on track to achieve the emission reduction for GHG emission reductions. Global efforts to reduce sulphur Our approach to goals we published in 2007, and are now looking ahead. The progress emissions and the increase of coastal Emission Control Areas we have made in reducing and reporting on our GHG emissions was will limit the use of high-sulphur fuel oil. Alternatives including recognised by our inclusion in the Carbon Performance Leadership LNG are actively being considered by the industry and we are sustainability reporting Index (CPLI) in 2011. During the year, we debated how to set monitoring these. meaningful targets for the future, given our rising production profile. BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 32 Climate Change People Research, technology and innovation One of the ways we can contribute to tackling climate change is The workshops identified more than 100 opportunities to cut to develop new solutions and approaches to GHG management. emissions. After assessing the risks and benefits, we developed Ethical Conduct In Brazil, we are setting up a Global Technology Centre (GTC), where budget proposals for the most promising opportunities, which we will work with universities in Brazil and worldwide on researching we can pursue independently or with partners. carbon management. The GTC, in Rio de Janeiro, is a cornerstone of our strategy in Brazil. It is in development and we aim to open it in 2013, developing it as a world-leading centre for oil and gas research. Innovation award: carbon modelling of CO2 -enhanced oil recovery You can read more about our work in Brazil in the Social performance applications, Brazil section of this report. In our fields offshore Brazil we plan to use a technique known as Safety, Health and Security BG Group technology hubs focus on carbon management CO2-enhanced oil recovery to increase the reserves we can recover – In 2010, we launched the concept of ‘technology hubs’ – centres and to capture carbon-related emissions that would otherwise of expertise that will lead research and development programmes. contribute to global warming. Among other goals, they were set up to address environmental issues such as emissions management. They work in partnership In doing this, we need to understand the balance between with academic and other institutions and can implement field trials. environmental risks and benefits, including: ●● how much additional energy we consume in handling CO2; One of the first two technology hubs established was the carbon Society ●● how much additional production we can achieve; and management and gas utilisation hub. It aims to reduce BG Group’s carbon intensity by reviewing and investing in technology where ●● how much carbon we can return to the reservoir. feasible. We developed a model to assess our GHG emissions through the life of the field, highlighting the lowest emission options. During 2011, we made progress with a number of carbon reduction projects: To do this, we set up a multi-disciplinary team to interpret and ●● studies of leading energy technologies including fuel cells; incorporate information from: drilling and well tests; floating Environment ●● studies looking at carbon emissions during the gas life cycle systems; carbon recovery and reinjection; reservoir conditions; and how to reduce them; and residual releases to the environment. We included export and downstream activities. ●● studies into carbon capture and storage technologies and how they might apply to BG Group; and The model shows how carbon management can be integrated into ●● a research programme with CO2 CRC, an international research our business and applied to other areas as well as the Santos Basin. organisation in Australia, into residual trapping of CO2 in deep aquifers. The initiative provided new information, helped us evaluate Climate Change environmental risks, supported our evaluation of carbon intensity In particular, we conducted a life cycle analysis of GHG emissions per production unit and illustrated priorities for future investment – from gas production at source to the end user – in our main in technology. The outputs are also supporting our GHG target operations and markets. We worked in partnership with Imperial setting process post-2012. College, London, and evaluating gas supply chains from our businesses in Australia, Brazil, North Africa and the USA. The purpose of the study was to understand how emissions from gas compare with coal, to identify the principal points of emission and to Reducing our own emissions Principles, policies and understand where to focus emission reduction efforts. The study will We made good progress reducing our GHG emissions in 2011 and contribute to our thinking about the role of gas in climate change are on schedule to achieve the target, published in 2007, of 1 million governance strategy, including techniques such as carbon capture and storage. tonnes of sustainable reductions by 2012. This is measured against a no-action base case. BG Group institutes: working with world-class universities Our technology strategy involves working with world-class Greenhouse gas reduction: progress against target universities in research projects that focus on a specific technology Annualised reductions (million tonnes) challenge. To do this, we are creating BG Group institutes. The Management Systems 1 plan is that each of our hubs will either partner with an outside organisation or set up its own institute. As the first example of this, we set up a dedicated coal seam gas centre at Queensland 0.75 University. One of the institutes will focus on carbon and be linked to the work already underway through our carbon hub. 0.5 Technology workshops look at cutting emissions During 2011, we ran a series of workshops aimed at exploring Our approach to how we can reduce GHG emissions. The workshop results will help define our future GHG reduction approach and identify projects we 0.25 sustainability reporting can run through the GTC or the proposed Carbon Institute. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 33 Climate Change People BG Egypt – West Delta Deep Marine See the Management Approach section of this report for an To cut emissions from our operations in Egypt, we chose to use explanation of how we set the 2012 target. higher-efficiency turbines (aero-derivative turbines) in our West Ethical Conduct Delta Deep Marine offshore operations. As the fields here are In 2011, we completed projects which delivered annualised GHG ageing and require compression, more energy is needed to reductions of approximately 221 000 tonnes against our target extract hydrocarbons from the reservoir. of 200 000 tonnes. Cumulatively, we achieved 985 000 tonnes of annualised sustainable reductions since the beginning of our We calculate the choice will reduce GHG emissions by 150 000 programme. Our target for new reduction projects to be delivered tonnes per year. in 2012 is 67 700 tonnes and we have identified the projects that will deliver this, including the continuing replacement of cast iron pipe in The project in Egypt was the first to use turbines of this kind in Safety, Health and Security our Comgás gas distribution business in Brazil and the use of a liquid this way. Additionally, the units will use low-NOx (nitrogen oxides) recovery system on well operations in Kazakhstan. Together, these technology. are expected to cut over 41 000 tonnes of GHG emissions. The need to address environmental issues was identified early in the The Carbon Disclosure Project project process, including the need to commission a best available In 2011, for the first time, BG Group was included in the Carbon techniques (BAT) review. Performance Leadership Index (CPLI), which is produced by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The CDP recognised us for the We also allowed time to improve design and overcome local barriers action we are taking to reduce, manage and report on emissions to the adoption of a new technology. Historically, in this region, there Society and mitigate risks to the business from climate change. has been a general reluctance to move away from accepted practices. We were the only energy company and one of just 29 companies from the FTSE Global Equity Index Series (Global 500) to be included in 2011. The CDP recognises that we understand the business issues Using BAT: the Knarr FPSO project related to climate change and build climate-related risks and opportunities into our core business. The success of BG Group’s We are currently involved in a major programme of leasing and Environment greenhouse gas sustainable reduction target was an essential owning Floating Production Storage and Offloading Vessels (FPSOs) factor in the Group’s inclusion in the CPLI. for use worldwide. BG Group was an early contributor to the CDP and we continue The Knarr FPSO project, currently in design in Norway, demonstrates our involvement today. The CDP is an independent not-for-profit our commitment to using BAT to minimise GHG emissions. The FPSO organisation holding the largest database of primary corporate will be used to develop a discovery in the Knarr field, offshore Norway. climate change information in the world. It publishes climate change data from 3 000 organisations worldwide. It aims to assist the The project team has identified a series of design proposals that Climate Change development of solutions to climate change and water management will improve process efficiency at the same time as reducing GHG by putting relevant information at the heart of business, policy and emissions. This will be achieved by integrating the heat and cooling investment decisions. The index provides an evaluation tool for demands across the facility and selecting equipment configurations institutional investors holding $71 trillion in assets. that reduce emissions as the field operations mature. Examples of key projects to reduce emissions in 2011 During 2011, the largest reduction in emissions came from the The role of best available techniques use of aero-derivative turbines in a compression project in Egypt, One of the key tools we use to aid emission reduction is to consider Principles, policies and described below. BAT. You can read about this in Management Systems: Environment. governance BAT is an internationally accepted methodology that requires us to use the most effective and advanced engineering practices and methods for environmental protection without unreasonable cost. All our operated assets are required to undertake BAT assessments. Management Systems An internal carbon price is factored into these. By attaching a cost to carbon appropriate for the particular region, we promote low-carbon investment in design processes. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 34 Climate Change People Towards a new GHG reduction target BG Group GHG emissions: by business As we approached the final year in our current emissions reduction (million tonnes CO2e) Ethical Conduct target, we reviewed progress and considered the best approach to setting a new target beyond 2012. This is complex, as we need 12 to set a meaningful goal against a rising production profile. 10 We have examined: ●● GHG emission forecasts from our businesses; 8 ●● estimates of possible GHG reductions from new developments; Safety, Health and Security 6 ●● opportunities for reducing GHG emissions from shale gas operations in the USA and the development of the Santos Basin 4 Other in Brazil; Power ●● management tools to drive improved energy management within 2 T&D the business; and LNG shipping 0 E&P ●● opportunities arising from technology research and development 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 programmes to help define BAT in the future. Like-for-like emissions data (comparing 2010 and 2011 across the Society Work is ongoing at the time of publication. In our 2012 Sustainability same asset base) shows an increase in emissions from operated sites Report, we will confirm how we have performed against our of 0.5 million tonnes (6%) from 2010 to 2011. The principal reason for current six-year target and set out a new target for the future. the increase was an increase in global shipping. See the Management Approach section of this report for more information. The Group also measures GHG emissions on an equity share basis, reporting emissions in line with the Group’s equity interest in operations, including where BG Group is an investor but not Environment Scope 1 emissions operator. For example, we have a 21.73% interest in the NexenScope 1 emissions, as defined by the international Greenhouse Gas operated Buzzard oil field, located in the UK North Sea. Its GHG Protocol Initiative, are those arising directly from sources owned emissions are not included in BG Group total operated emissions or controlled by the reporting entity. because we are not the operator. However, 21.73% of the total reported GHG emissions from the Buzzard field are included in In our activities, the main categories of Scope 1 emissions are fuel our equity-share-based GHG reporting. use, flaring, venting, fugitive losses (leaks or other irregular emissions of gases from equipment) and distribution losses. GHG emissions on an equity share basis decreased by 1.6 million Climate Change tonnes (13%) to 10.6 million tonnes compared with 2010. In 2011, operations directly under BG Group’s control emitted 7.5 million tonnes of GHG, a decrease in absolute terms of approximately 1.2 million tonnes (14%) compared with 2010. Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 35 Climate Change People BG Group – operated emissions (million tonnes CO2e) Ethical Conduct 8.5 8.0 7.5 Safety, Health and Security 7.0 6.5 Decrease 6.0 Increase 2010 reported Power Assets sold 2010 MetroGas BG Canada Charter Shipping 2010 rebased Global Shipping BG Eygpt Charter Shipping BG EPIL Karachagnak QGC Drilling Other BG Tunisia 2011 Like for Like TGGT 2011 Absolute Society Scope 2 emissions Environment Indirect, or Scope 2 emissions, as defined by the international Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative, are those resulting from the consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam. BG Group’s only significant purchased energy is electricity. We calculate indirect GHG emissions from electricity consumption by applying country-specific emission factors (reflecting the average GHG emissions per unit of electricity produced on a Climate Change country-by-country basis) to electricity purchased. In 2011, businesses directly under the control of BG Group purchased electricity that emitted 18 000 tonnes of GHG when originally generated at source. This compared with emissions of 24 000 tonnes in the previous year. Principles, policies and Scope 3 emissions BG Group’s Scope 3 emissions, in line with international guidance, include indirect GHG emissions not covered by Scope 2 and therefore governance relate to emissions arising from the use of our sold products. We estimate that our Scope 3 emissions totalled 87 million tonnes in 2011 compared with last year’s value of 88.7 million. While recent progress has been made in developing accounting Management Systems and reporting standards for life cycle and corporate value chain emissions, there is as yet no definitive methodology for calculating Scope 3 emissions. There is also considerable potential for duplicating emissions along the energy chain. Our approach to sustainability reporting BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 36 Targets People People Our targets in 2011 Actions taken in 2011 Our targets in 2012 Ethical Conduct Implement talent management and ≈ Ongoing. Draft talent Finalise the succession and development plans for succession plans for all key senior positions structure exists, subject key leadership positions, in preparation for a new in BG Group and ensure alignment of to agreement from Group Chief Executive. recruitment and development processes. Executive Committee Launch our Employee Value Proposition, both internally Develop a strategic overview people ≈ Ongoing and externally. resource plan. Complete the reviews of BG Group’s global resourcing ≈ Safety, Health and Security Embed the BG Group Behaviours (rolled Ongoing. Education and needs, talent management, graduate development and out in 2010) into the organisation’s culture. development continues leadership model. across the organisation Ethical Conduct Society Our targets in 2011 Actions taken in 2011 Our targets in 2012 Launch revised Speak Up Policy, Ethical ✓ Completed Refresh and re-launch the BG Group Principles Conduct Policy and associated Standards. into Practice booklet. Communicate the implications of the UK ✓ Completed Roll out the Advanced Anti-Bribery and Corruption Bribery Act to employees identified as e-learning to high-risk groups. Environment being at risk. Use the ‘adequate procedures toolkit’ (to test the More than 65% of employees (with access ✓ Completed effectiveness of procedures to prevent bribery) to the intranet) to have completed the in the business. Fraud and Bribery e-learning during 2011. Climate Change Safety Our targets in 2011 Actions taken in 2011 Our targets in 2012 TRCF (total recordable case frequency) ✗ TRCF of 1.92 achieved TRCF per million work hours of 1.35. per million work hours of 1.00. 90% of all high-risk Contractors’ safety performance Ensure 80% of planned safety ✓ 79% more contractor safety Principles, policies and to be tracked through the Performis system. performance meetings held with meetings were held than contractors. originally planned governance Conduct a crisis management exercise ✓ 95% of assets carried out a in each operated asset. crisis management exercise, 100% of all operated assets ✓ ≈ ✗ Management Systems Signifies completed Signifies ongoing Signifies not completed We worked on this target in 2011 and We made some progress on this target but completed all the associated tasks. did not complete all the associated tasks Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 37 Targets People Society Our targets in 2011 Actions taken in 2011 Our target Group in 2012 Ethical Conduct Establish Group guidelines on emergency ✓ Completed Initiate work stream to investigate how to report on response procedures for communities. BG Group’s wider socio-economic contributions. Establish two social performance ✓ Completed (International Conduct IBLF accredited partnership training in a minimum partnerships to enhance strategic Business Leaders Forum of four operations. social investment. (IBLF), Exscitec) Establish five new social investment projects across the Review the Social Performance ✓ Completed Group, consistent with Group-wide themes of education, Safety, Health and Security Standard against revised IFC skills development and livelihoods enhancement. Performance Standards. Develop guidelines on grievance mechanisms in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and update grievance mechanisms accordingly in at least two operations. Increase year-on-year social investment spend in the majority of BG Group-operated businesses. Society Environment Our targets in 2011 Actions taken in 2011 Our targets in 2012 Environment Establish Water Management Work ✓ Develop and roll out Group water management Standard Group/develop detailed strategic water and water management planning guidance, for use in management plan. BG Group operations and projects, as appropriate to the level of risk from water-related issues. Establish plan to further develop ✓ environmental practitioner capabilities. Develop 2013-17 Group Environment Strategy. Climate Change Climate Change Our targets in 2011 Actions taken in 2011 Our targets in 2012 ✓ Principles, policies and Achieve annualised GHG emission Completed Report and deliver on the 2012 1 million tonnes GHG reductions of 200 000 tonnes. emission reduction target. governance Continue to quantify and report on ✓ Completed Define and quantify new GHG target post 2012. status of performance towards our 2012 GHG target. Management Systems ✓ Signifies completed ≈ Signifies ongoing ✗ Signifies not completed We worked on this target in 2011 and We made some progress on this target but completed all the associated tasks. did not complete all the associated tasks Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 38 Performance data People People 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Ethical Conduct Employees worldwide (average for year) 6 472 6 171 6 079 5 395 4 949 of which employed outside of UK (average for year) 4 496 4 211 4 163 3 639 3 286 Employees working away from home country 679 646 623 623 582 Employee turnover(a) 11% 11% 7% 9% 9% Women in workforce (a) 29% 28% 28% 25% 25% Senior management team percentage women(a) 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% Safety, Health and Security Senior management team percentage of non UK/US nationals(a) 23% 21% 19% 16% 16% Speak Up/Whistleblowing cases 134 151 125 70 40 Cases with actions against individuals as a result of Speak Up investigations(b) 28 24 15 n/a n/a (a) Data not available for Comgas and Gujarat Gas businesses, representing approximately 25% of employees. (b) In 2010 the reporting methodology for actions as a result of Speak Up investigations was changed. 2009 reported cases only included cases where disciplinary action was taken. 2010 and 2011 data includes reported cases where actions ranged from training requirements to disciplinary action. Society Environment Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 39 Performance data People Safety, Health and Security 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Ethical Conduct Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – contractors 3 2 2 3 1 Total recordable case frequency – employees (per million work hours) 0.67 0.63 0.84 0.88(a) 0.79(a) Total recordable case frequency – contractors (per million work hours) 2.35 1.04 1.83 1.98(a) 1.84(a) Total recordable case frequency – total workforce (per million work hours) 1.92 0.94 1.59 1.74 1.58 Reported occupational-related illness frequency 0.49 0.56 0.22 0.14 0.17 Safety, Health and Security (a) Employee/ Contractor split not reported in prior years, and therefore not subject to assurance. Society Environment Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 40 Performance data People Social Performance ($000) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Ethical Conduct Charitable donations/philanthropy 3 436 1 211 1 670 3 239 n/a Local community investment 4 949 3 613 2 365 3 088 n/a Regional development 2 618 1 030 828 632 n/a Miscellaneous 481 474 712 1 211 n/a Sub-total voluntary contributions 11 484 6 328 5 575 8 170 6 847 Contractual obligations through production-sharing agreements 3 780 10 684 3 113 1 115 3 326 Safety, Health and Security Total contributions 15 264 17 012 8 688 9 285 10 173 Social performance data was previously reported in pounds Sterling (£). Society Environment Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 41 Performance data People Environment Non greenhouse gas emissions Non-GHG Emissions (’000 tonnes) Ethical Conduct Electricity Distribution Venting Fugitive Flaring Fuel use generation losses Carbon monoxide – – 2 12 0 – Nitrogen oxides – – 1 25 3 – Sulphur dioxide – – 13 8 0 – Volatile organic compounds 7 2 1 1 0 1 Safety, Health and Security Non-GHG Emissions (’000 tonnes) Total Total Total Total Total t/MMBOE t/MMBOE t/MMBOE t/MMBOE t/MMBOE 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Carbon monoxide 14 12 10 9 8 33 28 22 21 22 Nitrogen oxides (a) 29 21 19 17 15 68 48 43 40 38 Sulphur dioxide (b) 21 23 29 31 17 50 52 66 72 44 Volatile organic compounds 12 12 11 11 11 27 27 25 24 28 Society Energy use Energy use (GWHrs) Total Total Total Total Total Gas Electricity Oil 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Energy use 25 627 32 2 897 28 556 31 014 36 505 36 001 33 909 Environment Waste disposed Waste disposed (’000 tonnes) Waste by Disposal Route Authorised In situ Treatment/ Reuse/ 2011 On-site Total Total Total Total Total landfill Incineration disposal discharge recycling storage 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Cuttings 4 0 6 – 0 2 10 7 16 40 7 Climate Change Metal 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 2 1 2 2 General 12 0 0 0 1 0 13 7 11 16 12 Hazardous 3 1 0 1 10 2 15 24 19 8 5 Total 19 1 6 1 12 4 39 40 47 66 26 Water disposal Principles, policies and Water disposal (‘000 tonnes) governance Groundwater/reinjection reused/recycled by third party to nonInland to freshwater freshwater sewerage Soil water/ NonOpen Marine aquifer aquifer system irrigation Evaporation Freshwater freshwater Produced water 4 981 20 133 57 56 802 Oil in produced water 0 0 – – – – – – Management Systems Process water – – 44 243 – – – – Oil in process water – – – 0 – – – – Other waste oily water – – 8 – – – – – Oil in other waste oily water – – 0 – – – – – Associated water – – – – – 4 914 – 818 Flowback water – – 9 22 – – – – Management Systems Total oil 0 0 0 0 0 0 – 0 Total water 4 981 20 194 322 56 5 716 – 818 BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 42 Performance data People Water disposal (‘000 tonnes) Ethical Conduct Total Total Total Total Total 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Produced water 6 049 – – – – Oil in produced water 0 – – – – Process water 287 9 386 7 335 3 945 4 718 Oil in process water 0 0 0 0 0 Other waste oily water 8 – – – – Safety, Health and Security Oil in other waste oily water 0 – – – – Associated water 5 732 – – – – Flowback water 31 – – – – Total oil 0 0 0 0 0 Total water 12 107 9 386 7 335 3 945 4 718 Society Water withdrawal Water withdrawal (‘000 tonnes) Desalinated Desalinated Municipal associated ground Ground Desalinated water Reused/ Surface Waste water water water water seawater Seawater supplies Rain water recycled water (third party) Freshwater use – 1 220 – – 475 3 77 1 127 1 Non-freshwater use – – – 26 11 – – 70 – – Total – 1 220 26 11 475 3 147 1 127 1 Environment 2011 2010 2009 Freshwater use 1 904 1 857 2 190 Non-freshwater use 107 – – Total 2 011 1 857 2 190 Climate Change Controlled discharges Controlled discharges (‘000 tonnes) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Drill cuttings 10 15 29 45 30 Oil in cuttings 0 0 1 2 2 Principles, policies and Muds 13 15 25 62 29 Total 23 30 55 109 61 governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 43 Performance data People Spills to the environment Ethical Conduct 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of hydrocarbon spills to land 140 37 14 14 29 Number of hydrocarbon spills to sea 24 17 43 17 15 Number of hydrocarbon spills 164 54 57 31 44 Safety, Health and Security Number of hydrocarbon spills to land (of one barrel or more) 12 5 1 7 11 Number of hydrocarbon spills to sea (of one barrel or more) 6 6 9 3 6 Number of hydrocarbon spills (of one barrel or more) 18 11 10 10 17 Total volume (bbls) of hydrocarbon spills to land 203 42 9 58 368 Total volume (bbls) of hydrocarbon spills to sea 82 617 170 6 94 Total volume (bbls) of hydrocarbon spills 285 659 179 64 462 Society Number of produced water spills to land 36 40 38 Total volume of produced water spills to land (m3) 1 030 774 – Notes: 2007–2010 data has been updated to include Charter Shipping data which has been included in line with best practice. Chartered vessels on charters greater than 6 months are now included. Water withdrawal data not available from TGGT. Environment Waste data not available for TGGT, Morcellus and QGC Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 44 Performance data People Climate Change Greenhouse Gas emissions Summary Greenhouse gas emissions (’000 tonnes CO2e) from operations under BG Group control Ethical Conduct Total Total Total Total Total 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Scope 1 7 507 8 716 9 897 9 673 9 058 Scope 2 18 24 30 – – Total gross controlled emissions 7 525 8 740 9 927 – – Safety, Health and Security Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (Scope 1 & 2) (’000 tonnes CO2e/mmboe) Total Total Total 2011 2010 2009 E&P 13 13 12 Global Shipping 26 22 27 T&D 3 10 10 Power 671 724 700 Society Greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions (’000 tonnes CO2e) By source 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Venting 676 643 634 599 687 Fugitive 19 6 5 8 18 Environment Flaring 559 795 706 705 583 Fuel Use 4 623 3 902 4 101 3 658 2 483 Electricity Generation 1 526 2 614 3 683 3 944 4 537 Distribution losses 104 756 768 759 750 Total GHG 7 507 8 716 9 897 9 673 9 058 By GHG (in ‘000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Climate Change Carbon dioxide 7 064 7 665 8 836 8 644 8 022 Methane 381 985 981 948 961 Nitrous oxide 62 66 80 81 75 Total GHG 7 507 8 716 9 897 9 673 9 058 By business segment 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Principles, policies and E&P 3 852 3 723 3 417 3 202 3 046 Global Shipping 2 007 1 605 2 015 1 739 669 governance T&D 118 770 778 771 761 Power 1 526 2 614 3 684 3 944 4 537 Other 4 4 3 17 45 Total GHG 7 507 8 716 9 897 9 673 9 058 Management Systems Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (’000 tonnes CO2e/mmboe) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 E&P 13 13 12 12 12 Global Shipping 26 22 27 28 27 T&D 3 10 10 9 9 Power 671 723 697 690 698 BG Group 18 20 22 22 24 Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 45 Performance data People Greenhouse gas emissions – Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions (’000 tonnes CO2e) Ethical Conduct By source 2011 2010 2009 Purchased electricity 18 24 30 By business segment E&P 10 9 8 Global Shipping – – – Safety, Health and Security T&D 4 5 5 Power 0 5 13 Other 4 5 4 Total GHG 18 24 30 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e/mmboe) Society 2011 2010 2009 E&P 33 32 27 Global Shipping – – – T&D 91 60 63 Power 196 1 454 2 416 Environment Greenhouse gas emissions – Equity share data Equity Share GHG emissions 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 GHG emissions ('000 tonnes) 10 611 12 232 13 862 13 839 14 478 Equity share ('000 tonnes GHG/mmboe) 28 33 37 37 39 Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 46 Independent Assurance Report People Our scope BG Group commissioned Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited to Responsibilities of the Directors of BG Group undertake independent assurance of its Sustainability Report 2011 and of the assurance providers Ethical Conduct as published at www.bg-group.com/sustainability2011 for the following areas: The Directors of BG Group have sole responsibility for the ●● sustainability performance data for the year ended 31 December preparation of the Sustainability Report 2011. In performing our 2011, as published in the Performance data section; and assurance work, our responsibility is to the management of BG ●● BG Group’s self-declared Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Group, however our statement represents our independent opinion application level of A+ of the GRI “G3” Guidelines as published and is intended to inform all of BG Group’s stakeholders including its in the GRI index section. management. We were not involved in the preparation of any part of the report. However, having reviewed and provided feedback on Safety, Health and Security drafts of the report, in a number of instances changes were made to the final version. Our approach We provided two additional services to BG Group in 2011: an We performed our work using Two Tomorrows’ assurance independent report review, benchmark and stakeholder interview methodology which is based on our professional experience and exercise; and an independent benchmarking of industry greenhouse international assurance standards, including the International gas reporting and targets. We have not been involved in the Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) – ‘Assurance implementation of any of the recommendations made during the Engagements Other Than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial course of these reviews. Society Information’. Our core team comprised Jon Woodhead, Kate Martin, Dick Dalley, We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidence Gareth Manning and David Keddie. Further information, including we considered necessary to provide a basis for our assurance individual competencies relating to the team can be found at: conclusions. We are providing a ‘limited level’ of assurance. www.twotomorrows.com A ‘reasonable level’ of assurance would have required additional work at Group and site level to gain further evidence to support Environment the basis of our assurance conclusions. Our conclusions We used the BG Group’s Data Methodology Appendix which sets On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing came to our attention out how the sustainability performance data are measured, recorded to suggest that: and reported, as the basis of the Reporting Criteria for undertaking ●● the sustainability performance data for the year ended 31 December our assurance work. We also used the GRI Quality of Information 2011, as published in the Performance data section, is not prepared in Principles to evaluate the performance data. all material respects with the Reporting Criteria; and Climate Change ●● BG Group’s self-declared GRI application level of A+ of the GRI “G3” Guidelines as published in the GRI index section is not fairly stated Basis of our opinion in all material respects. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed work at Group and site level. Our assurance work included the following: ●● interviewing senior management responsible for the management Principles, policies and of sustainability, the Sustainability Report 2011 and data reporting systems; governance ●● visiting a sample of two BG Group assets (BG Tunisia and BG EPIL, India) to review the systems and processes used at the country head office level to collect and report the sustainability performance data at Group level; ●● reviewing and sample checking the sustainability performance data Management Systems measurement, collection and reporting processes at Group level; ●● reviewing how the sustainability performance data was represented in the Performance Data section and within the relevant Performance sections of the report; ●● reviewing a draft report for consistency with the IPIECA, API and OGP Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010; and Management Systems ●● assessing the GRI index for compliance with the GRI application level requirements for A+. BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 47 Independent Assurance Report People Our key observations and recommendations We will provide a confidential management letter of our observations and recommendations made during the course of our work to Ethical Conduct BG Group management. Without affecting our assurance opinion, our key observations and recommendations are summarised below. We have agreed with BG Group that the Company will consider the following related issues during the year ahead: ●● strategic oversight of the Group’s overall approach, including direction setting, integration between functions related to sustainability on an ongoing basis, coverage of longer-term strategic risks and Safety, Health and Security opportunities, and the development of short and long-term targets. ●● a greater forward-looking focus in future sustainability Reports, and additional detail on the BG Group employee and contractor profile and management approach; and ●● how to capitalise on improvements in stakeholder engagement and materiality review by further refining these processes in 2012, and using the outputs to inform the consideration of the overall approach to sustainability and future reporting. Society Our key recommendations relating to specific issues and functions are: ●● Greenhouse gas (GHG) target: we understand that work is on-going by BG Group to develop a new GHG target beyond 2012. BG Group are considering a range of options for the new target, including absolute and normalised targets, coverage of Scope 3 emissions Environment and setting baseline and stretch targets. ●● Biodiversity, employee diversity and inclusion: to ensure that examples of good practice are replicated across the Group, we recommend that BG Group should consider the development of a Group-wide approach to biodiversity, and also to employee diversity and inclusion. ●● data collection and reporting systems: we observed well developed Climate Change systems and processes for the collection and reporting of the sustainability performance data at Group level. Our asset visits highlighted the following opportunities for improvement: ●● hours worked: we noted varying processes for tracking and reporting hours worked at asset level. We conducted additional review and analysis at Group level and were able to conclude that this did not materially affect the Group total recordable case frequency. We recommend that BG Group should enhance guidance provided to Principles, policies and assets on data collection, reporting and review processes for hours worked via the appropriate HSSE Standard. governance ●● social investment: we noted varying quality of record keeping for reporting voluntary social investment expenditure in two assets. We conducted additional review at Group level and did not find any other instances. We recommend improvements to the data collection, record keeping and review processes at asset level. Management Systems Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited London 2 April 2012 Jon Woodhead Management Systems Director Two Tomorrows (Europe) Limited trading as Two Tomorrows is an international corporate sustainability agency. We deliver deep insight, strategic advice and pragmatic support to major companies, enabling them to create long-term value by doing business sustainably. www.twotomorrows.com BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 48 Learning from our assurance 2011 People Areas for improvement identified in 2010 assurance process Status Our progress in 2011 Ethical Conduct 1. BG Group should continue to improve the data Ongoing We have reviewed and strengthened our environmental collection and reporting skills of environmental data collection and reporting processes. Since Q1 2011, practitioners in its business. This is key to we have collected, analysed and reported internally our maintaining robust, reliable and timely data for environmental performance. This has led to significant environmental reporting and management. improvements in the quality, accuracy and timeliness of data reporting. 2. In light of the significant recent expansion of the Group, Ongoing Progress of new businesses against our Internal Control Safety, Health and Security PricewaterhouseCoopers recommended a continued Framework is monitored through the Governance Self focus on working with management and employees Assessment (GSA) process. This requires management level of newly acquired operations to ensure a consistent reporting to the Group Executive Committee and Company understanding and application of BG Group’s Policies Secretary to assess the effectiveness of the Group’s core and Standards. controls within their areas of responsibility and to report any significant weaknesses. BG Group did not acquire any new businesses during 2011. Society However, QGC became part of the BG Group in late 2008, while BG Group entered Tanzania in 2010 and Kenya in 2011. BG Group is currently exploring in these two countries and BG Group relevant Standards and Policies are expected to apply. During 2011, we continued to work with QGC management in Australia to build understanding and application of BG Environment Group’s Policies and Standards, including dedicated visits to QGC on the ground. Relevant Heads of Function are responsible for working with QGC towards full compliance with our functional Standards. More generally and across all our businesses, we have taken steps to ensure BG Group businesses worldwide have easy access to Group Policies, Standards and Guidelines. Climate Change During 2010-11 BG Group ran a project to simplify our ICF and the Policies, Standards and Guidelines that govern what we do and make these more accessible to all businesses across the Group. Our Policies are also available on our BG Group website and we can share our Policies and Standards with our joint-venture partners and our contractors. The revised ICF also makes it clearer Principles, policies and to our businesses and our employees and other personnel who work for us what their particular responsibilities and our particular expectations are and we communicate governance changes or updates through quarterly announcements and email cascades. Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 49 Learning from our assurance 2011 People Areas for improvement identified in 2010 assurance process Status Our progress in 2011 Ethical Conduct 3. A significant proportion of the Group’s activities are Ongoing Under the current ICF we apply our Policies and Standards conducted through jointly operated or non-operated in all joint-venture operations where BG Group is the assets. While BG Group cannot mandate the health, operator. When participating in joint ventures not under safety, security and environment (HSSE) practices at BG Group control we encourage the adoption of similar such operations, PwC recommended that BG Group policies and standards. continue to use its influence at these operations to encourage them to work towards the high benchmark In 2012, the application of the ICF to our joint ventures is set by BG Group’s own HSSE Policy and Standards. being further clarified in a new Standard to form part of Safety, Health and Security the ICF which we expect to be launched later this year. The Standard will confirm the expectations for the application of the ICF to the different types of joint ventures in which BG Group participates and in particular in relation to joint ventures not under BG Group control. We will report on this in more detail in next year’s report. PwC’s recommendation referred specifically to our alliance with EXCO Resources in the USA, whereby we acquired Society a 50% interest in EXCO acreage in Texas and Louisiana in 2009. This is non-operated. It refers also to our subsequent 2010 joint-venture with EXCO Resources, through which we acquired a 50% interest in EXCO Resources operations in the Appalachian basin. This is jointly operated. We also have a midstream jointly operated joint venture TGGT. Environment In all three joint ventures, we worked closely with EXCO management during 2011 to encourage adoption of BG Group standards. We monitor progress in jointly operated joint ventures using a gap analysis against our own core controls. More generally, in the Society section of this report, we give examples of other actions taken to encourage joint-venture Climate Change partners to adopt our approach to social performance. Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability Chief Executive’s Statement Sustainability Performance Report 2011 50 Learning from our assurance 2010 People Areas for improvement identified in 2009 assurance process Status Our progress in 2010 Ethical Conduct Develop the Group’s Business Risk Management Process, Ongoing The Business Risk Management Process has been improved introducing a wider range of sustainability risks and to include a wider range of sustainability risks, introducing supplementing quarterly reporting with real-time online separate categories for social performance risk, ethical reporting. conduct risk and well engineering risk. Work on real-time online reporting is ongoing. Develop existing materiality criteria to allow future Completed The Group further developed the processes for determining sustainability reporting to focus more precisely on the most material items for the Sustainability Report, Safety, Health and Security the most material issues. including improving the criteria by which issues are prioritised. Focus on assuring the sound statistical base for our Completed In 2010, we have revised our incident reporting and analysis contractor safety data, including controls over data standard to give clearer definitions for ‘work relatedness’ for smaller contractors paid for work delivered. and which contractor hours should be recorded. A decision flow diagram has been introduced to support the decision making of when to include/exclude contractor data. The Group continues to focus on ensuring all appropriate data is captured for both contractors and employees. Society Environment Climate Change Principles, policies and governance Management Systems Management Systems BG Group bg-group.com/sustainability
