COP REPORT 2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS “A long-term commitment to the Global Compact : the worldwide pact” GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 1 COP REPORT 2012 H.E Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Delle, the 4th June 2011 Dear Mr Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that LISI AUTOMOTIVE has issued its COP for 2012 and support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. LISI AUTOMOTIVE will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public in particular through its annual report 2011. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Gilles KOHLER CEO Direction Innovation et Stratégie 28 faubourg de Belfort BP 19 F 90101 Delle Cedex Tél. +33 (0)3 84 58 63 78 Fax +33 (0)3 84 56 23 98 S.A.S. au capital de 31 690 000 euros Siège social : BP 19 F 90101 Delle Cedex RCS Belfort n° 433 709 953 GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 2 COP REPORT 2012 MESSAGE FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Further to our COP dated 2011, I want to highlight the development of Global Compact at LISI AUTOMOTIVE in terms of Strategy, commitments, and governance of the Departments (1), in terms of objectives (2), in terms of implementation of the ten Principles of Global Compact (3), in terms of control and monitoring of their implementation (4). 1°) Strategy, commitments, governance LISI AUTOMOTIVE continues to include the Ten Principles in its long term strategy, in particular for the development of its relations with its stake holders (Human resource, suppliers, customers, finance partners..). I think that the Business ethics is a key behavior that allows sustainable development of the Company acting with its stake holders. The Global Compact scheme has been entrusted to a senior executive who works with his colleagues of the departments involved in the implementation of this strategy. This senior executive is the number two of the Department Strategy. As such, the governance of Global Compact is conducted at the best possible level bearing in mind that the Director of Strategy reports to me directly. 2°) The LISI AUTOMOTIVE objectives with regards to the Ten Principles of Global Compact LISI AUTOMOTIVE is a worldwide leading Company in its Industry. The subsidiaries in Check republic, in Germany, in Spain and in China are requested to implement Global Compact. The Ethics of LISI Group, and of LISI AUTOMOTIVE by way of consequence already deals with human rights, with labor law and environment respect, and with the finance control to cope against corruption. GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 3 COP REPORT 2012 3°) The implementation of Global Compact: Our Human resource Department controls that in all the Companies of the Group, and especially, in the subsidiaries, the trade unions and the social committees can exercise all their rights in accordance of the local law, whether in China or in Europe. Our HR Department cares that the personal benefits of an appropriate social protection. It guarantees that no children work in our subsidiaries and that there is no discrimination in the subsidiaries. Our Health and safety department is in charge of putting in place the best practices in terms of protection of the environment, in terms of sustainable development, and in terms of health and safety of the personal and in particular, of our workers in all the subsidiaries of the world. Our Finance department has put in place for a long time finance internal procedures that aims at controlling the purchase decisions, the bank operations and a cash pooling agreement with a Bank located worldwide enables to control the cash transfers. Our Purchasing Department has drafted with the Legal department a Supply agreement and a Supply Charter at the Group level. It clearly refers to the ten principles of Global Compact. When signing this Agreement and this Charter, the suppliers, everywhere in the world commits to comply with Global Compact when they work with LISI AUTOMOTIVE. This legal measure is also a mean of communication and of proselytism in support of Global Compact. 4°) The control and monitoring of the implementation of Global Compact The relevant departments involved in the Global Compact strategy have to report to the senior officer at the Strategy Department when they put in place a measure in line with their commitments. This reporting allows LISI AUTOMOTIVE to draft its Communication On Progress. Gilles KOHLER CEO GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 4 COP REPORT 2012 ACTIONS LEAD IN 2011 LISI AUTOMOTIVE is committed itself to reduce the impact of its activities on the environment and to guarantee health, safe working conditions for all its employees as well as for its service providers, under the framework of Global Compact. Ten major principles have been selected, concerning 4 categories: human rights, labour law, environment and the fight against corruption. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS The company respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We use a provider charter based on the Global Compact principles outlining our commitments to human rights and our expectations of suppliers with whom we work. This is our supplier charter: GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 5 COP REPORT 2012 LABOUR LISI AUTOMOTIVE pays attention to the principles of equality within the company, particularly between men and women employed by the Group. Many progresses have been made in this direction. The indicators presented by LISI AUTOMOTIVE’s gender equality committee show that the workforce became significantly more feminine: the number of female employees has increased from 19% in 2001 to 24% in 2010. For several years already, we are developing professional courses that are recognized and lead to Certificates of qualification in metallurgy (CQPM). Since 2005, we are engaged with AFPI, in a training course program targeted at our supervisors. During 2011, LISI AUTOMOTIVE entered into several progression agreements on issues considered to be priorities by the Group’s Executive Committee: support for older people, arduous work, psychosocial risks and profit-sharing bonuses. GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 6 COP REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT LISI AUTOMOTIVE has been engaged for several years in the process of optimizing and improving its environmental footprint. This commitment was further strengthened with the organization of a new HSE Forum which was, for the most part, dedicated to Workplace Safety. We provide our commitments about Global Compact and Sustainable Development (SD) on the website. On thereon, we are committed to a SD and we select its suppliers based on their levels of commitment to the ten principles of Global Compact, SD and respect for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For this, the company has developed a Request For Information . Each year, LISI monitors some environmental indicators in order to track the impact of its production plants on the environment. The energy consumption was reduced by 14%, the waste by 17% and the water consumption by 19% compared to 2010. Thanks to everyone’s behavior – even outside the company – they are contributed to reduce the impact of human activities on the environment. Water consumption 3 Consumption in M /€K produced Energy consumption Consumption in MWH/€K produced Waste Production in KG/€K produced GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 7 COP REPORT 2012 According to the European law, it is mandatory to fulfil the VOC-guideline in order to reduce the solvent consumption and the emissions of carbon into the air. It may not exceed 50mg Carbon/m³ instead of 20mg, when we treat the solvents in the exhaust air with thermal methods like burning. LISI AUTOMOTIVE designs and manufactures automotive parts following different processes: cold heading and forging, heat treatment, surface treatment. These facilities reject to the atmosphere some Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC). In order to treat it, LISI AUTOMOTIVE decided to adopt a biological system. The process established by LISI AUTOMOTIVE enables to eliminate pollutants with microorganisms (bacteria) which will use the solvents as a food source and will destroy them. Unlike technologies destroying Volatile Organic Compounds by thermal oxidation, this process does not consume fossil energy such as gas or oil. Emissions of greenhouse gases are very low and the impact on carbon footprint is reduced. This biofilter system has been set up on one of our production sites in Germany, Kierspe. Later, this project will extend over several production sites of the division. GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 8 COP REPORT 2012 ANTI-CORRUPTION The fight against corruption is a key value for the smooth running of our business, LISI AUTOMOTIVE is committed to fight fraudulent practices against third, in its supplier charter and in these finance procedure. We export close to our customers and suppliers the best practices related to Global Compact and confirm to us their commitment to respect the 10 principles of Global Compact. This is an example of a clause in commercial contracts that we sign with our worldwide customers. GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 9 COP REPORT 2012 Extract of Indian supplier who implement to the Global Compact: In accordance with the principle 10, LISI AUTOMOTIVE sensitizes its employees and recalls the Excellence Charter of LISI AUTOMOTIVE. Especially on the rigor and the integrity: we prioritize the long term, in accordance with our strategic development plan. We always act with fairness and integrity. We respect laws and regulations and are committed to protection of the environment. All our decisions take into account our corporate and social responsibilities. GLOBAL COMPACT – LISI AUTOMOTIVE Page 10
