CEO of Bella Center, Arne Bang Mikkelsen is pleased to express Bella Center’s continuing support of the Global Compact's ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. And we hope that this Communication on Progress will provide the necessasary information about our iniciatives and future plans within our work with the ten principles Arne Bang Mikkelsen About Bella Center Bella Center, with its fully integrated hotel and extensive meeting facilities, is a state of the art trade fair and convention centre capable of hosting all types of events, from trade fairs & exhibitions, to large & small meetings, international conventions, and parties. Bella Center comprises: Trade fair centre, congress centre and Bella Sky Comwell Hotel Copenhagen, which opened in May 2011. In addition to a large section with meeting rooms, the first and second floors of Bella Center are home to the permanent showrooms for furniture, design and fashion, BC Design Center and Copenhagen Fashion House. Another area of Bella Center, International House, is a centrally located office hotel featuring all modern facilities and offices of all sizes. CSR Bella Center has worked for many years in the areas of CSR relating to people – before CSR was something everyone talked about and before we even realised that we were working with CSR. Upon being chosen as the host of the 2009 UN Climate Change Conference, Bella Center began incorporating environmental work into our overall CSR efforts, which by then had developed into a central element of our activities. Bella Center also chose to join the Green Key certification programme at this time, which helped to establish an overview of our environmental focus areas. In 2011, we decided to endorse the UN Global Compact, which we see as a good foundation and great source of inspiration in our ongoing responsibility work. In addition, the UN Global Compact is internationally recognised, which is important to Bella Center, as many of our clients are from abroad. We work with responsibility in the following four areas: 1. Human rights 2. Working environment 3. Climate 4. Anti-corruption 1 This Communication on Progress (COP) describes the areas we have worked with in 2011, the results we have achieved and our goals for 2012. As corruption in Bella Center’s sector is rare in Denmark, this COP has limited focus on this area. Human rights Global Compact principles 1-2 1. The company should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and 2. Ensure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Bella Center continuously assesses whether potential partners respect the internationally proclaimed human rights and we also work continuously to ensure our own compliance. We will continue to do so in future. In assessing respect for human rights, we have not observed any violations. At Bella Center, we contribute to meeting the needs of Copenhagen and Denmark for facilities for major events for enterprises and citizens. We believe that everyone has a right to be guest of Bella Center, so we provide easy physical access to our facilities (read more at www.godadgang.dk), and our website www.bellacenter.dk provides all of the necessary information to everyone who wants to use our facilities. This work is ongoing and will continue in future. Bella Center gives all employees the freedom to exercise their civic duties, e.g. serving as election officials and jury service. Employees are also allowed to take time off in connection with deaths in their immediate family. Workers’ rights Global Compact principles 3-6 3. The company should uphold freedom of association and effectively recognise the right of collective bargaining. 4. Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Support the elimination of child labour. 6. Eliminate discrimination in relation to work and employment conditions. Bella Center encourages our employees to be union members and we maintain a constructive dialogue with the trade unions. Bella Center also honours the agreements reached through collective bargaining. All persons employed at Bella Center receive a decent pay and Bella Center only hires persons over the legal working age, thus actively working towards the elimination of child labour. Bella Center strives to support a diverse labour market. We cooperate with local organisations in the recruitment of people with special needs for jobs tailored to their individual abilities. We support projects that accommodate and promote these people’s access to the labour market, as reflected by the composition of our workforce. Bella Center also actively participates in networks where social responsibility and knowledge sharing with other responsible companies are on the agenda. 2 The psychological working environment Bella Center regularly conducts Workplace Risk Assessments (WRA) to ensure a dialogue with our employees about their views and wishes regarding the joint creation of a workplace with high job satisfaction. The study is done by department and the department heads subsequently conduct individual follow-up dialogue with employees. Bella Center has a Collaboration Committee that works to increase satisfaction and well-being among employees. The committee is composed of staff from all employee groups. We conduct staff development reviews annually, in addition to 3-4 information meetings per year with the attendance of all staff and the CEO. We hold a number of social events, such as a summer party and Christmas party, and all employees have the opportunity to be a member of our wine club and art club. The latter contributes to the decoration of our canteen. Bella Center strives to ensure senior employees continued job satisfaction; therefore, employees are invited to a senior interview the year they turn 60. The physical working environment Bella Center complies with all legislation governing the physical working environment (the Danish Act on Working Environment) and maintains a focus on enhancing the working environment, which our Safety Committee continually works to improve. Our insurance company is very pleased with our unprecedented low accident rate – many years without a single accident! People with desk jobs have the opportunity to get advice from an occupational therapist. We constantly work to improve the physical environment through better lighting and air conditioning. Health, sickness absence and stress Bella Center has a strong focus on our employees’ health and well-being. All employees are offered a health check and all permanent employees are covered by a company healthcare scheme. We are in an industry with many long and hectic days, so we also strive to ensure a healthy balance between the working and personal lives of our employees. We monitor developments in sickness absences and are particularly aware of symptoms of stress, as stress is very typical in our industry. Therefore, we have a well-being coach associated with Bella Center. Bella Center offers employees the opportunity to participate in various sports events, such as the DHL relay race (jogging) and everyone has the option of buying meals to-go from our canteen, which is a great help in an industry with long and variable working hours. Bella Center has an agreement with the fitness centre, Fitness.dk, providing a discount on membership to employees. 3 Focus Areas / Initiatives Activities in 2011 Goal in 2012 The psychological working  Workplace risk  Attitude survey environment assessment (WRA)  WRA The physical working environment  Replacement of light  Ergonomic counselling as sources needed  Air conditioning  Affiliated masseur Health, sickness absence and  Started registration of  Greater preventionstress sickness absences, which related focus on sickness will be an item of absence. discussion in staff  Training for managers in development interviews conducting difficult from now on. conversations with  Fruit basket in all employees on sick leave. departments  Well-being coach associated with the company Social events  Summer party  Getting more employees  Christmas party to participate in the DHL  Sports club relay race and to explore  Brunch once every two the possibility for weeks participation in other  Wine club sports activities.  Art club Diversity / social responsibility  Hiring people for  Increase the possibility of specially-adapted jobs hiring people in light jobs (light jobs, flexible jobs) and create more trainee positions  Cooperation with Red Cross in Denmark on the hiring of asylum seekers for shorter periods. Climate and environment Global Compact principles 7-9 7. The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies. Bella Center has more than 1 million visitors annually. This generates a great deal of activity with an environmental impact. Bella Center has a strong focus in this area and continuously works to involve employees, guests and exhibitors in the most environment-friendly behaviour possible. Bella Center covers an area of 163,621 square metres including Bella Sky (121,763 square metres without) and uses a lot of 4 energy for heating/cooling and lighting – and we are constantly working to optimise the use of energy for these purposes. The energy consumption of Bella Center follows the level of activity on the premises. Thus Bella Center itself is not responsible for a large part of the energy consumption, so continuous efforts are made to work closely with exhibitors and meeting participants to minimise their energy consumption when utilising Bella Center. In recent years, Bella Center has focused particularly on the following areas of climate and environment:  Waste management. Waste is now sorted into 16 categories.  Lighting  Environment-friendly materials Focus Areas / Initiatives Activities in 2011 Goal in 2012 Waste management  Guests of BC sort waste  External suppliers into three categories provides sorting into the (paper, plastic, other 16 categories.* This takes waste). place at BC.  Exhibitors and stand  Generate earnings on constructors are involved some of the categories in waste sorting. we have begun sorting  Back-end sorting into 16 (reuse of waste products, categories at BC. e.g. plastic from wrapped items). Lighting  All lighting dimmed by  Lighting at International 15% to save power and House (5,218 sqm) and extend the lifetime of the Fashion Mart (3,000 sqm) light source. will be replaced with  Incandescent bulbs more energy-efficient replaced with energylighting. saving bulbs on a running basis.  Halogen bulbs replaced with LED lighting. Bybierne [Urban Bees]  Six hives with 600,000 Expansion to 12 hives. (www.bybi.dk)** bees. Wind turbine  Produces 8% of the total The wind turbine was erected energy consumed by with a temporary permit that Bella Center expires in 2012. But efforts are being made to extend the permit for another five years. Materials consumption  Focus on recycling of  Increased focus on stand materials recycling materials for  All technical information fixtures production and is sent electronically more environment5 instead of the previous friendly carpet supplier practice of sending hard  Requirements for copies suppliers to take back their own packaging Organic agriculture  Organic food represents  The proportion of organic 5% of total consumption food will be increased and there will be a focus on using products from local suppliers * Iron/metal, paper, cardboard, wood, plastic, household waste, glass, PVC, garden/park waste, paint, chemical waste, waste oil, batteries, light bulbs, electronic waste, cable scrap, landfill (street sweepings and mixed construction waste, such as plaster, concrete, etc.) **Project has both a social and climate-related angle. The presence of bees is good for the environment, and the hives are cared for by homeless people, creating a link to the labour market. Anti-corruption Global Compact Principle 10 10. Companies should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bella Center do not accept that our employees receive, demand or offer money, presents or services to anybody in order to obtain any preferential treatment. We are also very aware that the companies we work with share this view. 6
