Corio N.V. United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress 2012 “The Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) policy requires companies to communicate progress annually with stakeholders on their implementation of the 10 principles and to publish their COP on the Global Compact website.” 31 July 2012 Company details Company name Corio Department Corporate Social Responsibility Address Hoog Catharijne van Duvenborch Building Stationsplein 97 3511 ED Utrecht the Netherlands Sector Real Estate Total number of employees 530 Contact name Karlijn Bendijk Contact position Senior CSR Analyst Telephone number +31 30 234 6517 Date 31 July 2012 Membership date 2008 2/26 Introduction When reporting on the ten business principles from the United Nations Global Compact, we wish to focus on the progress we made and our views on how to translate these into our strategy and management. This means that we focus on a brief description of practical actions taken in the year under report (1 january 2011 – 31 December 2011) and the measurements of outcome. Our strategy and fundamental policies have not changed and remain our basis. The integrated reporting framework for Communication on Progress and GRI 2011 as suggested by the United Nations and Global Reporting Initiative can be found as an attachment to this document (attachment I). The basis for the text below is our Communication on Progress 2011, which can be found online (http://www.corioeu.com/tl_files/content_resources/pdf/CSR%202012/Corio%20COP%202011%20clean.pdf). Description of nature of business Corio Corio is one of the largest listed retail property investors and managers in Europe. Corio‟s portfolio of €7.5 billion consists for 97% of shopping centres in The Netherlands, France, Italy, Spain, Germany and Turkey. Corio manages its own shopping centres. Our core business is to select, invest in, develop, redevelop and manage shopping centres in europe. “Our vision is to create sustainable places where people like to meet. First and foremost, Corio believes shopping centres can and should perform an important social role. Our vision of a shopping centre is of a meeting place where individuals can relax, socialise, feel at home and be inspired. We are convinced that the creation of appealing and successful shopping centres, when managed properly, will generate greater economic activity. In doing so, we recognise the importance of being alert to the changing demands of people in the catchment area and the need to adapt quickly to their demands. To be successful, we believe our centres should be sustainable in every respect: situational (location), conceptual, aesthetic, social, environmental and financial. We create to adapt.” The company‟s shares are traded on Euronext NYSE in Amsterdam and Paris. Under Dutch law Corio is a closed-end fiscal investment institution (FBI). It has a SIIC status in France. As of March 2008, Corio has been included in the Dutch blue-chip index of 25 leading shares, the AEX. Statement of continued support Corio remains committed to upholding and developing long term strategies to meet our commitment to the UNGC principles. We incorporated the UNGP principle in a group wide Code of Conduct, which is applicable not only to our employees but also to suppliers and business partners. This ongoing commitment to upholding the human rights principles and compliancy with human rights laws is a management Board responsibility and is publicly stated in our CSR reports from 2009 by the CEO of the Management Board. The Corio Management Board recognizes that high levels of CSR, incorporating the economic, 3/26 environmental and social objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase stakeholder value. We have gone through an extensive development of CSR within our company the past four years. Our scope of vision has gone from subject-oriented, by creating content in reaction to market developments, towards action-oriented, by building sustainable relations with our stakeholders; a proactive attitude towards the subject. Even though the financial crises had an impact on the economy, Corio is committed in the long term to CSR as it considers CSR will be beneficial for all stakeholders, including the shareholders. We believe that by creating Favourite Meeting Places we can also create value for society and our company. We want to maximise the positive impact we have on society, whether through urban regeneration or improving the well-being of the community, by giving our centres a vital and meaningful role in the catchment area they operate in. The business case for this converged approach on sustainable development is clear and measurable. There is a strong connection between the socio-economic development of the communities we operate in and the prosperity of our centres. Our objective to create long-term value for our financial stakeholders, too, is well served by this approach in acquiring, (re)developing and managing our centres, as it adds value throughout their lifecycle. With CSR we thus enhance the competitiveness of our company while advancing economic and social conditions in the communities in which we operate. Our CSR strategy is to maintain dialogue with our main stakeholders, such as (potential) consumers, local authorities, tenants, suppliers and employees as a means of improving our corporate social responsibility performance. However, we also want to improve the responsibility of our suppliers, tenants, tenants‟suppliers and visitors, who are predominantly the consumers of the catchment areas, thus creating shared value for all parties involved. With our strategy, CSR policy and values, we have laid the basis for building sustainable relations with our stakeholders. To date, we have made solid progress in getting our own CSR house in order. We have aligned many internal processes such as human resources and the primary business processes (leasing, centre management, facility management, marketing, (re)development), but also supporting functions such as human resources, systems, technique, internal accounting and communication. We have created a corporate Human Resources policy and share the same values within the company. As a result the company becomes more united and cohesive despite our decentralized business model. Such cohesion is important in establishing, working on, monitoring and measuring a company‟s true CSR performance. All business departments work closely together through CSR committees, allowing us to focus on alignment, sharing of best practices and presenting the effectiveness of our CSR policy and performance on CSR to the outside world. To that end, from 2009 onwards, we publish a CSR report every year for our stakeholders, focussing on CSR performance and progress achieved. Name Francine Zijlstra Signature __________________________________________ Position Chief Operating Officer 4/26 Highlights 2011 We built our activities in 2011 on the foundation we layed in 2010 and previous years. Please see Attachment I for specific policy, implementation and actions per Global Compact Pinciple. In 2011 we specifically worked on the following issues that directly relate to our continued support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact: 1. Code of Conduct for our business partners In 2010 we introduced the new Corio Code of Conduct which covers the following topics: • Our business partners • Improper behaviour • Universal principles • The environment • Bribery and corruption • Laws and regulations • Trading in Corio shares • (suspected) breaches In 2011 we increased awareness of this Code by placing a Key Performance Indicator on it, which makes it possible for us to monitor the performance hereof. We consider this process to be relevant for the UN Global Compact and thus the Communication on Progress, as the new Code of Conduct for business partners includes clauses on human rights, environmental awareness and labour standards. With this Code we want our business partners to commit to a more sustainable partnership and a responsible, transparant and ethical way of doing business. Practical actions The Code of Conduct applies to all Corio employees, to on-call workers, temporary staff, freelancers and trainees. Certain elements of the Code of Conduct also extend to Joint Ventures and our relations with business partners as this will ensure that both Corio and its business partners behave according to Corio values and hold each other accountable. The Group CSR department is the owner of this Code which was drawn up by the CSR steering committee. Our business units will be helped to adhere to CSR requirements in the business relationship with third parties as a consequence of the Code of Conduct for business partners. These partners are tenants, buyers and sellers of assets, real estate agents, brokers and other parties involved in the buying or selling process, service providers related to our (re)development activities: architects, developers, service providers related to our centre management activities: technical support, cleaning, security, marketing, energy providers, valuators, service providers: legal advisors, banks, tax advisors, consultants, accountants, Human Resource service providers: HRconsultants, interim personnel, municipalities and suppliers related to the facility management of our own offices, such as food and product delivery, cleaning personnel etc. Measurements of outcomes We encounter a lot of positive feedback on the Code. As per year end 2011 92% of our business partners signed this Code. 5/26 2. Reaching for zero We started the programme „Reaching for zero‟ with the intention to work on an approach to tackle regulatory challenges, foster innovation and increase our knowledge on this specific subject to achieve tangible results. We consider this to be relevant for the UN Global Compact as it covers environmental issues. Practical actions In the light of upcoming EU regulation requiring new buildings to be energy neutral as of 2020 and our commitment to maximise energy efficiency and minimise CO2 emissions, we have established an international project team of colleagues from our Business Units. Together with an international group of company representatives, we collaborate on the research for energy efficient buildings, named Sounds for Energy Efficient Buildings. Measurements of outcomes The programme kicked off in May 2011 with the formation of two project teams: project team Tenant Engagement and project team Innovation. Both subjects were considered essential to achieve the Reaching for Zero objectives. The project teams made progress in 2011: > In all countries a tenant engagement process was set up and executed to contact the main tenants, enter into dialogue about sustainability and incorporate the feedback into daily operations. > The Innovation team is setting up an international platform, consisting of Corio experts, tenant representatives, innovative suppliers in the area of lighting and energy and academic frontrunners to co-design a zero-energy retail project. 3. Spreading our roots We started the programme „Spreading our roots‟ with the intention to create measurable value through the incorporation of feedback from structured stakeholder dialogue into our daily operations. We consider this to be relevant for the UN Global Compact as it covers labour issues and relating topics such as Employment, Education and Entrepreneurship. Practical actions We will incorporate the findings of the academic research we participate in into our daily business and operations. Measurements of outcomes This programme with a focus on increasing the embeddedness in society started off with two pilots in 2011: > With the objective of connecting unemployed people and entrepreneurs in Gran Turia‟s catchment area with employers and education institutions, a fair in our centre Gran Turia in Valencia, Spain was organised. Parties that can show these people the road to employment and to the creation of new enterprises were invited to participate. The successful fair was attended by 1,400 visitors and the results are currently being researched as part of an impact study performed by Erasmus University. For more information, see: www.jornadasdeocupacion.com > With the goal of conducting a pilot to inform the consumers in our centres about environmental issues, create awareness and inspire them to reduce their environmental impact, a programme was developed in centre Grand Littoral in Marseille, France. As tackling waste is viewed as a priority 6/26 by the community, the focus was on this impact area. The programme team researched the waste streams and provided easy tips for responsible waste management. They developed an approach to structurally inform the consumers in that centre about possibilities for waste reduction. 4. Development of a Social Return on Investment Methodology Social impact is the value our company creates for society, which can be determined by following the path from output (effect) to impact. This is the portion of the total outcome that happened as a result of the activity of the company, above and beyond what would have happened anyway. In collaboration with Erasmus School of Economics Corio will measure this impact of its core activities. We aim to develop a generic methodology that can be implemented throughout Corio. This is the first time a multinational is assessing its (CSR) strategy; earlier attempts have been done, but these did not stretch beyond an economic impact assessment. Already in 1960 it was the opinion that the in those days modernistic centres were not only meant for shopping. The centres were a place for cultural enrichment, recreation and education as well. In this way people tried to withstand the lost feeling of communal sense. These still perfectly fit in the current debate on sustainability and the added value of centres. Practical actions Currently we have finalised these stages of the research: 1. International managers meeting During an international managers meeting the project was introduced and explained. In this meeting the first ideas about impact categories were collected to be used in the following internal interviews. Delivery: first draft of impact areas 2. Interview with ceo corio and coo corio Delivery: second draft of impact areas 3. Additional internal interviews Local management board of all business units were interviewed. Delivery: third draft of impact areas 4. Internal presentation of results Delivery: validated draft of impact areas 5. Draft methodology The impact areas were translated into measurable indicators. For each selected impact area a measurement approach was be developed. Delivery: measurable indicators 6. Pilot measurement The first pilot was jornadas deocupacion (see page 31) where the first draft sroi methodology was tested. 7. External presentation of results 7/26 The research (steps) and interim results were presented to two heterogeneous groups during the international supply management congress 2011 in amsterdam. The feedback and insights we gained here are currently being incorporated into the research and are used as a basis for further external stakeholder consultation. Measures of outcome The tool will enable us to measure and therefore manage the impact we have on society, in social, environmental and economic sense, which is an essential pre-requisite in our quest for Shared Value creation. It will enable us to determine and subsequently maximise the value we create for society on those impact areas that are directly related to our own financial performance. The tool will enable us to measure the impact of each and every centre, taking into account local criteria, and bring focus to the centres‟ strategy and management approach. 5. Human Resource Performance Management We endorse the beliefs of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), which stands for the parallel economic development of a company and that of the country in which it is based. We also endorse the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which is committed to sustainable economic growth. In 2010 and 2011 we elaborated on these principles and guidelines in our performance management systems; a key business process that helps us to achieve maximum business performance together and implement the Corio values throughout the company. Practical actions Performance Management connects individual objectives and team performance and expectations with the values and priorities of the organization. By aligning individual performance and business performance we can achieve maximum results. Individual objectives (targets) are set in accordance with the objectives of the Business Unit or department. Measurements of outcomes From an organizational perspective the HR department has implemented a performance management system which is supported by an international Leadership programme. By setting clear and achievable targets on all CSR aspects we create focus and direction. This has to be stimulated, motivated and supported by our leaders. In our international leadership programme, the CSR „mindset‟ and being an example in CSR will be an important part. Corio engages its employees not only by setting targets on CSR but also by providing insight in the link between creating Favourite Meeting Places and CSR. We have started measuring the impact of these programmes on employee trust and engagement through the Great Place to Work engagement surveys, which will be rolled out to all Corio‟s offices in the coming years. 8/26 Online references We refer to these policies and documents which underline our commitment to the Global Compact: CSR Policy http://www.corio-eu.com/csr-strategy.html Code of Conduct http://www.corioeu.com/tl_files/content_resources/pdf/Corporate%20governance/11010 3.Code%20of%20Conduct.ENG.pdf Code of Conduct for our business partners http://www.corio-eu.com/stakeholder-engagement.html HRM Framework http://www.corioeu.com/tl_files/content_resources/pdf/CSR/Human%20Resource%20Ma nagement%20Framework.pdf HR http://www.corio-eu.com/working-at-corio.html CSR Reports 2011 and earlier http://www.corio-eu.com/csr-reports.html 9/26 Attachment I Combined reporting Communication on Progress (COP) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at Not Not covered significant locations of operation. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully 32% of our employees are represented by an independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining agreements LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker Fully These committees are not active within Corio, instead we choose to health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health work with external companies that advice us on occupational health and safety programs. and safety measures LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Fully We did not suffer any fatalities. Other information regarding work-related fatalities by region. absenteeism can be found online: http://www.corioeu.com/Leadership_in_our_culture.html LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to Not Not covered assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not Not covered LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Fully http://www.corio-eu.com/Leadership_in_our_culture.html according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators We do not consider keeping track of culture/minority a sign of non of diversity. discrimination; rather the opposite. As it is 31 July 2012 also not a number we intend to manage, we do not keep track of this. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Not Not covered HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Fully We ask our business partners (for example tenants, buyers and human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. sellers of assets, real estate agents, brokers and other parties involved in the buying or selling process, service providers related to our (re)development activities: architects, developers, service providers related to our centre management activities: technical support, cleaning, security, marketing, energy providers, valuators, service providers: legal advisors, banks, tax advisors, consultants, accountants, Human Resource service providers: HR-consultants, interim personnel and municipalities) to sign a green clause in our contract which also include human rights issues. We expect our business partners to incorporate these values in their management if they have not already done so. By entering into an agreement with Corio they agree to adopt the spirit of the Code of Conduct for business partners and abide by its specific rules. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Partially See answer to HR1. This Code has been implemented since 1 July on human rights and actions taken. 2011 and we are currently keeping track of the implementation of the Code. it is too soon to make any comments on screening and we will report on progress for 2011 in our CSR report 2011, to be published in March 2012. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Not Not covered of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully No (zero) incidents of discrimination occurred. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Fully Although some consider our business unit in Turkey to be at risk collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support regarding the right to exercise freedom of association and collective these rights. bargaining, we do not agree. Our Turkish colleagues are part of our European workforce and have the same rights and obligations. They are subject to the same Human Resource management procedures as all other Corio employees. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. control to be at risk for incidents of child labor, but are aware of the risks and we thus keep the subject in scope. Our collaboration with Save the Children is an example of this. 11/26 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or control to be at risk for incidents of forced compulsory labor. We compulsory labor. do recognise the fact that our tenants, or rather some products they sell in our retail units, are identified as having this risk. We open the lines of discussion with them on this issue. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or Not Not covered procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Fully No (zero) incidents occurred. actions taken. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Not Not covered assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Fully No (zero) incidents occurred. codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Fully We did not receive any of these complaints. privacy and losses of customer data. Principle 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Fully We ask our business partners (for example tenants, buyers and human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. sellers of assets, real estate agents, brokers and other parties involved in the buying or selling process, service providers related 12/26 to our (re)development activities: architects, developers, service providers related to our centre management activities: technical support, cleaning, security, marketing, energy providers, valuators, service providers: legal advisors, banks, tax advisors, consultants, accountants, Human Resource service providers: HR-consultants, interim personnel and municipalities) to sign a green clause in our contract which also include human rights issues. We expect our business partners to incorporate these values in their management if they have not already done so. By entering into an agreement with Corio they agree to adopt the spirit of the Code of Conduct for business partners and abide by its specific rules. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Partially See answer to HR1. This Code has been implemented since 1 July on human rights and actions taken. 2011 and we are currently keeping track of the implementation of the Code. it is too soon to make any comments on screening and we will report on progress for 2011 in our CSR report 2011, to be published in March 2012. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of Not Not covered human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully No (zero) incidents of discrimination occurred. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Fully Although some consider our business unit in Turkey to be at risk collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these regarding the right to exercise freedom of association and collective rights. bargaining, we do not agree. Our Turkish colleagues are part of our European workforce and have the same rights and obligations. They are subject to the same Human Resource management procedures as all other Corio employees. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. control to be at risk for incidents of child labor, but are aware of the risks and we thus keep the subject in scope. Our collaboration with Save the Children is an example of this. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or control to be at risk for incidents of forced compulsory labor. We compulsory labor. do recognise the fact that our tenants, or rather some products they sell in our retail units, are identified as having this risk. We open the lines of discussion with them on this issue. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or Not Not covered procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 13/26 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Fully No (zero) incidents occurred. actions taken. SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and Partially In June 2011 we started the programme „Spreading our roots‟ with manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, the intention to create measurable value through the incorporation and exiting. of feedback from structured stakeholder dialogue into our daily operations. We will incorporate the findings of the academic research we participate in into our daily business and operations. We will start two pilot projects within the programme to apply our findings at centre level and measure the value creation at all levels by means of a Social Return on Investment methodology. Please also see http://www.corio-eu.com/Rooted_in_society.html SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Fully All business units, their employees and assets under management corruption. are potentially subject to corruption. All Corio employees and business partners are therefore subject to the company Corporate Governance policies, including the Code of Conduct, Whistleblowers policy. Please see http://www.corioeu.com/tl_files/content_resources/pdf/Corporate%20governance/Statement %20Decree%20on%20CG%20110224%20final.pdf for a full insight in all policies. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Fully All Corio employees (100%) have been trained on anti-corruption procedures. policies, procedures and practices in 2011. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully No actions were needed as there were no incidents of corruption SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully 32% of our employees are represented by an independent trade union or covered by collective bargaining 14/26 agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including Not Not covered whether it is specified in collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker Fully These committees are not active within Corio, instead we choose to health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health work with external companies that advice us on occupational health and safety programs. and safety measures LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Fully We did not suffer any fatalities. Other information regarding work-related fatalities by region. absenteeism can be found online: http://www.corioeu.com/Leadership_in_our_culture.html LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to Not Not covered assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not Not covered LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Not Not covered LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Not Not covered employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Fully All employees (100%) receive an annual performance and carreer reviews. development review. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Fully http://www.corio-eu.com/Leadership_in_our_culture.html according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators We do not consider keeping track of culture/minority a sign of non of diversity. discrimination; rather the opposite. As it is also not a number we intend to manage, we do not keep track of this. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Not Not covered HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Fully We ask our business partners (for example tenants, buyers and human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. sellers of assets, real estate agents, brokers and other parties involved in the buying or selling process, service providers related to our (re)development activities: architects, developers, service providers related to our centre management activities: technical support, cleaning, security, marketing, energy providers, valuators, service providers: legal advisors, banks, tax advisors, consultants, accountants, Human Resource service providers: HR-consultants, interim personnel and municipalities) to sign a green clause in our contract which also include human rights issues. We expect our business partners to incorporate these values in their management if they have not already done so. By entering into an agreement with Corio they agree to adopt the spirit of the Code of Conduct for 15/26 business partners and abide by its specific rules. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Partially See answer to HR1. This Code has been implemented since 1 July on human rights and actions taken. 2011 and we are currently keeping track of the implementation of the Code. it is too soon to make any comments on screening and we will report on progress for 2011 in our CSR report 2011, to be published in March 2012. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Not Not covered of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully No (zero) incidents of discrimination occurred. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Fully Although some consider our business unit in Turkey to be at risk collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these regarding the right to exercise freedom of association and collective rights. bargaining, we do not agree. Our Turkish colleagues are part of our European workforce and have the same rights and obligations. They are subject to the same Human Resource management procedures as all other Corio employees. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. control to be at risk for incidents of child labor, but are aware of the risks and we thus keep the subject in scope. Our collaboration with Save the Children is an example of this. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or control to be at risk for incidents of forced compulsory labor. We compulsory labor. do recognise the fact that our tenants, or rather some products they sell in our retail units, are identified as having this risk. We open the lines of discussion with them on this issue. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or Not Not covered procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Fully No (zero) incidents occurred. actions taken. SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and Partially In June 2011 we started the programme „Spreading our roots‟ with manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, the intention to create measurable value through the incorporation and exiting. of feedback from structured stakeholder dialogue into our daily operations. We will incorporate the findings of the academic research we participate in into our daily business and operations. We will start two pilot projects within the programme to apply our findings at centre level and measure the value creation at all levels by means of a Social Return on Investment methodology. Please 16/26 also see http://www.corio-eu.com/Rooted_in_society.html SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Fully All business units, their employees and assets under management corruption. are potentially subject to corruption. All Corio employees and business partners are therefore subject to the company Corporate Governance policies, including the Code of Conduct, Whistleblowers policy. Please see http://www.corioeu.com/tl_files/content_resources/pdf/Corporate%20governance/Statement %20Decree%20on%20CG%20110224%20final.pdf for a full insight in all policies. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Fully All Corio employees (100%) have been trained on anti-corruption procedures. policies, procedures and practices in 2011. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully No actions were needed as there were no incidents of corruption SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Fully We ask our business partners (for example tenants, buyers and human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. sellers of assets, real estate agents, brokers and other parties involved in the buying or selling process, service providers related to our (re)development activities: architects, developers, service providers related to our centre management activities: technical support, cleaning, security, marketing, energy providers, valuators, service providers: legal advisors, banks, tax advisors, consultants, accountants, Human Resource service providers: HR-consultants, interim personnel and municipalities) to sign a green clause in our contract which also include human rights issues. We expect our business partners to incorporate these values in their management if they have not already done so. By entering into an agreement with Corio they agree to adopt the spirit of the Code of Conduct for business partners and abide by its specific rules. 17/26 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Partially See answer to HR1. This Code has been implemented since 1 July on human rights and actions taken. 2011 and we are currently keeping track of the implementation of the Code. it is too soon to make any comments on screening and we will report on progress for 2011 in our CSR report 2011, to be published in March 2012. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Not Not covered of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or control to be at risk for incidents of forced compulsory labor. We compulsory labor. do recognise the fact that our tenants, or rather some products they sell in our retail units, are identified as having this risk. We open the lines of discussion with them on this issue. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Fully We ask our business partners (for example tenants, buyers and human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. sellers of assets, real estate agents, brokers and other parties involved in the buying or selling process, service providers related to our (re)development activities: architects, developers, service providers related to our centre management activities: technical support, cleaning, security, marketing, energy providers, valuators, service providers: legal advisors, banks, tax advisors, consultants, accountants, Human Resource service providers: HR-consultants, interim personnel and municipalities) to sign a green clause in our contract which also include human rights issues. We expect our business partners to incorporate these values in their management if they have not already done so. By entering into an agreement with Corio they agree to adopt the spirit of the Code of Conduct for 18/26 business partners and abide by its specific rules. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Partially See answer to HR1. This Code has been implemented since 1 July on human rights and actions taken. 2011 and we are currently keeping track of the implementation of the Code. it is too soon to make any comments on screening and we will report on progress for 2011 in our CSR report 2011, to be published in March 2012. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Not Not covered of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Fully We do not consider any of operations under our management measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. control to be at risk for incidents of child labor, but are aware of the risks and we thus keep the subject in scope. Our collaboration with Save the Children is an example of this. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the Partially In collaboration with our tenants and tenant associations, we work local community at significant locations of operation. on monitoring job opportunities within our shopping centres, as part of our 3E approach (see http://www.corioeu.com/Rooted_in_society.html). An example is placing all jobs for our retailers on the websites of our shopping centres. Our mid term goal is to measure this impact and the long term goal is to positively influence it. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Partially http://www.corio-eu.com/Leadership_in_our_culture.html 19/26 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Fully http://www.corio-eu.com/Leadership_in_our_culture.html according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators We do not consider keeping track of culture/minority a sign of non of diversity. discrimination; rather the opposite. As it is also not a number we intend to manage, we do not keep track of this. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Not Not covered HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Fully We ask our business partners (for example tenants, buyers and human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. sellers of assets, real estate agents, brokers and other parties involved in the buying or selling process, service providers related to our (re)development activities: architects, developers, service providers related to our centre management activities: technical support, cleaning, security, marketing, energy providers, valuators, service providers: legal advisors, banks, tax advisors, consultants, accountants, Human Resource service providers: HR-consultants, interim personnel and municipalities) to sign a green clause in our contract which also include human rights issues. We expect our business partners to incorporate these values in their management if they have not already done so. By entering into an agreement with Corio they agree to adopt the spirit of the Code of Conduct for business partners and abide by its specific rules. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Partially See answer to HR1. This Code has been implemented since 1 July on human rights and actions taken. 2011 and we are currently keeping track of the implementation of the Code. it is too soon to make any comments on screening and we will report on progress for 2011 in our CSR report 2011, to be published in March 2012. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Not Not covered of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully No (zero) incidents of discrimination occurred. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. 20/26 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Partially http://www.corio-eu.com/CSR_risks.html activities due to climate change. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Fully We follow the logic of the Trias Energetica in order to realise climate neutral buildings and name several initiatives on page 37 in the chapter Sustainability in our operations EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Partially Sustainability in our operations and Creating sustainable centres, of impact mitigation. pages 36-43 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not Not covered SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Development is a very small part of our activities that we do not report on this issue EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Development is a very small part of our activities that we do not report on this issue EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Partially http://www.corio-eu.com/Sustainability_in_our_operations.html EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Partially http://www.corio-eu.com/Sustainability_in_our_operations.html EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Not Not covered 21/26 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Fully Sustainability in our operations, page 37-38 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Partially Sustainability in our operations, page 37-39 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Partially http://www.corio-eu.com/Sustainability_in_our_operations.html EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not Not covered EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Not covered EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Not Not covered areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Fully Corio takes this aspect into consideration for every new biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside development or renovation and seeks to limit the adverse impacts protected areas. for natural spaces and reduce our impact on local ecosystems. We prefer to build our shopping centres on brownfield land; a piece of land within city limits that has been used before for various purposes and might be contaminated. This land does not have large quantities of indigenous biodiversity on it which Corio has to remove before being able to build on it. We prefer these pieces of land because the composition of the catchment area can be researched and should the land be contaminated or of poor quality, Corio takes responsibility in having it cleaned. With our activities in urban areas we limit ground soiling. This benefits the surrounding area in terms of their health and is important to our company economically as it might prevent future claims. Regarding our development activities, we adapt the planted vegetation to local conditions and work with the architect and developer or contractor to replace possible vegetation we have removed for building a shopping centre. Targets are as follows: Have several environmental impact assessments (EIA) done in order to determine the impact of Corio existing shopping centres or investments on biodiversity by 2013 Determine what indigenous plants, trees and shrubs have low water consumption and incorporate these in the landscaping EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Not covered EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on Fully See answer to EN12 biodiversity. 22/26 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Not Not covered habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully http://www.corio-eu.com/Sustainability_in_our_operations.html EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Partially We report on CO2e emissions, scope 1 and 2. We do not make a distinction between the types of greenhouse gasses EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Fully We follow the logic of the Trias Energetica in order to realise climate neutral buildings and name several initiatives on page 37 in the chapter Sustainability in our operations EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Not covered EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Partially We report on CO2e emissions, scope 1 and 2. We do not make a distinction between the types of greenhouse gasses EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Partially http://www.corio-eu.com/Sustainability_in_our_operations.html EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially http://www.corio-eu.com/Sustainability_in_our_operations.html EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not Not covered EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Not Not covered under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Not Not covered habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Partially Sustainability in our operations and Creating sustainable centres, of impact mitigation. pages 36-43 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Not Not covered category. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Fully We did not reecive a fine or non-monatary sanction for nonfor non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. compliance EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Fully Employee transport; our management approach and calculations do materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the not cover consumertravel, visitor travel and/or travel from the workforce. people working in our shopping centres. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not Not covered SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Fully No (zero) incidents occurred of non-compliance occurred in 2011 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of 23/26 outcomes. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Development is a very small part of our activities that we do not report on this issue EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Not Not covered EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Fully Sustainability in our operations, page 37-38 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Partially Sustainability in our operations, page 37-39 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Not covered EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Fully We follow the logic of the Trias Energetica in order to realise climate neutral buildings and name several initiatives on page 37 in the chapter Sustainability in our operations EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Partially Sustainability in our operations and Creating sustainable centres, of impact mitigation. pages 36-43 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Not Not covered category. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not Not covered SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. 24/26 Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Corresponding GRI principles: Description Reported Answer SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Fully All business units, their employees and assets under management corruption. are potentially subject to corruption. All Corio employees and business partners are therefore subject to the company Corporate Governance policies, including the Code of Conduct, Whistleblowers policy. Please see http://www.corioeu.com/tl_files/content_resources/pdf/Corporate%20governance/Statement %20Decree%20on%20CG%20110224%20final.pdf for a full insight in all policies. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Fully All Corio employees (100%) have been trained on anti-corruption procedures. policies, procedures and practices in 2011. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully No actions were needed as there were no incidents of corruption SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully Corio is a member of several umbrella sector organisations and lobbying. networks. Some of these lobby on public policy. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Fully Corio refrains from any political contribution and will keep on and related institutions by country. doing so, to maintain neutrality. No money (€ 0) was donated to political parties in 2011. 25/26 31 July 2012
