COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Declaration of Support and Progress Report m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH Regarding Its Membership in The United Nations “Global Compact“ Report Period: 2010 und 2011 Mannheim, Germany – January 2012 As a public service corporation active in the trade sector branch of event management we have, for several years now, pledged to adhere to and uphold the guidelines and principles of the Global Compact. An obligation towards maintaining a sustainable business policy, that makes a conscious effort to act responsibly with every and all business resources, is, particularly in the branch of event management, a great challenge which requires constant innovation and a large amount of selfreflection on our dealings with others. Sustainability in the area of Event Management is characterized by a wide number of contradictions. Temporary buildings are planned and erected with great effort for only a short period of time and often it is more important to construct them using lightweight and shortlived materials as opposed to looking at solid long-lasting structures. In such structures, in order to attract the attention of the crowd and to make their imposing presence obvious, large amounts of paper is used which usually ends up for the most part as unwanted rubbish to be disposed of. Hosting events therefore has an influence on the ecological, economic, and social aspects of our society and the consequences of which for the future may affect a wide range of interest groups. The m:con is therefore also increasingly attempting to create awareness of such amongst the various participating parties for example its customers and suppliers. In 2010 the m:con decided to undertake a series of long term measures in order to create sustainable business practices. We made a thorough investigation of the specific conditions for the event management branch for our business practices and defined concrete measures and areas of implementation which, in addition to the conscious usage of the guidelines of the Global Compact that we have, for a long time, already been practicing, will give our company an effective and process-based orientation for future endeavors. Seite 1 von 11 In the year 2011 the m:con was certified as a sustainable company by the FAMAB, the Union of Direct Trade Communication e.V., which sets the branch standards for sustainable management in the area of live communication. The aim of these standards is to establish specific criteria which on the one side do not always reflect the blatantly obvious, for example refusal to use child labor, and on the other side take into consideration the finer more delicate parts of the branch and the performance proceedings. The enterprises are investigated in detail concerning all issues pertaining to sustainable business affairs. The following report will present the practical measures and their results that the m:con, as the operational manager of the CC Rosengarten and as an active Professional Congress Organizer (PCO) nationwide in Germany for the report period 2010 und 2011, has undertaken to develop sustainable business practices. This report summarizes both report periods because in 2010 we made a complete asset and process analysis based on which changes were made and began to be implemented in the year 2011. HUMAN RIGHTS / social aspect Principle 1 Enterprises shall support and respect the protection of International Human Rights within their area of influence as well as Principle 2 Ensure that they are not guilty of violating human rights in any area of their business dealings. During the report period of 2010 and 2011, the m:com once again took part in various projects contributing to common welfare, social initiatives and medical charity organizations: In 2010 the Neuroblastoma Benfit Tournament – Golfing against Cancer: the proceeds from this benefit tournament were donated to help a research project being carried out by the University of Mannheim´s Children´s Hospital in combating neuroblastoma, a type of cancer which occurs most commonly in infants and children. In 2011 the m:con also hosted a similar tournament to help provide funding for another cancer research project at the Mannheim University Hospital. The m:con was again this year one of the sponsors of the local radio station´s Radio Regenbogen´s Benefit Gala 2010 “a helping hand”, an expanded version of their Ball of the Stars (Ball der Sterne) This benefit Gala night has taken place for 20 years in the Congress Center Rosengarten. In 2010 Stephanie Freifrau zu Guttenberg was the Mistress of the Ceremonies at the event ”A Helping Hand“, the proceeds from which were donated to the “Innocence in Danger“ und „Kinder unterm Regenbogen“ Foundations Seite 2 von 11 Furthermore, the m:con, in collaboration with the Mannheim National Theater, the German State Philharmonic of the Rhineland-Palatinate as well as the Heidelberg Philharmonic Orchestra, organized a benefit concert for the victims of the earthquake in Japan and the victims of nuclear accidents on the 20th of June, thus sharing solidarity with the Japanese and their tragedy. Donations of leftover materials from past events to a Residence for young girls in Afghanistan were continued in 2010 and 2011. Within the framework of a cooperative project with the SRH Berufsbildungswerk Neckargemünd, the m:con provided young people with special educational needs the opportunity of carrying out a practical traineeship (which is a required part of their educational program) in both their commercial and technical departments. In this way the candidates in the program will receive an insight into the workings of the enterprise itself as well as what a regular working day at the office of an event manager entails. In 2010 and 2011, the m:con continued to offer their support to regionally-based kindergartens, Union of Workers Welfare Organizations, (Vereine der Arbeiterwohlfahrt), the Lions Club Relief Organization and many other smaller charity organizations by donating money and materials. As a congress and cultural center, the m:con has acted as a Cultural Sponsor of Events in the metropolitan region for many years. We are convinced that every event held should leave a positive influence on the Region and that is why we are greatly in favor of sponsoring and supporting regional projects. During the report period of 2010 and 2011 the m:con supported in particular: Once again we designed and produced free of charge the program for the concert flyer distributed by the well-known Mannheim Brass Philharmonic (Mannheimer Bläserphilharmonie) in order to help them promote their concerts The Mannheim Philharmonic – a non-profit orchestra project: committed, aspiring musicians with excellent potential are offered a position that bridges their studies with a future profession. These young talents have the possibility of rehearsing and performing with each other, thereby acquiring knowledge from and amongst one another, in short they can collect basic orchestra experience. The aim is to offer them an easier transition and entry into their future professional career. Also, twice a year in co-operation with the Artists Society Rhein-Neckar e.V., the m:con offers international artists a chance to present their work free of charge to a wide public audience in the Congress Center Rosengarten. The 5th (2010) and 6th (2011) French Culture Week in Heidelberg: offers an insight into French culture, science and lifestyles: the m:com helped in the visualization and implementation of the types of communication and media. Seite 3 von 11 WORKING STANDARDS / the economic aspect Principle 3 Enterprises should safeguard freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining as well as Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced labour, Principle 5 the abolition of child labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in both hiring procedures and on-the-job assignment of work . The m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH is a one hundred percent subsidiary of the City of Mannheim Investment Company GmbH and is legally bound to uphold the Collective Wage Agreements for Employees in Public Service Jobs (TVÖD). The statutory and standard salary payment regulations mentioned therein for current and future employees are strictly adhered to by the enterprise. The m:con is strictly against discrimination involving both hiring and on-the-job assignment of work. All job advertisements are completely impartial of race, creed or sex of the applicant. The m:con maintains a Works Council as an additional impartial party to uphold the predefined working standards of the Global Compact In April 2010 the term of office of the existing Council ended and a new Works Council was elected. In order to improve and simplify communication between the Council and employees, fixed weekly office hours were introduced. Additionally, the Council now actively uses the company intranet to distribute information and to better communicate with the employees. Internships and Further Education The m:con offers apprenticeships and trainings every year for the following professional degrees: Bachelor of Arts, Event Manager, Event Technician, Media Design, IT Technician, Application Development. During the report period there were a total of 11 trainees who completed their internship. It is always one of our company´s goals to hire, whenever possible, our trainees once they have successfully completed their vocational training here and in 2010 we were able to offer 2 and in 2011 3 of the graduates a permanent position with the m:con In addition to the full apprenticeship trainees we are able to offer several high school students and university/college students the chance of completing a practical vocational training The event management branch is driven by innovation and fast-moving trends. Modern communication and media technology, new interactive trends in the design of events, sustainable and optimal costs concepts as well as service reforms and the optimization of quality exert a daily influence on this business. Therefore qualified and motivated employees are highly crucial to an enterprise´s success in this sector. The m:con promotes continuous educational courses for its employees on all levels and in all areas on a annual basis. Employees have the possibility to attend continuous education seminars and courses specifically tapered to their professional needs during their working time and free of charge. In the last 2 years, these further educational courses concentrated in particular on the areas of sustainability, quality and service. Seite 4 von 11 In 2005, the m:con founded an academy called the „International Event & Congress Akademie (IECA)“ which has been offering since that time vocational continuous education courses for people employed in the congress and events branch of business. As of autumn 2010, the IHK Rhein-Neckar (Chamber of Industry and Commerce) has officially recognize This particular course as an extra qualification in the field of further education whereby graduates receive an additional ICC-certificate In 2010 and 2011 the m:con covered the fees for 4 of its employees who were participating in this course. Employees interested in attending one or more single courses from the complete silibus of International Event Manager Degree program may also do so free of charge. One of the concepts developed 3 years ago to promote the learning process of the trainees was once again successfully carried out in 2010 and 2011. A group of trainees is entrusted with the organization and hosting of smaller company internal conferences which they have to carry out on their own responsibility by applying the knowledge that they have already learned during the internship. In such a way they can gain practical experience and enhance their own professional and methodic competencies m:con goes ….proved to be a great motivational instrument for the employees and therefore a wide range of sports and cultural events were organized and held for our employees in 2010 und 2011 For 2012 we are in the planning stages of introducing a new series of continuous educational classes entitled Lunch & Learn. In particular we would like to encourage the transfer of knowledge between our employees and create the chance for them to exchange experiences in different professional areas in a pleasant and relaxed atmosphere. The concept behind Lunch & Learn is that employees who would like to discuss particular questions on topics from their work or references to them are invited once a month to have a communal meal during their lunch break where these topics can be dealt with in a short, swift and efficient manner that will hopefully start them thinking about the topics and at a later date they will eventually be able to delve deeper into them. Lunch & Learn should promote the flow of information between departments and bring creative input into the daily working life. Lunch & Learn is a project that will also be organized for our trainees. m:con goes Fitness: since August 2010 we have worked in close collaboration with the Mannheim Community Health Center „Sportomed“ in the areas of prevention, health, relaxation and fitness. All staff members are given the opportunity to maintain a healthy work/life balance by doing sports and keeping fit free of charge. Currently around two thirds of our staff is taking advantage of this offer. Barrier Free: Accessibility for the Disabled In 2010, in an attempt to further improve our quality of service and our facilities to offer sustainable solutions for the needs of the disabled in our community, we were once again in contact with various social groups who could relate these special interests. A committee was founded that consisted of Workers Society Barrier-free, the Craftsman´s Guild, the Social Welfare Society, Self Help Organization, the Pensioners Council, the Baden Society for the Blind and Visually Impaired (BBSV) as well as several civil servants from the city of Mannheim municipal office who aid the disabled. Our goal was to analyze together our premises and to assess any weak areas that could pose potential mobility problems for the disabled and to improve our services and outlying conditions for our disabled visitors. During Seite 5 von 11 the past 2 years this committee has met several times and has offered many constructive suggestions. To give an example: based on these discussions we introduced a special service, whereby the disabled visitor can register beforehand and there will be someone waiting to assist them when they are attending one of our events In 2010 we launched a service training program that made our staff aware of the necessities of the disabled and how to deal with them. Further measures were taken on our premises dealing with the signposting of parking spaces for the disabled and other signposts in house giving useful information and points of orientation for all visitors. In 2011 we improved the general information page for visitors to the Rosengarten on our website homepage. In 2012 we plan to make the information on this page available also barrier free. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION / ecological aspect Principle 7 Enterprises shall take preventative actions and support preventative measures when dealing with environmental issues, Principle 8 take initiatives to create a greater sense of awareness and responsibility towards the environment and Principle 9 promote the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technology. As a sustainable company the m:con pledges to adhere to the following codex: The topic of sustainability is an important component of our entire business philosophy. We bear a responsibility towards the environment and future generations towards our customers, partners, and suppliers as well as to our staff and employees. We have made it our goal to harmonize ecological, economic and social quality. We swear to adhere to and exclusively uphold these criteria on quality. Sustainability towards the environment and future generations… to us means that we will use our natural resources sparingly and with a high measure of energy efficiency. We will make use of all the ecologically and socially acceptable influences and possibilities to limit the adverse effects of our business practices on the environment. Sustainability towards our customers… is based first and foremost on the basic principles of fairness. We strive towards creating a true need/success orientation in the interests of the customer. We take extremely good care of our customers because their relationship to us is very important. We want to maintain long term partnerships where possible. Customer satisfaction is our utmost guiding principle. For the rare case (and this would be the exception not the rule) that the customer is dissatisfied with our services in any way, we maintain an active and competent complaint management department. Sustainability towards our business partners and suppliers… is based on honesty with one another. We strive to set up only win-win situations with our business partners and to maintain them on a long term basis. As much as is logistically reasonable and possible we prefer to work with other regional sustainable partner companies. We guarantee the appropriate and timely payment for all of our completed services. The respect of intellectual property is accepted as obvious. Sustainability towards our staff and employees… is based on recognition of the fact that they play a substantial role in the long term success of our corporation. We ensure them of a qualified internship training and regular continuous educational courses. We also ensure Seite 6 von 11 them of an appropriate and fair wage. To keep staff turnover and illness to a minimum, we are very concerned about the topic of work/life balance. This topic also entails the correct recognition for a job well done, a reasonable amount of working hours, and a pleasant working atmosphere. We encourage constructive criticism from all levels of our internal hierarchy because it can play a role in assisting all parties involved. We understand that long term business success is only possible by authentically and entirely considering the aspects of sustainability and therefore acting accordingly out of conviction. Concrete measures decided on and begun in 2010 that were put into practice in 2011 due to our Commitment to Sustainability: Mobility: The largest part of the energy consumed at a conference is spent on moving participants from place to place (arrival and departure) as well as in their accommodation. Accommodation possibilities near to the event location as well as the location of public transport facilities nearby the event are both extremely influencial in the reduction of this energy consumption The CCM Rosengarten is ideally well connected to all major transportation networks and intersections. International: 45 minute bus shuttle – to Frankfurt Airport National: 5 minutes on foot to an ICE train hub at Mannheim Main Railway Station Regional: 1 minute on foot to a public transportation hub of the OPNVstop Wasserturm For our visitors we offer in connection with their train ticket purchased through German Rail a so-called Veranstaltungsticket Umwelt-Plus (Environmentally-friendly Event/Travel ticket). The Event/Travel ticket allows visitors to reach our premises on public transportation which is powered by reusable clean energy sources and we thereby improve the climate balance of the event. The DB (German Rail) will issue them a certificate which details the amount of CO2 emissions that were saved by using such a ticket. To round out our full service range of mobile services for visitors, during the spring, summer and autumn months we offer congress and conference participants rental bicycles free of charge to move around the city on. And since 2011 we have yet another means of mobility: the electric car loading dock which can be used by both staff and customers. Also for internal transportation routes we have elected to use this low emission producing means of travel and purchased an electrically powered transportation vehicle. In the planning stages : Since the year 2010 the m:con has participated in and been instrumental in introducing a city wide mobility concept dealing with “rental“ bikes. Building up a fleet of such bicycles and a network for them within the city center as well as outside the city limits was a timeconsuming, costly process which at the end of 2011 was finally received the positive support and approval from the Mannheim Municipal Council and is scheduled to be put into practice in 2012. Seite 7 von 11 In view of this project the m:con decided to install a modern Mobility hotspot on the conference premises which consists of an electric car loading dock, a bicycle rental stand and a bay for Stadtmobil, a local Car Sharing company that offers various possibilities for getting around the city and the area for visitors and conference participants. In future we would like to monitor and reduce the CO2 emissions produced by our business activities (for example with the help of a CO2 counter for events) and to use an appropriate compensation offer for those Greenhouse emission gases that are unavoidable. Sustainable products and services Small steps with giant effects: we have changed our entire catering services for customers and staff to reflect the principles of sustainability. We no longer sell beverages in plastic bottles but have decided on only using refillable glass bottles. We get our selection of beverages only from sustainable producers, and predominantly from regional sources. Even our coffee follows the principles of sustainability and we sell only Fair Trade products. Individually packed foods have been removed completely from our selection and have been replaced with organic foods in sustainable large packages (such as organic chocolate, organic fruit gums, etc). We have now entered into a partnership with the sustainable enterprise Bionade who provide us with foodstuffs. In cooperation with our in house caterer, the Dorint Hotel we have worked out new offers for conference catering services which use organic and regional foods. Printed material and promotional gifts are also checked for their sustainability and replaced if they do not meet the standards. All of our printed material is produced exclusively by certified sustainable regional printers and bear the seal of the” Blue Angel” and the FSC. Promotional gifts, such as pens, have been taken out of our program and we have rethought our policy on advertising. We would like to acquaint our customers not only with our understanding of quality in the area of event management but we would also like to show them that we are serious about our commitment to sustainability. Therefore at the moment in 2012 we are working out a concept for advertising materials that include and support sustainable projects. We have rearranged our supplier list and informed our main suppliers of our concept of sustainability. As much as we can, we will award contracts to regionally located sustainable enterprises. In this way we are taking responsibility for promoting sustainable businesses in the region. Every event organized with the help of and by other enterprises must fulfill the expectation of leaving positive effects on the region. Compensation measures should be taken for example a negative burden on our climate should be compensated for by the mobility of the participants. A strain on the environment in all aspects of sustainability caused by the hosting of the event must be compensated for. When looking at the possibility of supporting certain projects, regional projects will be preferred. Seite 8 von 11 Keeping this in mind for 2012 we are planning to publish a collection of sustainability guidelines for our customers and suppliers which refers to and explains the possibilities of the sustainable organization of events and offers further advice and recommendations on this topic. We would especially like to publish and communicate this information online. The possibilities of saving energy are constantly monitored and where possible improved. For the year 2012 we are planning on switching entirely to renewable energies. Buildings : At this point we would once again like to make a summary of and remind you of the sustainable features of the buidling design of the CC Rosengartens new extension The extension and renovation of the CCM is a prime example of sustainable actions undertaken and buildings erected according to these principles within the inner city limits. The sustainability will be illustrated in the following points: • Urban Planning The Congress Center Rosengarten enjoys a unique position for congress centers in Germany, being located on the historical Friedrichssquare in the center of the downtown. It was extended to include an extra 10.500 m² of high quality usable exhibition space without spoiling the surrounding urban area one little bit. • The Property The extension was completed by implementing an intelligent extrapolation of the existing building structure without having to make use of additional area on the • Transportation • The CCM Rosengarten is ideally well connected to all major transportation networks and intersections. • International: 45 minute bus shuttle – to Frankfurt Airport • National: 5 minutes on foot to an ICE train hub at Mannheim Main Railway Station • Regional: 1 minute on foot to a public transportation hub of the OPNVstop Wasserturm The CCM is completely accessible for persons with impaired mobility There are approximately 900 parking spaces for cars under the complex itself and in the neighboring area. • Planning The CCM is part of an integrated planning concept, which in reality means that even during the conceptual stages users, architects, energy planners, building technicians, static engineers, urban planners, acoustic technicians, etc. sat down together and developed a sustainable building structure. The existing building structure was continued to be used and skillfully integrated into the confines of the new extension. With the exception of the aging glass façade, none of the original resourced were done away with.. Seite 9 von 11 • Fassades / Day Light It was important for us to create a building that would have direct contact to the surrounding city. Many of our conferences and events could take place with only daylight serving as a source of lighting or with only a slight usage of artificial lighting systems. When looking through the large panorama windows, the visitor can also enjoy the view of Mannheim city. In this way we could avoid holding “conferences in enclosed boxes” At night the statues of the CCM are lit up and therefore artfully enrich the layout and picture of the Friedrichsplatz. Exterior sun reflection panels and blinds attached to the building can make shade or darken the interior conference rooms depending on the type of lighting required by the individual event. • Building Material The CCM proves quite clearly that the fusion and division or different fitted interior rooms can best be achieved with the least possible amount of materials The central section of the building is characterized predominantly by the older wall coverings. What is new is the outer glass layer of the building which being transparent links the interior rooms of the building with the actual city area. When choosing the very limited amount of new material to be used in the construction we placed great emphasis on selecting something that would reflect timeless grace. Despite the fact it will be in constant use, the building should age slowly and the structure last for a substantially long time. All of the materials used as well as the tendered construction companies were local • Static The extension of the CCM was achieved without having to dig into the existing foundation. This was one of the important queries because the original foundation is located in the ground water (an old tributary of the Neckar River). The construction was made possible by using light building materials: in a nutshell, a filigraned steel construction with thin prefabricated layers as coatings. The new girdered support structure could be placed for the most part on the existing structural hoists without or with only a slight toughening of the supports. Building Utilities We continued to use all of the previous building utility facilities. Eventually in the future the new central utility unit on the 2nd floor will be replaced by an additional central one on the roof to avoid the long conduction paths that we have at the moment. Central heating in the building is provided by the local district heating network. The heating and ventilation systems consist of floor and ceiling heating/cooling systems as well as low draft fresh air sources. • Construction Site in the Downtown The surrounding neighbors were informed at a very early stage about the planned construction site and the logistics of the concept. Thus the actual construction of the new extension proceeded smoothly and without delays. Even the delivery and mounting of very large pieces of building materials were carried out without obstacles or disruptions to local business. Seite 10 von 11 FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Principle 10 Enterprises shall take action against all forms of corruption, and especially against blackmail and bribes. Compliance: As a Professional Congress Organizer (PCO) one of our main business activities is to plan and hold scientific and medical conferences. As a rule representatives from the pharmaceutical industry as well as members of other various associated professional circles participate in these conferences. Therefore we always make sure that the rules and regulations of the so-called Pharmaceutical Codex (FSA-Kodex) and those of the Society for Voluntary Self-Regulation for the Medicinal Production Industry are strictly adhered when conceptualizing and holding an event that we are in charge of so that in the interests of our customers we host an event that conforms to the rules and thus free of dishonest interference or interests. Therefore, in 2011, 25 employees from different departments were trained in using the Pharmaceutical Codex and entrusted with the context therein. In this manner they could act as a reference person as well as trainer for other in their individual departments. In order to avoid a conflict of interests all m:con employees were schooled in and signed the company internal m:con Code of Conduct. This progress report and the measures described within will be made available to all of the stakeholders in our company to read on our website in March 2012 at: http://www.rosengarten-mannheim.de/de/GREEN_MEETING.htm In addition we will refer to the m:con´s membership in Global Compact in all documents that we publish in order to obtain more public recognition for Global Compact and what it stands for. Michel Maugé Managing Director and Honorary Consul of the French Embassy m:con – mannheim:congress GmbH Rosengartenplatz 2 68161 Mannheim Deutschland Seite 11 von 11
